CITY CODE
of
MARQUETTE HEIGHTS, ILLINOIS
1980
Code current through:
Ord. 953, passed 8-12-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the City of Marquette Heights, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 953, passed August 12, 2024.
Ordinances of the City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of
this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the City office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision
of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATIVE
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alteration
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the city council, this code is hereby declared to be and shall
hereafter constitute the official city code of the city of Marquette Heights.
This code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the MARQUETTE HEIGHTS CITY
CODE, and it is hereby published by authority of the council and shall be kept
up to date as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause,
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (1980 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (1980 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code.
(1980 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATION:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
city council. The clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the clerk. Any
person having in his custody an official copy of the city code shall make every
effort to maintain said code in an up to date and efficient manner. He shall
see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the city clerk.
Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and other interested
persons, shall be and remain the property of the city and shall be returned to
office of the clerk when directed so to do by order of the city council. (1980
Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporation contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
city; and all special ordinances. (1980 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as this code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case this code shall be considered as amending such ordinance
or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1980 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable, if
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party affected, applied to
any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any action now
pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the city herein repealed
and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this code shall be
deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same
provision; nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
city under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this code. (1980 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional
or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of
this code, or any part thereof. The city council hereby declares that it would
have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause
or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be
declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (1980 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any section of this code importing the plural number is
used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons, any single
matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although distributive
words may not have been used.
When any subject matter, party or person is referred to in this code by words
importing the singular number only, or the masculine gender, several matters,
parties or persons and females as well as males and bodies corporate shall be
deemed to be included; provided, that these rules of construction shall not be
applied to any section of this code which contains any express provision
excluding such construction or where the subject matter or context may be
repugnant thereto.
The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city has been changed
in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/or
"subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the city's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1980 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another.
CITY: The city of Marquette Heights, county of Tazewell, state of Illinois.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Marquette Heights".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the city for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
FISCAL YEAR: The fiscal year of the city shall be from April 30 of each year to
April 30 of the following year.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense for which a sentence to a term of imprisonment in
other than a penitentiary for less than one year may be imposed 1 .
NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the city; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a hazard
to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or to the
community.
OCCUPANT: Applied to a building or land shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Marquette Heights".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: Applied to a building or land shall include any part owner, joint owner,
tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of such
building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small quantities
direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: Applied to a building or land shall include any person who occupies the
whole or any part of such buildings or land whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall
be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things
in quantity to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond required by law, it shall be in
the proper handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his
proper mark. (Ord. 19, 4-8-1957; amd. 1980 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 5/2-11.
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (1980 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-4: Commitment To Jail
1-4-5: Schedule Of Minimum Fines
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   Any person convicted of a violation of any section or provision of this
code, where no other penalty is set forth, shall be punished by a fine of not
less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for any one offense.
   B.   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of this code, the minimum fine
for a violation of those sections of this code enumerated in the Schedule of
Minimum Fines set forth in section
1-4-5 of this code, shall be as set forth in said Schedule of Minimum Fines.
   C.   Each day that any offense is committed, or is found to exist, or
continues to exist, shall constitute a separate violation.
   D.   In addition to any monetary fine or other penalty which may be imposed
for a violation of any section or provision of this code, the city attorney is
authorized to proceed in circuit court (or other court of competent
jurisdiction) to enjoin, abate, correct, or prohibit continued, further, or
threatened, violation.
   E.   Prior to commencement of any action in circuit court, law enforcement
officers of the city may, in their discretion, provide any person alleged to
have violated this code with notice of such alleged violation and an
opportunity to settle the alleged violation through payment of a fine at city
hall. Such notice shall be in writing in a format approved by the chief of
police in consultation with the city attorney. Such notice shall provide an
opportunity for payment within a period of not less than fourteen (14) days
after service of such notice. Unless otherwise specified in this code, the
offer of the settlement shall be in the amount of the minimum fine for first
offenders, and the minimum fine plus one hundred dollars ($100.00) for all
others. Should an alleged offender fail to accept the offer of settlement
within the period of time set forth in the written notice, such offer of
settlement shall automatically expire. Upon expiration of an offer of
settlement, any officer may, without further notice to the alleged offender,
file a complaint in Tazewell County circuit court charging the alleged offender
with one or more violations of this code. Settlement procedures for violations
of title 11, chapter 3 of this code shall be governed by procedures set forth
in title 11, chapter 3 of this code rather than by the procedures set forth in
this subsection D. (Ord. 551, 4-26-1999; amd. Ord. 909, 7-13-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section unless otherwise indicated. Any person convicted of a
violation of any section of this code where a duty is prescribed or obligation
imposed, or where any action which is of a continuing nature is forbidden or is
declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such duty or obligation remains
unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise specifically provided in
this code.
   B.   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or
permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other
penalty being enforced.
   C.   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes
a breach of any section or provision of this code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply. (1980 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intent of
the council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (1980
Code)
1-4-4: COMMITMENT TO JAIL:
Any person upon whom and against whom any fine or penalty shall be imposed in
any court of competent jurisdiction, for violation of any of the ordinances of
the city may be ordered by the court before whom the conviction is had, in case
the defendant fails or refuses to pay the fine or costs imposed, to be
committed to the city jail if there is a city jail available within the city,
or to the county jail of Tazewell County, Illinois, if such city jail is not
available, until such fine, penalty and costs therein are fully paid; provided
however, that such imprisonment shall not exceed six (6) months and that the
number of days of such confinement or imprisonment shall not exceed one day for
each two dollars fifty cents ($2.50) of such fine, penalty and cost. (Ord. 21,
5-21-1957; amd. 1980 Code)
1-4-5: SCHEDULE OF MINIMUM FINES:
Unless some higher minimum fine is required by state statute, the minimum
monetary fine for a first offense of the sections of this code enumerated
herein shall be per the following Schedule of Minimum Fines:
 
Ordinance Violations - Fire
Title - Chapter - Section Violation                                    Fine
7 4 1                     Fireworks (Unlawful to buy/sell/provide/     $100.00
                          iqnite/ explode fireworks)
7 4 2                     Explosives (No person shall set off/         $100.00
                          discharge/explode gunpowder/dynamite)
7 4 3(A)                  Open Burning (No person shall burn garbage/  $150.00
                          litter/ refuse/rubbish)
7 4 3(B)                  Open Burning (Temporary ban on open burning) $150.00
7 4 3(C)                  Open Burning (Unauthorized burn; permitted   $150.00
                          fires/ bonfire/campfire/yard waste)
 
Ordinance Violations - Health and Sanitation
Title - Chapter - Section Violation Fine
Ordinance Violations - Health and Sanitation
Title - Chapter - Section Violation                                     Fine
8 1 6                     Injurious materials (Unlawful deposit of      $100.00
                          glass/nails/ tacks on street/driveway)
8 1 7                     Foul/Stagnant/Standing water (Creating odors/ $100.00
                          gathering mosquitos/insects)
8 2 4                     Weeds (Non-abatement of weeds within 5 days)  $100.00
8 3 2                     Storage of garbage/refuse/rubbish             $100.00
8 3 4(A)                  Littering (Unlawful collection of litter on/  $100.00
                          about premises)
8 3 4(B)                  Littering (Throw/Deposit litter upon private  $100.00
                          property/ street/sidewalk/parkway)
8 3 4(C)                  Littering (Exterior storage of bricks/blocks/ $100.00
                          lumber/ other building materials)
8 3 5(A)                  Littering (Sweep/Deposit in gutter/street/    $100.00
                          public place litter from sidewalk/driveway)
                          Littering (Driver/Passenger in vehicle
8 3 5(B)                  throwing/ depositing litter in street/public  $100.00
                          place)
8 3 7                     Placement of indoor furniture outdoors        $100.00
8 4 2(A)                  Deliver of tobacco to minors                  $200.00
8 4 2(B)                  Possession of tobacco products by a person    $100.00
                          under 21 years of age
 
Ordinance Violations - Vehicle Operations (Traffic Violations)
Title - Chapter - Section Violation Fine
Ordinance Violations - Vehicle Operations (Traffic Violations)
Title - Chapter - Section Violation                                     Fine
11 2 7                    Failure to stop for school buses              $100.00
11 2 8                    Disobey stop signs and signal lights          $100.00
11 2 13                   Failure to yield right-of-way                 $100.00
11 2 16                   Obstructing traffic at intersection/crosswalk $100.00
11 2 19                   Improper use of horn                          $100.00
11 2 21                   No "U" turns                                  $100.00
11 2 23                   Speeding                                      $100.00
11 2 25                   Following too closely                         $100.00
11 2 28                   Driving prohibited in certain areas           $100.00
11 2 29                   Improper backing                              $100.00
11 2 30                   Failure to yield to emergency vehicles        $100.00
11 2 34                   Reckless driving                              $100.00
11 2 35                   Drag racing                                   $100.00
11 2 37                   Transportation of alcoholic liquors           $100.00
11 2 38                   Damage public property while driving          $100.00
 
 
Vehicle Equipment and Inspection (Traffic Violations)
Title - Chapter - Section Violation                                     Fine
11 4 2                    Operation of motor vehicle without a muffler/ $100.00
                          loud exhaust
11 4 3                    Operation of motor vehicle which emits gas/   $100.00
                          smoke
11 4 6                    Driving without headlamps when required       $100.00
11 4 10                   Spilling loads                                $100.00
 
Ordinance Violations - Pedestrians and Bicycles
Title - Chapter - Section Violation Fine
Ordinance Violations - Pedestrians and Bicycles
Title - Chapter - Section Violation                                     Fine
11 5 4                    Crossing the roadway outside of the crosswalk $100.00
11 5 5                    Walking/Running along/upon roadway where      $100.00
                          sidewalk is provided
11 6 2                    Traffic laws apply to riders                  $100.00
11 6 4                    No brakes/lamps/reflectors/audible signal     $100.00
                          equipped on bicycle
11 6 5(A)                 Riding with more persons than bicycle         $100.00
                          equipped/ designed (1 person per seat)
11 6 5(B)                 Failure to yield to pedestrian on sidewalk    $100.00
                          while riding bicycle
11 6 5(C)                 Riding bicycle faster than reasonable/proper  $100.00
                          for safety to riders/others
11 6 5(D)                 Clinging to vehicle while riding bicycle      $100.00
11 6 5(E)                 Carrying articles while riding bicycle        $100.00
11 6 5(F)                 Trick riding on bicycle (Hands off bars/feet  $100.00
                          off pedals, acrobatic riding)
11 6 5(G)                 Parking bicycle in improper place             $100.00
 
Ordinance Violations - Misdemeanors
Title - Chapter - Section Violation Fine
Ordinance Violations - Misdemeanors
Title - Chapter - Section Violation                                     Fine
10 2 5                    Disorderly conduct                            $100.00
10 2 6(A)                 Public intoxication (Loud, obscene,           $100.00
                          disorderly)
10 2 6(B)                 Public intoxication (Incoherent,              $100.00
                          incapacitated, asleep)
10 2 7(A)                 Vagrancy (Burglar's tools)                    $100.00
10 2 7(B)                 Vagrancy (Unlawful occupancy)                 $100.00
10 2 7(E)                 Vagrancy (Loitering)                          $100.00
10 2 8                    Disturbing lawful assemblies                  $100.00
10 2 10                   Assault                                       $100.00
10 2 11(A)                Battery (Cause bodily harm)                   $100.00
10 2 11(B)                Battery (Physical contact of insulting/       $100.00
                          provoking nature)
10 2 12                   Reckless conduct                              $100.00
10 2 14(A)                Mob action (Use of force/violence, constitute $100.00
                          breach of peace)
10 2 14(B)                Mob action (Unlawful act)                     $100.00
10 2 14(C)                Mob action (To do violence to the person/     $100.00
                          property)
10 2 16                   Resisting arrest                              $100.00
10 2 18-1(A)-4            Unlawful use of weapons (Carrying concealed   $100.00
                          firearm in vehicle/person)
10 2 18-3                 Carrying loaded weapons                       $100.00
10 2 18-4                 Unlawful display of weapon                    $100.00
10 2 19                   Abandoned refrigerators, iceboxes             $100.00
10 2 20                   Noises, loud & disturbing                     $100.00
10 2 24(A)-1              Trespassing (Enter private premises/property/ $100.00
                          land)
10 2 24(A)- 2             Trespassing (Remain upon premises/property/   $100.00
                          land after notice)
10 2 24(A)- 3             Trespassing (Enter/Remain in any building/    $100.00
                          facility of state/county/city)
10 2 24(B)                Trespassing (Vehicles: enter any part thereof $100.00
                          of another without consent)
10 2 26                   Criminal damage to property (Knowingly damage $100.00
                          property)
10 2 29-1(A)              Public indecency (Indecent act in public      $100.00
                          place, or utter any lewd words)
10 2 29-1(B)              Public indecency (Public nudity/indecent      $100.00
                          exposure)
10 2 29-3                 Obscene marking in public view                $100.00
10 2 33                   Possession of Cannabis/Drug Paraphernalia     $200.00
                          (less than 2.5g)
10 2 36                   Telephone calls; obscene, anonymous           $100.00
10 2 37                   False alarms                                  $100.00
10 2 40                   Theft of property valued at less than $150.00 $100.00
 
Ordinance Violations - Minors
Title - Chapter - Section Violation Fine
Ordinance Violations - Minors
Title - Chapter - Section Violation                                    Fine
10 3 1(B)                 Curfew (Under 17 y/o Mon - Fri 11:01 a.m. to $100.00
                          6:00a.m./Sat - Sun 12:01 a.m. to 6:00 a.m.)
10 3 1(B)                 Curfew (Under 17 y/o suspended/expelled from $100.00
                          school)
10 3 2(A)                 Alcoholic liquor, prohibited (Contribute to  $150.00
                          person under 21 y/o)
10 3 2(B)                 Possession by minor (Person of alcohol by a  $150.00
                          person under 21 y/o)
10 3 2(C)                 Illegal consumption (Consumption of alcohol  $150.00
                          by a person Under 21 y/o)
10 3 2(E)                 Use of forged identification card to obtain  $150.00
                          liquor
 
 
Ordinance Violations - Animal Control
Title - Chapter - Section Violation                          Fine
10 4 1 - (2)              Cruelty                            $200.00
10 4 1 - (2)              Dangerous animals                  $100.00
10 4 2 - (4)              Restraint of dogs/Running at large $100.00
10 4 3 - (4)              Restraint of cats                  $100.00
10 7 5                    Cruelty to animals                 $200.00
 
 
Ordinance Violations - Vehicle, Junk Storage
Title - Chapter - Section Violation                                 Fine
10 6 1                    Junk and inoperable motor vehicle storage $100.00
 
(Ord. 909, 7-13-2020)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND COUNCIL 1
SECTION:
1-5-1: Council Meetings
1-5-2: Committee Members
1-5-3: Purchase Procedure
1-5-4: Assumption Of Duties
1-5-5: Emergency Powers Of The Mayor
1-5-6: Rules For Public Comment
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-6-1 of this title for salary provisions.
1-5-1: COUNCIL MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The regular meetings of the City council shall be
held on the second and fourth Mondays of each month at the hour of seven
o'clock (7:00) P.M.
   B.   Place Of Meetings: The place of meeting of the City Council shall be in
the office building of the City in the room designated as the Council Room.
   C.   Regular Committee Meetings: The regular meeting of all committees shall
be held on the first Monday of each month at the hour of six thirty o'clock (6:
30) P.M.
   D.   Place Of Committee Meetings: The place of meetings of the committees
shall be in the office building of the City in the room designated as the
Council Room.
   E.   Special Committee Meetings:
      1.   Stormwater Regulatory Review: A special committee meeting of the
City Council shall be held on one of the regular City Council meetings in March
each year at the hour of six thirty o'clock (6:30) P.M. for the purpose of
stormwater regulatory review.
      2.   Place Of Meeting: The place of this special meeting shall be in the
office building of the City in the room designated as the Council Room.
   F.   Electronic Meetings:
      1.   Electronic attendance at public meetings. Policy statement. In an
effort to encourage participation in the public meetings of the City Council of
the City of Marquette Heights and the committees of the City, the City Council
has determined that an elected or appointed official may attend a public
meeting by electronic means when the official is unavailable to be physically
present at the meeting. New electronic methods of communication make
participation in public meetings by electronic means effective. The City
Council has determined that attendance by electronic means shall be controlled
by the provisions of this policy.
      2.   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in
this Subdivision, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this Section,
except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
 
             A teleconference or any other means that enables identifiable
ELECTRONIC:  voices or other transmissions to be received from any location and
             enables concurrent ability to communicate with the member who is
             not physically present.
             Any gathering of a majority of a quorum of members of a public
MEETING:     body held for the purpose of discussing public business. The term
             "meeting" shall have the same meaning ascribed to that term in the
             Illinois Open Meetings Act (5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.).
             The City Council, all boards and commissions, and any subsidiary
             bodies of any of those public bodies, including, but not limited
PUBLIC BODY: to, committees and subcommittees, and shall have the same meaning
             ascribed to that term in the Illinois Open Meetings Act (5 ILCS
             120/1 et seq.).
 
      3.   Attendance by electronic means. A member of a public body may attend
a meeting by electronic means if the member is prevented from physically
attending because of personal illness or disability, absence from the corporate
limits of the City for personal employment purposes or for the business of the
City, or a family or other emergency. The reason for the need for the member to
attend by electronic means shall be stated on the record and made a part of the
meeting minutes.
      4.   Notice of intent to attend by electronic means. Any member planning
on attending a meeting by electronic means shall give written notice of his
intent to the person responsible for posting public notice of the meeting. The
notice shall be given at least seventy-two (72) hours prior to the meeting. If
the giving of the notice is not possible or is impracticable prior to the
seventy-two (72)- hour deadline, then the member shall give notice at the
member's earliest opportunity. The notice may be given by personal delivery,
mail, fax transmission, e-mail, or other electronic means which creates a
record of notice. The notice shall state the reason set forth in Section 3 that
prevents the member from physically attending the meeting.
      5.   Notice of attending by electronic means. Upon receipt of a notice
from a member of his intent to attend a public meeting by electronic means, the
person responsible for posting public notice of the meeting shall give notice
to the public of the member's intent to participate by electronic means. Notice
shall be given by posting the information with or as part of the agenda for the
public meeting and by providing any news medium entitled to notice of public
hearings with a copy of the notice either in written or electronic form. The
failure to give notice to the public or the media of a member's intent to
participate by electronic means shall not prohibit the member from
participating in the meeting, nor shall the failure to give notice invalidate
any action taken by the public body or the member participating by electronic
means at that meeting.
      6.   Presiding officer. If the presiding officer of the public body is
attending the meeting by electronic means, then the person who acts in the
absence of the presiding officer shall chair the meeting. If there is none,
then the presiding officer shall appoint a member of the public body who is
physically present at the meeting to serve as chair of the meeting. The
appointment of a chair shall be subject to the advice and consent of the public
body. The presiding officer who is participating by electronic means shall be
authorized to participate in the meeting to the extent authorized by law or
ordinance except for those acts involved with chairing the meeting.
      7.   Quorum at meeting. Limitation of number of members who may attend by
electronic means. A quorum of the public body must be physically present for
the public body to conduct its meeting before one or more members will be
permitted to attend by electronic means. If more than one member participates
by electronic means, the absent members may not meet at the same remote
location if their joint presence at the remote location would constitute a
violation of the Illinois Open Meetings Act (5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.).
      8.   Procedure.
         a.   If one or more members attend a public meeting by electronic
means, then all votes of the body shall be by roll call.
         b.   If a member attends a public meeting by electronic means, that
member must identify himself by name and be recognized by the person chairing
the meeting before speaking.
         c.   The minutes of the meeting shall reflect that a member is
participating by electronic means.
         d.   The voice of the member participating by electronic means shall
be audible to all persons in attendance at the public meeting. If the public
meeting is being broadcast via television, radio, or other electronic means,
the voice of the member participating by electronic means shall be made
available for broadcast concurrently with the broadcast, unless unanticipated
technical difficulties prevent the broadcast of the member's voice.
      9.   Closed session meetings. A member attending a public meeting by
electronic means may also participate in any closed session meeting of a public
body held pursuant to applicable law. That member must ensure that discussions
by the City Council during the Executive Sessions are not able to be overheard
by other individuals that are not part of the Executive Session meeting. That
member's attendance and participation by electronic means shall be reflected in
the minutes of the closed session meeting. (Ord. 526, 2-23-1998; amd. Ord. 873,
3-12-2018; Ord. 924, 12-13-2021)
1-5-2: COMMITTEE MEMBERS:
The City Council hereby delegates the authority to appoint committee Chairmen
and committee members to the Mayor. These appointments should be made annually
beginning and ending with the fiscal year. These appointments shall be made
with the advice and consent of the Council and must be approved by majority
vote.
No committee Chairman or committee member may be removed from any committee
without stating cause and there must be a Council majority vote for such
removal. (Ord. 229, 2-20-1978)
1-5-3: PURCHASE PROCEDURE:
   A.   The City shall purchase goods and services in accordance with any
applicable procedures established by State law. (Ord. 621, 1-14-2002)
   B.   Except where otherwise prescribed by State law, the City shall purchase
goods and services in accordance with the following procedures:
      1.   Payment of amounts due for water treatment chemicals and under
contracts previously approved by the City Council such as those providing for
utility service, insurance services, payment of debt service and salary and
benefits for employees is authorized with the approval of the annual budget for
the City.
      2.   City employees, with department head approval, are authorized to
make purchases on behalf of the City up to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
      3.   All expenditures other than those made under such preexisting
contracts may be approved in the following manner:
         a.   Expenditures for purchases not exceeding one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) must be approved by:
            (1)   The Mayor; or
            (2)   The chairman of a permanent committee and department head; or
            (3)   The city clerk.
         b.   Expenditures for purchases over one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
must be approved by the city council during a meeting of the city council prior
to purchase, except that emergency expenditures estimated to cost over one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) may be approved by:
            (1)   The mayor; or
            (2)   The chairman of a permanent committee with the cosignature of
another member of that committee.
      4.   All expenditures which are authorized hereunder without specific
prior approval by the city council of the amount due shall be ratified by
placement on a schedule of expenditures approved by the city council.
      5.   Payment checks must be signed by two (2) of the following city
officials: mayor, finance chairman, treasurer or permanent committee chairman
as assigned. (Ord. 840, 6-22-2015; amd. Ord. 933, 2-13-2023)
1-5-4: ASSUMPTION OF DUTIES:
   A.   The terms of office for newly elected officers, including the mayor,
treasurer, city clerk and members of the city council, shall commence during
the first regular meeting of the city council during the month of May following
the proclamation of the results of the regular municipal election at which such
officers were elected.
   B.   The outgoing city council shall convene the first regular meeting
during the month of May following the proclamation of the results of the
regular municipal election at which the officers were elected. The outgoing
city council shall address all items on the traditional form of agenda used by
the city council through the item identified as "old business". After
consideration of all items appropriate for consideration under "old business",
the outgoing city council shall adjourn sine die. Until it adjourns sine die,
the outgoing city council retains legal authority to act on behalf of the city.
After the outgoing city council adjourns sine die, the newly elected officials
shall take their oaths of office, assume the duties of their offices, and the
meeting shall be reconvened to address "new business" and all items on the
traditional form of agenda used by the city council listed subsequent to "new
business". (Ord. 683, 11-8-2004)
1-5-5: EMERGENCY POWERS OF THE MAYOR:
   A.   Declaration Of A State Of Emergency: A state of emergency exists when
one or more of the following conditions are present or imminent:
      1.   The Governor of the State of Illinois, or the President of the
United States, has declared that a state of emergency, and the conditions
giving rise to that declared state of emergency directly affect the territory,
populace or property of the City; or
      2.   A natural disaster or act of war or act of rebellion or terrorism or
cyber-attack has overwhelmed, or imminently threatens to overwhelm, the ability
of emergency responders or public health officials to safely, adequately of
efficiently respond to the needs of the City or protect the safety of its
residents; or
      3.   A pandemic, or health emergency, or natural disaster, makes it
unsafe or imprudent for non-essential City personnel to report to work, or for
a quorum of the city council to meet; or
      4.   Other unforeseen circumstances, of like kind or severity, arise and
affect the safety or welfare of the residents, employees or officers of the
City. Should the mayor determine that one or more of the above conditions
exists or is imminent, and should the mayor further determine that it is in the
best interest of the City to declare a state of emergency, the mayor shall
sign, under oath, a statement finding that such standards have been met,
setting forth facts to substantiate such findings, describing the nature of the
emergency, and declaring that a state of emergency exists. Such statement shall
be filed with the city clerk as soon as practicable.
   B.   Expiration Of A State Of Emergency: A declaration of a state of
emergency, made pursuant to division A of this section, shall expire not later
than the adjournment of the first regular meeting of the city council after the
state of emergency is declared. If the next scheduled regular session of the
city council cannot be held, because conditions make it unsafe or impractical
to hold a meeting, or because a quorum of the city council is not present at
the appointed time for its meeting, the state of emergency shall continue until
such time that a quorum of the city council can convene, provided further that
the mayor may, at any time, declare that the state of emergency has ended.
   C.   Emergency Powers Of The Mayor: Upon a declaration of a state of
emergency, until the expiration or revocation of the declaration (the
"emergency period"), the mayor shall have and may exercise the following
emergency powers; provided, however, that the lapse of the emergency powers
shall not, as regards to any act or acts occurring or committed within the
emergency period or any extension thereof, deprive any person, firm,
corporation, political subdivision, or body politic of any right or rights to
compensation or reimbursement which they may have under the provisions of this
section.
      1.   Enter into contracts, incurring of obligations, the employment of
temporary workers, the rental of equipment, the purchase of supplies and
materials and the appropriate expenditures and disposition of public funds and
property as necessary.
      2.   To suspend the provisions of any regulatory ordinance prescribing
procedures for conduct of city business, or the orders and rules of any city
agency, if strict compliance with the provision would in any way prevent,
hinder or delay necessary action, including emergency purchases.
      3.   To utilize all available resources of the city government as
reasonably necessary.
      4.   To transfer the direction, personnel or functions of city
departments and agencies or units thereof for the purpose of performing or
facilitating response and recovery programs.
      5.   To recommend the evacuation of all or part of the population from
any stricken or threatened area within the city if he deems this action
necessary.
      6.   To prescribe routes, modes of transportation, and destinations in
connection with evacuation.
      7.   To control ingress and egress to and from a disaster area, the
movement of persons within the area, and the occupancy of premises therein.
      8.   To suspend or limit the sale, dispensing, or transportation of
alcoholic beverages, firearms, explosives, and combustibles.
      9.   To make provision for the availability and use of temporary
emergency housing.
   D.   Public Notification Of State Of Emergency: Upon the mayor issuing the
declaration herein authorized, and as soon as may be safe or practical, the
chief of police, or his or her designee, shall notify the news media situated
within the City and shall cause three copies of the declaration declaring the
existence of the emergency to be posted at the following places within the
City: city hall, the police station, and the post office. However, the failure
of the chief of police to provide such notice shall not operate to limit or
invalidate the mayor's emergency powers. (Ord. 907, 3-19-2020)
1-5-6: RULES FOR PUBLIC COMMENT:
Members of the public may address the City Council during regular and special
open meetings pursuant to the following rules.
   A.   Those wishing to make comment may do so at the time indicated on the
agenda and when recognized by the Mayor.
   B.   The total period for public comments shall generally be limited to
thirty (30) minutes total unless there are special circumstances warranting an
extension of this time, in which case the Mayor may decide to extend the time
for public comment, which extension shall not exceed fifteen (15) additional
minutes.
   C.   Those wishing to comment shall generally be limited to five (5)
minutes. If a large number of those wishing to speak are present, the Mayor or
Council may shorten the time for comment to three (3) minutes per speaker. When
a speaker concludes their comments, their five (5) minutes (or three (3), if
shortened) shall be deemed to have expired. All Speakers shall respect a
request to cease speaking when their time expires. Speakers wishing to comment
again, after their initial opportunity to do so, may do so only once per
meeting and such comments will be limited to one additional minute.
   D.   Those wishing to provide public comment shall not talk over other
people or interrupt other speakers.
   E.   Those wishing to provide public comment shall do so with respect and
civility and shall not engage in using obscene and vulgar language, fighting
words, or defamatory comments. (Ord. 927, 3-14-2022)
CHAPTER 6
CITY PERSONNEL
SECTION:
1-6-1: Salaries
1-6-2: Social Security Coverage
1-6-3: Participation In Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund
1-6-4: Appointment; Deputy City Clerk
1-6-5: Appointment; Deputy City Treasurer
1-6-6: Superintendent Of Streets, Parks And Public Buildings
1-6-7: Employment Of Related Persons
1-6-8: Mayor Pro Tem; Temporary Chairman
1-6-9: Director Of Public Works; Creation Of Office; Duties
1-6-10: Travel, Meals And Lodging Expenses
1-6-11: Superintendent Of Water And Sewer
1-6-12: Establishing Reimbursement For Travel, Meals And Lodging Expenses
1-6-1: SALARIES:
Officers of the city shall be paid the following salaries:
   A.   Mayor:
      1.   The salary of the mayor of the city elected after April 1, 1997, but
taking office before May 1, 2017, shall be fifty five dollars ($55.00) per
regular and/or special meeting of the city council, plus one hundred dollars
($100.00) per month. The mayor shall not be paid any additional compensation
for committee meetings.
      2.   The salary of the mayor of the city taking office on or after the
first regular meeting in May 2017, shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00) per
regular and/or special and/or committee meeting of the city council.
   B.   Aldermen:
      1.   The salary of each alderman for the city elected after April 1,
1997, but taking office before May 1, 2017, shall be thirty five dollars
($35.00) per regular and/or special meeting of the city council and twenty five
dollars ($25.00) per regular scheduled committee meeting for each attended
(maximum 12 committee meetings annually).
      2.   The salary of each alderman of the city taking office on or after
the first regular meeting in May 2017, shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) per
regular and/or special and/or committee meeting of the city council up to a
maximum of twelve (12) committee meetings each calendar year.
   C.   City Clerk:
      1.   The salary of the clerk of the city elected after April 1, 1997, but
taking office before May 1, 2017, shall be seventy five dollars ($75.00) per
regular and/or special meeting of the city council plus twenty five dollars
($25.00) for each committee meeting up to twelve (12) annually and ten dollars
($10.00) per each committee meeting thereafter attended.
      2.   The salary of the clerk of the city taking office on or after the
first regular meeting in May 2017, shall be eighty five dollars ($85.00) per
regular and/or special and/or committee meeting of the city council up to a
maximum of twelve (12) committee meetings each calendar year.
   D.   City Treasurer:
      1.   The salary of the treasurer of the city elected after April 1, 1997,
but taking office before May 1, 2017, shall be fifty five dollars ($55.00) per
regular and/or special meeting of the city council plus twenty dollars ($20.00)
per regular scheduled committee meeting for each attended (maximum 12
annually).
      2.   The salary of the treasurer of the city taking office on or after
the first regular meeting in May 2017, shall be sixty five dollars ($65.00) per
regular and/or special and/or committee meeting of the city council up to a
maximum of twelve (12) committee meetings each calendar year.
   E.   Nonpayment Of Salary:
      1.   Any elected official missing six (6) or more regular and/or special
meetings of the city council, not to include committee meetings, in a fiscal
year shall not be reimbursed for any official function, seminar or conference
for the balance of that fiscal year.
      2.   After two (2) absences per fiscal year, an elected official will not
be paid for any unattended regular and/or special meetings.
      3.   Any elected official missing more than fifty percent (50%) of any
regular and/or special and/or committee meeting shall be deemed absent from the
entire meeting.
   F.   Deputy Clerk: The salary of the deputy clerk shall be fifty dollars
($50.00) per regular and/or special and/or committee meeting of the city
council that she/he is required to attend until May 1, 2017, and eighty five
dollars ($85.00) for each such meeting from and after May 1, 2017.
   G.   Deputy Treasurer: The salary of the deputy treasurer shall be fifty
dollars ($50.00) per regular and/or special and/or committee meeting of the
city council that she/he is required to attend until May 1, 2017, and eighty
five dollars ($85.00) for each such meeting from and after May 1, 2017. (Ord.
858, 10-10-2016)
1-6-2: SOCIAL SECURITY COVERAGE:
   A.   Participation In Act:
      1.   It is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose of the city to
extend to the eligible employees thereof, effective as of April 1, 1959, the
benefits of the federal old age and survivors' insurance system as authorized
by the federal social security act and amendments thereto. In pursuance of said
policy, and for that purpose, the city clerk shall take such action as may be
required by applicable state and federal laws or regulations 1 .
      2.   The city clerk is hereby authorized and directed to execute an
agreement with the state employees' retirement system of the state of Illinois
(social security unit) to secure coverage of eligible employees as provided in
subsection A1 of this section.
   B.   Withholdings: Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees for the
purpose provided in this section are hereby authorized to be made in the
amounts and at such times as may be required by applicable state and federal
laws or regulations, and shall be paid to the state agency in such amounts and
at such times as are designated by state laws or regulations.
   C.   Employer Contributions: Employer contributions and administrative
expense shall be paid to the state agency in accordance with applicable state
laws and regulations from amounts appropriated for such purposes.
   D.   Records And Reports: The city shall maintain such records and submit
such reports as may be required by applicable state and federal laws or
regulations. (Ord. 44, 3-16-1959)
 
Notes
1 1. 40 ILCS 5/21-101.
1-6-3: PARTICIPATION IN ILLINOIS MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT FUND:
The city does hereby elect to participate in the Illinois municipal retirement
fund, effective January 1, 1980. (Ord. 246, 8-27-1979)
1-6-4: APPOINTMENT; DEPUTY CITY CLERK:
Upon the election, qualification and assumption of office or as soon thereafter
as may be practicable, the city clerk shall appoint an individual to act in the
capacity of deputy city clerk. The deputy city clerk so appointed shall perform
the duties of the office of city clerk in the absence of the city clerk, and to
further perform such other duties as may from time to time be assigned by the
city clerk. The appointment of the deputy city clerk shall be subject to the
approval of the city council. (Ord. 329, 1-27-1986)
1-6-5: APPOINTMENT; DEPUTY CITY TREASURER:
Upon the election, qualification and assumption of office or as soon thereafter
as may be practicable, the city treasurer shall appoint an individual to act in
the capacity of deputy city treasurer. The deputy city treasurer so appointed
shall perform the duties of the office of the city treasurer in the absence of
the city treasurer and to further perform such other duties as may from time to
time be assigned by the city treasurer. The appointment of the deputy city
treasurer shall be subject to the approval of the city council. (Ord. 329, 1-
27-1986)
1-6-6: SUPERINTENDENT OF STREETS, PARKS AND PUBLIC BUILDINGS:
   A.   Creation Of Position: There is hereby created by the city, the full
time position to be known as the "superintendent of streets, parks and public
buildings".
   B.   Appointment To Position: The appointment to the position of
superintendent of streets, parks and public buildings shall be by the city
council upon the recommendation of the chairpersons of the street committee,
parks and recreation committee and the public building committee.
   C.   Description Of Position: The duties of the superintendent of streets,
parks and public buildings shall be as follows:
      1.   Generally supervise and oversee the operation and personnel (full
time and part time) of the street department, parks department and the public
buildings department of the city, including, but not limited to: road work,
maintenance and repairs, snow removal, tree trimming and chipping, parks and
parkway maintenance, public building and grounds maintenance and repair, and
equipment and vehicle maintenance and repair.
      2.   Schedule all work and employees' work schedules for employees
working for each of the above departments and to approve payroll and time
records of such employees.
      3.   Personally engage and participate in the performance of all of the
above activities to the degree necessary and as is permitted, taking into
account other duties and managerial responsibilities.
      4.   Assist from time to time in the operations of the water and sewer
departments and emergency services as may become necessary.
      5.   Perform such other activities and duties as may from time to time be
assigned by the appropriate committee chairpersons.
      6.   Make all required purchases for the street department, parks
department and public buildings department as are authorized by the appropriate
committee chairperson or by the city council. (Ord. 356, 12-14-1987)
   D.   Salary: The superintendent shall receive such salary as the city
council may from time to time determine. (Ord. 598, 12-26-2000)
   E.   Benefits And Related Matters: The superintendent of streets, parks and
public buildings shall be subject to resolution 126 (adopted 4-27-1981 and
amended by resolution 183, adopted 3-11-1985), resolution 198 (adopted 4-27-
1987) and the city "policies for paid city personnel" (dated January 1987) as
same now exist or may hereafter be amended and/or updated.
   F.   Accountability And Conflicts: The superintendent of streets, parks and
public buildings shall be responsible and accountable to the chairperson of the
street committee. Conflicts between the priority of work and work assignments
between the street department and the parks and public buildings departments
shall be resolved by the chairperson of the street committee. (Ord. 356, 12-14-
1987)
1-6-7: EMPLOYMENT OF RELATED PERSONS:
No person shall be hired or employed as an employee of any department of city
government who is related to the director, superintendent, chief (or such other
appropriate title as may be applicable) of such department in any one of the
following ways: son, daughter, spouse, parent, son-in-law or daughter- in-law.
Nothing herein shall disqualify any such person from being employed by any
other department of city government nor shall this section apply to any person
who may be so employed as of the effective date of this section. (Ord. 397, 1-
8-1990)
1-6-8: MAYOR PRO TEM; TEMPORARY CHAIRMAN:
   A.   If the mayor is temporarily absent because of an incapacity to perform
official duties, but the incapacity does not create a vacancy in the office,
the city council shall elect one of its members to act as mayor pro tem. The
mayor pro tem, during this absence or disability, shall perform the duties and
possess all the rights and powers of the mayor, but shall not be entitled to
vote both as mayor pro tem and as alderman.
   B.   In the absence of the mayor, acting mayor, or mayor pro tem, the city
council may elect one of its members to act as a temporary chairman. The
temporary chairman shall have only the powers of a presiding officer and a
right to vote only in the capacity as alderman on any ordinance, resolution, or
motion. (Ord. 566, 7-12-1999)
1-6-9: DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS; CREATION OF OFFICE; DUTIES:
   A.   Office Established: There is hereby created the office of director of
public works. The director of public works shall be appointed by the mayor with
the advice and consent of the city council.
   B.   Duties: The director of public works shall generally supervise and
oversee the street department, the parks department, the public buildings
department and the combined waterworks and sewerage department. In the absence
of separate appointments to the position of superintendent of streets, parks
and public buildings created by subsection 1-6-6A of this chapter and the
position of superintendent of the combined waterworks and sewerage department
as created by section
9-5-2 of this code, the director of public works shall hold such offices ex
officio.
   C.   Authority Over Subordinates: The director of public works shall have
control and supervision over all officers and employees assigned to the
departments subject to his direction and is hereby authorized to utilize such
officers and employees in such a manner as the director deems necessary or
expedient to the efficient operation of those departments including the
assignment of specific officers and employees either permanently or temporarily
to any other subordinate position or any other department.
   D.   Salary: The director of public works shall receive such salary as the
city council may from time to time determine. Service as ex officio
superintendent of the departments under his direction shall not entitle the
director to compensation in addition to his salary as director. (Ord. 598, 12-
26-2000)
   E.   Accountability And Conflicts: The public works director shall be
responsible and accountable to the chairperson of the water committee.
Conflicts between the priority of work and work assignments between the street,
water, sewer, parks and buildings departments shall be resolved by the
chairperson of the water committee. (Ord. 657, 5-12-2003)
1-6-10: TRAVEL, MEALS AND LODGING EXPENSES:
   A.   Definitions:
ENTERTAINMENT: Includes, but is not limited to, shows, amusements, theaters,
circuses, sporting events, or any other place of public or private
entertainment or amusement, unless ancillary to the purpose of the program or
event.
PUBLIC BUSINESS: Expenses incurred in the performance of a public purpose which
is required or useful to the benefit of the city to carry out the
responsibilities of city business.
TRAVEL: Any expenditure directly incident to official travel by employees,
officers and fire department personnel of the city or by wards or charges of
the city involving reimbursement to travelers or direct payment to private
agencies providing transportation or related services.
   B.   Maximum Allowable Amounts: The city shall only reimburse the following
types of travel, meals and lodging expenses incurred by its employees, officers
and fire department personnel up to the following maximum allowable amounts:
 
            Mileage reimbursement will be the reimbursement rate set by the US
Mileage     General Services Administration outlined and updated annually at
            www.gsa.gov
Meals:       
 Breakfast 8.00 per day
 Lunch     10.00 per day
 Dinner    20.00 per day
Lodging     250.00 per day
 
Alcohol is specifically excluded from reimbursement.
   C.   Authorization: No reimbursement of travel, meals or lodging incurred by
a city employee, officer or fire department personnel shall be authorized
unless the "travel, meal, and lodging expense reimbursement request form"
attached to the ordinance codified herein, has been submitted and approved. All
documents and information submitted with the form shall be subject to
disclosure under the freedom of information act 1 .
   D.   Expenses That Exceed Maximum: Expenses for travel, meals, and lodging
of: 1) any employee, officer or fire department personnel that exceeds the
maximum reimbursement allowed under the regulations adopted under subsection B
of this section or 2) any member of the corporate authorities of the city may
be approved by roll call vote at an open and public meeting of the city
council. However, in the event of an emergency or other extraordinary
circumstances, the city council may approve more than the maximum allowable
expenses set forth above.
   E.   Entertainment Expenses: The city shall not reimburse any elected
official, employee, officer, or fire department personnel for any activities
which would be considered entertainment. Activities which would otherwise be
considered entertainment, but which are excluded from the prohibition on
reimbursement due to being ancillary to the purpose of the program or event,
may be reimbursed in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   F.   Conflicts: Any policy, resolution, or ordinance that conflicts with the
provisions of this section shall be and is hereby repealed to the extent of
such conflict. (Ord. 862, 12-27-2016; Ord. 901, 10-14-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
1-6-11: SUPERINTENDENT OF WATER AND SEWER:
   A.   Creation of Position: That there is hereby created by the City of
Marquette Heights, the full-time position to be known as the "Superintendent of
Water and Sewer"
   B.   Appointment to Position: The appointment to the position of
Superintendent of Water and Sewer shall be by the City council upon the
recommendation of the Chairperson of the Water Committee.
   C.   Description of Position: The duties of the Superintendent of Water and
Sewer shall be as follows:
      1.   To generally supervise and oversee the operation and personnel
(full-time and part-time) of the Water and Sewer Department of the City of
Marquette Heights.
      2.   To schedule all work and employees' work schedules for employees
working for the above department and to approve payroll and time records of
such employees.
      3.   To personally engage and participate in the performance of all of
the above activities to the degree necessary and as is permitted, taking into
account other duties and managerial responsibilities.
      4.   To assist from time to time in the operations of the Street
Department, Parks Department and Public Buildings Department and emergency
services as may become necessary.
      5.   To make all required purchases for the Water and Sewer Department,
as are authorized by the appropriate Committee Chairperson or by the City
Council.
      6.   To perform such other activities and duties as may from time to time
be assigned by the appropriate committee chairpersons.
   D.   Salary: The Designated salary for the Superintendent of Water and
Sewer, (which is a salaried position), shall be fixed by an annual Resolution
of the City Council.
   E.   Benefits and Related Matters: The Superintendent of Water and Sewer
shall be subject to Resolution No. 126 (adopted 4/27/81 and amended by
Resolution No. 183, adopted 3/11/85), Resolution No. 198 (adopted 4/27/87) and
the city of Marquette Heights "Policies For Paid City Personnel" (dated
January, 1987) as same now exist or may hereafter be amended and/or updated.
   F.   Accountability and Conflicts: The Superintendent of Water and Sewer
shall be responsible and accountable to the Chairperson of the Water and Sewer
Committee. Conflicts between the priority of work and work assignments between
the Water and Sewer Department shall be resolved by the Chairperson of the
Water and Sewer Committee. (Ord. 912, 8-24-2020)
1-6-12: ESTABLISHING REIMBURSEMENT FOR TRAVEL, MEALS AND LODGING EXPENSES:
The City shall only reimburse the following types of travel, meals and lodging
expenses incurred by its employees, officers and fire department personnel up
to the following maximum allowable amounts:
   A.   Mileage: Mileage reimbursement will be the reimbursement rate set by
the US General Services Administration outlined and updated annually at
www.gsa.gov.
   B.   Meals:
 
Breakfast $ 8.00/day
Lunch     $ 10.00/day
Dinner    $ 20.00/day
 
   C.   Lodging: $ 250.00/day
Alcohol is specifically excluded from reimbursement. (Ord. 901, 10-14-2019)
CHAPTER 7
ELECTION WARDS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Wards Established, Boundaries
1-7-2: Polling Places
1-7-1: WARDS ESTABLISHED, BOUNDARIES:
The city shall be redistricted into three (3) wards, pursuant to the provisions
of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-20-10 et seq.
The boundaries describing each ward established under the redistricting plan
are as follows:
WARD NO. 1: The area lying west of, but not including residences fronting on,
Grant Rd.; north, south and east of the municipal boundaries.
WARD NO. 2: The area lying north of the centerline of Lincoln Rd.; east of, and
including residences fronting on, Grant Rd.; west and south of the municipal
boundaries.
WARD NO. 3: The area lying south of the centerline of Lincoln Rd.; east of, and
including residences fronting on, Grant Rd.; north and west of the municipal
boundaries.
All of the above described wards shall be designated on exhibit A, being on
file in the office of the city clerk, and specifically made a part hereof by
reference. (Ord. 646, 8-12-2002)
1-7-2: POLLING PLACES:
Polling places for said wards shall be designated by the city council from time
to time preceding each municipal election for city officers. (Ord. 211, 10-25-
1976)
CHAPTER 8
WAGE RATES FOR PUBLIC WORKS EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-8-1: Wage Rates
1-8-1: WAGE RATES:
   A.   Wage Rates Provided: To the extent and as required by "An Act
regulating wages of laborers, mechanics and other workers employed in any
public works by the State, County, City or any public body or any political
subdivision or by anyone under contract for public works" approved June 26,
1941, as amended, the general prevailing rate of wages in this locality for
laborers, mechanics and other workers engaged in the construction of public
works coming under the jurisdiction of this City Council is hereby ascertained
to be the same as the prevailing rate of wages for construction work in the
Tazewell County area as determined by the Department of Labor of the State of
Illinois as of May 18, 2020, a copy of that determination being exhibit A on
file in the City and incorporated herein by reference. The definition of any
terms appearing in this chapter which are also used in the aforesaid Act shall
be the same as in said Act.
   B.   Applied To Public Works Employment: Nothing herein shall be construed
to apply said general prevailing rate of wages as herein ascertained to any
work or employment except public works of the City Council to the extent
required by the aforesaid Act.
   C.   Rates To Be Posted: The City Clerk shall publicly post or keep
available for inspection by any interested party in the main office of the City
this determination of such prevailing rate of wage.
   D.   Rates To Be Furnished To Employees: The City Clerk shall mail a copy of
this determination to any employer, and to any association of employers and to
any person or association of employees who have filed, or file their names and
addresses, requesting copies of any determination stating the particular rates
and the particular class of workers whose wages will be affected by such rates.
(Ord. 879, 6-25-2018; amd. Ord. 914, 6-15-2020)
CHAPTER 9
FINANCES
SECTION:
1-9-1: Returned Checks; Late Charge
1-9-1: RETURNED CHECKS; LATE CHARGE:
   A.   Late Charge: Whenever any check is written to the city for any
obligation and is returned by the drawee bank for any reason, the drawee shall
be assessed a penalty of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each and every check
returned, plus any late charges as may be required.
   B.   Waiting Period: Any obligation created by a returned check must be paid
within twenty (20) days of the date of the bank's denial of payment. The city
is not obligated to present the check to the bank for redeposit. After the
twenty (20) day waiting period, the city retains the legal options available to
collect the amount of the check, including, but not limited to, all fees, fines
and charges. (Ord. 487, 10-24-1995)
CHAPTER 10
DRUG AND ALCOHOL ABUSE POLICY
SECTION:
1-10-1: Policy Adopted
1-10-1: POLICY ADOPTED:
The revised Illinois Municipal League drug and alcohol policy, a copy of which
is on file in the city clerk's office, be and is hereby approved and adopted as
the drug and alcohol policy for the personnel of the city, as amended. (Ord.
537, 5-11-1998)
CHAPTER 11
STATE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT
SECTION:
1-11-1: Definitions
1-11-2: Prohibited Political Activities
1-11-3: Gift Ban
1-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall be given these
definitions:
CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE: Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election, or appointment of any individual
to any federal, state, or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the selection, nomination, or election of presidential or vice
presidential electors, but does not include activities: a) relating to the
support or opposition of any executive, legislative, or administrative action,
b) relating to collective bargaining, or c) that are otherwise in furtherance
of the person's official duties.
CANDIDATE: A person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for nomination
or election to an elected office or who has been appointed to fill a vacancy in
nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot at regular
election, as defined in section 1-3 of the election code 1 .
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section
3 of the Illinois public labor relations act 2 .
COMPENSATED TIME: With respect to an employee, any time worked by or credited
to the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement imposed as
a condition of his or her employment, but for purposes of this chapter, does
not include any designated holidays, vacation periods, personal time,
compensatory time off or any period when the employee is on a leave of absence.
With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not fixed, "compensated
time" includes any period of time when the officer is on premises under the
control of the employer and any other time when the officer or employee is
executing his or her official duties, regardless of location.
COMPENSATORY TIME OFF: Authorized time off earned by or awarded to an employee
to compensate in whole or in part for time worked in excess of the minimum work
time required of that employee as a condition of his or her employment.
CONTRIBUTION: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section 9-1.4 of
the election code 3 .
EMPLOYEE: A person employed by the city of Marquette Heights, whether on a full
time or part time basis or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject to
the direction and control of an employer with regard to the material details of
how the work is to be performed, but does not include an independent
contractor.
EMPLOYER: The city of Marquette Heights.
GIFT: Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance, or
other tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria for speaking engagements
related to or attributable to government employment or the official position of
an officer or employee.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE: Any period during which an employee does not receive: a)
compensation for employment, b) service credit towards pension benefits, and c)
health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.
OFFICER: A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office created by
statute or ordinance, regardless of whether the officer is compensated for
service in his or her official capacity.
POLITICAL ACTIVITY: Any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does not
include activities: a) relating to the support or opposition of any executive,
legislative, or administrative action, b) relating to collective bargaining, or
c) that are otherwise in furtherance of the person's official duties.
POLITICAL ORGANIZATION: A party, committee, association, fund, or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement
of organization with the state board of elections or a county clerk under
section 9-3 of the election code 4 , but only with regard to those activities
that require filing with the state board of elections or a county clerk.
PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY: A. Preparing for, organizing, or participating
in any political meeting, political rally, political demonstration, or other
political event.
   B.   Soliciting contributions, including, but not limited to, the purchase
of, selling, distributing, or receiving payment for tickets for any political
fundraiser, political meeting, or other political event.
   C.   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of, or preparing any document or
report regarding anything of value intended as a campaign contribution.
   D.   Planning, conducting, or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   E.   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters in
an election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign
for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   F.   Assisting at the polls on election day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   G.   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping in
an effort to get voters to the polls.
   H.   Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing, or
filing any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or
against any referendum question.
   I.   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office in
that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office.
   J.   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate's questionnaires.
   K.   Distributing, preparing for distribution, or mailing campaign
literature, campaign signs, or other campaign material on behalf of any
candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question.
   L.   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   M.   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or against
any referendum question.
   N.   Serving as a delegate, alternate, or proxy to a political party
convention.
   O.   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any
election.
PROHIBITED SOURCE: Any person or entity who:
   A.   Is seeking official action: 1) by an officer or 2) by an employee, or
by the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   B.   Does business or seeks to do business: 1) with the officer or 2) with
an employee, or with the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   C.   Conducts activities regulated: 1) by the officer or 2) by an employee,
or by the officer or another employee directing that employee; or
   D.   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance or
nonperformance of the official duties of the officer or employee. (Ord. 674, 5-
10-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 10 ILCS 5/1-3.
2 2. 5 ILCS 315/3.
3 1. 10 ILCS 5/9-1.4.
4 2. 10 ILCS 5/9-3.
1-11-2: PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITIES:
   A.   No officer or employee shall intentionally perform any "prohibited
political activity" during any "compensated time", as defined herein. No
officer or employee shall intentionally use any property or resources of the
city of Marquette Heights in connection with any prohibited political activity.
   B.   At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any
other officer or employee to perform any prohibited political activity: 1) as
part of that officer's or employee's duties, 2) as a condition of employment,
or 3) during any compensated time off (such as holidays, vacation or personal
time off).
   C.   No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate in
any prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or employee
being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the form of a
salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment or
otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional compensation
or any benefit in consideration for his or her participation in any prohibited
political activity.
   D.   Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are permissible for
an officer or employee to engage in as part of his or her official duties, or
activities that are undertaken by an officer or employee on a voluntary basis
which are not prohibited by this chapter.
   E.   No person either: 1) in a position that is subject to recognized merit
principles of public employment or 2) in a position the salary for which is
paid in whole or in part by federal funds and that is subject to the federal
standards for a merit system of personnel administration applicable to grant in
aid programs, shall be denied or deprived of employment or tenure solely
because he or she is a member or an officer of a political committee, of a
political party, or of a political organization or club. (Ord. 674, 5-10-2004)
1-11-3: GIFT BAN:
   A.   Solicitation Or Acceptance Of Gifts: Except as permitted by this
section, no officer or employee, and no spouse of or immediate family member
living with any officer or employee (collectively referred to herein as
"recipients"), shall intentionally solicit or accept any gift from any
"prohibited source", as defined herein, or which is otherwise prohibited by law
or ordinance. No prohibited source shall intentionally offer or make a gift
that violates this section.
   B.   Exceptions: Subsection A of this section is not applicable to the
following:
      1.   Opportunities, benefits, and services that are available on the same
conditions as for the general public.
      2.   Anything for which the officer or employee, or his or her spouse or
immediate family member, pays the fair market value.
      3.   Any: a) contribution that is lawfully made under the election code
or b) activities associated with a fundraising event in support of a political
organization or candidate.
      4.   Educational materials and missions.
      5.   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss business.
      6.   A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the
individual as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt,
great aunt, great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife,
grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-
law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather,
stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half
sister, and including the father, mother, grandfather, or grandmother of the
individual's spouse and the individual's fiance or fiancee.
      7.   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient or his or her spouse or immediate family member and
not because of the personal friendship. In determining whether a gift is
provided on the basis of personal friendship, the recipient shall consider the
circumstances under which the gift was offered, such as: a) the history of the
relationship between the individual giving the gift and the recipient of the
gift, including any previous exchange of gifts between those individuals; b)
whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the individual who gave the
gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax deduction or business
reimbursement for the gift; and c) whether to the actual knowledge of the
recipient the individual who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same
or similar gifts to other officers or employees, or their spouses or immediate
family members.
      8.   Food or refreshments not exceeding seventy five dollars ($75.00) per
person in value on a single calendar day; provided that the food or
refreshments are: a) consumed on the premises from which they were purchased or
prepared or b) catered. For the purposes of this section, "catered" means food
or refreshments that are purchased ready to consume which are delivered by any
means.
      9.   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation, and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities (or outside activities
that are not connected to the official duties of an officer or employee), if
the benefits have not been offered or enhanced because of the official position
or employment of the officer or employee, and are customarily provided to
others in similar circumstances.
      10.   Intragovernmental and intergovernmental gifts. For the purpose of
this act, "intragovernmental gift" means any gift given to an officer or
employee from another officer or employee, and "intergovernmental gift" means
any gift given to an officer or employee by an officer or employee of another
governmental entity.
      11.   Bequests, inheritances, and other transfers at death.
      12.   Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any
calendar year having a cumulative total value of less than one hundred dollars
($100.00).
Each of the exceptions listed in this subsection is mutually exclusive and
independent of every other.
   C.   Disposition Of Gifts: An officer or employee, his or her spouse, or an
immediate family member living with the officer or employee, does not violate
this chapter if the recipient promptly takes reasonable action to return a gift
from a prohibited source to its source or gives the gift or an amount equal to
its value to an appropriate charity that is exempt from income taxation under
section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code of 1986, as now or hereafter
amended, renumbered, or succeeded. (Ord. 674, 5-10-2004)
CHAPTER 12
RISK MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
SECTION:
1-12-1: Purpose
1-12-2: Responsibilities Of Mayor
1-12-3: Responsibilities Performed By Other Personnel
1-12-1: PURPOSE:
The city of Marquette Heights shall have in operation a comprehensive risk
management program, which shall reduce or prevent the city's exposure to
liability. It is of the utmost importance for the city: a) to ensure that
statutory and common law, health and safety rights are extended to all
citizens, visitors and employees; b) to ensure that the city's buildings and
grounds are maintained in a safe condition; c) to provide careful supervision
and protection of all the city's real and personal property, including
vehicles.
The Illinois local government and government employees tort immunity act 1
provides for the city to levy a tax which when collected will pay the cost of
risk management (section 9-107). In addition, this section provides for funds
raised pursuant to this section to be used to pay the cost of insurance,
including all operating and administrative costs and expenses directly
associated therewith, claim services and risk management directly attributable
to loss prevention and loss reduction, educational, inspectional and
supervisory services directly relating to loss prevention and loss reduction,
to purchase claim services, to pay for judgments or settlements, or to
otherwise pay the cost of risk management programs.
The city's risk management program shall provide for: a) identification of the
various components of the risk management program; b) clearly delineated
personnel responsibilities; c) adequate insurance against liability exposure;
d) identification and allowable costs of the maintenance of the risk management
program.
The city may pay that portion of the salary of an officer or employee from the
tort fund which equals the percentage of time devoted to risk management and
loss control by such officer or employee as hereinafter set forth. (Ord. 627,
4-8-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. 745 ILCS 10/9-101 et seq.
1-12-2: RESPONSIBILITIES OF MAYOR:
The general, overall responsibility for the development and maintenance of the
city's risk management program rests with the mayor of the city. The mayor
shall be responsible for the development of the program, identifying the
various components of the program, and delegating responsibilities for these
components to the appropriate personnel. It is expected that the mayor will
continually evaluate the effectiveness of the program and be appraised of
needed revisions, additions or deletions to the components and assigned
responsibilities. It is also expected that, because of the delegation of
responsibilities, the mayor will spend at least twenty percent (20%) of his/her
time fulfilling this portion of the risk management program. (Ord. 627, 4-8-
2002)
1-12-3: RESPONSIBILITIES PERFORMED BY OTHER PERSONNEL:
   A.   Office Manager: The office manager is responsible for all clerical and
office duties for the city. The office manager will be responsible for all
administrative duties associated with administering the liability insurance
including, but not limited to:
      1.   Act as liaison between the city council and the liability insurance
carrier.
      2.   Conduct all research required by the insurance carrier.
      3.   Regularly cost compare liability insurance companies and advise the
city council of the results.
      4.   Organize all the records associated with the liability insurance
carrier.
      5.   Act as the general administrator for the city's liability insurance.
      6.   Assist the mayor and all other employees of the city in the
administration of this risk management program.
      7.   Identify allowable costs for maintenance of this risk management
program.
      8.   Attend meetings on updates and changes in the insurance coverage.
It is expected that the office manager will devote at least twenty percent
(20%) of his/her time fulfilling these duties.
   B.   Street Superintendent: The street superintendent is responsible for the
street infrastructure, city owned buildings (except those directly involved
with the water and sewer systems) and parks. The street superintendent is
charged with overseeing the daily maintenance of all the above listed city
property. The street superintendent shall be charged with ensuring that the
city remains a risk free environment. The duties of the street superintendent
shall include, but not be limited to:
      1.   Inspection of all city owned trees for conditions that could result
in personal injury or property damage to anyone.
      2.   Inspection of all streets, including curbing for conditions that
could result in personal injury or property damage to anyone.
      3.   Inspection of all city owned buildings for conditions that could
result in personal injury or property damage to anyone.
      4.   Implementation of safety regulations directed at all street
department personnel.
      5.   Supervising snow and ice removal from all city owned property.
      6.   Inspection and verification that the city is in compliance with the
Americans with disabilities act.
      7.   Ensuring that the city's mosquito policy is in compliance with all
laws and is operated in accordance with manufacturer's recommendation.
      8.   Inspection of all park equipment and grounds for safe conditions.
It is expected that the street superintendent will devote at least thirty five
percent (35%) of his/her time fulfilling these duties.
   C.   Street Department Employee(s): Street department employees are charged
with repairing and maintaining the street infrastructure, plowing snow, and
maintaining city owned buildings. These employees function with little direct
supervision and are therefore charged with reporting any and all unsafe
conditions that they encounter to the street superintendent. The street
department employees are charged with correcting all the conditions that the
street superintendent has identified as requiring repair to correct an unsafe
condition. Every day each street department employee will fully inspect all
machinery that will be used that day. It is expected that street department
employees will devote at least thirty five percent (35%) of their time toward
fulfilling these duties.
   D.   Water Superintendent: The water superintendent is responsible for the
safe delivery of clean drinking water to every residence. The water
superintendent is also responsible for the sewer system within the city. The
water superintendent shall be charged with ensuring that the city remains a
risk free environment. The duties of the water superintendent shall include,
but not be limited to:
      1.   Test and document the content of the water supply daily.
      2.   Inspect and ensure that all equipment associated with the daily
testing of the water is clean and in good operating condition.
      3.   Weekly, inspect all vehicles assigned to the water department to
ensure that they are in a safe operating condition.
It is expected that the water superintendent will devote at least thirty five
percent (35%) of his/her time fulfilling these duties.
   E.   Public Works Director: When a public works director is used in lieu of
a street superintendent and water superintendent, the public works director
will undertake the combined responsibilities of both the street superintendent
and water superintendent. The public works director will devote at least
seventy percent (70%) of his/her time fulfilling these duties.
   F.   Police Chief: The police chief is responsible for the safety of the
public and the enforcement of the laws within the city. In conjunction with
this risk management program the police chief is responsible for conducting
investigations required to determine the truth about actions and inquiries made
by the city's liability insurance carrier.
The police chief shall ensure that police officers employed by the city receive
training to ensure proper implementation of applicable law in a manner which
does not violate the rights of individual citizens. The police chief shall
regularly monitor the performance of all officers under his/her command to
ensure that the officers follow the rules and regulations applicable to their
conduct as police officers.
The police chief shall attend training to maintain a working knowledge about
the legal requirements involved with the city's liability.
It is expected that the police chief will devote at least thirty five percent
(35%) of his/her time toward fulfilling these duties. (Ord. 627, 4-8-2002)
   G.   Treasurer: Adopt Illinois municipal code 1  entitled functions and
duties of certain officers, municipal treasurer's statutes. (Ord. 841, 6-22-
2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-40 - 5/3.1-35-85.
CHAPTER 13
AGGREGATION OF ELECTRICAL LOAD
SECTION:
1-13-1: Definitions
1-13-2: Aggregation Program
1-13-3: Adoption And Amendment Of Plan Of Operation And Governance
1-13-4: Solicitation And Acceptance Of Proposals
1-13-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the construction and interpretation of
this chapter unless the use or context clearly indicates that another meaning
is intended:
ACT: The Illinois power agency act found at 20 Illinois Compiled Statutes 3855/
1-1 et seq., as amended from time to time.
AGGREGATION PROGRAM: A program for the aggregation of residential and small
commercial retail electrical loads in accordance with the act.
PLAN OF OPERATION AND GOVERNANCE: The plan of operation and governance for the
aggregation program as adopted pursuant to this chapter as such plan is amended
from time to time. (Ord. 805, 4-23-2012)
1-13-2: AGGREGATION PROGRAM:
   A.   The city council may operate an aggregation program in the manner
provided by the act.
   B.   The aggregation program shall be operated pursuant to an opt out
procedure in accordance with the act. (Ord. 805, 4-23-2012)
1-13-3: ADOPTION AND AMENDMENT OF PLAN OF OPERATION AND GOVERNANCE:
The aggregation program shall be operated in accordance with the plan of
operation and governance. The city council may from time to time amend the plan
of operation and governance by resolution approving such amendment. (Ord. 805,
4-23-2012)
1-13-4: SOLICITATION AND ACCEPTANCE OF PROPOSALS:
The city shall solicit and accept and/or reject proposals for the supply of
electricity in accordance with the terms and conditions of the act and in
accordance with the plan of operation and governance. (Ord. 805, 4-23-2012)
CHAPTER 14
WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTION POLICY
SECTION:
1-14-1: Purpose
1-14-2: Definitions
1-14-3: Duties Of An Auditing Official
1-14-4: Duties Of An Employee
1-14-5: Defend Trade Secrets Act Compliance
1-14-6: Employee Acknowledgment
1-14-1: PURPOSE:
The City of Marquette Heights provides whistleblower protections in two
important areas: confidentiality and against retaliation. The confidentiality
of a whistleblower will be maintained to the extent allowable by law, however,
an identity may have to be disclosed to conduct a thorough investigation, to
comply with the law and to provide accused individuals their legal rights of
defense. A whistleblower may also waive confidentiality in writing. The City
will not retaliate against a whistleblower. This includes, but is not limited
to, protection from retaliation in the form of an adverse employment action
such as termination, compensation decreases, or poor work assignments and
threats of physical harm. Any whistleblowers who believe they are being
retaliated against must submit a written report to the Auditing Official within
sixty (60) days of gaining knowledge of the retaliatory action. The right of a
whistleblower for protection against retaliation does not include immunity for
any personal wrongdoing that is alleged and investigated. (Ord. 925, 3-14-2022)
1-14-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms shall apply to this chapter as written unless context
indicates or requires a different meaning:
 
              Any elected, appointed or employed individual, by whatever name, in the City whose
              duties may include: receiving, registering and investigating complaints and
              information concerning misconduct, inefficiency and waste within the City/Village/
              Town; investigating the performance of officers, employees, functions and programs;
AUDITING      and, promoting economy, efficiency, effectiveness and integrity in the
OFFICIAL:     administration of the programs and operations of the City.
                 1.   The Auditing Official shall be the, Attorney Joshua Herman until replaced
              by the City.
                 2.   If the City does not designate an Auditing Official, the Auditing Official
              defaults to the State's Attorney of Tazewell County, IL.
              Anyone employed by the City, whether in a permanent or temporary position,
              including full-time, part-time and intermittent workers. Employee also includes
EMPLOYEE:     members of appointed boards or commissions, whether paid or unpaid.
              Employee also includes persons who have been terminated because of any report or
              complaint submitted under Section 4.1.
              Any action by an employee of the City; an appointed member of a board, commission
              or committee; or, an elected official of the City that is undertaken in violation
              of a federal or state law or local ordinance; is an abuse of authority; violates
              the public's trust or expectation of their conduct; is of substantial and specific
              danger to the public's health or safety; or, is a gross waste of public funds. The
IMPROPER      action need not be within the scope of the employee's, elected official's, board
GOVERNMENTAL  member's, commission member's or committee member's official duties to be subject
ACTION:       to a claim of "improper governmental action."
                 1.   Improper governmental action does not include the City's personnel actions,
              including, but not limited to employee grievances, complaints, appointments,
              promotions, transfers, assignments, reassignments, reinstatements, restorations,
              reemployment, performance evaluations, reductions in pay, dismissals, suspensions,
              demotions, reprimands or violations of collective bargaining agreements, except to
              the extent that the action amounts to retaliation.
              Any adverse change in an employee's employment status or the terms and conditions
              of employment that results from an employee's protected activity under Section 4.1.
RETALIATE,    Retaliatory action includes, but is not limited to, denial of adequate staff to
RETALIATION   perform duties; frequent staff changes; frequent and undesirable office changes;
OR            refusal to assign meaningful work; unsubstantiated letters of reprimand or
RETALIATORY   unsatisfactory performance evaluations; demotion; reduction in pay; denial of
ACTION:       promotion; transfer or reassignment; suspension or dismissal; or, other
              disciplinary action made because of an employee's protected activity under Section
              4.1.
              An employee, as defined in Section II of this policy, of the City who:
                 1.   Reports an improper governmental action as defined under 50 ILCS 105/4.1
WHISTLEBLOWER (hereinafter Section 4.1);
:                2.   Cooperates with an investigation by an Auditing Official related to a
              report of improper governmental action; or,
                 3.   Testifies in a proceeding or prosecution arising out of an improper
              governmental action. (Ord. 925, 3-14-2022)
 
1-14-3: DUTIES OF AN AUDITING OFFICIAL:
   A.   Each Auditing Official shall establish written processes and procedures
consistent with the terms of this policy and best practices for investigations
for managing complaints filed under Section 4.1. Each Auditing Official shall
investigate and dispose of reports of improper governmental action in
accordance with these processes and procedures, and all other provisions of
Section 4.1.
   B.   The Auditing Official must provide each employee a written summary or a
complete copy of Section 4.1 upon commencement of employment and at least once
each year of employment. At the same time, the employee shall also receive a
copy of the written processes and procedures for reporting improper
governmental actions from the applicable Auditing Official.
   C.   Auditing Officials may reinstate, reimburse for lost wages or expenses
incurred, promote or provide some other form of restitution.
   D.   In instances where an Auditing Official determines that restitution
will not suffice, the Auditing Official may make their investigation findings
available for the purposes of aiding in that employee's, or the employee's
attorney's, effort to make the employee whole.
   E.   Auditing Officials are responsible for reading the full context of
Section 4.1 and complying with all requirements.
   F.   If no Auditing Official is designated, the State's Attorney of Tazwell
County, IL, will be the default Auditing Official. (Ord. 925, 3-14-2022)
1-14-4: DUTIES OF AN EMPLOYEE:
   A.   All reports of illegal and dishonest activities will be promptly
submitted to the Auditing Official who is responsible for investigating and
coordinating corrective action.
   B.   If an employee has knowledge of, or a concern of, improper governmental
action, the employee shall make a written report of the activity to the
Auditing Official. The employee must exercise sound judgment to avoid baseless
allegations. An employee who intentionally files a false report of wrongdoing
will be subject to discipline up to and including termination.
   C.   The whistleblower is not responsible for investigating the activity or
for determining fault or corrective measures; a designated Auditing Official is
charged with these responsibilities. (Ord. 925, 3-14-2022)
1-14-5: DEFEND TRADE SECRETS ACT COMPLIANCE:
Immunity from Liability for Confidential Disclosure of a Trade Secret to the
Government or in a Court Filing:
   A.   Immunity-An individual shall not be held criminally or civilly liable
under any Federal or state trade secret law for the disclosure of a trade
secret that:
      1.   Is made:
         a.   In confidence to a federal, state or local government official,
either directly or indirectly, or to an attorney; and
         b.   Solely for the purpose of reporting or investigating a suspected
violation of law; or
      2.   Is made in a complaint or other document filed in a lawsuit or other
proceeding, if such filing is made under seal.
   B.   Use of Trade Secret Information in Anti-Retaliation Lawsuit-An
individual who files a lawsuit for retaliation by an employer for reporting a
suspected violation of law may disclose the trade secret to the attorney of the
individual and use the trade secret information in the court proceeding, if the
individual:
      1.   Files any document containing the trade secret under seal; and
      2.   Does not disclose the trade secret, except pursuant to court order.
(18U.S.C. 1833). (Ord. 925, 3-14-2022)
1-14-6: EMPLOYEE ACKNOWLEDGMENT:
Employees are required to sign a written acknowledgement that they have
received, read and understand this Policy, and to submit that acknowledgement
to the Auditing Official or other designated official of the City. The form
that follows on page four of this policy will satisfy this requirement upon
receipt. (Ord. 925, 3-14-2022)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
BOARD OF LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Board Established; Appointments
2-1-2: General Duties
2-1-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED; APPOINTMENTS:
There is hereby established the board of local improvements for the city which
shall consist of the mayor and two (2) aldermen of the city council to be
designated by ordinance. (Ord. 188, 3-24-1975)
2-1-2: GENERAL DUTIES:
The board of local improvements shall have the powers to perform the duties
assigned to it by statute or city ordinance. In making local improvements by
special assessment, the board of local improvements, the mayor and the city
council shall follow the procedures set forth in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/9-2-1 et seq., with amendments thereto adopted prior to the effective date
hereof. (Ord. 188, 3-24-1975)
CHAPTER 2
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-2-1: Purpose
2-2-2: Membership, Term, Vacancies And Compensation
2-2-3: Procedures
2-2-4: Meetings
2-2-5: Powers And Duties
2-2-1: PURPOSE:
In order that adequate provisions be made for the preparation of a
comprehensive city plan for the guidance, direction and control of the growth
and development or redevelopment of the city and contiguous territory not more
than one and one-half (11/2) miles beyond the corporate limits and not included
in any municipality, a planning commission is hereby created pursuant to the
authority of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-12-4 et seq. (Ord. 495, 4-22-
1996)
2-2-2: MEMBERSHIP, TERM, VACANCIES AND COMPENSATION:
There will be five (5) citizens of the city on the commission. The members of
the planning commission shall be selected by the planning committee
chairperson, and appointed by the mayor, subject to the approval of the city
council. The members of the planning commission shall serve for a period of two
(2) years or until their successors are appointed. Vacancies in an office shall
be filled for the unexpired term of the member whose place has become vacant.
All members of the commission shall serve without compensation. Ex officio
members shall be the mayor of the city of Marquette Heights and the planning
committee chairperson and shall serve for the terms of their elected or
appointed office. Advisory members shall be the city attorney, city engineer
and public works director. (Ord. 856, 7-25-2016)
2-2-3: PROCEDURES:
There shall be an organizational meeting of the planning commission to be held
annually in August. At such meeting, a chairman, vice chairman and secretary
shall be elected. A person may not serve more than three (3) years in
succession as chairman of the planning commission. The commission shall keep
written records of its proceedings, which shall be open at all times to public
inspection. The commission shall also file an annual report with the city
council setting forth its transactions and recommendations. (Ord. 495, 4-22-
1996)
2-2-4: MEETINGS:
Regular meetings of the planning commission shall be held at such time and
place within the city as the commission may determine from time to time.
Special meetings may be held at the call of the chairman or as determined by a
majority vote of the commission. (Ord. 495, 4-22-1996)
2-2-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The planning commission shall have the following powers and duties:
   A.   To prepare and recommend to the city council a comprehensive plan for
the present and future development or redevelopment of the city. Such plan may
be adopted in whole or in separate geographical or functional parts, each of
which, when adopted, shall be the official comprehensive plan, or part thereof,
of the city. This plan may include reasonable requirements with reference to
streets, public grounds, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, streetlights, parks,
playgrounds, size of residential lots, stormwater drainage, water supply and
distribution, sanitary sewers, and other improvements hereinafter specified.
The plan, as recommended by the planning commission and as thereafter adopted
by the city council, may be applicable, by the terms thereof, to land situated
within the corporate limits and contiguous territory not more than one and one-
half (11/2) miles beyond the corporate limits of and not included within the
city. This plan shall be advisory except as to such part thereof as has been
implemented by ordinances duly enacted by the city council.
   B.   To recommend changes from time to time, in the official comprehensive
plan.
   C.   To prepare and recommend to the city council, from time to time, plans
for specific improvements in pursuance of the official comprehensive plan.
   D.   To give aid to the city officials charged with the direction of
projects for improvements embraced within the official plan, to further the
making of these projects, and generally to promote the realization of the
official comprehensive plan.
   E.   To accept and receive a plat of subdivision of land for preliminary
approval, and advise and assist the city council in final approval thereof. The
planning commission may by rules designate a subdivision committee to make
reports to it in regard to subdivision of land.
   F.   To cooperate with city and regional planning commissions and other
agencies to further a local planning program and to assume harmonious and
integrated planning for the area.
   G.   To arrange and conduct any form of publicity relative to its activities
for the general purpose of public information and understanding. (Ord. 495, 4-
22-1996)
CHAPTER 3
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
SECTION:
2-3-1: Creation And Membership
2-3-2: Meetings
2-3-3: Appeal
2-3-4: Fee For Appeal (Rep. by Ord. 945, 12-11-2023)
2-3-5: Decision Of Board
2-3-6: Variations To Zoning Regulations
2-3-7: Vote Required
2-3-7-1: Amendments To Zoning Code
2-3-8: Notice Of Public Hearings
2-3-9: City Council Authority
2-3-1: CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP:
A zoning board of appeals is hereby authorized to be established. The word
"board" when used in this chapter shall be construed to mean the zoning board
of appeals. The said board shall consist of seven (7) members appointed by the
mayor, by and with the consent of the city council. The members of the first
board shall serve respectively for the following terms (or until their
respective successors are appointed and qualified): one for one year, one for
two (2) years, one for three (3) years, one for four (4) years, one for five
(5) years, one for six (6) years, and one for seven (7) years; and the
successor to each member, when appointed, shall serve for a term of five (5)
years.
One of the members of said board shall be designated by the mayor, with the
consent of the city council, as chairman of said board, and shall hold his said
office as chairman until his successor is appointed. Such chairman, or in his
absence the acting chairman, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of
witnesses. The mayor shall have the power to remove any member of said board
for cause and after a public hearing. Vacancies upon said board shall be filled
for the unexpired term of the member whose place has become vacant, in the
manner herein provided for the appointment of such member. (Ord. 36, 12-16-
1957; amd. Ord. 37, 2-17-1958)
2-3-2: MEETINGS:
All meetings of the zoning board of appeals shall be held at the call of the
chairman and at such times as such board may determine. All hearings conducted
by said board shall be open to the public. The board shall keep minutes of its
proceedings showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or
failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its hearings
and other official actions. Findings of fact shall be included in the minutes
of each case of a requested variation, and the reasons for recommending or
denying such variation shall be specified. Every rule or regulation, every
amendment or repeal thereof and every order, requirement, decision or
determination of the board shall be filed immediately in the office of the
board and shall be a public record. The board shall adopt its own rules of
procedure not in conflict with this chapter or with the Illinois statutes in
such case made and provided, and may select or appoint such officers as it
deems necessary. (Ord. 36, 12-16-1957)
2-3-3: APPEAL:
An appeal may be taken to the zoning board of appeals by any person, or by any
officer, department, board or bureau affected by a decision of the building
inspector relative to the zoning regulations 1  of this code. Such appeal shall
be taken within such time as shall be prescribed by the zoning board of appeals
by general rule, by filing with the building inspector and with said board of
appeals a notice of appeal, specifying the grounds thereof. The building
inspector shall forthwith transmit to the board all of the papers constituting
the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed
from, unless the building inspector certifies to the zoning board of appeals
after the notice of appeal has been filed with him that by reason of facts
stated in the certificate a stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril to
life or property, in which case the proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise
than by a restraining order, which may be granted by the zoning board of
appeals or by a court of record on application, on notice to the building
inspector and on due cause shown.
The board shall select a reasonable time and place for the hearing of the
appeal and give due notice thereof to the parties and shall render a decision
on the appeal without unreasonable delay. Any person may appear and testify at
the hearing, either in person or by duly authorized agent or attorney. (Ord.
36, 12-16-1957)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 5 of this code.
2-3-4: FEE FOR APPEAL:
(Rep. by Ord. 945, 12-11-2023)
2-3-5: DECISION OF BOARD:
The zoning board of appeals may reverse or affirm wholly or partly or modify or
amend the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from to the
extent and in the manner that the board may decide to be fitting and proper in
the premises. (Ord. 36, 12-16-1957)
2-3-6: VARIATIONS TO ZONING REGULATIONS:
When a property owner shows that a strict application of the terms of the
zoning regulations of this code relating to the use, construction or alteration
of building or structures, or to the use of land, imposes upon him practical
difficulties or particular hardship, then the board may make such variations of
the strict application of the terms of said zoning regulations as are in
harmony with its general purpose and intent when the board is satisfied, under
the evidence heard before it, that a granting of such variation will not merely
serve as a convenience to the applicant, but it is necessary to alleviate some
demonstrable hardship or difficulty so great as to warrant a variation. (Ord.
36, 12-16-1957)
2-3-7: VOTE REQUIRED:
In considering all appeals and all proposed variations to the zoning
regulations, the zoning board of appeals shall, before making any variation
from the zoning regulations in a specific case, first determine that the
proposed variation will not:
   A.   Impair an adequate supply of light and air to adjacent property;
   B.   Unreasonably increase the congestion in public streets;
   C.   Increase the danger of fire or endanger the public safety;
   D.   Unreasonably diminish or impair established property values within the
surrounding area; or
   E.   In any other respect impair the public health, safety, comfort, morals
or welfare of the inhabitants of the city.
The concurring vote of four (4) members of the board shall be necessary to
reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of the building
inspector, or to decide in favor of the applicant any matter upon which it is
authorized by this chapter to render a decision. (Ord. 36, 12-16-1957)
2-3-7-1: AMENDMENTS TO ZONING CODE:
The zoning board of appeals is hereby designated as the body which shall
convene and conduct hearings relative to any proposed change in the zoning
regulations prescribed by title 5 of this code. The zoning board of appeals
shall conduct all such hearings in a manner consistent with this code and the
requirements of the statutes in such cases made and provided. The zoning board
of appeals shall make a recommendation to the city council with respect to any
proposed amendments to the zoning regulations prescribed by title 5 of this
code, which such recommendations shall not be binding upon the city council.
(Ord. 343, 5-11-1987)
2-3-8: NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARINGS:
The zoning board of appeals shall make no recommendation except in a specific
case and after a public hearing conducted by said board. With respect to any
hearing required to be conducted by statute or by this code, a notice of the
time and place of such public hearing shall be published in a newspaper of
general circulation in the city not more than thirty (30) nor less than fifteen
(15) days previous to the hearing. Such notice shall contain the address or
location of the property for which the variation or other ruling by the board
is sought, as well as a brief description of the nature of the appeal or other
action proposed to be taken. (Ord. 343, 5-11-1987)
2-3-9: CITY COUNCIL AUTHORITY:
The city council hereby retains and assumes the right to pass upon, approve or
disapprove and reverse any and all findings and decisions by the zoning board
of appeals. (Ord. 86, 9-21-1964)
CHAPTER 4
CIVIL DEFENSE ORGANIZATION
SECTION:
2-4-1: Establishment
2-4-2: Director
2-4-3: Functions
2-4-4: Service As Mobile Support Team
2-4-5: Agreements With Other Political Subdivisions
2-4-6: Emergency Action
2-4-7: Compensation
2-4-8: Reimbursement By State
2-4-9: Purchases And Expenditures
2-4-10: Oath
2-4-11: Office
2-4-12: Appropriation; Levy Of Taxes
2-4-1: ESTABLISHMENT:
There is hereby created the local municipal civil defense organization to
prevent, minimize, repair and alleviate injury or damage resulting from
disaster caused by enemy attack, sabotage or other hostile action, or from
natural disaster, in accordance with "the Illinois civil defense act of 1951 1
".
This civil defense organization shall consist of the director and additional
members to be selected by the director. (Ord. 38, 3-17-1958)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  10-2-4 of this code.
2-4-2: DIRECTOR:
The director of the municipal civil defense organization shall be appointed by
the mayor, with the consent of the city council, and shall serve until removed
by same.
The director shall have direct responsibility for the organization,
administration, training and operation of the civil defense organization,
subject to the direction and control of the mayor, as provided by statute.
In the event of the absence, resignation, death or inability to serve of the
director, the mayor or any person designated by him, shall be and act as
director until a new appointment is made as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 38,
3-17-1958)
2-4-3: FUNCTIONS:
The municipal civil defense organization shall perform such civil defense
functions within the municipality as shall be prescribed in and by the state
civil defense plan and program prepared by the governor, and such orders, rules
and regulations as may be promulgated by the governor, and in addition shall
perform such duties outside the corporate limits as may be required pursuant to
any mutual aid agreement with any other political subdivision, municipality or
quasi-municipality entered into as provided by the "Illinois civil defense act
of 1951". (Ord. 38, 3-17-1958)
2-4-4: SERVICE AS MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM:
All or any members of the municipal civil defense organization may be
designated as members of a mobile support team created by the state director of
civil defense as provided by law.
The leader of such mobile support team shall be designated by the director of
the municipal civil defense organization.
Any member of a mobile support team who is a municipal employee or officer
while serving on call to duty by the governor, or the state director of civil
defense, shall receive the compensation and have the powers, duties, rights and
immunities incident to such employment or office. Any such member who is not a
paid officer or employee of the municipality, while so serving, shall receive
from the state reasonable compensation as provided by law. (Ord. 38, 3-17-1958)
2-4-5: AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS:
The director of the civil defense organization may negotiate mutual aid
agreements with other municipal corporations or political subdivisions of the
state, but no such agreement shall be effective until it has been approved by
the city council and by the state director of civil defense. (Ord. 38, 3-17-
1958)
2-4-6: EMERGENCY ACTION:
If the governor declares that a civil defense emergency exists in the event of
actual emergency attack upon the United States or the occurrence within the
state of Illinois of major disaster resulting from enemy sabotage or other
hostile action or from natural disaster, it shall be the duty of the municipal
civil defense organization to cooperate fully with the state office of civil
defense and with the governor in the exercise of emergency powers as provided
by law. (Ord. 38, 3-17-1958)
2-4-7: COMPENSATION:
Members of the civil defense organization who are paid employees or officers of
the municipality, if called for training by the state director of civil
defense, shall receive for the time spent in such training the same rate of pay
as is attached to the position held; members who are not such municipal
employees or officers shall receive for such training time such compensation as
may be established by the city council. (Ord. 38, 3-17-1958)
2-4-8: REIMBURSEMENT BY STATE:
The city treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund any
reimbursement by the state to the municipality for expenses incident to
training members of the civil defense organization as prescribed by the state
director of civil defense, compensation for services and expenses of members of
a mobile support team while serving outside the municipality in response to a
call by the governor or state director of civil defense, as provided by law,
and any other reimbursement made by the state incident to civil defense
activities, as provided by law. (Ord. 38, 3-17-1958)
2-4-9: PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES:
The city council may, on recommendation of the municipal director of civil
defense, authorize any purchase or contracts necessary to place the
municipality in a position to combat effectively any disaster resulting from
the explosion of any nuclear or other bomb or missile, and to protect the
public health and safety, protect property and provide emergency assistance to
victims in the case of such disaster, or from natural disaster.
In the event of enemy caused or natural disaster, the municipal director of
civil defense is authorized, on behalf of the municipality, to procure such
services, supplies, equipment or material as may be necessary for such
purposes, in view of the exigency, without regard to the statutory procedures
or formalities normally prescribed by law pertaining to municipal contracts or
obligations, as authorized by "the Illinois civil defense act of 1951";
provided that, if the city council meets at such time, such director shall act
subject to the directions and instructions imposed by that body. (Ord. 38, 3-
17-1958)
2-4-10: OATH:
Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the municipal civil defense
organization shall, before entering upon his duties, subscribe to the following
oath, which shall be filed with the director:
I,                      a member of the Civil Defense Organization of Marquette
Heights, Illinois, do solemnly swear that l will support and defend and bear
true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of the United States and the
Constitution of the State of Illinois, and the territory, institutions and
facilities thereof, both public and private, against all enemies, foreign and
domestic; that l take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or
purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties
upon which I am about to enter, and l do further swear that l do not advocate,
nor am I nor have I been a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this State
by force or violence; and that during such time as I am affiliated with the
Local Civil Defense Organization, I will not advocate nor become a member of
any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the
government of the United States or of this State by force or violence.
(Ord. 38, 3-17-1958)
2-4-11: OFFICE:
The mayor is authorized to designate space in the city hall or elsewhere, as
may be provided for by the city council for the municipal civil defense
organization as its office. (Ord. 38, 3-17-1958)
2-4-12: APPROPRIATION; LEVY OF TAXES:
The city council may have an appropriation for civil defense purposes in the
manner provided by law, and may levy in addition for civil defense purposes
only, a tax not to exceed five cents ($0.05) per one hundred dollars ($100.00)
of the assessed value of all taxable property in addition to all other taxes,
as provided by "the Illinois civil defense act of 1951". (Ord. 38, 3-17-1958)
CHAPTER 5
YOUTH GUIDANCE COUNCIL
SECTION:
2-5-1: Creation, Membership
2-5-2: Purpose
2-5-3: Appointments; Filling Vacancies
2-5-4: Terms Of Members
2-5-5: Duties
2-5-6: Ex Officio Members
2-5-7: Yearly Report To Council
2-5-1: CREATION, MEMBERSHIP:
There shall be created the city youth guidance council consisting of seven (7)
board members who are residents of the city and who over the years have shown a
special, vital and public spirited interest in youth leadership and youth
problems. (Ord. 175, 5-29-1974)
2-5-2: PURPOSE:
The overall purpose of the youth guidance council shall be to encourage the
continuing betterment of opportunities for the wholesome development of the
youth in the city. (Ord. 175, 5-29-1974)
2-5-3: APPOINTMENTS; FILLING VACANCIES:
The board members of the youth guidance council shall be appointed by the
mayor, subject to approval by the city council. In making appointments to fill
vacancies, the mayor shall first consider recommendations made by the city
youth guidance council. In the month of May the board of the city youth
guidance council shall make its recommendations for appointments to fill any
vacancies, and all appointments so made shall become effective on May 31 next
following such appointments. Vacancies which may occur by reason of death or
resignation may be filled by appointment of the mayor after recommendation by
the board of the city youth guidance council, but said recommendation to fill
such vacancies shall be made at least one month prior to said appointment to
fill such vacancies. (Ord. 175, 5-29-1974)
2-5-4: TERMS OF MEMBERS:
The terms of the members of the board of the city youth guidance council shall
be for three (3) years, except the terms of the initial appointees which shall
be assigned so that the terms of three (3) members shall be for the term of
three (3) years, ending May 31, 1977, and two (2) members shall be for the term
of one year, ending May 31, 1975.
The board of the city youth guidance council shall select its own chairman and
officers in accordance with procedures which said council may adopt. (Ord. 175,
5-29-1974)
2-5-5: DUTIES:
The board of the city youth guidance council shall:
   A.   Assist in coordinating and integrating governmental and private plans
and services affecting the welfare of children and youth in the city.
   B.   Assist in coordinating and integrating all plans and services for
protecting children from exposure to harmful influences and conditions
conducive to delinquency.
   C.   Make or cause to be made studies and surveys related to juvenile
behavior or in the interest of youth guidance.
   D.   Request and obtain such cooperation, assistance and data from city
departments and agencies as may be reasonably necessary to carry out its work.
   E.   Recommend plans and methods for the improvement of opportunities for
the wholesome development of youth in the city.
   F.   Create subcommittees, composed of members or nonmembers of said
council, to aid and assist in the work of the council.
   G.   Create a special subcommittee consisting of persons qualified by
experience and training to provide guidance and counsel to children referred to
it by the police department, the family court, the schools or any social
agency.
   H.   The youth guidance council may enter into a purchase or service
contract or agreement with public and/or private agencies. (Ord. 175, 5-29-
1974)
2-5-6: EX OFFICIO MEMBERS:
The mayor, chief of police and juvenile officer of the city police department
shall be ex officio members of the board of the city youth guidance council.
(Ord. 175, 5-29-1974)
2-5-7: YEARLY REPORT TO COUNCIL:
In May of each year, the city youth guidance council shall prepare and submit
to the mayor and city council a summary report of its operations, studies,
meetings held and attendance of members during the preceding fiscal year, along
with a statement of projected plans for the subsequent fiscal year. The council
shall keep a written record of its proceedings which shall be available for
public inspection. (Ord. 175, 5-29-1974)
CHAPTER 6
BICENTENNIAL COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-6-1: Commission Created, Purpose
2-6-2: Membership
2-6-3: Subcommittees, Functions
2-6-4: Council Approval Required
2-6-1: COMMISSION CREATED, PURPOSE:
There is hereby created a Marquette Heights bicentennial commission for the
purpose of helping the people of Marquette Heights to plan and implement a
rewarding and worthwhile commemoration with results that will last beyond 1976.
Said commission shall recommend to the mayor and council its recommendations
concerning necessary action to effectuate its purposes and goals. (Ord. 199,
10-27-1975)
2-6-2: MEMBERSHIP:
The bicentennial commission shall be composed of an executive committee
appointed by the mayor and shall be comprised of a chairman, vice chairman,
treasurer, secretary and two (2) members at large, which executive committee
shall be a working committee and shall meet as necessary in order to accomplish
and effectuate the goals and purposes of said commission. (Ord. 199, 10-27-
1975)
2-6-3: SUBCOMMITTEES, FUNCTIONS:
   A.   Finance and fundraising subcommittee, which subcommittee shall be
headed by a treasurer and be responsible for the budget, audit, bookkeeping,
fundraising plans and events and securing gifts and grants.
   B.   Communication subcommittee, which subcommittee shall be responsible for
publicity and informing the general public, securing speakers and encouraging
bicentennial programs at local organization meetings and which subcommittee
shall utilize the expertise of publishers, writers, reporters, public relations
people, artists, printers, photographers and radio and television broadcasters.
   C.   Heritage "76" subcommittee, which shall be responsible for historic
programs, pageants and historic reenactments, educational programs, restoration
and preservation of historic sites and buildings, the marking of historic
sites, routes and trails, the publication or reprint of local history, special
exhibits in museums and libraries, places of business and government, and
projects to remind the community of America's revolutionary heritage, which
subcommittee shall utilize the expertise of historians, educators, librarians,
publishers, authors, societies and sons and daughters of the American
Revolution.
   D.   Festival subcommittee, which shall be responsible for art and cultural
programs, fairs and exhibits, international activities, travel and tourist
attractions and hospitality and shall utilize the expertise of hotel and motel
managers, tourist agents, actors, artists, directors, musicians, county fair
board, dancers, art societies, teachers, veterans and other civic groups.
   E.   Horizon "76" subcommittee, which shall be responsible for the community
goals program to examine needs and priorities for community action in such
areas as environment, beautification, and transportation, utilizing human
resources and shall utilize the expertise of conservationists, civic and garden
groups, businessmen, educators, government officials, social workers, labor
groups, youth groups, and construction people and organizations.
Each subcommittee shall be responsible to and report to the executive
committee. (Ord. 199, 10-27-1975)
2-6-4: COUNCIL APPROVAL REQUIRED:
No member of the bicentennial commission, including the executive committee,
nor any member of subcommittees shall enter any contractual obligation, pay
bills or solicit or collect money without the approval and consent of the mayor
and council. (Ord. 199, 10-27-1975)
CHAPTER 7
TREE BOARD
SECTION:
2-7-1: Board Created, Members
2-7-2: Chairman
2-7-3: Compensation
2-7-4: General Duties
2-7-1: BOARD CREATED, MEMBERS:
A city tree board is hereby created by the city, such board to consist of the
regularly constituted parks and buildings committee of the city council of the
city, the mayor, and the public works director. The respective terms of the
members of the city tree board hereby created shall be coincidental with the
terms of said members as members of said parks and buildings committee. (Ord.
855, 7-25-2016)
2-7-2: CHAIRMAN:
The chairman of the parks and buildings committee shall also sit as chairman of
the city tree board. (Ord. 855, 7-25-2016)
2-7-3: COMPENSATION:
All members of the city tree board shall serve without compensation other than
that which they receive as members of the city council. (Ord. 424, 10-28-1991)
2-7-4: GENERAL DUTIES:
The city tree board shall develop a planning program that will hereinafter
define the arboricultural specifications, including the preparation of
regulations, projects and programs pertinent to the development, redevelopment
and renewal of the trees under its jurisdiction, and the exercise of such
powers germane to the purposes for which the city tree board was created as
conferred upon the committee by the statutes of the state of Illinois, and by
ordinances of the city. (Ord. 424, 10-28-1991)
CHAPTER 8
LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-8-1: Established
2-8-2: Local Liquor Control Commissioner
2-8-1: ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a local liquor control commission. (Ord. 845, 10-
12-2015)
2-8-2: LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER:
   A.   Mayor As Commissioner; Assistants; Interpretation:
      1.   The mayor shall be the local liquor control commissioner, and shall
be charged with the administration of all liquor laws.
      2.   The mayor, as the local liquor control commissioner, may appoint
such persons to assist him in the exercise of the powers vested in him and in
the performance of his duties as may be deemed advisable.
      3.   Whenever in this code there is reference to the local liquor control
commissioner, the term shall include any committee or other agency appointed by
the local liquor control commissioner, and under his direction to act therefor.
   B.   Powers: The local liquor control commissioner shall also have the
following powers:
      1.   To impose fines and grant and/or suspend for not more than thirty
(30) days or revoke for cause all local licenses issued to persons for premises
within the city.
      2.   To enter or to authorize any law enforcing officer to enter at any
time upon any premises licensed under this code to determine whether any of the
provisions of this code or any rules or regulations adopted by the city or by
the state of Illinois or the state commission have been or are being violated,
and at such time, to examine said premises of said licensee in connection
therewith.
      3.   To receive complaints from any citizen that any of the provisions of
this code, or the rules or regulations adopted pursuant hereto, have been or
are being violated and to act upon such complaints.
      4.   To hold hearings, take testimony, examine applicants and do and
perform all acts necessary or incidental to such office.
The local liquor control commissioner also has the duty to notify the secretary
of state of any convictions or dispositions of court supervision for a
violation of section 6-20 of the liquor control act of 1934 or a similar
provision of a local ordinance. (Ord. 845, 10-12-2015)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
MUNICIPAL OCCUPATION TAXES
SECTION:
3-1-1: Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax
3-1-2: Municipal Service Occupation Tax
3-1-3: Municipal Use Tax
3-1-4: Municipal Utility Tax
3-1-5: Foreign Fire Insurance Companies
3-1-6: Municipal Electric Utility Tax
3-1-7: Municipal Cannabis Retailers' Occupation Tax
3-1-8: Cable Television Franchise Fee
3-1-1: MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX:
A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling
tangible personal property at retail in the city at the rate of one percent
(1%) of the gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such business
while this section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of section
8-11-1 of the Illinois municipal code.
Every such person engaged in such business in the city shall file on or before
the last day of each calendar month, the report to the state department of
revenue required by section three of "an act in relation to a tax upon persons
engaged in the business of selling tangible personal property to purchasers for
use or consumption", approved June 28, 1933, as amended.
At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the state department
of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the receipts from
sales of tangible personal property during the preceding month. (Ord. 124, 9-
15-1969, eff. 10-1-1969)
3-1-2: MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the city in the business of
making sales of service at the rate of one percent (1%) of the cost price of
all tangible personal property transferred by said serviceman either in the
form of tangible personal property or in the form of real estate as an incident
to a sale of service, in accordance with the provisions of section 8-11-5 of
the Illinois municipal code.
Every supplier or serviceman required to account for municipal service
occupation tax for the benefit of the city shall file, on or before the last
day of each calendar month, the report to the state department of revenue
required by section nine of the "service occupation tax act", approved July 10,
1961, as amended.
At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the state department
of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed. (Ord. 125, 9-15-1969, eff. 10-1-
1969)
3-1-3: MUNICIPAL USE TAX:
A tax is hereby imposed in accordance with the provisions of section 8-11-6 of
the Illinois municipal code upon the privilege of using in the city any item of
tangible personal property which is purchased outside Illinois at retail from a
retailer, and which is titled or registered with an agency of Illinois
government. The tax shall be at a rate of one percent (1%) of the selling price
of such tangible property with selling price to have the meaning as defined in
the "use tax act", approved July 14, 1955.
Such tax shall be collected by the Illinois department of revenue for all
municipalities imposing the tax and shall be paid before the title or
certificate of registration for the personal property is issued. (Ord. 184, 10-
28-1974)
3-1-4: MUNICIPAL UTILITY TAX:
   A.   Definitions:
GROSS RECEIPTS: The consideration received for distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas or water for use or consumption and not for resale,
as the case may be; and for all services rendered in connection therewith
valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including cash,
credit, services and property of every kind and material, and for all services
rendered therewith; and shall be determined without any deduction on account of
the cost of the service, product or commodity supplied, the cost of materials
used, labor or service cost, or any other expenses whatsoever.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, municipal corporation or
political subdivision of this state, or a receiver, trustee, conservator or
other representative appointed by order of any court.
   B.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed on all persons engaged in the
following occupations or privileges:
      1.   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas for use or consumption within the corporate limits of
the city, and not for resale, at the rate of five percent (5%) of the gross
receipts therefrom.
      2.   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling water for use or consumption within the corporate limits
of the city, and not for resale, at the rate of five percent (5%) of the gross
receipts therefrom.
The tax imposed under this section shall not apply with respect to gross
receipts pertaining to bills for the distribution, supply, furnishing or sale
of electricity where the use or consumption of the electricity is subject to
the tax imposed under section
3-1-6 of this chapter.
   C.   Exceptions: No tax is imposed by this section with respect to any
transaction in interstate commerce, or otherwise, to the extent to which such
business may not, under the constitution and statutes of the United States, be
made subject to taxation by this state or any political subdivision thereof;
nor shall any persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas or water be subject to taxation under the provisions
of this section for such transactions as are or may become subject to taxation
under the provisions of the "municipal retailers' occupation tax act"
authorized by section 8-11-1 of the Illinois municipal code, approved August
15, 1941, as amended.
   D.   Additional Money: Such tax shall be in addition to the payment of
money, or value of products or services furnished to the city by the taxpayer
as compensation for the use of its streets, alleys or other public places, or
installation and maintenance therein, thereon or thereunder of poles, wires,
pipes or other equipment used in the operation of the taxpayers' business.
   E.   Effective Date: This section shall take effect after publication, and
the tax provided for herein shall be based on the "gross receipts" as herein
defined, actually paid to the taxpayer for services billed on or after April 1,
1959.
   F.   Tax Returns: On or before August 31, 1959, each taxpayer shall make a
return to the city treasurer for the months of April, May and June, 1959,
stating:
      1.   His name;
      2.   His principal place of business;
      3.   His gross receipts during those months upon the basis of which the
tax is imposed;
      4.   Amount of tax;
      5.   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
On or before the last day of every third month thereafter, each taxpayer shall
make a like return to the city treasurer for a corresponding three (3) month
period.
The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the time of making
such return, pay to the city treasurer, the amount of tax herein imposed;
provided that, in connection with any return the taxpayer may, if he so elects,
report and pay an amount based upon his total billings of business subject to
the tax during the period for which the return is made (exclusive of any
amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later payments based upon
any differences between such billings and the taxable gross receipts.
   G.   Erroneous Payments: If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been
paid which was not due under the provisions of this section, whether as the
result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be
credited against any tax due, or to become due, under this section from the
taxpayer who made the erroneous payment; provided, that no amounts erroneously
paid more than three (3) years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be
so credited. (Ord. 647, 9-23-2002, eff. 1-1-2003)
3-1-5: FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES:
   A.   Compliance With Provisions: It shall be unlawful for any corporation,
company or association, not incorporated under the laws of the State, to engage
in the City in effecting fire insurance, or to transact any business of fire
insurance in the City, while in default by not fully complying with any of the
requirements of this section, and until such requirements shall have been fully
complied with; but this provision shall not relieve any company, corporation or
association from the payment of any risk that may be undertaken in violation of
this section.
   B.   Tax Imposed: Any such corporation, company or association not
incorporated under the laws of the State, which is engaged in the City in
effecting fire insurance, shall pay the Treasurer of the City for the
maintenance, use and benefit of the Fire Department of the City a sum of money
equal in amount of two percent (2%) per annum of the gross receipts received as
premiums upon fire insurance policies by any and all agents of such
corporation, company or association, during the year ending on July 1, in each
year, for any insurance effected or agreed to be effected on property located
in the district by or with such corporation, company or association during such
year.
   C.   Report Premiums; Pay Tax: Every person acting in the City as agents for
or on behalf of any such corporation, company or association shall, on or
before July 15, of each and every year, render the City Clerk a full, true and
just account verified by his year ending July 1 preceding such report, shall
have been received by him, or by some other person for him in behalf of any
such corporation, company or association on property located in the City. Such
agent shall also, at the time of rendering the aforesaid report, pay to the
Treasurer 1  of the City the sum of money for which each such corporation,
company or association represented by him is chargeable, by virtue of the
provisions of this section.
   D.   Action To Recover Payments: The sum of money for which such
corporation, company or association is so chargeable, may be recovered from it
or its agents or agent by an action in the name of and for the use of the City
as for money had and received. Nothing in this section shall be held to exempt
any person, corporation, company or association from indictment and conviction
under the provisions of an Act entitled, "An Act to Enable Cities, Towns,
Villages and Fire Protection Districts, Organized Under Any General Or Special
Law to Levy and Collect a Tax Or License Fee From Foreign Fire Insurance
Companies for the Benefit of Organized Fire Departments", in force July 1,
1895, as amended.
   E.   Insurance Agents Restricted: No insurance agent in the City shall have
any insurance business or dealings with any corporation, company or association
not incorporated under the laws of this State, which shall be in default for
not reporting or making payments as hereinabove provided, until it shall have
complied with all the requirements of this section. (Ord. 28, 6-27-1957; amd.
Ord. 436, 11-23-1992)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 7-1-5B of this Code.
3-1-6: MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC UTILITY TAX:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following terms shall have
the indicated meanings unless the context clearly indicates that a different
meaning is intended:
PURCHASER: Any person who uses or consumes within the corporate limits of the
City electricity acquired for purposes of use or consumption and not for
resale.
TAX COLLECTOR: Any person delivering electricity to a purchaser. (Ord. 561, 6-
28-1999)
   B.   Tax Imposed: A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the occupation
or privilege of using or consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at retail
and used or consumed within the corporate limits of the City at the following
rates, calculated on a monthly basis for each purchaser:
      1.   For the first 2,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month; 0.61
cents per kilowatt hour;
      2.   For the next 48,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month; 0.40
cents per kilowatt hour;
      3.   For the next 50,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month; 0.36
cents per kilowatt hour;
      4.   For the next 400,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month;
0.35 cents per kilowatt hour;
      5.   For the next 500,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month;
0.34 cents per kilowatt hour;
      6.   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month;
0.32 cents per kilowatt hour;
      7.   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month;
0.315 cents per kilowatt hour;
      8.   For the next 5,000,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month;
0.31 cents per kilowatt hour;
      9.   For the next 10,000,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month;
0.305 cents per kilowatt hour; and
      10.   For all electricity used or consumed in excess of 20,000,000
kilowatt hours in a month; 0.30 cents per kilowatt hour.
The rates set forth in this section shall become effective on January 1, 2018.
Ameren Illinois, the entity responsible for delivery of electricity within the
City, shall commence collection of the tax at the new rate on the effective
dates. (Ord. 871, 12-11-2017)
   C.   Exceptions: None of the taxes authorized by this section may be imposed
with respect to any transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to the
extent to which the business or privilege may not, under the Constitution and
Statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by this State or
any political subdivision thereof; nor shall any persons engaged in the
business of distributing, supplying, furnishing, or selling or transmitting
electricity, or engaged in the business of using or consuming electricity
acquired in a purchase at retail, be subject to taxation under the provisions
of this section for those transactions that are or may become subject to
taxation under the provisions of any "Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax Act"
authorized under the laws of this State; nor shall any tax authorized by this
section be imposed upon any person engaged in a business or on any privilege
unless the tax is imposed in like manner and at the same rate upon all persons
engaged in businesses of the same class in the City, whether privately or
municipally owned or operated, or exercising the same privilege within the
City.
   D.   Additional Taxes: Such tax shall be in addition to other taxes levied
upon the taxpayer or its business.
   E.   Collection: The tax authorized by this section shall be collected from
the purchaser by the tax collector maintaining a place of business in this
State who delivers the electricity to the purchaser. This tax shall constitute
a debt of the purchaser to the tax collector and if unpaid, is recoverable in
the same manner as the original charge for delivering the electricity. Any tax
required to be collected pursuant to this section and any such tax collected by
a tax collector shall constitute a debt owed to the City by the tax collector.
Tax collectors shall collect the tax from the purchaser by adding such tax to
the gross charge for delivering the electricity. Tax collectors shall also be
authorized to add to such gross charge an amount equal to three percent (3%) of
the tax to reimburse the tax collector for the expense incurred in keeping
records, billing customers, preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax and
supplying data to the City upon request. If the tax collector fails to collect
the tax from the purchaser, then the purchaser shall be required to pay the tax
directly to the City in the manner prescribed by the City. The tax collector
who files returns pursuant to this subsection shall, at the time of filing such
return, pay the City the amount of the tax collected pursuant to this section.
   F.   Reports To Municipality: On or before the last day of each month, each
tax collector shall make a return to the City for the preceding month stating:
      1.   His name.
      2.   His principal place of business.
      3.   His gross receipts and kilowatt hour usage during the month upon the
basis of which the tax is imposed.
      4.   Amount of tax.
      5.   Such other reasonable and related information as the City Council
may require.
The tax collector making the return herein provided for shall, at the time of
making such return, pay to the City, the amount of tax herein imposed; provided
that in connection with any return, the tax collector may, if he so elects,
report and pay an amount based upon his total billings of business subject to
the tax during the period for which the return is made (exclusive of any
amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later payments based upon
any differences between such billings, and the taxable gross receipts.
   G.   Credit For Overpayment: If it shall appear that an amount of tax has
been paid which was not due under the provisions of this section, whether as
the result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be
credited against any tax due, or to become due, under this section from the tax
collector who made the erroneous payment; provided that no amounts erroneously
paid more than three (3) years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be
so credited.
No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of this section
shall be commenced more than three (3) years after the due date of such amount.
   H.   Penalty: Any tax collector who fails to make a return, or who makes a
fraudulent return, or who wilfully violates any other provision of this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not
less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than two hundred dollars
($200.00) for each offense. Each day that any violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense. In addition, the tax collector shall be liable
in a civil action for the amount of tax due together with cost of collection
including reasonable attorney fees 1 . (Ord. 561, 6-28-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2.
3-1-7: MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed; Rate:
      1.   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling cannabis, other than cannabis purchased under the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, at retail in the City at the rate of three
percent (3%) of the gross receipts from these sales made in the course of that
business.
      2.   The imposition of this tax is in accordance with the provisions of
sections 8-11-22, of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-22).
   B.   Collection Of Tax By Retailers:
      1.   The tax imposed by this section shall be remitted by such retailer
to the Illinois Department of Revenue (department). Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this section and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the State. Retailers may reimburse
themselves for their seller's tax liability hereunder by separately stating
that tax as an additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in
a single amount, with any state tax that sellers are required to collect.
      2.   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be
assessed as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the
department. The department shall have full power to administer and enforce the
provisions of this section. (Ord. 900, 9-9-2019)
3-1-8: CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISE FEE:
   A.   Definitions.
 
CABLE          Shall carry the same meaning as "cable system" as set forth in 47 U.S.C. §
COMMUNICATIONS 522.
SYSTEM:
               1.   The one-way transmission to subscribers of:
                  a.   Video, audio, digital and other programming services; or
CABLE SERVICE:    b.   Other programming service; and
               2.   Subscriber interaction, if any, which is required for the selection or
               use of such video programming or other programming service.
 
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any Person to construct, operate or maintain a
Cable Communications System in the City, unless such Person shall have first
obtained and shall currently hold a valid Franchise from the City pursuant to a
Franchise Agreement or is a State Franchise Holder. It shall also be unlawful
for any Person to provide cable service in the City unless such Person shall
have first obtained and shall currently hold a valid Franchise or is a State
Franchise Holder. All Franchises granted by the City shall contain the same
substantive terms and conditions.
   C.   No Franchise Agreement shall be granted unless the franchisee, as part
of the franchise Agreement, agrees to pay the City a Franchise Fee in an annual
amount equal to five percent (5%) of its annual Gross Revenues.
   D.   Franchisees shall make payments of the Franchise Fee to the City on a
quarterly basis, making such payments no later than forty-five (45) days after
the close of the respective calendar quarter.
   E.   Franchisees shall comply with any and all audit requirements imposed
under the applicable Franchise Agreement.
   F.   As provided under the State Franchise Law, the City imposes a fee upon
a State Franchise Holder providing cable and video services within the City in
the amount of five percent (5%) of the State Franchise Holder's gross revenues
from providing such services within the City.
   G.   The State Franchise Holder shall notify the City at least ten days
prior to the date on which the State Franchise Holder begins to offer cable
service or video service in the City.
   H.   Payment of Provider Fee. The State Franchise Holder shall be liable for
and pay the service provider fee to the City. The State Franchise Holder's
liability for the fee shall commence on the first day of the calendar month
following thirty (30) days after receipt of the ordinance adopting this Cable
Communications Franchise Code by the State Franchise Holder, which shall be
sent to the State Franchise Holder by mail, postage prepaid, to the address
listed on the State Franchise Holder's application notice sent to the City
pursuant to State Franchise Law.
   I.   Payment Date. The State Franchise Holder shall make payments of the
service provider fee to the City on a quarterly basis, making such quarterly
payments no later than forty-five (45) days after the close of the respective
calendar quarter. Each payment shall include a statement explaining the basis
for the State Franchise Holder's calculation of the fee.
   J.   Credit for Other Payment. A Franchise holder that elects to terminate
an existing Franchise Agreement pursuant to the State Franchise Law with credit
for paid Franchise Fees under a Franchise Agreement with the City may deduct
the amount of such credit from the service provider fee that service providers
owes the City upon becoming a State Franchise Holder.
   K.   A State Franchise Holder shall comply with the same requirements
imposed by the City on other cable service or video service providers that are
providing such services within the City to audit the State Franchise Holder's
books and records and to recalculate any amounts determined to be payable under
to the City. Before conducting an audit, the City will notify the State
Franchise Holder of the requirements imposed on other cable service or video
service providers to submit to an audit of the service provider's books and
records. (Ord. 923, 11-11-2021)
CHAPTER 2
AUTOMATIC AMUSEMENT MACHINES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definition
3-2-2: License Required
3-2-3: Application For License
3-2-4: Qualifications Of Applicant
3-2-5: License Tax
3-2-6: Issuance Of License; Duration
3-2-7: Display License Emblem
3-2-8: Revocation Of License
3-2-9: Operation By Minors Prohibited; Penalty (Rep. by Ord. 263, 3-23-1981)
3-2-10: Provisions Not Applicable To Gambling Devices
3-2-1: DEFINITION:
The term "automatic amusement machine" means any mechanical amusement machine
or device, the operation of which is governed or controlled by the deposit of a
coin or token, except jukeboxes. The term shall include photoelectric amusement
devices and instruments or combinations of instruments consisting of a ray of
light shooting device and target equipped with a photoelectric cell. Automatic
amusement machine shall not include video gaming terminals as defined by
section
3-10-1 of this title. (Ord. 898, 8-12-2019)
3-2-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to install, keep, maintain or use or permit
the installation, keeping, maintenance or use upon his premises of any
automatic amusement machine upon which the tax has not been paid and for which
a license has not been issued for the current year. (Ord. 201, 1976)
3-2-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
The application for the license required by section
3-2-2 of this chapter shall contain the following information:
   A.   Name and address of the applicant, age, date and place of birth.
   B.   Prior convictions of applicant, if any.
   C.   Place where machine or device is to be displayed or operated and the
business conducted at that place.
   D.   Description of machine to be covered by the license, mechanical
features, name of manufacturer and serial number. (Ord. 201, 1976)
3-2-4: QUALIFICATIONS OF APPLICANT:
No license required under this chapter shall be issued to any applicant unless
he shall be over twenty one (21) years of age and a citizen of the United
States. (Ord. 201, 1976)
3-2-5: LICENSE TAX:
An annual tax of fifteen dollars ($15.00) is imposed upon each automatic
amusement machine used within the City for gain or profit from the operation
thereof. Such tax shall be payable semiannually, in advance.
It shall be unlawful for any person to deliver or install an automatic
amusement machine within the City for use by any other person for gain or
profit from the operation thereof, unless the tax thereof has been paid for the
current year. (Ord. 201, 1976)
3-2-6: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; DURATION:
Upon payment of the tax required by section
3-2-5 of this chapter, the City Clerk shall issue a license in the name of the
owner as a licensee, authorizing the use of the automatic amusement machine for
a license period ending on June 30 or December 31, following the date of
issuance. (Ord. 201, 1976)
3-2-7: DISPLAY LICENSE EMBLEM:
After payment of the applicable fee, the City Clerk shall deliver a license to
the applicant indicating the number of machines he is authorized to operate on
his business premises. The license shall also bear the words "automatic
amusement machine", "Marquette Heights" and the year for which the license is
issued. The applicant shall display the license to operate automatic amusement
machines in a prominent place on the premises where the machines are being
operated. (Ord. 202, 2-23-1976)
3-2-8: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The Mayor may, at any time, notify any licensee of any charge of the violation
of any of the provisions of this chapter in connection with the operation of
any automatic amusement machine for which a license has been issued, and after
a hearing presided over by the Mayor, he may order the revocation of the
license upon a finding that the violation has occurred, and the license shall
thereupon be terminated. (Ord. 201, 1976)
3-2-9: OPERATION BY MINORS PROHIBITED; PENALTY:
(Rep. by Ord. 263, 3-23-1981)
3-2-10: PROVISIONS NOT APPLICABLE TO GAMBLING DEVICES:
Nothing in this chapter shall in any way be construed to authorize, license or
permit any gambling devices whatsoever, or any mechanism that has been
judicially determined to be a gambling device 1 . This chapter does not govern
video gaming terminals regulated by chapter 10 of this title. (Ord. 898, 8-12-
2019)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  10-2-31 of this Code.
CHAPTER 3
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, ITINERANT VENDORS
SECTION:
3-3-1: License Required
3-3-2: Definitions
3-3-3: Application
3-3-4: Investigation And Issuance
3-3-5: Transfer
3-3-6: Hours Of Operation
3-3-7: Fraud
3-3-8: Use Of Streets
3-3-9: Departure Upon Request
3-3-10: Sign Prohibiting Peddlers
3-3-11: Duty Of Police To Enforce
3-3-12: Exemptions
3-3-13: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
3-3-14: Appeal
3-3-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It will be unlawful for any peddler to transact any business within the City
without first having obtained a license as required by this chapter. All
peddlers' licenses will expire on December 31 of the calendar year in which the
license was issued. (Ord. 867, 6-12-2017)
3-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
PEDDLER: Means every person who sells or offers for sale, barter, or exchange,
at retail, any goods, wares or merchandise by traveling from place to place in,
along and upon streets of the City or who sells and delivers from any vehicle
goods, wares or merchandise, by going from place to place in the City, whether
to regular customers or not, or who sells and delivers goods, wares or
merchandise from any vehicle parked on public property. The term also means
every person who moves from house to house or from place to place in the City
selling or taking orders for goods, wares, subscriptions or merchandise for
future delivery.
PERSON: Shall include the singular and the plural and shall also mean and
include any person, firm, or corporation, association, club, copartnership or
society, or any other organization. (Ord. 867, 6-12-2017)
3-3-3: APPLICATION:
Applicants for a license under this chapter must file with the City Clerk an
application in writing on a form furnished by the City Clerk, which shall give
the following information:
   A.   The name of the individual applying for the license.
   B.   The residence, telephone number and driver's license number of the
applicant.
   C.   The address of the principal place of business of the applicant and the
applicant's telephone number.
   D.   If the applicant is employed by another person or entity, the name of
the employer, its address and telephone number. Also credentials establishing
the exact relationship.
   E.   A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods to be
sold and in the case of products of farm or orchard, whether produced or grown
by the applicant.
   F.   If a vehicle is to be used, a description of the same, together with
license number or other means of identification. Also, must provide proof of
insurance for the motor vehicle.
   G.   A clear and distinguishing photograph (2" x 2") of the applicant.
   H.   Applicant will submit a current license from Tazewell County Department
of Public Health if one is required for the sale of the type of merchandise the
applicant intends to sell in the City.
Applicant shall at the time of the application pay a nonrefundable application
fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for an annual license if the application
is filed on or before September 30 of the calendar year and fifty dollars
($50.00) if the application is filed after September 30 of any calendar year.
(Ord. 867, 6-12-2017)
3-3-4: INVESTIGATION AND ISSUANCE:
   A.   Upon receipt of the application, the original shall be referred to the
Chief of Police, who shall cause such an investigation of the applicant's
business and moral character to be made as he deems necessary for the
protection of the public good.
   B.   If as a result of such investigation, the applicant's character or
business responsibility is found to be unsatisfactory, the Chief of Police
shall endorse on such application his disapproval and the reasons for the same,
and return the said application to the City Clerk, who will notify the
applicant that his application is disapproved, that no license will be issued
and the reason for the disapproval.
   C.   If as a result of such investigation, the character and business
responsibility of the applicant are found to be satisfactory, the Chief of
Police shall endorse on the application his approval. (Ord. 867, 6-12-2017)
3-3-5: TRANSFER:
No license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be used by or
transferred to any person other than the person to whom it was issued. (Ord.
867, 6-12-2017)
3-3-6: HOURS OF OPERATION:
It shall be unlawful for any peddler to transact the business of the peddler in
the City before ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. and after six o'clock (6:00) P.M. each
day. (Ord. 867, 6-12-2017)
3-3-7: FRAUD:
It shall be unlawful for any peddler while engaged in the business of a peddler
in the City to commit any act of fraud, cheating or misrepresentation. (Ord.
867, 6-12-2017)
3-3-8: USE OF STREETS:
No peddler shall have any exclusive right to any location in the public
streets, nor shall any be permitted a stationary location, nor shall he be
permitted to operate in any congested area where his operations might impede or
inconvenience the public, or within two hundred feet (200') of the scene of any
accident or destructive fire or any place where the members of the Fire or
Police Departments are responding to an emergency call. For the purpose of this
chapter, the judgment of a police officer, exercised in good faith, shall be
deemed conclusive as to whether the area is congested or the public impeded or
inconvenienced. (Ord. 867, 6-12-2017)
3-3-9: DEPARTURE UPON REQUEST:
It is unlawful for any peddler to enter or remain on private premises in
disregard of the expressed wish of the owner or occupant of such premises or to
enter onto private premises without the express consent of the owner or
occupant. (Ord. 867, 6-12-2017)
3-3-10: SIGN PROHIBITING PEDDLERS:
It shall be unlawful for any peddler to enter or go upon any premises if a sign
having dimensions of not less than 3 inches by 5 inches which states "No
peddlers allowed" or other words of similar substance has been conspicuously
posted on the premises. (Ord. 867, 6-12-2017)
3-3-11: DUTY OF POLICE TO ENFORCE:
It shall be the duty of any police officer of the City to require any person
seen peddling, and who is not known by such officer to be duly licensed, to
produce his peddler's license and to enforce the provisions of this chapter
against any person found to be violating the same. (Ord. 867, 6-12-2017)
3-3-12: EXEMPTIONS:
The following persons are exempt from the obligation to apply for or obtain a
license under this chapter:
   A.   Persons engaged in the sale or solicitation to purchase newspapers.
   B.   Persons seeking to obtain gifts or contributions of money or clothing
for the support or benefit of any charitable, religious, political or nonprofit
organization or project. Nonprofit organization means any charitable,
educational, fraternal, labor, religious or veterans' organization that
operates without profit to its members. (Ord. 867, 6-12-2017)
3-3-13: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Any license issued under the provisions of this chapter may be
suspended or revoked by the Mayor of the City in accordance with the procedure
established by this section, for any of the following causes:
      1.   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in the
application for license;
      2.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of
carrying on his business as peddler;
      3.   Any violation of this chapter;
      4.   Conviction of any crime or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
      5.   Conducting the business of peddling in an unlawful manner or in such
a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to constitute a menace to
the health, safety, or general welfare of the public.
   B.   Should the Mayor or a member of the Police Department acting on the
authority of the Mayor conclude that a licensee has committed an act which
warrants suspension or revocation of a license granted to the licensee, the
Mayor or any police officer acting on behalf of the Mayor may suspend the
license for a period not to exceed fourteen (14) days or suspend the license
pending revocation. Any such suspension shall be effective upon delivery of a
written notice of suspension to the licensee. Prior to delivery of any notice
of suspension, the person considering the suspension shall provide the licensee
with both a description of the alleged act which justifies the suspension and
an opportunity to respond to the allegations. Should the Mayor or police
officer acting on behalf of the Mayor thereafter conclude that the licensee
committed the alleged act, the notice of suspension shall forthwith be
delivered to the licensee.
   C.   A licensee may appeal any suspension by written notice to the Mayor
delivered at the City Hall within five (5) days after the notice of suspension
was served on the licensee. Upon receipt of such an appeal, the Mayor shall
appoint a Hearing Officer to conduct a hearing on the appeal. Notice of the
hearing shall be mailed postage prepaid to the licensee at least five (5) days
prior to the hearing date at licensee's last known address. The licensee and
the Mayor or the Mayor's designee shall have a right to present evidence before
the Hearing Officer and be represented by legal counsel. The Hearing Officer
may reserve, confirm or modify the suspension or permanently revoke the
license. The Hearing Officer shall render a written decision which shall be
mailed to the Mayor and to the licensee, postage prepaid at licensee's last
known address. The decision of the Hearing Officer shall be final. Failure to
submit a timely appeal of a suspension pending revocation shall result in
immediate revocation of the license. (Ord. 867, 6-12-2017)
3-3-14: APPEAL:
Any person aggrieved by the action of the Chief of Police or the City Clerk in
the denial of an application for a license as provided in section
3-3-4 of this chapter or in the decision with reference to the revocation of a
license as provided in section
3-3-13 of this chapter, shall have the right to appeal to the Council of the
City. Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the Council, within fourteen
(14) days after notice of the action complained of has been mailed to such
person's last known address, a written statement setting forth fully the
grounds for the appeal. The Mayor shall set a time and place for a hearing on
such appeal and notice of such hearing shall be given to the appellant in the
same manner as provided in section
3-3-13 of this chapter for notice of hearing or revocation. The Mayor may in
his or her discretion appoint a Hearing Officer to conduct the hearing and
report the facts as determined by the Hearing Officer for action by the City
Council. The decision and order of the Council on such appeal shall be final
and conclusive. (Ord. 867, 6-12-2017)
CHAPTER 4
GARBAGE COLLECTORS
SECTION:
3-4-1: License Required; Fee
3-4-2: License Conditions
3-4-3: Vehicle Requirements
3-4-4: Compliance With Regulations
3-4-5: Disposal Of Garbage
3-4-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the city in the business of
collecting or disposing of garbage, refuse, rubbish or offal without having
first secured a license as hereinafter set forth.
The annual fee for said license shall be ten dollars ($10.00) per year, payable
on the first Monday of May annually, said payment to be made to the city clerk.
(Ord. 69, 12-17-1962)
3-4-2: LICENSE CONDITIONS:
Such license shall be and is hereby deemed to be a personal license and shall
not be assigned to any other person and shall cease and be void upon the death
of the licensee. (Ord. 69, 12-17-1962)
3-4-3: VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Condition: Any and all vehicles used by such garbage hauler and
licensee shall be watertight and equipped with proper covers or other equipment
which may be necessary in order to prevent the spilling of, dropping or
depositing of garbage, refuse, rubbish or offal on the streets, sidewalks or
other property in the city, or littering same, and shall be so constructed as
to prevent same. Any and all of said vehicles, for such use by the licensee,
shall be first approved by the chairman of the public health and welfare
committee.
   B.   Inspection Safety Stickers: Any and all of said vehicles shall have
attached thereto a current inspection safety sticker as provided either by the
statutes of the state of Illinois 1  or the ordinances of the city.
   C.   Sunday Restrictions: It shall be unlawful for any such vehicle to be
driven over or through, or operated upon any street in the city, during or on a
Sunday. (Ord. 69, 12-17-1962)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/13-100 et seq.
3-4-4: COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS:
The said licensee and any person so operating one of said vehicles, shall
comply with any and all regulations, orders or directions made by the public
health and welfare committee of the city, subject to the approval of the city
council. (Ord. 69, 12-17-1962)
3-4-5: DISPOSAL OF GARBAGE:
It shall be unlawful for any said licensee to dispose of, or to store any and
all garbage, refuse, rubbish or offal in any place within the city limits,
without first having obtained the permission of the city council. (Ord. 69, 12-
17-1962)
CHAPTER 5
CARNIVALS AND FESTIVALS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Definitions
3-5-2: Permit Required
3-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings,
unless the context in which they are used shall clearly indicate otherwise:
CARNIVAL: Any aggregation of attractions for profit, whether shows, acts,
games, vending devices or amusement devices, whether conducted under one or
more managements or independently, which are temporarily set up or conducted in
a public place or upon any private premises accessible to the public, with or
without admission fee to the population as a whole.
FESTIVAL: Any public celebration, by a nonmunicipal entity, marked by special
observance or periodic or seasonal program of cultural or entertainment events.
A festival may include a carnival. (Ord. 408, 11-12-1990)
3-5-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall sponsor, or conduct a carnival and/or festival without first
having paid a permit fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) to the city clerk's
office and having obtained a permit for such event. Application for such a
permit shall be on such form as may be prescribed by the city clerk. (Ord. 408,
11-12-1990)
CHAPTER 6
FAIR HOUSING PRACTICES
SECTION:
3-6-1: Definitions
3-6-2: Discrimination In Real Estate Transactions Prohibited
3-6-3: Complaint Procedures
3-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meaning respectively assigned to them:
FAMILIAL STATUS: One or more individuals (who have not attained the age of 18
years) being domiciled with:
   A.   A parent or other person having legal custody of such individual or
individuals; or
   B.   The designee of such parent or other person having such custody, with
the written permission of such parent or other person.
The protection afforded by this chapter against discrimination on the basis of
familial status applies to any person who is pregnant or is in the process of
securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of
eighteen (18) years.
HOUSING ACCOMMODATIONS: Includes any improved or unimproved real property, or
part thereof, which is used or occupied, or is intended, arranged or designed
to be used or occupied, as the home or residence of one or more individuals.
LEASE: Includes sublease, assignment, and rent (or rental) and includes any
contract to do any of the foregoing.
LENDING INSTITUTION: Any bank, insurance company, savings and loan association,
other person in the business of lending money or guaranteeing loans, any person
in the business of obtaining, arranging or negotiating loans or guarantees as
agent or broker, and any person in the business of buying loans or instruments
for the payment of money which are secured by title to or a security interest
in real property, but shall not include any religious institution or
organization nor any charitable or educational organization operated,
supervised or controlled by a religious institution or organization.
NATIONAL ORIGIN: Includes national origin and ancestors.
OWNER: Any person who holds legal or equitable title to, or owns any beneficial
interest in, any real property or who holds legal or equitable title to shares
of, or holds any beneficial interest in, any real estate cooperative which owns
any real property.
PURCHASE: Includes any contract to purchase.
REAL ESTATE BROKER OR SALESMAN: A person, whether licensed or not, who, for or
with the expectation of receiving a consideration, lists, sells, purchases,
exchanges, rents, or leases real property, or who negotiates or attempts to
negotiate any of these activities, or who holds himself or herself out as
engaged in these.
REAL ESTATE TRANSACTION: Includes the sale, exchange, rental or lease of real
property and also includes the brokering or appraising of residential real
property and the making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
   A.   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining a
dwelling; or
   B.   Secured by residential real estate.
REAL PROPERTY: Includes buildings, structures, real estate, lands, tenements,
leaseholds, interest in real estate cooperatives, condominiums, and
hereditament, corporeal and incorporeal, or any interest therein.
SALE: Includes any contract to sell, exchange or convey, transfer or assign
legal or equitable title to or beneficial interest in real property.
SOLICITATION: Any conduct designed or intended to induce the owner of any real
property to sell, rent, exchange, convey, transfer or list for sale or rental
such real property. (Ord. 464, 5-9-1994)
3-6-2: DISCRIMINATION IN REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Discrimination Prohibited: No owner, lessee, or sublessee of real
property, real estate broker or salesman, lender, financial institution,
advertiser, or agent of any of the foregoing, shall discriminate against any
person because of that person's race, color, religion, sex, national origin,
ancestry, age, marital status, physical or mental handicap, familial status, or
unfavorable discharge from military service with respect to any real estate
transaction.
   B.   Enumeration Of Unfair Housing Practices: Any act of discrimination in a
real estate transaction shall be considered an unfair housing practice,
including, but not limited to, the following:
      1.   Refusal to engage in a real estate transaction with a person or
discriminate in making available such a transaction.
      2.   Altering the terms, conditions or privileges of a real estate
transaction or in the furnishing of facilities or services in connection
therewith.
      3.   Refusal to receive or failure to transmit a bona fide offer to
engage in a real estate transaction from a person.
      4.   Refusal to negotiate for a real estate transaction with a person.
      5.   Representing to a person that real property is not available for
inspection, sale, rental, or lease when in fact it is so available, or failure
to bring a property listing to his or her attention, or refusal to permit him
or her to inspect real property.
      6.   Printing, circulating, posting, mailing, publishing or causing to be
published a written or oral statement, advertisement or sign, or using a form
of application for a real estate transaction, or making a record in inquiry in
connection with a prospective real estate transaction, which expresses any
limitation founded upon, or indicating, directly or indirectly an intent to
engage in unlawful discrimination.
      7.   Offering, soliciting, accepting, using or retaining a listing of
real property with knowledge that unlawful discrimination or discrimination on
the basis of familial status in a real estate transaction is intended.
      8.   Soliciting for sale, leasing, listing or purchasing any residential
real estate within the city on the grounds of loss of value due to the present
or prospective entry into the vicinity of the property involved of any person
or persons of any particular race, color, religion, national origin, ancestry,
age, sex, marital status, familial status or handicap.
      9.   Distributing or causing to be distributed written material or
statements designed to induce any owner of residential real estate in this city
to sell or lease his or her property because of any present or prospective
changes in the race, color, religion, national origin, ancestry, age, sex,
marital status, familial status or handicap of residents in the vicinity of the
property involved.
      10.   Intentionally creating alarm, among residents of any community, by
transmitting communications in any manner, including a telephone call whether
or not conversation thereby ensues, with a design to induce any owner of
residential real estate in this city to sell or lease his or her property
because of any present or prospective entry into the vicinity of the property
involved of any person or persons of any particular race, color, religion,
national origin, ancestry, age, sex, marital status, familial status or
handicap.
      11.   Discriminating or participating in discrimination in connection
with borrowing or lending money, guaranteeing loans, accepting mortgages or
otherwise obtaining or making available funds for the purchase, acquisition,
construction, rehabilitation, repairs or maintenance of any real property in
the city. For the purpose of this subsection, discrimination in lending shall
include:
         a.   Refusal to make loans; or
         b.   Differentiation in the type of loans, including interest rates,
charges to buyer or seller, duration and amount of loan; or
         c.   Influencing appraisals in connection with loans; or
         d.   Delaying processing loan applications. (Ord. 464, 5-9-1994)
3-6-3: COMPLAINT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Assistance By City: The city shall act as a local source for assistance
and information for persons who have complaints related to unfair housing
practices.
   B.   Information Provided: The city shall provide assistance and information
to any such person, which shall include, but is not limited to:
      1.   The rights and remedies available to a person who has been
discriminated against by virtue of an unfair housing practice;
      2.   The types of discrimination which are considered to be unfair
housing practices;
      3.   The names, addresses and phone numbers of county, state, and federal
agencies where such person may file formal complaints; and
      4.   Such other relevant information or assistance as the city may have
available to assist such person.
   C.   Planning Committee Coordination: The planning committee shall be
responsible for coordination and directing the city's fair housing procedures.
(Ord. 464, 5-9-1994)
CHAPTER 7
SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
SECTION:
3-7-1: Definitions
3-7-2: Tax Imposed
3-7-3: Collection Of Tax
3-7-4: Returns To Department
3-7-5: Resellers
3-7-6: Severability
3-7-7: Effective Date
3-7-8: Repealer
3-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
AMOUNT PAID: The amount charged to the taxpayer's service address in this
municipality regardless of where such amount is billed or paid.
DEPARTMENT: The Illinois department of revenue.
GROSS CHARGE: The amount paid for the act or privilege of originating or
receiving telecommunications in this municipality and for all services and
equipment provided in connection therewith by a retailer, valued in money
whether paid in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services and
property of every kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction
on account of the cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials
used, labor or service costs or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is
extended, the amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. "Gross
charges" for private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel
point within this municipality, charges for the channel mileage between each
channel point within this municipality, and charges for that portion of the
interstate interoffice channel provided within Illinois. However, "gross
charge" shall not include:
   A.   Any amounts added to a purchaser's bill because of a charge made
pursuant to: 1) the tax imposed by this chapter, 2) the tax imposed by the
telecommunications excise tax act, 3) the tax imposed by section 4251 of the
internal revenue code, 4) 911 surcharges, or 5) charges added to customers'
bills pursuant to the provisions of section 9-221 or 9-222 of the public
utilities act, as amended, or any similar charges added to customers' bills by
retailers who are not subject to rate regulation by the Illinois commerce
commission for the purpose of recovering any of the tax liabilities or other
amounts specified in those provisions of the public utilities act;
   B.   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside of such
municipality;
   C.   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of data
or information for subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes,
but is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, tabulating equipment or accounting equipment and also includes the
usage of computers under a time sharing agreement;
   D.   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is leased
or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
desegregated and separately identified from other charges;
   E.   Charges to business enterprises certified as exempt under section 9-
222.1 of the public utilities act to the extent of such exemption and during
the period of time specified by the department of commerce and community
affairs;
   F.   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment provided
in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly owned
subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries when the tax imposed under
this chapter has already been paid to a retailer and only to the extent that
the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries or
between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit for the corporation rendering
such service;
   G.   Bad debts ("bad debts" means any portion of a debt that is related to a
sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards; of the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
   H.   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin operated telecommunication
devices; or
   I.   Amounts paid by telecommunications retailers under the
telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee act.
INTERSTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that either originate or
terminate outside this state.
INTRASTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that originate and
terminate within this state.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability company, or
a receiver, trustee, guardian, or their representative appointed by order of
any court, the federal and state governments, including state universities
created by statute, or any city, town, county, or other political subdivision
of this state.
PURCHASE AT RETAIL: The acquisition, consumption or use of telecommunications
through a sale at retail.
RETAILER: Means and includes every person engaged in the business of making
sales at retail as defined in this section. The department may, in its
discretion, upon application, authorize the collection of the tax hereby
imposed by any retailer not maintaining a place of business within this state,
who, to the satisfaction of the department, furnishes adequate security to
ensure collection and payment of the tax. Such retailer shall be issued,
without charge, a permit to collect such tax. When so authorized, it shall be
the duty of such retailer to collect the tax upon all of the gross charges for
telecommunications in this state in the same manner and subject to the same
requirements as a retailer maintaining a place of business within this state.
The permit may be revoked by the department at its discretion.
RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE (Or Any Like Term):
Means and includes any retailer having or maintaining within this state,
directly or by a subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities, transmission
facilities, sales office, warehouse or other place of business, or any agent or
other representative operating within this state under the authority of the
retailer or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place of business or
agent or other representative is located here permanently or temporarily, or
whether such retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in this state.
SALE AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying or furnishing of telecommunications
and all services and equipment provided in connection therewith for a
consideration, to persons other than the federal and state governments, and
state universities created by statute and other than between a parent
corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned
subsidiaries for their use or consumption and not for resale.
SERVICE ADDRESS: The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received by a taxpayer. In the event this may not be a defined
location, as in the case of mobile phones, paging systems, and maritime
systems, "service address" means the customer's place of primary use as defined
in the mobile telecommunications sourcing conformity act. For air to ground
systems and the like, "service address" shall mean the location of a taxpayer's
primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by telephone number,
authorization code, or location in Illinois where bills are sent.
TAXPAYER: A person who individually or through his or her agents, employees, or
permittees engages in the act or privilege of originating or receiving
telecommunications in a municipality and who incurs a tax liability as
authorized by this chapter.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: In addition to the meaning ordinarily and popularly
ascribed to it, includes, without limitations, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone service,
private line services, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter,
computer exchange services, cellular mobile telecommunications service,
specialized mobile radio, stationary two-way radio, paging service, or any
other form of mobile and portable one-way communications, or any other
transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means, between
or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. As used in this chapter, "private line" means
a dedicated nontraffic sensitive service for a single customer, that entitles
the customer to exclusive or priority use of communications channel or group of
channels, from one or more specified locations to one or more other specified
locations. The definition of "telecommunications" shall not include value added
services in which computer processing applications are used to act on the form,
content, code, and protocol of the information for purposes other than
transmission. "Telecommunications" shall not include purchases of
telecommunications by a telecommunications service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by such provider to the ultimate retail
consumer who originates or terminates the taxable end to end communications.
Carrier access charges, right of access charges, charges for use of
intercompany facilities, and all telecommunications resold in the subsequent
provision of, used as a component of, or integrated into, end to end
telecommunications service shall be nontaxable as sales for resale. Prepaid
telephone calling arrangements shall not be considered "telecommunications"
subject to the tax imposed under this chapter. For purposes of this section,
"prepaid telephone calling arrangements" means that term as defined in section
2-27 of the retailers' occupation tax act. (Ord. 647, 9-23-2002)
3-7-2: TAX IMPOSED:
A tax is hereby imposed upon any and all the following acts or privileges:
(Ord. 647, 9-23-2002)
   A.   The act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving in
the municipality intrastate telecommunications by a person at a rate of six
percent (6%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at
retail from a retailer.
   B.   The act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving in
the municipality interstate telecommunications by a person at a rate of six
percent (6%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at
retail from a retailer. To prevent actual multistate taxation of the act or
privilege that is subject to taxation under this subsection, any taxpayer, upon
proof that the taxpayer has paid a tax in another state on such event, shall be
allowed a credit against any tax enacted pursuant to or authorized by this
section to the extent of the amount of such tax properly due and paid in such
other state which was not previously allowed as a credit against any other
state or local tax in this state. (Ord. 647, 9-23-2002; amd. Ord. 747, 7-14-
2008)
   C.   The tax imposed by this chapter is not imposed on such act or privilege
to the extent such act or privilege may not, under the constitution and
statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by the
municipality. (Ord. 647, 9-23-2002)
3-7-3: COLLECTION OF TAX:
   A.   The tax hereby imposed shall be collected and enforced by the
department. The department shall have full power to administer and enforce the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 747, 7-14-2008)
   B.   The tax authorized by this chapter shall be collected from the taxpayer
by a retailer maintaining a place of business in this state and shall be
remitted by such retailer to the department. Any tax required to be collected
pursuant to or as authorized by this chapter and any such tax collected by such
retailer and required to be remitted to the department shall constitute a debt
owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers shall collect the tax from the
taxpayer by adding the tax to the gross charge for the act or privilege of
originating or receiving telecommunications when sold for use, in the manner
prescribed by the department. The tax authorized by this chapter shall
constitute a debt of the taxpayer to the retailer until paid, and, if unpaid,
is recoverable at law in the same manner as the original charge for such sale
at retail. If the retailer fails to collect the tax from the taxpayer, then the
taxpayer shall be required to pay the tax directly to the department in the
manner provided by the department.
   C.   Whenever possible, the tax authorized by this chapter shall, when
collected, be stated as a distinct item separate and apart from the gross
charge for telecommunications. (Ord. 647, 9-23-2002; amd. Ord. 747, 7-14-2008)
3-7-4: RETURNS TO DEPARTMENT:
On or before the last day of February 2003, and on or before the last day of
every month thereafter, the tax imposed under this chapter on telecommunication
retailers shall be returned with appropriate forms and information as required
by the department pursuant to the Illinois simplified municipal
telecommunications tax act (public act 92-0526, section 5-50) and any
accompanying rules and regulations created by the department to implement the
act. (Ord. 647, 9-23-2002)
3-7-5: RESELLERS:
   A.   If a person who originates or receives telecommunications claims to be
a reseller of such telecommunications, such person shall apply to the
department for a resale number. Such applicant shall state facts which will
show the department why such applicant is not liable for the tax authorized by
this article on any of such purchases and shall furnish such additional
information as the department may reasonably require.
   B.   Upon approval of the application, the department shall assign a resale
number to the applicant and shall certify such number to the applicant. The
department may cancel any number which is obtained through misrepresentation,
or which is used to send or receive such telecommunication tax free when such
actions in fact are not for resale, or which no longer applies because of the
person's having discontinued the making of resales.
   C.   Except as provided in this section, the act or privilege of originating
or receiving telecommunications in this state shall not be made tax free on the
grounds of being a sale for resale unless the person has an active resale
number from the department and furnishes that number to the retailer in
connection with certifying to the retailer that any sale to such person is
nontaxable because of being a sale for resale. (Ord. 647, 9-23-2002)
3-7-6: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this chapter, or the application of any provision of this
chapter, is held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, such occurrence shall
not affect other provisions of this chapter, or their application, that can be
given effect without the unconstitutional or invalid provision or its
application. Each unconstitutional or invalid provision, or application of such
provision, is severable, unless otherwise provided by this chapter. (Ord. 647,
9-23-2002)
3-7-7: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage and
approval and publication in pamphlet form as required by law, provided,
however, that section
3-7-2 of this chapter shall take effect for all gross charges billed by
telecommunications retailers on and after January 1, 2009. The municipal clerk
is hereby directed to file a certified copy of the ordinance codified herein
with the department on or before September 20, 2008. (Ord. 747, 7-14-2008)
3-7-8: REPEALER:
   A.   If public act 92-0526, entitled the simplified municipal
telecommunications tax act, is repealed or becomes ineffective for any reason,
or if this chapter is repealed or becomes ineffective for any reason, then
ordinance 46, passed March 16, 1959, ordinance 436, passed November 23, 1992,
and ordinance 561, passed June 26, 1999, as they pertain to this tax, shall be
deemed in full force and effect as of the date public act 92-0526 or this
chapter is repealed or becomes ineffective.
   B.   If public act 92-0526, entitled the simplified municipal
telecommunications tax act, is repealed or becomes ineffective for any reason,
or if this chapter is repealed or becomes ineffective for any reason, ordinance
520, passed October 27, 1997, as previously worded shall be deemed in full
force and effect as of the date public act 92-0526 or this chapter is repealed
or becomes ineffective. (Ord. 647, 9-23-2002)
CHAPTER 8
TAXPAYER BILL OF RIGHTS
SECTION:
3-8-1: Title
3-8-2: Scope
3-8-3: Definitions
3-8-4: Notices
3-8-5: Late Payment
3-8-6: Payment
3-8-7: Certain Credits And Refunds
3-8-8: Audit Procedure
3-8-9: Appeal
3-8-10: Hearing
3-8-11: Interest And Penalties
3-8-12: Abatement
3-8-13: Installment Contracts
3-8-14: Statute Of Limitations
3-8-15: Voluntary Disclosure
3-8-16: Review Of Liens
3-8-17: Application
3-8-18: Severability
3-8-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the CITY OF MARQUETTE
HEIGHTS TAXPAYER BILL OF RIGHTS. (Ord. 597, 12-26-2000)
3-8-2: SCOPE:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all of the city's locally imposed
and administered taxes. (Ord. 597, 12-26-2000)
3-8-3: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise provides, the following words or terms shall be
construed as hereinafter set forth:
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The mayor and city council of the city.
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The treasurer of the city is charged with the
administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes,
including staff, employees or agents to the extent they are authorized by the
local tax administrator to act in the local tax administrator's stead. The
local tax administrator shall have the authority to implement the terms of this
chapter to give full effect to this chapter. The exercise of such authority by
the local tax administrator shall not be inconsistent with this chapter and the
act.
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX OR TAX: Each tax imposed by the city that
is collected or administered by the city and not by an agency or department of
the state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
property tax code or fees collected by the city other than infrastructure
maintenance fees.
NOTICE: Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the city's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
TAX ORDINANCE: Each ordinance adopted by the city that imposes any locally
imposed and administered tax.
TAXPAYER: Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered tax
and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax is
placed and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
city. (Ord. 597, 12-26-2000)
3-8-4: NOTICES:
Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, the notice
is to be in writing mailed not less than seven (7) calendar days prior to the
day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of the local
tax administrator. The notice shall be sent by the local tax administrator as
follows:
   A.   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the persons' last known address, or
   B.   Personal service or delivery. (Ord. 597, 12-26-2000)
3-8-5: LATE PAYMENT:
Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the city
pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is: a)
physically received by the city on or before the due date, or b) received in an
envelope or other container displaying a valid, readable U.S. postmark dated on
or before the due date, properly addressed to the city, with adequate postage
prepaid. (Ord. 597, 12-26-2000)
3-8-6: PAYMENT:
Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order: a) first to the interest due for the applicable period; b)
second to the tax due for the applicable period; and c) third to the penalty
for the applicable period. (Ord. 597, 12-26-2000)
3-8-7: CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS:
   A.   The city shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid without
written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally imposed and
administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional by a court
of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed to have paid
the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts upon which to
protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid the taxes
under duress.
   B.   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be one
year after the end of the calendar year in which payment in error was made. The
city shall not grant a credit or refund of locally imposed and administered
taxes, interest, or penalties to a person who has not paid the amounts directly
to the city.
   C.   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as follows:
      1.   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         a.   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim.
         b.   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim.
         c.   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the canceled
check or receipt for the payment.
         d.   The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim.
         e.   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid, and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the city.
      2.   Within thirty (30) days of the receipt by the local tax
administrator of any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator
shall either:
         a.   Grant the claim.
         b.   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement as
to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      3.   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of five percent (5%) per annum, based on
a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days and the number of days elapsed,
from the date of the overpayment to the date of mailing of a refund check or
the grant of a credit. (Ord. 597, 12-26-2000)
3-8-8: AUDIT PROCEDURE:
Any request for an audit related to any locally imposed and administered tax
shall comply with the notice requirements of this chapter.
   A.   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
      1.   The tax.
      2.   The time period of the audit.
      3.   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
      4.   The date and time when the audit will commence.
   B.   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and if the
date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, the taxpayer may request another date which must be within thirty
(30) days after the originally designated audit and during normal business
hours.
   C.   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the taxpayer's
business or activities, including original source documents and books of entry
denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given rise to any
tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in the English
language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by the city.
   D.   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make available
its books and records for inspection by the city. If the taxpayer fails to
provide the documents necessary for audit within the time provided, the local
tax administrator may issue a tax determination and assessment based on the tax
administrator's determination of the best estimate of the taxpayer's tax
liability.
   E.   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within thirty (30) days of
the city's determination of the amount of overpayment.
   F.   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing such tax. (Ord. 597, 12-26-2000)
3-8-9: APPEAL:
   A.   The local tax administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the local tax administrator's issuance of a protestable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial, or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The
notice shall include the following information:
      1.   The reason for the assessment.
      2.   The amount of the tax liability proposed.
      3.   The procedure for appealing the assessment.
   B.   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the local tax administrator
of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the local tax
administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting forth the
basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written protest and petition
for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator within forty five
(45) days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination and
assessment.
   C.   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the local
tax administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The taxpayer may request an alternative date
convenient to all parties.
   D.   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the
forty five (45) day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment shall
become a final bill due and owing without further notice.
   E.   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the local tax administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than sixty (60) days after the expiration of the original
forty five (45) day period. (Ord. 597, 12-26-2000)
3-8-10: HEARING:
   A.   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under section
3-8-9 of this chapter, the local tax administrator shall conduct a hearing
regarding any appeal.
   B.   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance is
absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of preparation
shall not be grounds for a continuance.
   C.   At the hearing the local tax administrator shall preside and shall hear
testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit or
assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
   D.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision. (Ord. 597, 12-26-2000)
3-8-11: INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
In the event a determination has been made that a tax is due and owing, through
audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be paid within the time
frame otherwise indicated.
   A.   Interest: The interest to be assessed on a late payment, underpayment,
or nonpayment of the tax, shall be twelve percent (12%) per annum, based on a
year of three hundred sixty five (365) days and the number of days elapsed.
   B.   Late Filing And Payment Penalties: If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty of five percent (5%) of the amount of tax required to be shown as due
on a return shall be imposed; and a late payment penalty of five percent (5%)
of the tax due shall be imposed. If no return is filed within the time or
manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance and prior to the city issuing
a notice of tax delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure to file
penalty shall be assessed equal to twenty five percent (25%) of the total tax
due for the applicable reporting period for which the return was required to be
filed. A late filing or payment penalty shall not apply if a failure to file
penalty is imposed by the controlling ordinance. (Ord. 597, 12-26-2000)
3-8-12: ABATEMENT:
The local tax administrator shall have the authority to waive or abate any late
filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file penalty if the local
tax administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists for delay or failure
to make a filing. (Ord. 597, 12-26-2000)
3-8-13: INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS:
The city may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes, interest and/or penalties under the controlling tax
ordinance. The local tax administrator may not cancel any installment contract
so entered unless the taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon
written notice by the local tax administrator that the payment is thirty (30)
days delinquent, the taxpayer shall have fourteen (14) working days to cure any
delinquency. If the taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency within the fourteen
(14) day period or fails to demonstrate good faith in restructuring the
installment contract with the local administrator, the installment contract
shall be canceled without further notice to the taxpayer. (Ord. 597, 12-26-
2000)
3-8-14: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS:
The city, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax returns in
a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due and owing.
The taxpayer shall have forty five (45) days after receiving notice of the
reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax still
due and owing.
   A.   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four (4)
years after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
   B.   If any tax return is not filed or if during any four (4) year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
city, the tax paid was less than seventy five percent (75%) of the tax due, the
statute of limitations shall be six (6) years after the end of the calendar
year in which return for the applicable period was due or end of the calendar
year in which the return for the applicable period was filed.
   C.   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer. (Ord. 597, 12-26-2000)
3-8-15: VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE:
For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment from the
local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of one percent (1%) per month, for all periods prior
to the filing of the application but not more than four (4) years before the
date of filing the application. A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure
application may not be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for
any period before the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer
incorrectly determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is
liable for the underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid
tax, unless the underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the
taxpayer, in which case the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The
payment of tax and interest must be made by no later than ninety (90) days
after the filing of the voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to
by the local tax administrator. However, any additional amounts owed as a
result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this
section must be paid within ninety (90) days after a final determination and
the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed
to by the local tax administrator, whichever is longer. (Ord. 597, 12-26-2000)
3-8-16: REVIEW OF LIENS:
The local tax administrator may review any liens filed against any taxpayers
for unpaid taxes. Upon a determination by the local tax administrator that the
lien is valid, the lien shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is
determined to be improper, the local tax administrator shall:
   A.   Timely remove the lien at the city's expense.
   B.   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien. (Ord.
597, 12-26-2000)
3-8-17: APPLICATION:
This chapter shall be liberally construed and administered to supplement all of
the city's tax ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in conflict
with or inconsistent with this chapter, this chapter shall be controlling.
(Ord. 597, 12-26-2000)
3-8-18: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, paragraph or provision of this chapter shall be held to be
invalid or unenforceable for any reason, the invalidity or unenforceability of
such section, paragraph or provision shall not affect any of the remaining
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 597, 12-26-2000)
CHAPTER 9
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
3-9-1: Definition
3-9-2: License And Compliance Required
3-9-3: Ineligibility For License
3-9-4: Application For License
3-9-5: Bond Requirements
3-9-6: Classification Of Licenses
3-9-7: Number Of Licenses
3-9-8: License Fees
3-9-9: Expiration Of License; Renewals
3-9-10: Display Of License
3-9-11: Location Regulations
3-9-12: Sanitary Premises
3-9-13: Days And Hours Of Sales
3-9-14: Employees
3-9-15: Sales To Certain Persons
3-9-16: Misrepresentation Of Age Prohibited
3-9-17: Soliciting Drinks
3-9-18: Records Kept
3-9-19: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
3-9-20: Penalties
3-9-1: DEFINITION:
Unless the context otherwise requires, the words "alcoholic liquor", as used in
this chapter, shall include alcohol, spirits, wine and beer and shall mean
every liquid or solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or
beer and capable of being consumed as a beverage by a human being. (Ord. 845,
10-12-2015)
3-9-2: LICENSE AND COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any merchant, either by himself or his agent, or any
person acting as an agent, barkeeper, clerk or servant of another, to sell,
offer for sale, give away or otherwise dispense in the city any alcoholic
liquor without first having obtained a license to do so as provided herein. It
shall likewise be unlawful for any such merchant to sell, offer for sale, give
away or otherwise dispense any intoxicating liquors or alcoholic or malt or
vinaceous liquors in violation of the terms and conditions of such license.
(Ord. 845, 10-12-2015)
3-9-3: INELIGIBILITY FOR LICENSE:
No license authorized by this chapter shall be issued to:
   A.   A person not of legal age or under any legal disability.
   B.   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he resides.
   C.   A person who is not a citizen of the United States.
   D.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or state
law, if the mayor determines, after investigation, that such person has not
been sufficiently rehabilitated to warrant the public trust.
   E.   A person who has been convicted of keeping a place of prostitution or
keeping a place of juvenile prostitution, promoting prostitution that involves
keeping a place of prostitution, or promoting juvenile prostitution that
involves keeping a place of juvenile prostitution.
   F.   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality.
   G.   A person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked for
cause.
   H.   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued under this chapter, would not be eligible for such renewal upon a first
application.
   I.   A copartnership, if any general partnership thereof, or any limited
partnership thereof, owning more than five percent (5%) of the aggregate
limited partner interest in such copartnership would not be eligible to receive
a license hereunder for any reason.
   J.   A corporation or limited liability company, if any member, officer,
manager or director thereof, or any stockholder or stockholders owning in the
aggregate more than five percent (5%) of the stock of such corporation, would
not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for any reason other than
citizenship and residency within the city.
   K.   A corporation or limited liability company unless it is incorporated or
organized in Illinois, or unless it is a foreign corporation or foreign limited
liability company which is qualified under the business corporation act of 1983
or the limited liability company act to transact business in Illinois. The city
shall permit and accept from an applicant for a license under this chapter
proof prepared from the secretary of state's website that the corporation or
limited liability company is in good standing and is qualified under the
business corporation act of 1983 or the limited liability company act to
transact business in Illinois.
   L.   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless such manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required of the
licensee.
   M.   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor, or
shall have forfeited his bond to appear in court to answer charges for any such
violation.
   N.   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a license
is sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the
license is to be issued.
   O.   Any law enforcing public official, the mayor or member of the city
council, and no such official shall be interested in any way, either directly
or indirectly, in the manufacture, sale or distribution of alcoholic liquors.
   P.   Any person not eligible for a state retail liquor dealer's license.
   Q.   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be operated
by the licensee.
   R.   An adult use or a business located in the same building as an adult
use. The following definitions apply to this subsection:
ADULT BOOKSTORE: An establishment having, as a substantial portion of its stock
in trade, books, magazines, films, records, recording tapes, videotapes, or
other periodicals for sale or for viewing, either on or off the premises, which
are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
ADULT DEVICE STORE: An establishment having, as a substantial portion of its
stock in trade, any device, appliance, instrument or object which is
represented either by the operator of the establishment or by its packaging,
advertising or other literature furnished therewith as enhancing, assisting,
representing, depicting or relating to specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas, or an establishment with a segment or section devoted to the
sale or display of such material.
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CABARET: A public or private establishment which is
licensed to serve food and/or alcoholic beverages and which features
entertainers, dancers, waitresses, waiters or any other employees acting in
such a way as to display, depict, describe or relate to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein.
ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER: An enclosed building or drive-in theater
with a capacity for less than fifty (50) persons used for presenting material
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for
observation by patrons therein.
ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: An enclosed building or a drive-in theater with a
capacity of fifty (50) or more persons used regularly and routinely for
presenting motion pictures having as a dominant theme material distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by
patrons therein.
ADULT USE: An adult bookstore, an adult motion picture theater, an adult mini-
motion picture theater, an adult entertainment cabaret, a massage
establishment, a body shop or model studio, an adult device store, or an
establishment that conducts a substantial portion of its business through some
combination of any of the foregoing adult uses.
BODY SHOP OR MODEL STUDIO: Any public or private establishment which describes
itself as a body shop or model studio, or where, for any form of consideration
or gratuity, figure models who display specified anatomical areas are provided
to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed or similarly
depicted by persons paying such consideration or gratuity, or where, for any
form of consideration or gratuity, nude or seminude dancing, readings,
counseling sessions, body painting and other activities that present materials
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas are
provided for observation by or communication to persons paying such
consideration or gratuity.
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT: An establishment having a fixed place of business where
any person, firm, association or corporation engages in or carries on, or
permits to be engaged in or carried on, any of the activities mentioned in the
definition of "massage" in this definition; provided, however, that the term
massage establishment shall not apply to hospitals, physical rehabilitation
centers, nursing homes or sanatoriums. The term massage establishment shall
also not apply to a spa, salon, barbershop, or other establishment focused on
grooming wherein a massage is given by a cosmetologist, barber or masseuse
licensed by the state of Illinois in accordance with such license; and
provided, that such establishment does not permit anyone or anything to display
or depict specified anatomical areas and does not permit anyone or anything to
engage, display, or depict specified sexual activity. For purposes of this
definition, a "massage" means any method of pressure on or friction against or
stroking, kneading, rubbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating or stimulating of the
external soft parts of the body with the hands or other parts of the human body
or with the aid of any mechanical or electrical apparatus or appliance with or
without such supplementary aids as rubbing alcohol, liniments, antiseptics,
oils, powder, creams, lotions, ointments or other similar preparations commonly
used in this practice.
NUDITY: The showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area, or
buttocks with less than a fully opaque covering; the showing of the female
breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple; or the
showing of the covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: Any of the following conditions:
      1.   Less than completely and opaquely covered:
           a. Human genitals, pubic region or pubic hair; or
           b. Buttock; or
           c. Female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola; and
      2.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely covered.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: Any of the following conditions:
      1.   The performance of acts or simulated acts of sexual intercourse,
masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, or flagellation, in addition
to any sexual acts which are prohibited by law.
      2.   The actual or simulated touching, caressing or fondling of the
breasts, buttocks, anus or genitals.
      3.   The actual or simulated display of the breasts, buttocks, pubic
hair, anus, vulva or genitals.
      4.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any activities
otherwise set forth in this definition.
   S.   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as proscribed by
any of subsections (a)(3) through (a)(11) of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
28-1, or as proscribed by 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/28-1.1 or 5/28-3, or
as proscribed by a statute replaced by any of the aforesaid statutory
provisions.
   T.   A person or entity to whom a federal wagering stamp has been issued by
the federal government, unless the person or entity is eligible to be issued a
license under the raffles act or the Illinois pull tabs and jar games act.
   U.   A person who intends to sell alcoholic liquors for use or consumption
on his or her licensed retail premises who does not have liquor liability
insurance coverage for that premises in an amount that is at least equal to the
maximum liability amounts set out in 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-21,
subsection (a). (Ord. 845, 10-12-2015)
3-9-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
All applications for the license required herein shall be made in writing to
the mayor, or to the party designated by him, signed by the applicant if an
individual, or by a duly authorized agent thereof if a corporation, association
or partnership, verified by affidavit, and shall be submitted and filed with
the mayor at least fifteen (15) days prior to the issuance of any license, and
shall contain the following information and statements:
   A.   Name, Age And Address: The name, age and address of the applicant in
the case of an individual; in the case of a copartnership or association, names
and addresses of the persons entitled to share in the profits thereof; and in
the case of a corporation for profit, the date and state of incorporation, the
date of qualification to do business in Illinois (if not an Illinois
corporation), the object for which it was organized, the names and addresses of
the officers, directors and managers, and also the names and addresses of every
stockholder owning in the aggregate more than five percent (5%) of the stock of
the corporation.
   B.   Citizenship: The citizenship of the applicant, his place of birth, and
if a naturalized citizen, the time and place of his naturalization.
   C.   Character And Object Of Business: The character of the business of the
applicant, and in the case of a corporation, the objects for which it was
formed.
   D.   Length Of Time In Business: The length of time the applicant has been
in business of that character, or in the case of a corporation, the date on
which its charter was issued.
   E.   Amount Of Goods On Hand: The amount of goods, wares and merchandise on
hand at the time the application is made.
   F.   Location And Description: The location and description of the premises
or place of business which is to be operated under the license.
   G.   Disposition Of Other Applications: A statement whether the applicant
has made similar application for a license on premises other than described in
this application, and the disposition of such application.
   H.   Former Conviction Of Felony: A statement that the applicant has never
been convicted of a felony, and is not disqualified to receive a license by
reason of any matter or thing contained in this chapter, the laws of the state
or other ordinances of the city.
   I.   Suspension Or Revocation Of Previous Licenses: Whether a previous
license by any state or subdivision thereof or by the federal government has
been revoked and the reasons therefor.
   J.   Agreement Not To Violate Regulations: A statement that the applicant
will not violate any of the laws of the state or of the United States, or any
ordinance of the city in the conduct of his place of business.
   K.   Ownership Or Lease Of Premises: A statement that the applicant either
owns the premises for which the license is sought or that he has a lease
thereon for the full period for which the license is to be issued. In the case
of a lease, a copy of same shall be submitted with the application.
   L.   Ownership Of Business: A statement that the applicant is a beneficial
owner of the business to be operated by the licensee.
   M.   Not A Law Enforcing Official: A statement that the applicant is not a
law enforcing public official. (Ord. 845, 10-12-2015)
3-9-5: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
Each and every applicant for a license under this chapter shall simultaneously,
with the application therefor and prior to the issuance thereof, execute and
deliver a bond in the penal sum of five hundred dollars ($500.00) to the City
as obligee, conditioned for the faithful performance of the provisions of this
chapter and of the laws of the State relating to the sale of alcoholic liquor,
and the payment of all security to be approved by the Mayor or such other
persons delegated by him to approve the same. The maximum liability of any and
all securities on such bond shall be limited to five hundred dollars ($500.00).
(Ord. 845, 10-12-2015)
3-9-6: CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES:
Licenses to sell alcoholic liquor at retail are divided into the following
classes:
   A.   Class A: Class A licenses shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor in packages and not for consumption on the premises where sold.
   B.   Class B: Class B licenses shall authorize the retail sale on the
premises of alcoholic liquor in packages and also for consumption on the
premises where sold.
   C.   Class C: Class C licenses shall authorize the retail sale on the
premises of alcoholic liquor, only for consumption on the premises where sold,
and not in packages. Also, at least sixty percent (60%) of the gross revenues
of a Class C license must be represented by food sales (including sales of
nonalcoholic beverages). An applicant for a Class C license must certify that
this food requirement will be met every calendar quarter of operation. The
holder of a Class C license must provide suitable documentation to the Mayor,
as often as he may reasonably require, to prove that this food requirement has
been met every calendar quarter of operation.
   D.   Class D: Class D licenses shall be issued only to "convenience stores",
which are defined as stores engaging in the retail sale of products customarily
found as part of product sales from grocery, drug (excluding prescriptions) and
hardware stores, and which may or may not also be part of a fuel station that
sells gasoline and other petroleum products. Class D licenses shall authorize
the retail sale on the premises of alcoholic liquor, only in packages, and not
for consumption on the premises, and subject to the further condition that
there be no sales of beer in single, separately sold cans, bottles or other
drinking containers and no sale of other alcoholic liquor in miniature bottles
(those containing 50 milliliters or less). Also, no more than thirty percent
(30%) of the gross revenues of a Class D license (or 30 percent of the gross
revenues represented by inside sales, if the convenience store is also part of
a fuel station) shall be represented by sales of alcoholic liquor. An applicant
for a Class D license must certify that this limitation will be met every
calendar quarter of operation. The holder of a Class D license must provide
suitable documentation to the Mayor, as often as he may reasonably require, to
prove that this beer and wine sale limitation has been met every calendar
quarter of operation.
   E.   Class E: Class E licenses, also known as special use permit licenses,
are largely patterned after licenses of the same name as described in the
Liquor Control Act of 1934. Only a holder of a Class B or C license is eligible
to apply for a Class E license. A Class E license shall allow the holder to
transfer a portion of its alcoholic liquor inventory from its licensed premises
(i.e., the premises for which the Class B or C license was issued) to a single
premises specified in the Class E license, and to sell or offer for sale the
transferred alcoholic liquor inventory at retail only on the specified
premises, only for consumption on the specified premises, and not for resale in
any form. The specified premises need not be licensed premises under this
chapter. A Class E license shall be used only in instances where the sale or
offer for sale of the transferred alcoholic liquor inventory is incidental to a
specific event on the specified premises, where food is offered for
consumption. A Class E license shall allow the holder to provide the services
described herein at the specific event and at the specified premises described
in the application. A Class E license shall be granted to license holder no
more than three (3) times per calendar year for a specified location. At least
fifteen (15) days before the start of each specific event at which a Class E
license will be used, the holder of the license shall give notice to the Mayor
of the date and hours of the event. An application for a Class E license shall
identify the holder of the existing Class B or C license and identify the
premises at which the Class E license will be used. Otherwise, except as
provided herein, a holder of a Class E license shall abide by all provisions of
this chapter. Moreover, a violation of any provision of this chapter with
respect to the use of a Class E license shall subject the holder to potential
discipline not only for that license, but also for the Class B or C license
that was a precondition for applying for the Class E license.
The application and license shall be further subject to the following
conditions:
      1.   All entrances to the specified premises shall be attended at all
times. At least one emergency exit shall be provided.
      2.   Adequate measures shall be taken to prevent the removal of alcoholic
liquor from the specified premises and to constrict noise to the appropriate
area.
      3.   The time period for which a Class E license is issued shall not
exceed the lesser of: a) the duration of the special event, or b) three (3)
days; provided, however, that the Liquor Commissioner may further limit the
hours of operation of the special event as the Liquor Commissioner deems
necessary or desirable.
      4.   The applicant shall present to the City proof of liability and
dramshop insurance, thereby relieving the City from any and all liability. Such
insurance shall be issued by a reputable insurance company doing business in
the State of Illinois and naming the City as an additional insured. A copy of
the proof of insurance shall be presented to the City Clerk at least fifteen
(15) days prior to the scheduled event.
      5.   The applicant shall present to the City a security plan outlining
the security arrangements for the special event, which shall be subject to
approval by the Liquor Commissioner.
   F.   Class F: Class F licenses shall authorize the sale and service of
alcoholic liquors for consumption on the premises of a banquet facility only as
an incidental part of food service pursuant to a contract or agreement to cater
a private function in the banquet facility. For purposes of this section, a
"banquet facility" means a place available for rental by the general public
designed to accommodate a minimum of one hundred (100) persons safely and in
compliance with the local Fire Code. The business operating from such a place
is typified by functions such as wedding celebrations or other prearranged
private parties, functions, or events for a specific social or business
occasion, either by invitation or reservation, and not open to the general
public.
   G.   Class G: Class G licenses shall authorize the sale and service of
alcoholic liquors for consumption in a patio dining area on the following terms
and conditions:
      1.   "Patio dining area" means an area located directly adjacent to and
contiguous to an existing licensed facility and generally open and subject to
the direct influence of the outdoor environment which has been established in
accordance with this section.
      2.   Only the current holder of a Class B license or a Class C license
under this section may apply for and receive a license to establish and operate
a patio dining area which must be located immediately adjacent to a totally
enclosed permanent structure which is the site of a dramshop lawfully operating
under any such liquor license. In addition, at least thirty percent (30%) of
the combined gross revenues of a Class B and Class G license and sixty percent
(60%) of the combined gross revenues of a Class C and Class G license must be
represented by food sales (including sales of nonalcoholic beverages). An
applicant for a Class G license must certify that this food requirement will be
met every calendar quarter of operation. The holder of a Class G license must
provide suitable documentation to the Mayor, as often as he may reasonably
require, to prove that this food requirement has been met every calendar
quarter of operation.
      3.   All applicants for a license to operate a patio dining area shall
submit to the Mayor a written application which accurately and completely
describes the proposed patio dining area, its proposed hours of operation and
any other pertinent information, along with scaled plans, specifications and
drawings which demonstrate that the proposed patio dining area will comply with
the terms and conditions of this section and with any other applicable
provisions of local, State or Federal law including, but not limited to, the
City zoning title.
      4.   The area of a patio dining area shall be considered to be a portion
of the immediately adjacent dramshop operated by the holder of the underlying
liquor license for purposes of establishing any applicable parking
requirements.
      5.   A patio dining area shall be constructed, maintained and operated in
accordance with the descriptions, conditions, plans, specifications and
drawings submitted with the application for the license to construct and
operate the patio dining area.
      6.   The patio dining area square footage shall not exceed the square
footage of that portion of the attached totally enclosed permanent structure
from which the holder of the underlying liquor license operates a dramshop. The
patio dining area appearance should be consistent with the character of the
existing structure. The patio dining area shall be constructed with a hard
floor surface, such as decking material, concrete, or paving brick.
      7.   Except for emergency entrances and exits which shall be used only in
the case of a bona fide emergency, no access to a patio dining area is allowed
except through that portion of the attached totally enclosed permanent
structure from which the holder of the underlying liquor license operates a
dramshop. The patio dining area shall not be accessible to any portion of any
building to which it is adjacent other than the building used as a location for
a dramshop by the holder of the underlying liquor license, nor shall a patio
dining area be located such that it is necessary for a patron to travel through
any portion of any other building to obtain ingress or egress.
      8.   A patio dining area shall be completely enclosed by an attractive
fence, wall or other similar barricade having a height of not less than four
feet (4') and which defines the seating area and sets that area apart from the
surrounding property.
      9.   No portion of any patio dining area may be located within two
hundred feet (200') of the lot line of any parcel zoned or used for residential
purposes.
      10.   No alcoholic beverages may be served or consumed within a patio
dining area except between the hours authorized for the sale of alcoholic
liquor as set forth in section
3-9-13 of this chapter. Except for employees of the licensed facility engaged
in employment related activities, no person shall be allowed in the patio
dining area other than during the hours specified in section
3-9-13 of this chapter.
      11.   The issuance of a Class G license shall not diminish the
responsibility of the license holder to comply with all applicable laws,
ordinances, rules, or regulations. Failure to comply shall be cause for
suspension or revocation of the Class G license.
      12.   A patio dining area shall not be occupied by any number of persons
in excess of the maximum established by any other applicable law or regulation
including, without limitation, the Building Code of the City.
      13.   A license authorizing the operation of a patio dining area does not
authorize the sale or consumption of alcoholic beverages at any location other
than within the confines of the patio dining area or within the confines of the
attached totally enclosed permanent structure from the licensee operating the
qualifying liquor establishment.
      14.   It is unlawful for any person to transfer, pass or deliver
alcoholic beverages from a location within a patio dining area through or over
a fence, wall or other barricade to a person located outside of the patio
dining area. It is unlawful for any license holder or employee to permit any
person to transfer, pass or deliver alcoholic liquor from a location within a
patio dining area through or over a fence, wall or other barricade to a person
located outside of the patio dining area. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this
subsection G14 shall not prohibit any person from passing, delivering or
transferring alcoholic liquor between the patio dining area and the wholly
enclosed adjacent Class B or Class C licensed premises for which the Class G
license is issued.
   H.   Class H: Class H licenses shall be issued for special events to any
chartered, not for profit corporation, or any religious, political, charitable,
or other organization that can show tax exempt status and desires to sell
alcoholic beverages at a special event pursuant to the following criteria:
      1.   A Class H license shall entitle the licensee to sell alcoholic
beverages for consumption only on the premises and the dates listed in the
application. Such application shall include a scale drawing of the proposed
outdoor facility which shall, at a minimum, include the following:
         a.   A method by which the area shall be confined to prohibit the
removal of alcoholic beverages and constrict noise to the approved area; and
         b.   A reasonably substantial structure across which alcoholic
beverages shall be served which shall afford bartenders reasonable protection
from patrons; and
      2.   The duration of a Class H license shall be for a period of twenty
four (24) consecutive hours, but may be extended up to ninety six (96)
consecutive hours; and
      3.   The hours for the sale of alcoholic beverages with a Class H license
shall be seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M.; and
      4.   During alcoholic beverage sales, the presence of a minimum of two
(2) police officers is required. For each hour the licensee offers alcoholic
beverages for sale, the licensee shall pay a fee of forty dollars ($40.00) per
hour for each police officer who is working at the special event.
      5.   Class H licensees shall have the appropriate State of Illinois
special event license pertaining to the same date and location as applied for
under this section of this Code. (Ord. 896, 8-12-2019)
3-9-7: NUMBER OF LICENSES:
One Class A license, one Class B license, one Class C license, one Class D
license, one Class E license, one Class F license, one Class G license, and one
Class H license shall be issued hereunder. A holder of a Class B or C license
may hold only one Class E license during any calendar year. (Ord. 857, 10-10-
2016)
3-9-8: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   Established: The annual fee required for a Class A, B, C, D and F
license shall be one thousand dollars ($1,000.00); for a Class E and G license,
two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00); and for a Class H license, two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00) for the first day and one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00) for each additional day that the license is extended. Fees are
payable at the time of application and for each renewal. (Ord. 857, 10-10-2016)
   B.   Payment Of Fees; Refunds: All liquor license fees, including renewals,
shall be paid to the City. Indication of the payment of such license fee shall
be attached to every application for a license or for the renewal of a license
to sell alcoholic liquor. In the event the license applied for is denied, the
fee shall be returned to the applicant less twenty five percent (25%) for
processing costs. (Ord. 845, 10-12-2015)
3-9-9: EXPIRATION OF LICENSE; RENEWALS:
   A.   Each license required by this chapter shall terminate at the end of the
calendar year next following its issuance, unless sooner revoked as provided in
this chapter. The fee to be paid shall be reduced in proportion to the full
calendar months which have expired in the period.
   B.   A license issued under this chapter shall permit the sale of alcoholic
liquor only in the premises described in the application and license, and only
under the conditions and restrictions imposed in this chapter on the particular
class of license described therein. Such license shall not be subject to
attachment, garnishment or execution, nor shall it be alienable or
transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or
hypothecated. Such license shall not descend by the laws of testate or
intestate devolution, but shall cease upon the death of the licensee; provided,
that the executors or administrators of the estate of any deceased licensee and
the trustee of any insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when such estate consists in
part of alcoholic liquor, may continue the business of the sale of alcoholic
liquor under order of the appropriate court, and may exercise the privileges of
the deceased or insolvent or bankrupt licensee after the death of such
decedent, or such insolvency or bankruptcy, until the expiration of the
license, but not longer than six (6) months after the death, bankruptcy or
insolvency of such licensee. If such administrator or executor does not
continue the business under such license, there shall be a refund made of that
portion of the license fee paid for any period in which the executor or
administrator may not operate. Any licensee shall have the right to a renewal
of such license; provided, that he is then qualified to receive a license, and
the premises for which such renewal is sought is suitable for such purpose, but
nothing herein shall be deemed to restrict the right of the mayor to revoke any
such license.
   C.   All applications for the renewal of a license shall be made in writing
to the mayor at least fifteen (15) days prior to December 31 of each year.
(Ord. 845, 10-12-2015)
3-9-10: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
Every licensee shall cause his license issued under this chapter to be framed
and kept in plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises. (Ord.
845, 10-12-2015)
3-9-11: LOCATION REGULATIONS:
   A.   Near Certain Establishments: No license shall be issued for the sale at
retail of any alcoholic liquor within one hundred feet (100') of any church,
school other than an institution of higher learning, hospital, home for aged or
indigent persons or for veterans, their spouses or children or any military or
naval station, or adult use, provided, that this prohibition shall not apply to
hotels offering restaurant service, regularly organized clubs, or to
restaurants, food shops or other places where sale of alcoholic liquors is not
the principal business carried on; nor to the renewal of a license for the sale
at retail of alcoholic liquor on premises within one hundred feet (100') of any
church or school where the church or school has been established within such
one hundred feet (100') since the issuance of the original license. In the case
of a church, the distance of one hundred feet (100') shall be measured to the
nearest part of any building used for worship services or educational programs
and not to property boundaries. In all other cases, the distance of one hundred
feet (100') shall be measured as required by the Illinois liquor control act of
1934, and as such may be interpreted by the courts of the state of Illinois.
   B.   Change Of Location: The location described in the license and
application required by this chapter may be changed only upon a written permit
to make such change issued by the mayor, and only if the proposed new location
is a proper one for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor under the laws of the
state, the provisions of this chapter and other ordinances of the city. (Ord.
845, 10-12-2015)
3-9-12: SANITARY PREMISES:
All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor or for the storage of
such liquor for retail sale shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
(Ord. 845, 10-12-2015)
3-9-13: DAYS AND HOURS OF SALES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale at retail or
otherwise dispense any alcoholic liquor in the city between the hours of one
o'clock (1:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on Monday through Sunday;
provided, however, that on New Year's Day, sales may take place until two
o'clock (2:00) A.M., after which time, the holder of a class B, C, or F license
shall have a one hour period to clear the premises of patrons and close the
doors. (Ord. 845, 10-12-2015)
3-9-14: EMPLOYEES:
   A.   Age Restrictions: Licensees shall be subject to the following:
      1.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall open, draw,
mix or pour any alcoholic liquor.
      2.   No person under the age of nineteen (19) years shall act as a waiter
or waitress or otherwise deliver or serve alcoholic liquor at any licensed
premises.
      3.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall sell any
alcoholic liquor at any retail operation.
   B.   Citizenship Required; Health Status: It shall be unlawful for any
person licensed under the provisions of this chapter to employ in any premises
used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor any person who is not a citizen of
the United States or who is afflicted with, or who is a carrier of any
contagious, infectious or venereal disease. It shall be unlawful for any person
who is afflicted with, or who is a carrier of any such disease to work in or
about any premises, or to engage in any way in the handling, preparation or
distribution of such liquor. (Ord. 845, 10-12-2015)
3-9-15: SALES TO CERTAIN PERSONS:
No licensee under this chapter shall sell, give away or deliver alcoholic
liquor or malt or vinaceous beverages to any person under the age of twenty one
(21) years or to any intoxicated person, except as provided in 235 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/6-16.1. (Ord. 845, 10-12-2015)
3-9-16: MISREPRESENTATION OF AGE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person under legal age, as defined by the state of
Illinois, to misrepresent his or her age for the purpose of purchasing or
receiving alcoholic liquor in any tavern, store, or other place in the city
where alcoholic liquor is sold. (Ord. 845, 10-12-2015)
3-9-17: SOLICITING DRINKS:
   A.   No licensee under this chapter shall permit any employee or entertainer
in the premises to solicit any patron or customer thereof to purchase alcoholic
or nonalcoholic beverages for himself or herself or any other person on or in
such licensed premises; provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall
prohibit any waiter or waitress who shall be regularly employed therein from
accepting and serving the order of a patron or customer in the regular course
of his or her employment of such waiter or waitress.
   B.   No person shall frequent or loiter in any premises licensed under this
chapter for the purpose of soliciting the purchase of alcoholic or nonalcoholic
beverages. (Ord. 845, 10-12-2015)
3-9-18: RECORDS KEPT:
The mayor shall keep or cause to be kept a complete record of all licenses
required by this chapter, issued by him, and all licenses issued shall be given
a number beginning with number one. (Ord. 845, 10-12-2015)
3-9-19: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The mayor in his capacity as local liquor control commissioner may suspend or
revoke any license issued under this chapter for any violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter or for any violation of any state law pertaining to
the sale of alcoholic liquor but only in accordance with the provisions of the
Illinois liquor control act. (Ord. 845, 10-12-2015)
3-9-20: PENALTIES:
In addition to the suspension, the local liquor control commissioner may levy a
fine on the licensee for a violation of any one or more of the provisions of
this chapter. The fine imposed shall not exceed one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for a first violation within a twelve (12) month period, one
thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) for a second violation within a
twelve (12) month period, and two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for
a third or subsequent violation within a twelve (12) month period. Each
violation and each day on which a violation continues shall constitute a
separate violation. Not more than fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00) in
fines under this section may be imposed against any licensee during the period
of his license. (Ord. 845, 10-12-2015)
CHAPTER 10
VIDEO GAMING
SECTION:
3-10-1: Definitions
3-10-2: Video Gaming Establishment License
3-10-3: Video Gaming Terminal Permit Sticker
3-10-4: Regulations Governing Licensed Establishments Operating Video Gaming
Terminals
3-10-5: Inspection Of Premises
3-10-6: Revocation/Suspension Of License And Permit Stickers
3-10-7: Seizure Of Unlawful Video Gaming Terminals
3-10-8: Monetary Penalty
3-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
LICENSED ESTABLISHMENT: Any establishment that is both licensed to sell liquor
at retail in the City and licensed by the Illinois Board to operate a video
gaming terminal on its premises.
VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL: Any electronic video game machine that, upon insertion
of cash, is available to play or simulate the play of a video game, including,
but not limited to, video poker, line up, and blackjack, utilizing a video
display and microprocessors in which the player may receive free games or
credits that can be redeemed for cash. The term does not include a machine that
directly dispenses coins, cash, or tokens, or is for amusement purposes only.
(Ord. 898, 8-12-2019)
3-10-2: VIDEO GAMING ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE:
In order for a licensed establishment to operate a video gaming terminal, the
licensed establishment is required to obtain an annual video gaming
establishment license from the City by submitting a written application, on a
form provided by the City, to the City Clerk. (Ord. 898, 8-12-2019)
3-10-3: VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL PERMIT STICKER:
In order for a video gaming terminal to be operated at a licensed
establishment, the licensed establishment is required to obtain an annual video
gaming terminal permit sticker from the City for each video gaming terminal
located on its premises by submitting a written application, on a form provided
by the City, to the City Clerk. Each video gaming terminal permit sticker
issued by the City shall expire April 30, next, after the date of issue, with
an annual fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per video gaming terminal,
payable in full at the time the application is filed with the City. (Ord. 898,
8-12-2019)
3-10-4: REGULATIONS GOVERNING LICENSED ESTABLISHMENTS OPERATING VIDEO GAMING
TERMINALS:
The following regulations apply to all licensed establishments operating a
video gaming terminal on its premises with a valid gaming establishment license
and valid video gaming terminal permit stickers for each of its video gaming
terminals:
   A.   A valid City gaming establishment license must be clearly displayed at
all times.
   B.   A valid City video gaming terminal permit sticker shall be clearly
displayed at all times on each video gaming terminal.
   C.   No more than five (5) video gaming terminals may be located on the
licensed establishment's premises.
   D.   Other than having up to five (5) video gaming terminals with valid
video gaming terminal permit stickers, a licensed establishment is prohibited
from having, anywhere on its premises, an electronic video gaming machine that
may be available to play or simulate the play of poker, line up, blackjack,
faro, roulette, craps, slots or any other card or dice game, or other game of
chance or that is otherwise akin to a gambling or gaming device under this
Code, even if solely for amusement purposes.
   E.   All video gaming terminals must be located in an area restricted to
persons twenty one (21) years of age or older. The entrance to such area must,
at all times, be within the view of at least one employee who is at least
twenty one (21) years of age.
   F.   No licensed establishment may cause or permit any person under the age
of twenty one (21) years to use, play or operate a video gaming terminal.
   G.   No video gaming terminal may be played except during the legal hours of
operation allowed for the consumption of alcoholic beverages at the licensed
establishment pursuant to this Code.
   H.   The licensed establishment must fully comply with the Illinois Video
Gaming Act, 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/1 et seq., and all rules,
regulations and restrictions imposed by the Illinois Gaming Board.
   I.   The licensed establishment must fully comply with all regulations of
this Code.
   J.   The licensed establishment must fully comply with any and all Federal
and Illinois State regulations and laws. (Ord. 898, 8-12-2019)
3-10-5: INSPECTION OF PREMISES:
Every licensed establishment where a video gaming terminal is kept shall be
subject to inspection by the Chief of Police or his authorized agents, at any
time, to ensure compliance with this Code, including those establishments
applying for a video gaming establishment license and/or video gaming terminal
permit sticker. It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, resist, oppose
or attempt to hinder, resist or oppose the Chief of Police or his respective
agents in the course of an inspection. (Ord. 898, 8-12-2019)
3-10-6: REVOCATION/SUSPENSION OF LICENSE AND PERMIT STICKERS:
The City of Marquette Heights may revoke or suspend any video gaming
establishment license and any video gaming terminal permit sticker issued by
the City if it determines that the licensed establishment has violated any of
the provisions of this chapter. The license and video gaming terminal permit
stickers shall not be revoked or suspended until the licensed establishment has
been given a public hearing before the City Council, with a three (3) day
written notice to the licensed establishment, affording the licensed
establishment an opportunity to appear and defend. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, any licensed establishment that has its liquor license revoked or
suspended by the City or by the Illinois State Liquor Commission, or has its
video gaming license revoked or suspended by the Illinois Gaming Board, shall
automatically, without a hearing before the City Council, have its City video
gaming establishment license and all City video gaming terminal permit stickers
revoked or suspended for the same time frame as its liquor and/or Illinois
Gaming Board gaming license is suspended, whichever may be the case. (Ord. 898,
8-12-2019)
3-10-7: SEIZURE OF UNLAWFUL VIDEO GAMING TERMINALS:
Every video gaming terminal that does not have a valid video gaming terminal
permit sticker, or is otherwise unlawful, shall be considered a gambling device
and subject to seizure, and shall be turned over to the Illinois Gaming Board,
in accordance with board regulations and applicable law, unless otherwise
ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 898, 8-12-2019)
3-10-8: MONETARY PENALTY:
Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be punished by a fine of
not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a first offense in a twelve
(12) month period, and a fine of not less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
for a second offense and each subsequent offense in a twelve (12) month period.
This penalty may be enforced by issuance of a "notice of violation" for the
fine amount, or by issuance of a "notice to appear". Each day any violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense. This monetary penalty shall be
in addition to any and all other remedies which may be available to the City
under this chapter, or under any other provision of this Code, or Federal or
Illinois law. (Ord. 898, 8-12-2019)
CHAPTER 11
RENTAL REGISTRATION AND INSPECTION PROGRAM
SECTION:
3-11-1: Purpose
3-11-2: Scope
3-11-3: Definitions
3-11-4: Registration Of Rental Property
3-11-5: Application Requirements
3-11-6: Registration Renewal
3-11-7: Changes In Information
3-11-8: Fees
3-11-9: Inspections
3-11-10: Notice Of Inspection And Right To Refuse
3-11-11: Assignment Of Classification
3-11-12: Class Listings And Violations
3-11-13: Local Agent Required
3-11-14: Safety And Security
3-11-15: Violations
3-11-16: Affirmative Defense
3-11-17: Notices
3-11-18: Records And Reports
3-11-19: Administrative Appeals
3-11-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of the City of Marquette Heights Rental Registration and
Inspection Program adopted herein to assure that rental housing and non-owner
occupied properties in the City are maintained in a good, safe and sanitary
condition and does not create a nuisance or blighted conditions to its
surroundings. To ensure these conditions and to aid in the enforcement of
Property Maintenance Codes, Building Safety Codes, Zoning Ordinances and other
relevant provisions of the City of Marquette Heights ordinances, the City
Council hereby establishes the Rental Registration and Inspection Program for
all applicable residential rental units and non-owner occupied properties
within the City. (Ord. 889, 6-24-2019)
3-11-2: SCOPE:
This chapter applies to any dwelling unit and its accessory units that are
leased as rental units located within the City of Marquette Heights, with the
following exceptions:
   A.   Nursing homes, as defined in the City of Marquette Heights Zoning
Ordinance;
   B.   Hotels and motels, as defined in the City of Marquette Heights Zoning
Ordinance, as well as other similar facilities where occupancy thereof does not
exceed thirty (30) days. (Ord. 889, 6-24-2019)
3-11-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the
meaning respectively ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
otherwise requires.
DUPLEX: Means a building with two (2) rental units.
LEASE, LEASED, RENT, RENTED, OR RENTAL: Means any payment made or other
consideration given to the owner or an owner's agent pursuant to rental
agreement.
LOCAL AGENT: Means one or more persons who has charge, care or control of a
building in, or part thereof, in which rental units are maintained.
NON-OWNER OCCUPIED PROPERTY: Means any property, which encompasses contract for
deed situations or those situations in which there is no formal lease
agreement.
OWNER: Means one or more persons, jointly, severally or in common, or any
organization, in whom is vested all or part of the legal title to property, or
all or part of the beneficial ownership of a right to present use and enjoyment
of the premises, including a mortgage in possession. As used herein, an
organization shall include a corporation, trust, estate, partnership,
association or any other legal or commercial entity. The term owner shall not
include a lessee who previously occupied a rental unit and who is subleasing
the unit for the remaining part of his or her lease.
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE: Means the Marquette Heights City ordinances
pertaining to property maintenance and the 2009 International Property
Maintenance Code, as well as all other codes adopted by the City relating to
property maintenance.
RENTAL AGREEMENT: Means all agreements, written and oral, and rules and
regulations embodying the terms and conditions concerning the use and enjoyment
of rented property, including subleases.
RENTAL INSPECTOR: Means the Marquette Heights building inspector or his/her
authorized designee.
RENTAL PROPERTY: Means a structure which is leased for occupancy for
residential or dwelling purposes. However, it does not include structures or
dwelling units as set forth in section
3-11-2 of this chapter.
RENTAL UNIT: Means each room or portion of a rental property used for
residential or dwelling purpose that is separately leased, rented, or otherwise
legally occupied by any persons other than the owner thereof.
SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING: Means a structure with one rental unit. (Ord. 889, 6-
24-2019)
3-11-4: REGISTRATION OF RENTAL PROPERTY:
   A.   After the effective date of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any
owner, as defined herein, to lease, rent, or otherwise operate a rental
property or non- owner occupied property without registering it with the City
of Marquette Heights and complying with the provisions of this chapter,
together with other applicable codes and ordinances of the City. The
registration of rental properties required herein shall expire on December 31
of each year.
   B.   No owner shall be allowed to register any property if the owner has
outstanding fees or fines due and owing the City.
   C.   Registration may be denied or revoked by the rental inspector as
provided in this chapter. If registration is denied or revoked, the building
official shall notify the owner or owner's agent, in writing, of the denial or
revocation and the reasons therefor, pursuant to section
3-11-17 of this chapter. The owner shall have the opportunity to appeal the
decision pursuant to section
3-11-19 of this chapter.
   D.   The City shall provide written confirmation to owner or owner's agent
upon receipt of each application for rental property registration or renewal
thereof via personal delivery, or first-class, or electronic mail. Such
confirmation shall contain the date of issuance, the owner's name, and the
address of the registered rental property or non-owner occupied property, and
shall be prima facie evidence of registration of the rental property or non-
owner occupied property as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 889, 6-24-2019; Ord.
902, 10-14-2019)
3-11-5: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
Applications for registration shall be filed with the City office and
accompanied by a registration fee as established in the schedule of fees in
section
3-11-8 of this chapter. Such application shall be made at least thirty (30)
days prior to the expiration of the registration, and shall include the
following:
   A.   Name, street address, city, state, zip code and telephone number of the
owner of the rental property.
   B.   Name, street, address, city, state, zip code and telephone number of
the owner's agent responsible for the management of the premises of the rental
property.
   C.   Legal address of the rental property.
   D.   Occupancy as permitted under the Zoning Ordinance, or as specified in
the Certificate of Occupancy.
   E.   Signed statement of owner or owner's agent indicating that the owner is
aware of the City's Building Safety Codes, Nuisance, and Zoning (occupancy)
Codes and the legal ramifications for knowingly violating said codes.
   F.   Name and address of the registered agent, if the owner is a
corporation.
   G.   Name and address of the mortgage holder, if there is a mortgage on the
rental property.
   H.   Name and address of any buyer on a Contract for Deed.
The City may require additional information, at any time, to clarify or support
the information provided on an application, or with respect to compliance with
any other provision of this chapter. (Ord. 889, 6-24-2019)
3-11-6: REGISTRATION RENEWAL:
If there are no changes in ownership or agent representation, renewals of the
registration may be made by filling out the registration renewal form furnished
by the City and paying the appropriate fee. (Ord. 889, 6-24-2019)
3-11-7: CHANGES IN INFORMATION:
Within thirty (30) days of any change in the registration information as
required by this chapter (e.g., a change of owner due to the sale of rental
property), the owner or owner's agent shall provide notice to the City of the
same in writing. There shall be no additional charge for the remaining period
of the annual registration. A change of ownership shall include any change in
ownership rights, including the execution of a Contract for Deed, whether
recorded or not. (Ord. 889, 6-24-2019)
3-11-8: FEES:
   A.   It being the goal of the City that the Rental Registration and
Inspection Program be self-supporting, the Council shall establish a schedule
of registration fees. From time-to-time, the Council shall review income and
expenses arising from this chapter to determine any appropriate adjustments in
the fee schedule. Fees shall also be set for failure to register, incomplete
registration information, failure to register by the due date, and re-
inspection of rental properties.
   B.   It shall be illegal for any owner or owner's agent to charge a tenant
or tenants a fee greater than the actual pro rata cost of the registration fee
and attribute that greater than actual fee to the City. Any explicit pass-
through of the registration fee must be accurately represented, calculated and
communicated to the tenant in order to be effective, regardless of how the fee
may be characterized in any lease document.
   C.   Schedule of registration fees:
      1.   Single family units - one hundred dollars ($100.00) yearly.
      2.   Duplex units - one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) yearly.
      3.   Owner occupied with room rentals - one hundred dollars ($100.00)
yearly.
      4.   Multi-family units - one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) yearly.
      5.   Late registration - fifty dollars ($50.00) per month.
      6.   Incomplete registration - fifty dollars ($50.00).
      7.   Re-inspection after failed first inspection - one hundred dollars
($100.00)/visit.
      8.   Re-inspection after no show/denied entry - one hundred dollars
($100.00).
      9.   Failure to register within sixty (60) days of the effective date of
this chapter - one hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 889, 6-24-2019)
3-11-9: INSPECTIONS:
Both the interior and exterior of properties registered under the Rental
Registration and Inspection Program shall be periodically inspected by the City
as set forth herein.
   A.   The Council designee shall establish a schedule of periodic inspections
of registered rental properties and non-owner occupied properties within the
City to ensure compliance with this chapter as well as the Property Maintenance
Code, Building Codes established by the City and the permitted use and
residential occupancy provisions adopted by the City.
   B.   The inspection schedule shall be determined by the following factors:
      1.   By systematic wards throughout the City.
      2.   By tenant or neighbor complaints about a particular structure or
area of rental properties or non-owner occupied properties, and/or as indicated
by police or fire calls or exterior nuisance complaints about a structure or
area.
      3.   By the inspection class assigned to a particular building, pursuant
to section
3-11-11 of this chapter.
      4.   By the overall condition of the neighborhood in which the property
is located.
      5.   By the frequency of prior inspections and date of most recent
inspection of the property.
      6.   By such other factor as the City deems appropriate. (Ord. 889, 6-24-
2019)
3-11-10: NOTICE OF INSPECTION AND RIGHT TO REFUSE:
   A.   Periodic inspections of rental properties shall occur once an
appointment has been scheduled with the owner and/or occupant. When an
appointment has been scheduled with the Homeowner and/or Tenant and/or Agent of
Homeowner, no additional notice is required,
   B.   Objections to such inspections may be provided by telephone, fax or
email or in person at the City Office during normal business hours, but at
least forty-eight (48) hours prior to the inspection.
   C.   If any owner objects to a periodic inspection, “e an inspection of the
rental unit shall can still be undertaken if the occupant agrees to the
inspection.
   D.   Failure to reschedule an inspection or respond to a notice of
inspection shall be treated as an agreement to the date and time of the
inspection. The owner shall be liable for the cost of re-inspection if the
renter, owner, or owner’s agent fails to provide access to the rental property
as scheduled. Failure to provide access as scheduled or rescheduled shall also
constitute a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 889, 6-24-2019; amd. Ord. 935, -
-2023)
3-11-11: ASSIGNMENT OF CLASSIFICATION:
Upon completion of a rental property's or non-owner occupied property's
inspection, the rental property shall be classified by the rental inspector
according to the classification system set forth herein. A rental property
shall be considered for reclassification at each subsequent inspection.
   A.   Class A - The rental property or non-owner occupied property has no
violations of applicable codes. The rental property shall be inspected as lower
priority on regular cycle thereafter.
   B.   Class B - The rental property or non-owner occupied property has
violations of applicable codes and the violations do not pose an immediate
threat of danger to life, health and safety of the occupants of the rental
property. The rental property shall be inspected on a regular cycle thereafter.
   C.   Class C - The rental property or non-owner occupied property has
violations of applicable codes that are in excess of ten (10) in number and/or
that affect the overall habitability of the building, but do not pose a threat
of danger to life, health, or safety of the occupants of the rental property.
The rental property may be inspected as frequently as every year thereafter.
   D.   Class D - The rental property or non-owner occupied property has
violations of applicable codes and is either unsafe, contains unsafe equipment,
is unfit for human occupancy, or is unlawful. Pursuant to Property Maintenance
Codes, the rental inspector may disallow occupancy of all or any portion of the
rental property until such code violations are corrected. The rental inspector
may inspect the rental property as deemed necessary to verify that it remains
in compliance with City codes.
   E.   Class F - The rental property or non-owner occupied property is not in
compliance with the Rental Registration and Inspection Program and may not be
occupied for rental. Violations leading to a Class F designation are
violations: 1) which render the unit unsuitable for habitation according to the
City's Health, Life, Safety and/or Property Maintenance Codes after
notification and reasonable opportunity to remedy such violations; 2) repeated
and willful violations of the City's Zoning Code, including, but not limited
to, occupancy requirements; or 3) use of the unit for a criminal purpose, as
demonstrated by adjudication of the owner or a tenant for the manufacture,
distribution or sale of drugs as set forth and defined by the Illinois Criminal
Code. The Class F designation shall be withdrawn when the underlying violations
have been remedied, or in the case of subsection 3, there has been a change of
ownership in the rental property, the subject tenant has been evicted, or the
owner has taken appropriate steps to prevent the rental property from
constituting a continuing threat to the public.
   F.   Class N - New construction of a rental property or non-owner occupied
property within the past twenty four (24) months. First inspection will occur
on the next inspection cycle as lowest priority.
The owner or owner's agent shall be notified in writing of the inspection
results within twenty (20) business days after the inspection in the manner set
forth in section
3-11-10 of this chapter. (Ord. 889, 6-24-2019)
3-11-12: CLASS LISTINGS AND VIOLATIONS:
Listings of pertinent violations for Class D or Class F properties shall also
be considered public information and be available on request. (Ord. 889, 6-24-
2019)
3-11-13: LOCAL AGENT REQUIRED:
The owner of any rental unit or non-owner occupied property covered by this
chapter shall be available to respond to an emergency on a twenty four (24)
hour per day basis. This requirement may be met by maintaining a business or
owner- occupied residence within sixty (60) miles of the rental unit, or by the
use of a local agent who resides in Tazewell County or an adjoining county,
either of whom can be contacted on a twenty four (24) hour basis. If a local
agent is used, the owner shall provide the City with the name, address and
telephone number of the local agent in addition to owner information. A post
office box, mailing address or long distance 800 number shall not be sufficient
to meet the provisions of this section. (Ord. 889, 6-24-2019)
3-11-14: SAFETY AND SECURITY:
To ensure the safety of all residents of rental properties, every owner shall:
   A.   Restrict regular access to the rental property or non-owner occupied
property and rental unit keys to tenants occupying the relevant rental units
and to the owner or owner's agent. Keys may be issued to vendors and
contractors for the purpose of maintenance and repair, but in such cases, the
owner or owner's agent shall take the responsibility for the tracking and
prompt return of such keys in order to protect the safety and security of
tenants. If keys are lost in the course of maintenance and repair activities,
the owner shall promptly change locks at his/her own expense.
   B.   Cooperate with the City and its Police Department to address continuing
safety issues and crime problems at any rental unit or non-owner occupied
property. (Ord. 889, 6-24-2019)
3-11-15: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Upon completion of an inspection, whenever it is determined that any
rental property, non-owner occupied property or rental unit contains one or
more violations of the applicable codes as set forth in this chapter, the
rental inspector shall serve written notice upon the owner or owner's agent of
the rental property or non-owner occupied property as set forth in section
3-11-10 of this chapter directing the owner to correct the violations within
thirty (30) days of the date of the notice. Such notice may be provided
together with the notice of inspection results in section
3-11-11 of this chapter.
   B.   Violations of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of not less
than one hundred twenty five dollars ($125.00) nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation. Each day the violation continues
shall constitute a separate violation. The City may seek additional legal
remedies including injunctive relief or corrective action in addition to the
imposition of a fine as set forth herein. Upon conviction of an offense in
violation of this chapter, the City shall also be entitled to recover its costs
and reasonable attorney's fees in addition to any fines imposed by the court.
   C.   The rental inspector may refuse to register or revoke the existing
registration of any rental property or non-owner occupied property which is
assigned a Class F classification as set forth in section
3-11-11 of this chapter. In the event that the rental inspector denies or
revokes registration of a rental property, the tenants of the subject property
shall be informed by the City of the denial or revocation, and of their need to
obtain other housing. An owner or owner's agent may appeal a registration
denial or revocation according to the provisions of section
3-11-19 of this chapter. (Ord. 889, 6-24-2019)
3-11-16: AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE:
The following shall not be affirmative defenses to a violation of this chapter.
   A.   The owner or owner's agent did not receive notice, provided that the
City issued notice according to the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   The rental property or non-owner occupied property was inspected and
issued a classification pursuant to section
3-11-11 of this chapter indicative of the City's satisfaction with the state of
the property at time of investigation.
The following are affirmative defenses to a violation of this chapter:
   A.   Full correction of each and every violation charged against the
defendant within thirty (30) days of notice.
   B.   The violation charge has been caused by the current occupant or
occupants, and the owner or owner's agent has persuasive evidence in support of
such defense.
   C.   The current occupant(s) have refused entry to the owner or owner's
agent to the rental unit or non-owner occupied property or that part of the
rental unit requiring correction, for the purpose of correcting the violation.
(Ord. 889, 6-24-2019)
3-11-17: NOTICES:
Any written notice required to be given to the owner of a rental property or
non-owner occupied property under this chapter shall be addressed to such owner
at the address provided for such owner in the application for registration. If
the owner or owner's agent, to whom such notice is addressed, cannot be found
after diligent inquiry, service may be made by posting a notice in or on the
residential rental property or by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation in Tazewell County for a period of three (3) consecutive days.
(Ord. 889, 6-24-2019)
3-11-18: RECORDS AND REPORTS:
The rental inspector shall keep records of all complaints, inspections,
reports, and actions taken with respect to each rental property. (Ord. 889, 6-
24-2019)
3-11-19: ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS:
An owner or owner's agent, may appeal a registration denial or revocation to
the City Council within ten (10) days of the date of written notice to such
owner or owner's agent of the denial or revocation of registration. The appeal
must be in writing and state the reasons the owner or owner's agent disagrees
with the determination to deny or revoke registration or the reasons for the
denial or revocation. The Mayor shall notify the owner or owner's agent in
writing within five (5) days of the receipt of the written appeal that the
appeal has been received, and the appeal shall be placed on the agenda for the
next City Council meeting. At the next City Council meeting, the owner or
owner's agent may address the Council regarding the reasons the owner or
owner's agent disagrees with the determination to deny or revoke the
registration or the reasons for denial or revocation. The Mayor shall issue the
decision of the Council in writing to the owner or owner's agent within ten
(10) days of the Council meeting. (Ord. 889, 6-24-2019)
TITLE 4
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Codes Adopted
4-1-2: Building Code Amendments
4-1-3: Plumbing Code Amendments
4-1-4: Mechanical Code Amendments
4-1-5: Electrical Code Amendments
4-1-6: Property Maintenance Code Amendments
4-1-7: Fire Prevention Code Amendments
4-1-8: Residential Code Amendments
4-1-9: NFPA 101, Life Safety Code Amendments
4-1-1: CODES ADOPTED:
The following nationally recognized codes, together with all future supplements
and amendments which may from time to time be sanctioned by the body or board
which approves and publishes same, are hereby adopted as ordinances of the
city:
   A.   International building code 2009;
   B.   International plumbing code 2009;
   C.   International mechanical code 2009; (Ord. 762, 6-8-2009)
   D.   National electrical code 2008; (Ord. 762, 6-8-2009; amd. Ord. 830, 7-
14-2014)
   E.   International property maintenance code 2009;
   F.   International fire prevention code 2009;
   G.   International residential code 2009; and
   H.   NFPA 101, life safety code 2009. (Ord. 762, 6-8-2009)
4-1-2: BUILDING CODE AMENDMENTS:
The following insertions, amendments and additions are hereby made to the
international building code 2009, and such insertions, amendments, and
additions together with the text of said code (as so amended) shall constitute
the form of said code as shall apply in the city:
   A.   The following insertions and amendments are made to the international
building code 2009:
Section 101.1: Insert:
"The city of Marquette Heights, Illinois".
Section 109.2: Insert:
   Section 109.2: Insert:
Fee Schedule for Permits and Hearings
Fee Schedule for Permits and Hearings
Adopted by the City of Marquette     
Heights Council on January 27, 2020
Residential District Permits
Single-Family Building              $300.00 + $10.00 for each additional
                                    $1000.00 or fraction thereof
Two-Family Building                 $400.00 + $10.00 for each additional
                                    $1000.00 or fraction thereof
                                    $400.00 (+ $100.00 each additional unit)
Multi-Family Building               + $10.00 for each additional $1000.00 or
                                    fraction thereof
Garage and Building Additions        
Less than 400 square feet           $100.00 + $10.00 for each additional
                                    $1000.00 or fraction thereof
400 square feet and larger          $200.00 + $10.00 for each additional
                                    $1000.00 or fraction thereof
Commercial District Permits
New Building Construction           $3.50 per $1000.00 or fraction thereof
Accessory Structures and Building   $3.50 per $1000.00 or fraction thereof
Additions
Non-Profit Construction             $300.00
Miscellaneous Permits
Residential Sheds
Swimming Pools deeper than 2 feet   $50.00 + $10.00 for each additional
(excluding hot tubs)                $1000.00 or fraction thereof
Fences, Decks, Etc.                 Swimming pools less than 2 feet $25.00
Misc. (Driveway, Concrete, etc.)    Driveway requires $100.00 Curb Cut Bond
Demolition
Public Hearing Fee
Variance(s)
Special Use                         $250.00
Re-Zoning
 
If a permit is not obtained prior to the start of a project, ALL permit fees
are doubled.
Section 113: "Board Of Appeals" is deleted in its entirety.
Section 114.4 is deleted and the following shall apply in lieu thereof:
"Violation Penalties: Any person who shall violate a provision of this code or
shall fail to comply with any of the requirements hereof or who shall erect,
construct, alter or repair a building or structure in violation of an approved
plan or directive of the code official, or of a permit or certificate issued
under the provisions of this code shall be guilty of a violation of this code,
which such violation shall be punishable by a fine in an amount not less than
$50.00 nor more than $500.00. Each day that a violation of this code exists or
continues to exist shall be deemed a separate offense".
Section 115.3 is deleted and the following shall apply in lieu thereof:
Any person who shall continue any work after having been served with a stop
work order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to remove a
violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable to a fine of not less than
$50.00 nor more than $500.00.
Section 3412.2: Insert:
"as of the date on which the city first adopted a building code."
   B.   The following regulations shall apply in addition to those found in the
international building code 2009:
      1.   Duration Of Permits: Except as may be specifically otherwise
provided in this or any order code adopted by the city, all construction or
other work to be performed pursuant to any permit issued shall be completed
within one year from the date such permit is issued.
      2.   Completion Of Exterior Work: Except as provided in section 105.3.2,
any permit issued pursuant to this code for new building construction, existing
building reconstruction or expansion, shall require that the work be completed
within six (6) months after the date of the permit. Any failure to comply with
said condition shall constitute a violation of this code.
      3.   Nonpermitted Repairs And Maintenance, Completion Of Work: Any repair
or maintenance for which a permit is not required, such as new roof shingles,
new siding, new windows or the like, shall be completed within three (3) months
after the repairs are commenced.
(Ord. 762, 6-8-2009; Ord. 830, 7-14-2014; Ord. 906, 1-7-2020; Ord. 948, 1-8-
2024)
4-1-3: PLUMBING CODE AMENDMENTS:
The following nationally recognized codes, together with all future supplements
and amendments which may from time to time be sanctioned by the body or board
which approves and publishes same, are hereby adopted as ordinances of the
City:
No permit is required at this time. Please note - construction must conform to
the National Plumbing Code, as per the 2009 National Building code.
(Ord. 762, 6-8-2009; Ord. 830, 7-14-2014; Ord. 906, 1-7-2020)
4-1-4: MECHANICAL CODE AMENDMENTS:
The following nationally recognized codes, together with all future supplements
and amendments which may from time to time be sanctioned by the body or board
which approves and publishes same, are hereby adopted as ordinances of the
City:
No permit is required at this time. Please note - construction must conform to
the National Mechanical Code, as per the 2009 National Building code.
(Ord. 762, 6-8-2009; Ord. 830, 7-14-2014)
4-1-5: ELECTRICAL CODE AMENDMENTS:
The following regulations shall apply in addition to those found in the
national electrical code 2008:
   A.   Violation Penalties: Any person who shall violate a provision of this
code or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who shall
erect, construct, alter or repair a building or structure in violation of an
approved plan or directive of the code official shall be guilty of a violation
of this code, which such violation shall be punishable by a fine in an amount
not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00). Each day that a violation of this code exists or continues to exist
shall be deemed a separate offense.
   B.   Unlawful Continuance: Any person who shall continue any electrical work
in or about a structure after having been served with a stop work order, except
such work as that person is directed to perform or remove a violation or unsafe
conditions, shall be liable to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00)
nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). Each day that a violation of the
national electrical code 2008 exists or continues to exist shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   C.   Amendments: The following insertions and amendments are made to the
national electrical code 2008:
Section 101.1: Insert:
      Residential: $50.00 plus $10.00 for each additional $1000.00 or fraction
thereof.
      Commercial: $400.00 plus $10.00 for each additional $1000.00 or fraction
thereof.
      If a permit is not obtained prior to the start of a project, ALL permit
fees are doubled.
   D.   Minimum Wire Size: All wire intended to carry electricity at 110/120 or
220/240 volts in any circuit installed in conjunction with any construction or
modification, whether new construction, repair, replacement or upgrade shall be
12 AWG (American wire gauge) or larger. All references in the code which
purport to allow the use of any wire smaller than 12 AWG in any circuit
intended to carry electricity at 110/120 or 220/240 volts shall be construed as
a reference to 12 AWG.
   E.   Licensing: It shall be unlawful for any person to perform electrical
work within the city of Marquette Heights except under the following
circumstances:
      1.   The person is the owner of the property where the work is being
performed,
      2.   The person possesses and provides to the building inspector or
electrical inspector a current valid electrician's license issued by either the
city of Pekin, Illinois, or the city of Peoria, Illinois, or
      3.   The person has obtained a waiver from the mayor. The mayor may issue
waivers to any person or contractor that possesses and provides to the building
inspector or electrical inspector a current valid electrician's license issued
by a governmental unit located within the state of Illinois. (Ord. 762, 6-8-
2009; Ord. 830, 7-14-2014; Ord. 906, 1-27-2020)
4-1-6: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE AMENDMENTS:
The following insertions and amendments are hereby made to the property
maintenance code 2009, and such insertions and amendments together with the
text of said code (as so amended) shall constitute the form of said code as
shall apply in the city:
Section PM-101.1: Insert:
"The city of Marquette Heights, Illinois".
Section PM-106.2 is hereby deleted and the following shall apply in lieu
thereof:
Violation/Penalties: Any person who shall violate a provision of this code or
shall fail to comply with any of the requirements hereof or shall erect,
construct, alter or repair a building or structure in violation of an approved
plan or directive of the code official, or of a permit or certificate issued
under the provisions of this code shall be guilty of a violation of this code,
which such violation shall be punishable by a fine in an amount not less than
$50.00 nor more than $500.00. Each day that a violation of this code exists or
continues to exist shall be deemed a separate offense.
Section PM-111.0 entitled "Means Of Appeal" is hereby deleted in its entirety.
Any person affected by a decision of the code official or a notice of order
issued under said code shall have the right to appeal to the city council of
the city provided that a written application for appeal is filed within twenty
(20) days after the day the decision, notice or order was served. An
application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true intent of the
said code or the rules legally adopted thereunder have been incorrectly
interpreted, the provisions of the said code do not fully apply or the
requirements of the said code are adequately satisfied by other means. All
reference in said code to the "board of appeals" shall be deemed as a reference
to the city council. In responding to an appeal, the city council may in its
discretion seek such professional assistance as it deems necessary to make an
appropriate decision.
(Ord. 762, 6-8-2009)
4-1-7: FIRE PREVENTION CODE AMENDMENTS:
The following insertions, amendments and additions are hereby made to the
international fire prevention code 2009 and such insertions, amendments and
additions together with the text of said code (as so amended) shall constitute
the form of the said code as shall apply in the city:
   A.   The following insertions and amendments are made to the international
fire prevention code 2009:
Section 101.1: Insert:
"The city of Marquette Heights, Illinois".
Section 109.3 is deleted and the following shall apply in lieu thereof:
Violation Penalties: Any person who shall violate a provision of this code or
shall fail to comply with any of the requirements hereof or who shall erect,
construct, alter or repair a building or structure in violation of an approved
plan or directive of the code official, or of a permit or certificate issued
under the provisions of this code shall be guilty of a violation of this code,
which such violation shall be punishable by a fine in an amount not less than
$50.00 nor more than $500.00. Each day that a violation of this code exists or
continues to exist shall be deemed a separate offense.
Section F-113.0: "Means Of Appeal" is deleted in its entirety.
Table 1056.20: Insert "No" on each line in the column headed "Permit Required".
   B.   The following regulations shall apply in addition to those found in the
international fire prevention code 2009:
      1.   Appeals: Any person affected by a decision of the code official or a
notice of order issued under said code shall have the right to appeal to the
city council of the city provided that a written application for appeal is
filed within twenty (20) days after the day the decision, notice or order was
served. An application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true
intent of the said code or the rules legally adopted thereunder have been
incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of the said code do not fully apply or
the requirements of the said code are adequately satisfied by other means. All
reference in said code to the "board of appeals" shall be deemed as a reference
to the city council. In responding to an appeal, the city council may in its
discretion seek such professional assistance as it deems necessary to make an
appropriate decision.
      2.   Storage Of Explosive Materials: The limitation on the storage of
explosive materials as set forth at section F-3003.2 of the international fire
prevention code 2009 shall apply everywhere within the entire corporate limits
of the city of Marquette Heights, Illinois. (Ord. 762, 6-8-2009)
4-1-8: RESIDENTIAL CODE AMENDMENTS:
The following insertions, amendments and additions are hereby made to the
international residential code 2009 and such insertions, amendments and
additions together with the text of said code (as so amended) shall constitute
the form of the said code as shall apply in the city:
   A.   The following insertions and amendments are made to the international
residential code 2009:
Section R101.1: Insert:
"The city of Marquette Heights, Illinois".
(Ord. 762, 6-8-2009)
Section R105.2, #3 is hereby deleted:
      3.   Retaining walls that are not over 4 feet (1219 mm) in height
measured from the bottom of the footing to the top of the wall, unless
supporting a surcharge.
(Ord. 782, 9-13-2010)
Section R112: "Right Of Appeal" is deleted in its entirety.
Section R113.4 is hereby deleted and the following shall apply in lieu thereof:
"Violation Penalties: Any person who shall violate a provision of this code or
shall fail to comply with any of the requirements hereof or who shall erect,
construct, alter or repair a building or structure in violation of an approved
plan or directive of the code official, or of a permit or certificate issued
under the provisions of this code shall be guilty of a violation of this code,
which such violation shall be punishable by a fine in an amount not less than
$50.00 nor more than $500.00. Each day that a violation of this code exists or
continues to exist shall be deemed a separate offense".
   B.   The following regulations shall apply in addition to those found in the
international residential code 2009:
      1.   Appeals: Any person affected by a decision of the code official or a
notice of order issued under said code shall have the right to appeal to the
city council of the city provided that a written application for appeal is
filed within twenty (20) days after the day the decision, notice or order was
served. An application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true
intent of the said code or the rules legally adopted thereunder have been
incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of the said code do not fully apply or
the requirements of the said code are adequately satisfied by other means. All
reference in said code to the "board of appeals" shall be deemed as a reference
to the city council. In responding to an appeal, the city council may in its
discretion seek such professional assistance as it deems necessary to make an
appropriate decision. (Ord. 762, 6-8-2009)
4-1-9: NFPA 101, LIFE SAFETY CODE AMENDMENTS:
The following insertions, amendments, and additions are hereby made to the NFPA
101, life safety code 2009 and such insertions, amendments and additions
together with the text of said code (as so amended) shall constitute the form
of the said code as shall apply in the city:
   A.   The following amendments are made to the NFPA 101, life safety code
2009:
Section 24.3.5.1 is hereby deleted.
(Ord. 762, 6-8-2009)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE CODE
(Rep. by Ord. 358, 2-8-1988)
CHAPTER 3
ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY DWELLING CODE
(Rep. by Ord. 358, 2-8-1988)
CHAPTER 4
SATELLITE DISHES
SECTION:
4-4-1: Construction Requirements
4-4-2: Number Of Antennas
4-4-3: Permit
4-4-1: CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
A large satellite dish may be permitted as an accessory use.
   A.   Definition: "Large satellite dish" is any satellite dish that exceeds
one meter (1 m) (39.37 inches) in diameter, as measured edge to edge at the
widest point.
   B.   Large Satellite Dish:
      1.   Height: Maximum height from ground shall not exceed fourteen feet
(14'), as measured to the highest point of the satellite dish.
      2.   Setback: Setback, including the concrete slab base or other
structure shall not be constructed to reach closer to the front of the property
line than five feet (5') back from the front of the structural line of the
front most building nor closer than five feet (5') from the side and rear lot
lines.
      3.   Wiring: All wiring between the satellite dish and the receiver shall
be placed underground according to the local building codes and ordinances.
      4.   Prohibition: Residential structures shall not mount a large
satellite dish to the roof of the residence. (Ord. 699, 9-12-2005)
4-4-2: NUMBER OF ANTENNAS:
The number of large satellite dish antennas shall not exceed one on any
property zoned residential within the city. (Ord. 699, 9-12-2005)
4-4-3: PERMIT:
It shall be unlawful to install a large satellite dish in the city without
first securing a permit. (Ord. 699, 9-12-2005)
CHAPTER 5
SOLAR UNITS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Construction And Installation
4-5-2: Permit
4-5-1: CONSTRUCTION AND INSTALLATION:
A solar unit shall be considered an accessory use, now therefore:
Construction and installation must comply with applicable local building codes,
ordinances and manufacturer's specifications. (Ord. 318, 3-25-1985)
4-5-2: PERMIT:
It shall be unlawful to install a solar unit in the city without first securing
a permit therefor. (Ord. 318, 3-25-1985)
CHAPTER 6
FENCES, WALLS, AND ANIMAL RUNS
SECTION:
4-6-1: Definitions
4-6-2: Compliance Required
4-6-3: Prohibited Fences
4-6-4: Permit Required
4-6-5: General Construction Requirements; All Districts
4-6-6: Design, Location And Height Requirements; Residential Districts
4-6-7: Design, Location And Height Requirements; Commercial Districts
4-6-8: Design, Location And Height Requirements; Industrial Districts
4-6-9: Fences For Specific Uses
4-6-10: Gates
4-6-11: Variance
4-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
ANIMAL RUN: Any confined area without a roof not a regular part of any other
structure on the same premises (but which may be attached thereto), designed,
maintained for domesticated pets or animals.
BUILDING LINE: That line created by the front or side of any building, as the
case may be, as extended to the property line of the property on which building
is located.
BUILDING SETBACK LINE: Shall have the same meaning as set forth in section
6-2-2 of this code (subdivision regulations).
COMMERCIAL DISTRICT: Those areas in the city of Marquette Heights designated as
"business and commercial districts" in title 5, "Zoning Regulations", of this
code.
EXTERIOR STORAGE: The storage or leaving of any goods, merchandise, inventory
or raw material intended for sale, outside of the confines of any building
located on the subject premises, for any consecutive period of twenty four (24)
hours or more.
FENCE: Permanent, living or nonliving structure forming a barrier which is not
otherwise a part of any building or structure and used to delineate a boundary
line, as a means of confinement, or for the purpose of privacy. A hedge of any
natural or planted flora used for any of the foregoing purposes shall be
considered to be a fence for the purpose of this chapter.
HEIGHT OF A FENCE: The height as measured from the existing grade level of the
property on which the fence is installed to the highest point located on the
fence.
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT: Those areas in the city of Marquette Heights designated as
"industrial districts" in title 5, "Zoning Regulations", of this code.
OPEN FENCE: A fence including gates, with open spaces which afford direct views
through the fence comprising at least fifty percent (50%) of each one foot (1')
wide segment extending over the entire length and height of the fence.
PERIMETER FENCE: A fence which, to the extent permitted by this code, runs
generally parallel to and in close proximity to the lot lines of any given lot
or tract of land.
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT: Those areas in the city of Marquette Heights designated
as "single-family dwelling districts" in title 5, "Zoning Regulations", of this
code.
SCREENING FENCE: A solid fence which totally obscures vision from one side to
the other, including any gate or entryway thereon or which is a part thereof.
WALL: A masonry or wood structure, two feet (2') or higher, constructed to
retain soil between two (2) differing elevations at any location on a
residential or commercial property. (Ord. 367, 7-11-1988; amd. Ord. 781, 9-13-
2010)
4-6-2: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or cause to be erected a fence on
any property within the city except as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 367, 7-
11-1988)
4-6-3: PROHIBITED FENCES:
   A.   No dangerous or hazardous type fence such as barbed wire, electrical
fences, fences with spikes, broken glass or other sharp points or materials
imbedded in them or any other type fence likely to result in injuries to
persons climbing on or over such fence shall be permitted to be erected or
maintained within the city.
   B.   Also, no fence that is leaning in such a manner that an angle of
fifteen degrees (15°) or more is produced when measured from the vertical shall
be permitted to be maintained within the city. (Ord. 367, 7-11-1988)
4-6-4: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall erect a fence, wall, or animal run in the city without
first having received a permit from the building inspector.
   B.   Applications for a permit shall be submitted to the building inspector
on forms provided by the building inspector. An application for a permit shall
be accompanied by: 1) a sketch of the proposed project indicating the design,
the material to be used and the dimensions of the proposed fence, wall, or
animal run, and 2) a sketch or diagram drawn substantially to scale of the lot
on which the proposed project is to be located showing the location of the
proposed fence, wall, or animal run and all other structures on the property
whereon the fence, wall, or animal run is to be located. (Ord. 781, 9-13-2010)
4-6-5: GENERAL CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS; ALL DISTRICTS:
   A.   Fences:
      1.   Any and every fence to be erected in the city shall be designed and
constructed to resist and withstand a wind pressure of not less than twenty
(20) pounds per square foot of the gross proposed area of the fence less any
openings, from any angle of approach.
      2.   All fence posts used in the construction of a fence must be buried
in the ground to a depth of at least one-third (1/3) of the total length of
said fence post.
      3.   All fence posts or anchors of wood or other organic material shall
be treated with a chemical treatment to protect them from deteriorating when
they are placed in the ground.
      4.   Alterations to the existing grade level preceding the construction
of a fence for the purpose of altering the height of the fence shall not be
permitted.
      5.   All fences shall be maintained in good and sound condition and shall
not create a harborage for rodents.
      6.   If a fence is to be painted, it shall be painted with nonlead base
paint.
      7.   No fence shall be constructed in such a manner as to impede or alter
the natural surface water drainage of the property upon which the fence is
constructed or any adjoining property.
      8.   A perimeter fence, if it is an open fence shall not exceed five feet
(5') in height and if it is a screening fence, shall not exceed six feet (6')
in height.
      9.   On all screening fences, fence posts and other bracing members shall
be so situated as to face the interior of the property fenced in. This
requirement shall not apply to a basket weave or other type of fence where
approximately one- half (1/2) of the screening material is located on either
side of the fence posts and other bracing members.
   B.   Retaining Walls:
      1.   All retaining walls hereafter erected shall conform to section
1807.2 or section 2304.11.7 of the international building code.
(See R404.4 of international residential code.)
   C.   Animal Runs: See subsection 4-6-9B of this chapter. (Ord. 781, 9-13-
2010)
4-6-6: DESIGN, LOCATION AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS; RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
   A.   Except as provided in subsections B and C of this section, no fence
shall be constructed in a front yard past the front building line.
   B.   In all residential districts, a wood type split rail open face or
peeled log split rail open face may be erected on the premises anywhere within
six inches (6") of the property lines of the property on which the fence is to
be erected including the front yard past the building line and the front side
yards past the building lines in the case of corner lots. The height of such
fences shall not exceed four feet (4').
   C.   No screening fence shall be constructed closer to the front property
line than five feet (5') back from the front building line of the main
residential building.
   D.   Except as provided in subsections B and C of this section, in the case
of corner lots, no fence shall be erected beyond the building lines of those
sides of the building which face the two (2) streets forming the corner lot.
   E.   Except as limited by subsections B, C, and D of this section, perimeter
fences may be erected in the side and rear yard in back of the front building
line. (Ord. 367, 7-11-1988)
4-6-7: DESIGN, LOCATION AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS; COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS:
   A.   Exterior storage of any goods, merchandise, inventory or raw material
at or on any property located in a commercial district is not prohibited.
However, any goods which are the subject of such exterior storage shall be kept
or stored within the interior confines of a screening fence.
Exceptions: Sales of promotional items of a seasonal nature (i.e., lawn and
garden equipment, snowblowers and related merchandise, Christmas trees, etc.)
so long as the extended period does not exceed eight (8) consecutive months and
sales promotional items unrelated to any seasonal consideration not exceeding
sixty (60) days shall not be subject to the confines of a screening fence.
However, all items either seasonal or sales promotional that are not subject to
the screening fence requirement shall not be placed, kept, or displayed any
closer than thirty feet (30') from the front property line (both sides if on a
corner).
   B.   Any "garbage can" (as defined in section
8-3-1 of this code) kept on any premises in a commercial district shall at all
times, except as necessary for garbage collection, be kept within the interior
confines of a screening fence of not less than five feet (5') nor more than six
feet (6') in height.
   C.   Where property in a commercial district abuts by actual contiguity any
property situated in a residential district, a screening fence shall be erected
on those sides adjoining property situated in a residential district.
   D.   When required, screening fences in commercial districts shall be not
less than five feet (5') in height, nor more than six feet (6') in height, when
erected behind the building setback lines on the side and/or rear yards.
   E.   When required, screening fences in commercial districts extend beyond
the building setback lines. No screening fence may reach any closer than thirty
feet (30') from the front property line (both sides if on a corner).
   F.   Any screening fences in commercial districts extending beyond the
building setback lines shall be not less than three feet (3') in height nor
more than four feet (4') in height.
   G.   Screening fences in commercial districts are permitted across frontal
property lines so long as the setback requirements are adhered to as set forth
in subsection E of this section, and the height requirements are adhered to as
set forth in subsection F of this section. (Ord. 367, 7-11-1988)
4-6-8: DESIGN, LOCATION AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS; INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS:
   A.   The exterior storage of any goods, merchandise, inventory or raw
materials at or on any property located in an industrial district is not
prohibited. However, any goods which are the subject of such exterior storage
shall be kept or stored within the interior confines of a screening fence of
not less than six feet (6') nor more than eight feet (8') in height.
   B.   Any "garbage can" (as defined in section
8-3-1 of this code) kept on any premises in an industrial district shall at all
times, except as necessary for garbage collection, be kept within the interior
confines of a screening fence of not less than six feet (6') nor more than
eight feet (8') in height.
   C.   Where property in industrial districts abuts by actual contiguity or
fronts on any property situated in a residential district, a screening fence
shall be erected on those sides adjoining or fronting on the property situated
in a residential district. Such a fence shall be located within six inches (6")
of the property line that abuts the residential property. Such screening fence
shall be not less than six feet (6') in height nor more than eight feet (8') in
height in an industrial district. (Ord. 367, 7-11-1988)
4-6-9: FENCES FOR SPECIFIC USES:
   A.   Swimming Pools: Swimming pools shall be enclosed with a fence and gate
together with all other enclosure requirements as set forth in section
4-11-2 of this title. (Ord. 367, 7-11-1988; amd. Ord. 727, 8-13-2007)
   B.   Animal Runs: Animal runs shall not be larger than one hundred (100)
square feet in size and shall be enclosed by a fence not less than four feet
(4') nor more than six feet (6') in height. All animal runs shall be
constructed behind the rear building line of the main structure on the premises
and no animal run shall be located closer than five feet (5') to the property
line of any given tract of land. (Ord. 367, 7-11-1988)
   C.   Other Code Requirements: Nothing herein contained shall be construed as
superseding or lessening the requirements of title 10, chapter 7 of this code
regulating the keeping and confinement of certain animals and of title 10,
chapter 5 of this code regulating the keeping of multiple pets at any given
premises. (Ord. 378, 12-12-1988)
4-6-10: GATES:
No gate on any fence shall be left open so as to obstruct or impede the free
flow of pedestrian or vehicular traffic on any sidewalk, street, alley or other
public way in the city. (Ord. 367, 7-11-1988)
4-6-11: VARIANCE:
Whenever, in specific circumstances due to exceptional or special conditions
which apply to any particular premises, lot or track of land, whereat the
strict application of the regulations of this chapter would result in practical
difficulties or the imposition of a particular hardship on the property owner,
a variance may be granted subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth.
   A.   Application for a variance shall be made to the zoning board, which
shall grant or deny the variance request within thirty (30) days from the
submission of the request and if the zoning board does not take any action
thereon within thirty (30) days the request shall be deemed denied.
   B.   The denial of a variance by the zoning board may be appealed to the
city council which may, by a majority vote, grant the variance.
   C.   A variance may be granted only when the following conditions exist:
      1.   That special conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar
to the land or structure involved which are not applicable to other lands or
structures in the same zoning district;
      2.   That literal interpretation of the provisions of this chapter would
deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other lands or structures
in the same zoning district under the terms of this chapter;
      3.   That the special conditions and circumstances do not result from the
actions of the applicant;
      4.   That the granting of the variance requested will not confer on the
applicant any special privilege that is denied by the chapter to other lands or
structures in the same zoning district;
      5.   That the reasons set forth in the application justify the granting
of the variance and that the variance is the minimum variance that will make
possible the reasonable use of the property;
      6.   That congestion in public streets will not be increased unreasonably
or that the property will be relieved of unreasonable parking requirements;
      7.   That the values or character of property within the surrounding area
will not be diminished or impaired thereby, nor nearby property adversely
affected; and
      8.   That in all other respects the public health, safety, comfort,
morals and welfare will not be impaired. (Ord. 367, 7-11-1988)
CHAPTER 7
DRIVEWAYS AND PARKING LOTS
SECTION:
4-7-1: Definitions
4-7-2: Compliance Required
4-7-3: Minimum Standards, Residential District
4-7-4: Minimum Standards, Commercial District
4-7-5: Minimum Standards, Parking Lots
4-7-6: Existing Driveways And Parking Lots (All Districts)
4-7-7: Permit Requirements
4-7-8: Variance
4-7-9: Inspections
4-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
AUTHORIZED CITY OFFICIAL: The city building inspector, or if the building
inspector is unavailable, the street superintendent or any member of the city
council.
BUILDING SETBACK LINE: Shall have the same meaning as set forth in section
6-2-2 of this code (subdivision regulations).
COMMERCIAL DISTRICT: Those districts designated as "business and commercial
districts" in title 5, "Zoning Regulations", of this code.
DRIVEWAY: That portion of a residential property used for vehicular access to a
garage or carport, or for the purpose of off street parking.
PARKING LOT: Any portion of commercial property regularly used for vehicular
access or off street parking.
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT: Those areas in the city of Marquette Heights designated
as "single-family dwelling districts" in title 5, "Zoning Regulations", of this
code.
SECOND DRIVEWAY: Any approach or passageway regularly used to gain access to
any residential property other than an existing (prior to the effective date of
this chapter) driveway or other driveway which meets the minimum requirements
of this code, and which does not abut any other driveway on the premises.
SITE PREPARATIONS: In the case of a driveway or parking lot to be constructed
of poured concrete, site preparations include all preparations of the site
where the driveway or parking lot is to be located, which preparations must be
completed prior to pouring the concrete, including, without limitation, all
necessary excavating, grading, forming and the placement of reinforcement
materials and expansion joints. In the case of a driveway or parking lot to be
constructed with bituminous concrete placed over a compacted crushed rock base,
site preparations include all steps precedent to the placement of the
bituminous concrete at the site, including excavation, grading and the
placement and compaction of the crushed rock base. (Ord. 365, 6-27-1988; amd.
Ord. 555, 5-24-1999)
4-7-2: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
From and after the effective date of this chapter, all new driveways and
parking lots constructed in the city shall be in accordance with the minimum
standard as set forth herein; and any and all repairs and/or maintenance to
existing driveways and/or parking lots shall be in accordance with the
standards for repairs and maintenance as set forth herein. (Ord. 365, 6-27-
1988)
4-7-3: MINIMUM STANDARDS, RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Width: The minimum width of a driveway with or without a garage or
carport and regardless of its length shall be ten feet (10'). Each additional
straight-in approach stall shall require a minimum additional eight feet (8')
of width.
   B.   Length: The minimum length of a driveway shall be the distance between
the curb line abutting said property and the minimum building setback line for
said property. (Ord. 365, 6-27-1988)
   C.   Materials: All newly constructed driveways on new or existing
residential properties shall, at least from the curb line to the property line,
be of concrete composition with a thickness of at least six inches (6") and one
inch (1") of compacted granular material. No wire or other reinforcing material
shall be allowed in sidewalks or apron/approach areas. All newly constructed
driveways on new or existing residential properties shall, at least from the
property line, be with concrete composition with a thickness of at least four
inches (4") and one inch (1") of compacted granular material or bituminous
concrete composition of at least one inch (1") thick with a combined compacted
crushed rock base and bituminous concrete thickness of six inches (6") total.
(Ord. 691, 5-9-2005)
   D.   Approach: All driveways shall terminate at the curb line of the street
and shall include a flared section at the curb line which shall increase the
width of the driveway a minimum of two feet (2') on each side thereof. Said
flared section shall terminate not less than four feet (4') back from the curb
line. (Ord. 365, 6-27-1988)
   E.   Curb Cuts: When curb cuts are not already available, the existing curb
and gutter shall be removed to a width of at least two feet (2') beyond the
flared portion of the driveway on each side thereof, and replaced with a new
concrete depressed curb configuration.
      1.   If the curb is being replaced, the gutter flag must be formed to
meet existing dimensions. The remaining area of street must be replaced with
bituminous concrete (asphalt); or
      2.   If removal of curb is not the desired option, and the existing curb
is not deteriorating, the curb shall be commercially cut so as to be of the
same dimensions as if it were replaced. This must be inspected by the street
department before cutting to determine soundness of the existing curb.
      3.   A curb cut bond of one hundred dollars ($100.00) shall be posted
with the city clerk until final inspection is completed by the public works
department. (Ord. 691, 5-9-2005)
   F.   Public Sidewalks: All portions of a public sidewalk which pass through
any driveway area shall be of concrete construction and in accordance with
section
6-4-2-2 of this code. (Ord. 365, 6-27-1988)
4-7-4: MINIMUM STANDARDS, COMMERCIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Width: The minimum width of a driveway shall be twenty feet (20') and
the maximum width shall be thirty feet (30').
   B.   Length: The minimum length of a driveway shall be the distance between
the curb line abutting said property and the minimum building setback line for
said property or to the beginning of a parking lot.
   C.   Materials: All newly constructed driveways on new or existing
commercial properties shall be of either concrete composition with a thickness
of at least five inches (5") or bituminous concrete composition of at least one
inch (1") thick over a minimum of five inches (5") of compacted crushed rock
base.
   D.   Approach: All driveways shall terminate at the curb line of the street
and shall include a flared section at the curb line which shall increase the
width of the driveway a minimum of two feet (2') on each side thereof. Said
flared section shall terminate not less than four feet (4') back from the curb
line.
   E.   Curb Cuts: When curb cuts are not already available, the existing curb
and gutter shall be removed to a width of at least two feet (2') beyond the
flared portion of the driveway on each side thereof, and replaced with a new
concrete depressed curb (and gutter) with transitions to meet the existing curb
configuration, and said new curb (and gutter) shall not be monolithic with the
driveway.
   F.   Public Sidewalks: All portions of a public sidewalk which pass through
any driveway area shall be of concrete construction and in accordance with
section
6-4-2-2 of this code. (Ord. 365, 6-27-1988)
4-7-5: MINIMUM STANDARDS, PARKING LOTS:
In addition to the area requirements as set forth in section
5-5-3 of this code, all newly constructed parking lots shall be of either
concrete composition with a thickness of at least five inches (5") or
bituminous concrete construction of at least one inch (1") thick over a minimum
of five inches (5") of crushed rock base. (Ord. 365, 6-27-1988)
4-7-6: EXISTING DRIVEWAYS AND PARKING LOTS (ALL DISTRICTS):
   A.   All existing concrete, bituminous concrete or asphalt driveways and
parking lots may be repaired, resurfaced or reconstructed of concrete,
bituminous concrete or asphalt only.
   B.   Existing brick, crushed rock or gravel driveways in residential
districts may be repaired or maintained with brick, crushed rock or gravel so
long as that portion being repaired or maintained is within the minimum areas
required for driveways and/or parking lots as described herein and the repair
or maintenance does not increase or enlarge the area.
   C.   Existing driveways and parking lots may be enlarged with concrete or
bituminous concrete composition only in accordance with the minimum standards
set forth in this code.
   D.   All driveways, parking lots and similar paved areas shall be kept in a
state of safe and useable repair and maintained free of hazardous conditions.
If any driveway, parking lot or portion thereof, by virtue of its state of
disrepair, shall constitute a danger to public health and safety, the driveway,
parking lot or portion thereof shall be replaced in accordance with the minimum
standards set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 365, 6-27-1988)
4-7-7: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Any driveway or parking lot constructed as a part of any building or
construction project for which a building permit is required by chapter 1 of
this title, shall not require a separate permit for the construction thereof,
and the building permit issued for such building or construction project shall
be deemed to include the driveway or parking lot which is a part of such
project.
   B.   The construction or replacement of any new driveway or parking lot, not
a part of a project for which a building permit has been issued, or the
replacement of any existing driveway or parking lot shall require the issuance
of a permit as required by subsection 4-1-1A of this title.
   C.   Ordinary maintenance and repair of any driveway or parking lot shall
not require the issuance of a permit so long as such maintenance or repair does
not increase or enlarge the area of such driveway or parking lot.
   D.   Any driveway or parking lot construction or repair involving removal
and/or replacement of any public sidewalk, curb or gutter shall require a
permit and the posting of a bond as provided in section 9-2-2 of this code.
(Ord. 365, 6-27-1988)
4-7-8: VARIANCE:
Whenever, in a specific circumstance due to exceptional or special conditions
which apply to any particular premises, lot or tract of land whereat the strict
application of the regulations of this chapter would result in practical
difficulties or the imposition of a particular hardship on the property owner,
a variance may be granted subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth.
   A.   Application for a variance shall be made to the zoning board, who shall
grant or deny the variance request within thirty (30) days from the submission
of the request and if the zoning board does not take any action thereon within
thirty (30) days the request shall be deemed denied.
   B.   The denial of a variance by the zoning board may be appealed to the
city council which may, by a majority vote, grant the variance.
   C.   A variance may be granted only when the following conditions exist:
      1.   Special conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar to the
land or structure involved which are not applicable to other lands or
structures in the same zoning district;
      2.   Literal interpretation of the provisions of this chapter would
deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other lands or structures
in the same zoning district under the terms of this chapter;
      3.   The special conditions and circumstances do not result from the
actions of the applicant;
      4.   The granting of the variance requested will not confer on the
applicant any special privilege that is denied by the chapter to other lands or
structures in the same zoning district;
      5.   The reasons set forth in the application justify the granting of the
variance and that the variance is the minimum variance that will make possible
the reasonable use of the property;
      6.   Congestion in public streets will not be increased unreasonably or
that the property will be relieved of unreasonable parking requirements;
      7.   The values or character of property within the surrounding area will
not be diminished or impaired thereby nor nearby property adversely affected;
and
      8.   In all other respects the public health, safety, comfort, morals,
and welfare will not be impaired.
   D.   Second driveways are prohibited on all residential properties, but some
may be allowed as a variance, subject to the foregoing conditions. (Ord. 365,
6-27-1988; amd. Ord. 436, 11-23-1992)
4-7-9: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Inspection Of Site Preparations: After the completion of site
preparations, but before concrete is poured or bituminous concrete is applied
in connection with any driveway or parking lot subject to the provisions of
this chapter, the city shall be notified that site preparations are complete.
Neither the property owner nor any person acting on behalf of the owner shall
pour concrete or apply bituminous concrete until an authorized city official
has inspected the site preparations.
   B.   Notice To City: Inspection of completed site preparations shall be
requested in writing in advance of the time when the owner expects concrete to
be poured or bituminous concrete to be applied.
   C.   Responsibility For Notice To City: The owner of the property being
improved and any person acting on behalf of the owner for the purpose of
constructing the driveway or parking lot shall be jointly responsible for
requesting an inspection.
   D.   Modification Of Site Preparations After Inspection: After an inspection
has been completed by an authorized city official, neither the owner nor any
person acting on behalf of the owner shall make any substantial modification to
the site preparations, including in particular, any modification which would
change the quality or quantity of materials used, without requesting an
additional inspection in accordance with the terms of this section.
   E.   Failure Of Site Preparations To Meet Specifications: In the event that
an authorized city official concludes that the site preparations will result in
an installation which is inconsistent with the requirements of this chapter,
corrections shall be made to the site preparations to ensure that the finished
installation will comply with this chapter. Neither the owner nor any person
acting on behalf of the owner shall pour concrete or apply bituminous concrete
without first obtaining an additional inspection of the modified site
preparations by an authorized city official in accordance with the procedures
set forth in this section.
   F.   Failure To Request Inspection: Should any owner or any person acting on
behalf of the owner pour concrete or apply bituminous concrete prior to
completion of the inspection required by this section, the owner and the
contractor shall have the joint and several responsibility to prove compliance
with the provisions of this chapter by providing core samples or other means as
deemed necessary by the city building inspector in consultation with the city
engineer all at the sole cost and expense of the owner.
   G.   Failure Of Improvements To Meet Specifications: Should any driveway or
parking lot subject to the provisions of this chapter fail to comply with the
specifications prescribed by this chapter, such improvements shall be
immediately replaced with improvements which comply with the specifications
prescribed by this chapter all at the sole cost and expense of the owner. The
obligation to remove and replace substandard improvements shall be specifically
enforceable by the city. (Ord. 555, 5-24-1999)
CHAPTER 8
UTILITY LINES ON PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY
SECTION:
4-8-1: Definitions
4-8-2: Applicability
4-8-3: Exception For Franchise Agreements
4-8-4: Permit Required
4-8-5: Application For Permit
4-8-6: Consideration Of Application
4-8-7: Compliance Required
4-8-8: Permit Fees
4-8-9: Adjustment Of Annual Compensation
4-8-10: Manner Of Installation
4-8-11: Continuing Liability
4-8-12: Indemnification
4-8-13: Waiver Of Claims Against City
4-8-14: Insurance
4-8-15: Emergency Response
4-8-16: Relocation Of Lines
4-8-17: Termination Of Authority
4-8-18: Removal Of Lines
4-8-19: Revocation Of Permit
4-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
In the construction of this chapter, the words and terms set forth in this
section shall have the following meanings unless the context or use clearly
indicates another or different meaning or intent:
CITY SERVICE LINE: Any water line, sanitary sewer line, storm sewer line or any
other wire, cable or pipe owned by the city.
DIRECTOR: The street superintendent of the city or his authorized agent or
subordinate.
FRANCHISE AGREEMENT: Any agreement by and between the city and any utility
company, which agreement defines the terms and conditions under which the
utility company is entitled to utilize right of way.
RIGHT OF WAY: Any and all streets, alleyways, easements or other interest in
real property located within the corporate limits of the city, which property
is owned by the city or dedicated to the public use or which is otherwise under
the jurisdiction or control of the city.
UTILITY COMPANY: Any person engaged in the business of providing telephone
service, electrical service, cable television service, natural gas, water,
sanitary sewer or storm sewers, but specifically excluding therefrom the city
of Marquette Heights.
UTILITY LINE: Any wire, cable, pipe or other material used to carry, convey,
transfer or transmit any signal, any form of energy or any substance of any
nature whatsoever but specifically excluding therefrom water lines, sanitary
sewer lines, storm sewer lines or any other wire, cable or pipe owned by the
city. (Ord. 547, 11-9-1998)
4-8-2: APPLICABILITY:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the regulations set forth in this
chapter shall apply to any utility company or other person who installs,
operates, or maintains a utility line on right of way. (Ord. 547, 11-9-1998)
4-8-3: EXCEPTION FOR FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS:
If the city has entered into a franchise agreement containing provisions which
conflict with the provisions of this chapter, then the provisions of the
franchise agreement shall govern, but only to the extent of such conflict.
(Ord. 547, 11-9-1998)
4-8-4: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person including, without limitation, any utility company, shall install a
utility line within the right of way without having first received a written
permit from the director. (Ord. 547, 11-9-1998)
4-8-5: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Any person wishing to install a utility line within the right of way or retain
an existing utility line after expiration of an existing permit or existing
authority shall first make application to the director on such form as may be
determined by the director. All applications shall set forth at least the
following information and include the following items:
   A.   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant.
   B.   The location or locations in the right of way where the applicant
proposes to install or retain utility lines. In connection therewith the
applicant shall append to the application scale drawings showing detail
satisfactory to the director, which drawings indicate the proposed location and
depth of the utility lines which the applicant wishes to install or retain.
   C.   A description of the nature and purpose of the utility lines which the
applicant wishes to install or retain.
   D.   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective measures
and devices that will be employed consistent with the Illinois "Manual On
Uniform Traffic Control Devices" to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic.
   E.   Evidence of insurance as required in this chapter.
   F.   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the city.
   G.   The signature of the applicant. (Ord. 547, 11-9-1998)
4-8-6: CONSIDERATION OF APPLICATION:
Upon receipt of a completed application to install a utility line, the director
shall determine whether or not the proposed utility line will interfere with
the operation, maintenance or extension of any city service line or with any
utility line already installed in the right of way. The director shall also
determine whether or not the installation operation or maintenance of any
proposed utility line will substantially interfere with the intended use of the
right of way or will increase the risk of injury to persons or property or will
significantly interfere with the ability of adjoining property owners to use
and enjoy their property. If in evaluating this application the director
requires professional assistance from either the city engineer or from any
other professional consultant, the director shall notify the applicant of his
need for such services. The applicant shall thereafter become responsible for
the payment of reasonable expenses incurred by the city in connection with the
employment of such engineer or other professional consultant. The director
shall not issue a permit authorizing the installation of the proposed utility
lines until all such fees have been paid in full. If, based upon the standards
in this section, the director determines that the proposed utility lines will
have no adverse impact and if the applicant first complies with all other
requirements imposed under the terms of this chapter or under the terms of any
franchise agreement to which the applicant is a party, then the director shall
issue a permit authorizing the installation of the proposed utility lines.
(Ord. 547, 11-9-1998)
4-8-7: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
As a condition to applying for, accepting and retaining a permit under the
provisions of this chapter, all persons owning a controlling utility line in
the right of way shall comply with the provisions of this chapter as it now
exists or may from time to time be hereinafter amended. (Ord. 547, 11-9-1998)
4-8-8: PERMIT FEES:
Unless the utility company enters into or has entered into a franchise
agreement calling for an alternate method of computing permit fees or unless
the utility company is a properly registered telecommunications provider under
title 3, chapter 7 of this code who generates and pays an infrastructure
maintenance fee due under said title 3, chapter 7 of this code, all persons
receiving permits shall pay fees computed as follows:
   A.   If the total length of the utility lines installed or to be installed
in the right of way is less than two hundred (200) linear feet, the applicant
shall prior to issuance of a permit pay a one time fee of one dollar seventy
five cents ($1.75) per linear foot of utility line to be installed in the right
of way.
   B.   If the total length of the utility lines installed or to be installed
in the right of way is two hundred (200) or more linear feet, then the
applicant shall pay an annual fee of seventy five cents ($0.75) per linear foot
of utility line installed in the right of way. The first such payment, prorated
to the end of the year thereof, shall be made prior to or upon issuance of a
permit. Subsequent annual payments shall be made by the owner or operator of
the utility line on January 2 of each calendar year thereafter. (Ord. 547, 11-
9-1998)
4-8-9: ADJUSTMENT OF ANNUAL COMPENSATION:
The rates of compensation specified in subsection 4-8-8B of this chapter shall
be adjusted in five (5) year intervals every fifth January 2 following issuance
of the permit. The adjustment shall be made by multiplying the then existing
permit fee times a percentage factor equal to the overall change in the
consumer price index during the five (5) years immediately preceding the
adjustment date. The consumer price index to be used shall be that published
for the Chicago metropolitan statistical area by the United States department
of labor. (Ord. 547, 11-9-1998)
4-8-10: MANNER OF INSTALLATION:
Utility lines shall be installed, maintained and repaired in such a manner that
they do not unreasonably interfere with any use of the right of way made by the
city or by the general public or with any city service line already in place.
Upon completion of any excavations, both the owner of the utility line and the
excavator, if different from the owner, shall leave the surface of the ground
in substantially the same condition as existed prior to such excavation. All
streets, sidewalks and other pavement disturbed during the installation of a
utility line shall be restored to a condition substantially the same as that
which existed prior to the disturbance. (Ord. 547, 11-9-1998)
4-8-11: CONTINUING LIABILITY:
In the event that authority to install or maintain utility lines in the right
of way is terminated or expires or in the event that the person who originally
installed the utility line transfers title, the original owner as well as any
subsequent title holders shall, nevertheless, remain liable to the city under
the provisions of this chapter until all utility lines located in the right of
way are removed and the right of way is restored as required in this chapter.
(Ord. 547, 11-9-1998)
4-8-12: INDEMNIFICATION:
The owner of any utility line located in the right of way shall indemnify and
save harmless the city and its officers, employees and agents from and against
any and all claims and liabilities of whatever nature arising from the
installation, operation, maintenance or repair of the utility lines installed
by or on behalf of the owner and shall save and keep harmless the city from any
and all damages, judgments, costs and expenses of every kind that may arise by
reason thereof including, without limitation, attorney fees and costs incurred
by the city. (Ord. 547, 11-9-1998)
4-8-13: WAIVER OF CLAIMS AGAINST CITY:
Any person who installs or has installed utility lines within the right of way
shall, as a condition to continuation of that person's authority to maintain
utility lines in the right of way, hold harmless and indemnify the city against
any and all damages and claims arising out of injury to the utility lines
installed, operated or maintained by such person. Such person shall as a
further and additional condition be taken to waive all claims against the city
howsoever arising for any and all damages direct or indirect resulting from
injury to such person's utility lines, which injury is caused in whole or in
part by the city, its officers, employees and agents. (Ord. 547, 11-9-1998)
4-8-14: INSURANCE:
Each utility company installing or maintaining any utility line in the right of
way shall, unless otherwise provided by franchise, license or other similar
agreement, secure and maintain the following liability insurance policies
showing the utility company as a named insured:
   A.   Commercial general liability insurance including premises operations,
explosion collapse and underground hazard coverages and products completed
operations coverage with limits not less than:
      1.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for bodily injury or death to
each person;
      2.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for property damage resulting
from any one accident; and
      3.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for all other types of
liability.
   B.   Automobile liability for owned, nonowned and hired vehicles with a
combined single limit of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for personal
injury and property damage for each accident.
   C.   Workers' compensation with statutory limits; and
   D.   Employers' liability insurance with limits of not less than one million
dollars ($1,000,000.00) per employee per accident.
The policies listed in subsections A and B of this section shall contain an
endorsement naming the city and its elected and appointed officers, officials,
agents and employees as additional insureds. Such endorsement shall provide
that the insurer may not cancel or decline to renew the policies until thirty
(30) days after receipt by the city of written notice of such cancellation or
nonrenewal addressed to the mayor of the city which notice is sent by
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested. The provision of
insurance as required by this section shall in no way limit any other
obligations imposed on the utility company under the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 547, 11-9-1998)
4-8-15: EMERGENCY RESPONSE:
Any person operating or maintaining utility lines in the right of way shall
either become a member of the joint utility locating information for excavators
system (JULIE) or, alternatively, provide the city on an annual basis in
writing a phone number where a representative of that person can be reached at
any time on any day of the year. All such persons shall respond to a request
for emergency location of utility lines within one hour after the request by
the city either through the JULIE system or through the phone number provided
to the city. In the event that the owner of the utility line fails to respond
to such an emergency request within one hour, the director is authorized and
directed to proceed with the repair without input from the owner. If at the
request of a utility company, the city delays commencing an emergency repair,
the utility company responsible for the delay shall pay to the city the cost of
the equipment, labor and loss of service or product resulting from the delay.
(Ord. 547, 11-9-1998)
4-8-16: RELOCATION OF LINES:
If the director determines that a utility line unreasonably interferes with the
operation, maintenance, repair or extension of any city service line, then upon
written request from the director, the owner of the utility line shall at the
expense of the owner relocate the utility line. (Ord. 547, 11-9-1998)
4-8-17: TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY:
The authority of all persons to maintain a utility line on right of way,
whether installed before or after the enactment of this chapter, shall expire
on October 26, 2013, or on the fifteenth anniversary of the permit authorizing
installation of the utility line, whichever is later. Upon termination of
authority to maintain a utility line in the right of way by expiration or
otherwise, the owner of the utility line shall, without cost or expense to the
city, remove the utility line and restore the right of way to a condition
substantially the same as existed prior to removal, all under the supervision
of the director. (Ord. 547, 11-9-1998)
4-8-18: REMOVAL OF LINES:
In the event that the owner of the utility line fails, neglects or refuses to
remove or relocate a utility line required to be removed or relocated under the
provisions of this chapter, the city may either perform the work and charge the
cost thereof to the owner or pursue any other remedies provided by law. (Ord.
547, 11-9-1998)
4-8-19: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
The authority of any utility company or other person to maintain a utility line
on the right of way may be revoked or terminated by the city if the owner fails
or neglects to comply with any provision of this chapter within thirty (30)
days following written notification from the director to the owner of the
utility line. (Ord. 547, 11-9-1998)
CHAPTER 9
TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWERS AND EQUIPMENT
SECTION:
4-9-1: Short Title
4-9-2: Purpose
4-9-3: Definitions
4-9-4: Collocation Requirements
4-9-5: Construction Requirements
4-9-6: Tower And Antenna Design Requirements
4-9-7: Setbacks
4-9-8: Height
4-9-9: Lighting
4-9-10: Signs And Advertising
4-9-11: Accessory Utility Buildings
4-9-12: Abandoned, Unused Or Portions Of Towers
4-9-13: Interference With Public Safety Telecommunications
4-9-14: Application Materials
4-9-15: Conflict And Severability
4-9-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWER AND EQUIPMENT CODE
OF THE CITY OF MARQUETTE HEIGHTS, ILLINOIS, and may be so cited and pleaded and
shall be referred to herein as this chapter. (Ord. 549, 12-14-1998)
4-9-2: PURPOSE:
The primary intent of this chapter is to regulate telecommunications towers and
equipment to be located within the city. Therefore, the purpose of this chapter
shall be to:
   A.   Comply with all federal and state regulations regarding the placement,
use, and maintenance of telecommunications towers and equipment.
   B.   Encourage the continued improvement of wireless telecommunications
service in the city.
   C.   Minimize, to the extent permitted by law, the proliferation of
unsightly towers and equipment throughout the city.
   D.   Promote both proper maintenance and renovation of telecommunications
equipment.
   E.   Encourage the use of collocation of telecommunications towers by
multiple providers so as to reduce the number of towers needed within the city.
   F.   Ensure that these regulations are compatible with the zoning
regulations.
   G.   Recognize the commercial communication requirements of all sectors of
the business and residential community. (Ord. 549, 12-14-1998)
4-9-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and terms, when used in this chapter, shall have the
following meanings unless the context clearly indicates that a different
meaning is intended:
ANTENNA: Any structure or device not exceeding fifteen feet (15') in height
which is used for the purpose of collecting or transmitting electromagnetic
waves, including, but not limited to, directional antennas, such as panels,
microwave dishes, and satellite dishes and omnidirectional antennas, such as
whip antennas.
COMMERCIAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICES: Licensed commercial wireless
telecommunication services, including cellular, personal communication services
(PCS), specialized mobilized radio (SMR), enhanced specialized mobilized radio
(ESMR), paging, and similar services that are marketed to the general public.
TOWER: Any ground or roof mounted pole, spire, antenna, structure, or
combination thereof taller than fifteen feet (15'), including supporting lines,
cables, wires, braces and masts, intended primarily for the purpose of mounting
an antenna, meteorological device, or similar apparatus above grade.
TOWER, MULTIUSER: A tower to which is attached the antennas of more than one
commercial wireless telecommunication service provider or governmental entity.
TOWER, SINGLE USER: A tower to which is attached only the antennas of a single
user, although the tower may be designed to accommodate the antennas of
multiple users as required in this chapter. (Ord. 549, 12-14-1998)
4-9-4: COLLOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
All commercial wireless telecommunication towers erected, constructed, or
located within the city shall comply with the following requirements:
   A.   A proposal for a new commercial wireless telecommunication service
tower shall not be approved unless the city council finds that the
telecommunications equipment planned for the proposed tower cannot be
accommodated on an existing or approved tower or building within a one mile
search radius of the proposed tower due to one or more of the following
reasons:
      1.   The planned equipment would exceed the structural capacity of all
existing or approved towers or buildings, as documented by a qualified and
licensed professional engineer, and all of the existing or approved towers
cannot be reinforced, modified, or replaced to accommodate the planned or
equivalent equipment at a reasonable cost.
      2.   The planned equipment would cause interference materially impacting
the usability of other existing or planned equipment at a tower or building as
documented by a qualified and licensed professional engineer and interference
cannot be prevented at a reasonable cost.
      3.   Existing or approved towers and buildings within the search radius
cannot accommodate the planned equipment at a height necessary to function
reasonably as documented by a qualified and licensed professional engineer.
      4.   Other unforeseen reasons that make it unfeasible to locate the
planned telecommunications equipment upon an existing or approved tower or
building.
   B.   Any proposed commercial wireless telecommunication service tower shall
be designed structurally, electrically, and in all other respects, to
accommodate both the applicant's antennas and comparable antennas for at least
two (2) additional users if the tower is over one hundred feet (100') in
height, or for at least one additional user if the tower is over sixty feet
(60') in height. Towers must be designed to allow for future rearrangement of
antennas upon the tower and to accept antennas mounted at varying heights.
(Ord. 549, 12-14-1998)
4-9-5: CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permits:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to erect,
construct in a place, place or reerect, replace or repair any tower to be
utilized for commercial wireless telecommunication services without first
making application to the city and securing a permit therefor as hereinafter
provided.
      2.   The applicant shall provide, at the time of application, sufficient
information to indicate that construction, installation and maintenance of the
antenna and tower will not create a safety hazard or damage to the property of
other persons.
   B.   Fee: The applicant shall pay a building permit fee in the amount of two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00).
   C.   Construction Requirements: All antennas and towers to be utilized for
commercial wireless telecommunication services erected, constructed or modified
within the city and all wiring therefor, shall comply with the following
requirements:
      1.   All applicable provisions of this code.
      2.   The tower shall be certified by a qualified and licensed
professional engineer to conform to the latest structural standards and wind
loading requirements of the national building code (BOCA) and the Electronics
Industry Association.
      3.   With the exception of necessary electric and telephone service
connection lines, no part of any antenna or tower, nor any lines, cable,
equipment or wires or braces in connection with either shall at any time extend
across or over any part of the right of way, public street, highway, sidewalk,
or property line.
      4.   Towers and associated antennas shall be designed to conform with
accepted electrical engineering methods and practices and to comply with the
provisions of the national electrical code.
      5.   All signal and remote control conductors of low energy extending
substantially horizontally above the ground between a tower and antenna and a
structure, or between towers, shall be at least eight feet (8') above the
ground at all points unless buried underground.
      6.   Every tower affixed to the ground shall be protected to discourage
climbing of the tower by unauthorized persons.
      7.   All towers shall be constructed to conform with the requirements of
the occupational safety and health administration.
      8.   Antennas and towers shall not be erected in residential zoning
districts in violation of the following restrictions:
         a.   Notwithstanding the general provisions of this chapter, and the
applicable provisions of title 5 of this code relating to zoning, the required
setback for an antenna or tower attached directly to the ground shall be equal
to the height of the antenna and tower. Those antennas and towers attached to a
building and whose base is not on the ground, may be constructed if set back a
distance equal to the height of the tower less the distance from the point of
attachment on the building to the ground.
         b.   No tower shall exceed a height equal to the distance from the
base of the antenna and tower to the nearest overhead electrical power line
which serves more than one dwelling or place of business. Those antennas and
towers originally attached to a building, and whose base is not on the ground,
shall not exceed an overall height from the point of attachment to the top of
tower which is greater than the distance from the point of attachment to the
nearest overhead electrical power line serving more than one dwelling or
business.
         c.   Metal towers shall be constructed of, or treated with, corrosive
resistant material. Wood poles shall be impregnated with rot resistant
substances.
         d.   The applicant will provide a written statement from a licensed
engineer certifying that the applicant will be prohibited from providing
commercial wireless telecommunication services unless a tower is constructed in
a residential zoning district.
   D.   Existing Antennas And Towers: Antennas and towers in existence as of
December 15, 1998, which do not conform to or comply with this chapter are
subject to the following provisions:
      1.   Towers may continue in use for the purpose now used and as now
existing, but may not be replaced or structurally altered without complying in
all respects with this chapter.
      2.   If such towers are hereafter damaged or destroyed due to any reason
or cause whatsoever, the tower may be repaired and restored to its former use,
location, and physical dimensions upon obtaining a building permit therefor,
but without otherwise complying with this section; provided, however, that if
the cost of repairing the tower to the former use, physical dimensions, and
location would be ten percent (10%) or more of the cost of a new tower of like
kind and quality, then the tower may not be repaired or restored, except in
full compliance with this chapter. (Ord. 549, 12-14-1998)
4-9-6: TOWER AND ANTENNA DESIGN REQUIREMENTS:
Proposed or modified towers and antennas shall meet the following design
requirements:
   A.   Towers and antennas shall be designed to blend into the surrounding
environment through the use of color and camouflaging architectural treatment,
except in instances where the color is dictated by federal or state
authorities, such as the federal aviation administration. For the purpose of
this subsection, camouflaging architectural treatment shall consist of
disguising the applicable tower as an object which would otherwise be fully
consistent with the surrounding area, such as a tree, church steeple, or
building spire, as appropriate. The camouflaging shall disguise the existence
of the tower, while retaining the natural or improved appearance of the
surrounding area, to the maximum extent possible.
   B.   Commercial wireless telecommunication service towers shall be of a
monopole design unless the city council determines that an alternative design
would better blend into the surrounding environment. (Ord. 549, 12-14-1998)
4-9-7: SETBACKS:
Towers shall conform with each of the following minimum setback requirements:
   A.   Generally: Towers shall meet the setback requirements of buildings
found in the underlying zoning district unless otherwise specified herein;
provided, however, no tower shall be set back a distance less than fifty
percent (50%) of its height from the top of tower to existing grade or, if the
tower was originally attached to a building, to the point of attachment.
   B.   Residential Zoning Districts: Towers shall meet the setback
requirements provided in subsection 4-9-5C8 of this chapter. (Ord. 549, 12-14-
1998)
4-9-8: HEIGHT:
Towers shall not exceed one hundred twenty five feet (125') in height from
existing grade or, if attached to an existing building, one hundred fifty feet
(150') less the distance from the existing grade to the point of attachment. A
variation to this height requirement may be granted by the zoning board of
appeals after receiving an application therefor and holding a public hearing at
a regularly scheduled or special meeting. Notice of the time and place of the
hearing, together with a brief description of the subject matter shall be
published one time not more than thirty (30) nor less than fifteen (15) days
prior to the hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in the city. A
variation from the height requirement in this section shall be granted by the
zoning board of appeals only if the applicant establishes by clear and
convincing evidence that it will be unable to provide wireless communication
services without such a variation. Under no circumstance shall a tower be
erected to a height greater than that required to provide wireless
communication services. (Ord. 549, 12-14-1998)
4-9-9: LIGHTING:
Towers shall not be illuminated by artificial means and shall not display any
strobe or flashing lights unless such lighting is required by the federal
aviation administration or other federal or state authority for a particular
tower. (Ord. 549, 12-14-1998)
4-9-10: SIGNS AND ADVERTISING 1 :
Signs displaying warning or equipment information and meeting reasonable size
limitations may be placed on towers. All other signs, including signs used for
advertising purposes, are prohibited. (Ord. 549, 12-14-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 5-15-3A2 of this code.
4-9-11: ACCESSORY UTILITY BUILDINGS:
All utility buildings and structures accessory to a tower shall be
architecturally designed to blend in with the surrounding environment. Further,
such buildings shall meet minimum setback requirements of the underlying zoning
district. Ground mounted equipment shall be screened from view by suitable
vegetation and/or landscaping, except where a design of nonvegetative screening
better reflects and complements the architectural character of the surrounding
area, in which case, such nonvegetative screening shall be utilized. (Ord. 549,
12-14-1998)
4-9-12: ABANDONED, UNUSED OR PORTIONS OF TOWERS:
Abandoned or unused towers or portions of towers shall be removed as follows:
   A.   All abandoned or unused towers and associated facilities shall be
removed within six (6) months of the cessation of operations at a site unless a
time extension is required, in writing, by the person or entity owning such
tower and/or facility, in which case such person or entity shall be allowed an
additional six (6) months to remove the applicable tower and/or facility. A
copy of the relevant portions of a signed lease which requires the applicant to
remove the tower and associated facilities upon cessation of operations at the
site shall be submitted at the time of application. In the event that a tower
is not removed in a timely manner as provided herein, the tower and associated
facilities may be removed by the city and the cost of removal assessed against
the property.
   B.   Unused portions of towers above utilized communications or other
electrical equipment shall be removed within six (6) months of the time of
antenna relocation. The replacement of portions of a tower previously removed
requires the issuance of a new building permit and special use permit as
applicable. (Ord. 549, 12-14-1998)
4-9-13: INTERFERENCE WITH PUBLIC SAFETY TELECOMMUNICATIONS:
No new or existing telecommunication service shall interfere with public safety
telecommunications. All applications for new service shall be accompanied by an
intermodulation study which provides a technical evaluation of existing and
proposed transmissions and indicates all potential interference problems.
Before the introduction of new services or changes in existing service,
telecommunication providers shall notify the city at least ten (10) calendar
days in advance of such changes and allow the city to monitor interference
levels during the testing process. (Ord. 549, 12-14-1998)
4-9-14: APPLICATION MATERIALS:
An application to construct a tower shall include written documentation
evidencing compliance with each provision of this chapter as well as the
applicable zoning regulations together with the following supplemental
information:
   A.   A report from a qualified and licensed professional engineer which:
      1.   Describes the tower height and design, including a cross section in
elevation;
      2.   Documents the height above grade for all potential mounting
positions for collocated antennas and the minimum separation distances between
antennas;
      3.   Describes the tower's capacity, including the number and type of
antennas that it can accommodate;
      4.   Documents what steps the applicant will take to avoid interference
with established public safety telecommunications;
      5.   Includes an engineer's stamp and registration number;
      6.   Includes other information necessary to evaluate the request.
   B.   Architectural drawings depicting the constructed tower with
camouflaging treatment set in the surrounding area. These drawings shall
include at least one perspective from the north, south, east and west.
   C.   An overhead map of the city showing the subject tower's location as
well as the location of each of the applicant's existing and planned future
tower sites.
   D.   For all commercial wireless telecommunication service towers, a letter
of intent committing the tower owner and his or her successors to allow the
shared use of the tower if an additional user agrees in writing to meet
reasonable terms and conditions for shared use.
   E.   Before the issuance of a building permit, the following supplemental
information shall be provided:
      1.   Proof that the proposed tower complies with regulations administered
by the federal aviation administration; and
      2.   Proof that the proposed tower complies with the emission standards
promulgated by the federal communications commission; and
      3.   Report from a qualified and licensed professional engineer which
demonstrates the tower's compliance with the aforesaid structural and
electrical standards. (Ord. 549, 12-14-1998)
4-9-15: CONFLICT AND SEVERABILITY:
   A.   Conflict: If any portion of this chapter is found to be in conflict
with any other provision of any zoning, building, fire safety, or other
ordinance of this code, the provision which establishes the higher standard
shall prevail.
   B.   Severability: If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of
this chapter or its application to any person or circumstance is held invalid
by the decision of any court or administrative tribunal of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this chapter, or the application of the
provision to other persons or circumstances is in effect and shall remain in
full force and effect. (Ord. 549, 12-14-1998)
CHAPTER 10
EROSION, SEDIMENT AND STORMWATER CONTROL
SECTION:
4-10-1: Definitions
4-10-2: Applicability
4-10-3: Permanent Control Measures
4-10-4: Temporary Control Measures
4-10-5: Small Site Control Permits
4-10-6: Large Site Control Permits
4-10-7: Maintenance Of Permanent Stormwater Control Measures
4-10-8: Enforcement And Stop Work Order
4-10-9: Penalty
4-10-10: Appeals Board
4-10-11: Appeals To Appeals Board
4-10-12: Appeals To Court
4-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
ADJACENT LANDS: Land surrounding a site that may either substantially impact
that site, or be substantially impacted by potential soil erosion, sediment
and/or stormwater runoff as a result of land disturbing activities conducted on
that site.
APPEALS BOARD: The erosion, sediment and stormwater control appeals board.
AREAS OF CONCENTRATED FLOW OR BODIES OF WATER: Any area where water may
accumulate or flow, whether continual or as the result of a storm event,
including, but not limited to, lakes, rivers, streams, creeks, ponds, ditches,
swales, gullies, ravines, street gutters and other similar features.
CITY: The city of Marquette Heights, Tazewell County, Illinois.
CONTROL MEASURE: Any proposed temporary or permanent measures to be installed
to control erosion, sediment and stormwater runoff from a project area.
DEVELOPMENT: The division of a parcel of land into two (2) or more parcels; the
construction, reconstruction, conversion, structural alteration, relocation, or
enlargement of any structure; any mining, excavation, landfill, or land
disturbing activity; and any use or extension of the use of land.
DISTURBED AREA: Any area of land on which the predevelopment ground surface
will be affected or altered by development. This includes, but is not limited
to, grading, clearing, stockpiling, tracking and other similar activities.
EROSION CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR: The street superintendent, or other person
appointed by the city council of the city to administer this chapter.
5-YEAR FREQUENCY STORM EVENT: The rainfall intensity, in a twenty four (24)
hour period, with the probability of being equaled or exceeded once in a five
(5) year period.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAPS (FIRM): Maps prepared by the federal emergency
management agency (FEMA) that depict the special flood hazard areas (SFHA)
within a community. These maps include insurance rate zones and floodplains and
may or may not depict floodways.
INSTITUTIONAL USE: A religious, or public use, such as a church, library,
public or private school, hospital, or government owned or operated building,
structure or land use for public purpose.
LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY: Any change in land within the city, which may result
in soil erosion from water or wind and the movement of sediments into waters of
the state or onto lands in the city, or a change in the amount and/or intensity
of stormwater runoff, including, but not limited to, the covering with an
impervious surface, stockpiling, clearing, grading, excavating, rehabilitating,
transporting, depositing or filling of land.
LARGE SITE PLAN: Any land disturbing activity which affects an area of more
than one acre or a project requiring subdivision approval by the city.
NORMAL AGRICULTURAL PRACTICES: Activities associated with the preparation and
tilling of land for the purposes of growing crops, or raising livestock, which
may include, but are not limited to, the construction of conservation measures,
plowing, disking and cultivating.
PERIMETER CONTROL: Any control measure installed between the downslope side of
the disturbed area and the property line and/or between the downslope side of
the disturbed area and any area of concentrated flow.
PREPROJECT CONDITION: The characteristics of a site prior to the initiation of
any land disturbing activity. The preproject condition shall be based on the
predominant land use for the past five (5) years. For example, if a site has
been cropland for four (4) of the past five (5) years, and in grass just prior
to development, the land use would be cropland for the preproject condition.
PROJECT: Any development involving modification to land which involves a land
disturbing activity.
REGIONAL STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SYSTEM: A system which is designed, constructed,
and maintained to provide stormwater control for multiple landowners.
ROAD: Any right of way that has been improved for the purposes of providing a
surface for vehicular traffic, including any federal, state, county, township,
and municipal controlled facilities.
SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING: A building designed for residential occupancy by one
family.
SITE: The lot or parcel on which the project is to be developed.
SMALL SITE PLAN: Any land disturbing activity which involves modification to
land where such modification affects an area of five thousand (5,000) square
feet or greater but less than one acre.
STANDARDS: The Illinois environmental protection agency's "Illinois Urban
Manual", a technical manual designed by urban ecosystem protection and
enhancement published in 1995, and Illinois procedures and standards for urban
soil erosion and sedimentation control published in 1988, by the urban
committee of the Association of Illinois Soil and Water Conservation Districts
now in effect or as hereafter amended, which is incorporated by reference
herein, and the city standards for stormwater design analysis, found in
appendix A of the ordinance codified herein available for inspection in the
office of the city clerk, and the erosion and sediment control criteria and
specifications found in appendix B of the ordinance codified herein available
for inspection in the office of the city clerk.
SUBSTANTIAL COMPLETION: The point at which all exterior work is completed and
the site can be used for the use intended.
25-YEAR FREQUENCY STORM EVENT: The rainfall intensity, in a twenty four (24)
hour period, with the probability of being equaled or exceeded once in a twenty
five (25) year period.
TWO-FAMILY DWELLING: A building designed for residential occupancy by two (2)
families.
2-YEAR FREQUENCY STORM EVENT: The rainfall intensity, in a twenty four (24)
hour period, with the probability of being equaled or exceeded in a two (2)
year period.
UTILITY SERVICE LINE: Means by which utility service is provided to service
users, such as electric, telephone and television cable, or gas, water and
sewer pipes.
WORKING DAY: Shall not include Saturday, Sunday or any holiday when city
offices are closed. (Ord. 591, 9-9-2000)
4-10-2: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Before commencing any project involving construction of any new
residential dwelling, commencing any project with an area of five thousand
(5,000) square feet or greater or any commercial project regardless of size,
the owner of the land, or his representative, shall be required to file an
application for an erosion, sediment and stormwater control permit, as either a
small or large site plan, except as follows:
      1.   Land disturbing activities for which the disturbed area is less than
five thousand (5,000) square feet; or
      2.   Projects undertaken by the city's department of public works; or
      3.   Routine maintenance of roads and utility service lines; or
      4.   Any land within the boundaries or jurisdiction of the city on which
there is located a permanent stormwater control measure which was installed
pursuant to this chapter.
The erosion control administrator reserves the right to require any land
disturbing activity, regardless of size of disturbed area or type of activity,
to comply with this chapter if it is determined to be the cause of, or a
contributor to substantial existing or potential erosion, sediment, or
stormwater impact. (Ord. 591, 9-9-2000)
4-10-3: PERMANENT CONTROL MEASURES:
   A.   Erosion And Sediment Control Measures: All control measures required
under this chapter shall conform to the design criteria, standards, and
specifications provided in the applicable standards, referenced in appendix B
of the ordinance codified herein available for inspection in the office of the
city clerk, now in effect or as hereafter amended. All control measures
installed shall be sufficient to prevent observable sediment from leaving the
site during a 5-year frequency storm event. When observable sediment does leave
the site, the owner, developer or contractor shall remove the sediment within
twenty four (24) hours, or by no later than the end of the next working day
whichever occurs later.
   B.   Permanent Stormwater Control Measures: Stormwater detention facilities
shall be designed for a minimum 25-year frequency storm event. Each stormwater
detention area shall be provided with a method of emergency overflow in the
event that a rainfall event in excess of a 25-year frequency storm event
occurs. This emergency overflow facility shall be designed to function without
attention or maintenance. Detention facilities shall be designed to have a dry
bottom except when inundated immediately following a storm event. The
stormwater runoff rate from the site shall not exceed the stormwater runoff
rate from the site in its preproject condition.
   C.   Regional Stormwater Control Systems: To allow for the beneficial
development and maintenance of regional stormwater management systems, where
they are available and they are appropriate, an applicant may submit a design
dependent on such a system. The applicant may submit documentation of the
approval for the use of the regional stormwater management facility from the
governmental agency having jurisdiction over it. The applicant shall submit
evidence showing that there will be no adverse flooding impact to any receiving
stream between the point of discharge and the regional stormwater facility. If
the erosion control administrator approves the use of a regional stormwater
management system, the applicant shall be exempt from the requirements in this
section for permanent on site stormwater controls. Such exemption shall not
apply to any temporary stormwater control measures required by this chapter.
(Ord. 591, 9-9-2000)
4-10-4: TEMPORARY CONTROL MEASURES:
   A.   Temporary Control Measures Required: On site sediment control measures
shall be constructed and functional prior to initiating land disturbing
activities on the site.
Fully functioning temporary sediment control measures (including, but not
limited to, perimeter sediment controls) shall remain in place until the ground
is stabilized with permanent ground cover. In cases where it is not practical
to leave the temporary sediment control measures in place prior to establishing
permanent ground cover (for example when control measures need to be removed in
order to grade the area or install pavement or sod) an exception will be made
only if one of the conditions listed below will be met. In no way does adhering
to one of the conditions below relieve the owner of responsibility to clean up
or repair any damages caused from sediment or stormwater runoff leaving the
site.
      1.   Permanent ground cover shall be established with pavement, aggregate
or sod within three (3) working days of the removal of temporary sediment
barriers; or
      2.   Permanent vegetation shall be established by seeding with anchored
mulch within three (3) working days of removal of sediment barriers during the
spring or fall seeding periods. However, on project areas with slopes not
exceeding five percent (5%), permanent vegetation shall be established by
seeding within five (5) working days of the removal of sediment barriers during
the spring or fall seeding periods. Summer seeding is acceptable on project
areas which shall be watered. This does not apply to concentrated flow areas.
   B.   Maintenance: Sediment control measures and temporary stormwater control
measures are to be maintained so they are operating effectively until permanent
ground surface protection and permanent stormwater control measures are
established in a manner specified in the applicable permit issued pursuant to
this chapter.
   C.   Additional Control Measures: The erosion control administrator may
require additional control measures pursuant to the standards if determined as
necessary after site inspection, and prior to issuing the permit. (Ord. 591, 9-
9-2000)
4-10-5: SMALL SITE CONTROL PERMITS:
Before commencing any project which involves modification to land where such
modification affects an area of five thousand (5,000) square feet or greater
but less than one acre, the owner of the land, or his representative, shall
file an application for a small site erosion sediment and stormwater control
permit, accompanied by either a small or large site plan, except as otherwise
provided in sections
4-10-2 and
4-10-6 of this chapter.
   A.   Application: The applicant shall file the application with the city
clerk on forms provided by the city. The fee for a small site plan application
shall be in the amount of fifty dollars ($50.00) for each permit. However, no
fee shall be required for any project the purpose of which is agricultural, or
initiated by a local unit of government. There shall be no refund of any fees
paid and no application shall be accepted for filing unless the fee has been
paid in full.
   B.   Application Review: Review of an application for a small site erosion
and sediment control permit shall be limited to verifying that the required
information has been provided and that it meets the standards. The erosion
control administrator shall issue or deny an application by: 1) approving the
permit for a small site plan within ten (10) working days of the filing of a
complete application; or 2) initiate the review process for a large site plan
and approve the same within twenty (20) working days of the filing of a
complete application. If the permit is denied, it shall be returned to the
applicant with a written explanation of its denial. The application shall be
deemed approved if no response is made within the time frames provided above.
   C.   Duration: The small site erosion, sediment and stormwater control
permit shall expire upon completion of the project or one year from the date of
issuance, whichever first occurs.
   D.   Stormwater Control Measures Applicable To Certain Nonresidential Uses:
With respect to any site to be developed for any use other than a one- or two-
family dwelling, the applicant shall submit a site plan showing the location of
stormwater detention facilities to be constructed in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter and shall provide the calculations upon which the
size, location and operation of those facilities were based.
   E.   Content Of Small Site Erosion, Sediment And Stormwater Control Permit:
The small site erosion, sediment and stormwater control permit shall contain at
a minimum the following general conditions:
      1.   That written approval be obtained from the erosion control
administrator prior to making any modification to the erosion, sediment and
stormwater control plan as set forth in the application; and
      2.   That all control measures identified in the application shall be
installed; and
      3.   That all control measures shall be maintained during construction;
and
      4.   Such other conditions as the erosion control administrator deems
appropriate to ensure compliance with the specific requirements and the intent
of this chapter.
   F.   Permanent Ground Surface Cover: Under all circumstances, temporary
control measures shall be maintained in accordance with section
4-10-4 of this chapter. Without exception, all disturbed areas must have
permanent ground cover within six (6) months of project completion, or within
six (6) months of occupancy, whichever comes first. Temporary erosion control
measures shall remain in place until permanent ground cover has been
established. (Ord. 591, 9-9-2000)
   G.   Application Contents: Residential small site permit application shall
also include the following:
      1.   Direction of storm runoff from building structures.
      2.   Downspout locations and means of dispersal away from abutting
properties.
      3.   Any other permanent stormwater control measures as deemed necessary
by the erosion control administrator. (Ord. 730, 8-13-2007)
4-10-6: LARGE SITE CONTROL PERMITS:
Before commencing any project land disturbing activity which affects an area of
more than one acre, excluding normal agricultural practices; or a project
requiring subdivision approval by the city of Marquette Heights, the owner of
the land, or his representative, shall file an application for a large site
erosion, sediment, and stormwater control permit.
   A.   Application: The applicant shall file the application with the city
clerk on forms provided by the city. The applicant shall supply the number of
copies of application documents as provided in the application. Each
application shall be accompanied by the following information:
      1.   Site Map: A map of existing site conditions on a scale of at least
one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100'), showing the site and immediately
adjacent areas and the locations of the following site information:
         a.   Site boundaries and adjacent lands which accurately identify site
location;
         b.   Lakes, streams, wetlands, channels, ditches, and other
watercourses on and immediately adjacent to the site;
         c.   Floodways and/or zone A of the floodplain as determined on the
flood insurance rate map (FIRM), and indicating the map panel number;
         d.   All off site drainage onto or through the project site;
         e.   Location and dimensions of stormwater management systems on or
adjacent to the site;
         f.   Locations and dimensions of structures, roads, highways,
easements and paved areas; and
         g.   Site topography; show contours at vertical intervals as follows:
            (1)   Slope of six percent (6%) or less, two foot (2') intervals.
            (2)   Slope of over six percent (6%) but less than fifteen percent
(15%), five foot (5') intervals.
            (3)   Slope of over fifteen percent (15%), ten (10) or twenty foot
(20') intervals;
      2.   Plan Of Final Site Conditions: A plan of final site conditions drawn
to the same scale as the existing site map submitted pursuant to subsection A1
of this section, and which includes information to accurately depict
postconstruction appearance of site, e.g., paved areas, buildings, landscaping,
and other changes to the site, along with other predominant site features,
e.g., open areas, bodies of water;
      3.   Site Construction Plan: A site construction plan including:
         a.   Locations and dimensions of all proposed land disturbing
activities;
         b.   Location, dimensions and construction details of all erosion and
sediment control measures necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter,
and including proposed revegetation of disturbed areas;
      4.   Site Design: Design calculations and information related to the
permanent stormwater control system for the site. The following information
shall also be provided by the applicant:
         a.   Preproject and postproject runoff curve numbers with
justification for the selected curve numbers and calculations of the weighted
average curve number for each condition;
         b.   Time of concentration calculations for both pre- and post-
project conditions for all subwatersheds, and include a map showing hydraulic
flow lengths used;
         c.   Peak flow rate calculations for 2-year and 25-year storms for
both pre- and post-project conditions;
         d.   Design calculations for detention basin outlets for both 2-year
and 25-year storms, include stage-storage table and discharge rating curve data
or outflow calculations (refer to optional form in appendix A of the ordinance
codified herein available for inspection in the office of the city clerk);
         e.   Location dimensions, and construction details of proposed
detention basins and outlets;
         f.   Detention volume calculations;
         g.   Summary of peak flow rates for pre-, postproject and proposed
conditions with detention showing that the requirements of this chapter are met
(refer to optional form in appendix A of the ordinance codified herein
available for inspection in the office of the city clerk); and
      5.   Management And Maintenance Plan: A plan of the continued management
and maintenance of such permanent control measures; and
      6.   Application Fee: An application fee shall be submitted at the time
of application. The fee for a large site permit shall be in the amount of
seventy five dollars ($75.00) per acre, minimum of one hundred seventy five
dollars ($175.00) and maximum of three thousand dollars ($3,000.00). However,
no fee shall be required for any project the purpose of which is agricultural.
A fractional acre shall be rounded to the nearest whole acre. There shall be no
refund of any fees paid and no application shall be accepted for filing unless
the fee has been paid in full.
   B.   Application Review: Within twenty (20) working days of submittal of the
application, the erosion control administrator shall respond in writing to the
sediment and erosion control practices portion. Within twenty (20) working days
the erosion control administrator shall respond to the stormwater control
portion of the application by either issuing a permit, issuing a request for
additional information, or issuing a statement denying the permit with an
explanation of cause. The application shall be deemed approved if no response
is made within the time frames stipulated above.
   C.   Duration: An erosion sediment and stormwater control permit shall
expire upon completion of the project or one year from the date of issuance,
whichever first occurs.
   D.   Permit Conditions: The large site erosion, sediment and stormwater
control permit shall contain at a minimum the following general conditions:
      1.   The written approval shall be obtained from the erosion control
administrator prior to making any modification to the approved erosion and
sediment control plan as set forth in the permit;
      2.   That all control measures required in the permit shall be installed;
      3.   That all control measures shall be maintained during construction;
      4.   Such other conditions as the erosion control administrator deems
appropriate.
   E.   Permanent Ground Surface Cover: Without exception, all disturbed areas
must have permanent ground cover within six (6) months of project completion,
or within six (6) months of occupancy, whichever comes first. Temporary erosion
control measures shall remain in place until permanent ground cover has been
established.
   F.   Final Inspection Notice Of Permanent Stormwater Control Measures:
Within fourteen (14) days after completion of construction, the applicant shall
notify the erosion control administrator that the permanent stormwater control
measures are ready for final inspection. No certificate of occupancy with
respect to any improvements located on the site shall be issued in the absence
of compliance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 591, 9-9-2000)
4-10-7: MAINTENANCE OF PERMANENT STORMWATER CONTROL MEASURES:
Anyone owning property with a permanent stormwater control measure existing
thereon, including those installed pursuant to this chapter, shall maintain the
control measure so that it functions in compliance with the standards. (Ord.
591, 9-9-2000)
4-10-8: ENFORCEMENT AND STOP WORK ORDER:
This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the erosion control
administrator, who shall make or cause to be made, periodic inspections of all
work authorized by permits issued in accordance with this chapter to ensure
that said construction is in compliance with the provisions of the same; he
shall make or cause to be made, investigations of violations of this chapter
and shall cause any violations to be corrected.
Any permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall be revoked by the erosion
control administrator when he finds from personal inspection or from competent
evidence that the rules, regulations, or standards under which said permit was
issued are being violated. (Ord. 591, 9-9-2000)
4-10-9: PENALTY:
The violation of any of the terms of this chapter shall constitute an offense
punishable by a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00), with each
day the violation remains uncorrected constituting a separate offense. Such
fine is in addition to any other remedy provided by law. (Ord. 591, 9-9-2000)
4-10-10: APPEALS BOARD:
The appeals board shall consider and decide upon appeals of any decision,
order, or requirement of the erosion control administrator made pursuant to
this chapter.
   A.   The city council of the city shall act as the appeals board.
   B.   The mayor shall serve as chairman of the appeals board.
   C.   All decisions of the appeals board must receive the support of a
majority of its members. A majority of the members of the appeals board shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business; and all questions which
shall arise at any meeting shall be determined by the votes of the majority of
members present. The appeals board shall keep minutes of its proceedings
showing the vote of each member upon every question or if absent or failing to
vote, indicating such facts, and shall keep records of its examinations and
other official actions. Every rule, and every order, requirement, decision, or
determination of the appeals board shall immediately be filed in the office of
the city clerk and shall be a public record. The appeals board may adopt its
own rules of procedure not in conflict with state law or this chapter. (Ord.
591, 9-9-2000)
4-10-11: APPEALS TO APPEALS BOARD:
Any person directly aggrieved by any decision, order, requirement, or
determination of the erosion control administrator made pursuant to this
chapter shall have the right to appeal such action to the appeals board. Such
appeal shall be made within thirty five (35) days from the date of the action
appealed from, shall be filed in writing, and shall include a short, concise
statement of why the action is being appealed. The fee for such an appeal shall
be seventy five dollars ($75.00) payable to the city clerk and is due with the
application.
Upon receipt of a notice of appeal, the city clerk shall set a date for a
public hearing before the appeals board. Such public hearing shall commence not
sooner than fifteen (15) days nor more than thirty (30) days after the date of
receipt of the notice of appeal. At least fifteen (15) days' notice of the time
and place of such hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city. The appeals board may affirm, modify or reverse any
appealed action. (Ord. 591, 9-9-2000)
4-10-12: APPEALS TO COURT:
Appeals from the appeals board shall be made in conformity with the provisions
of the Illinois administrative review act, 735 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-
101 et seq. Copies of any orders or proceedings ordered by the appellant shall
be furnished to him at his own cost. (Ord. 591, 9-9-2000)
CHAPTER 11
SWIMMING POOLS
SECTION:
4-11-1: Definitions
4-11-2: Regulations
4-11-3: Application And Permit
4-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply to this chapter:
BUILDING AND ELECTRICAL CODES: The nationally recognized codes adopted by
reference at chapter 1 of this title.
BUILDING INSPECTOR: The person or persons charged with the administration of
the building and electrical codes.
SWIMMING POOL: An artificial receptacle, tank or enclosure having a depth of at
least eighteen inches (18") designed or intended to contain water for the
purpose of wading or swimming. (Ord. 842, 7-15-2015)
4-11-2: REGULATIONS:
Swimming pools shall be permitted as an accessory use within the rear yard
only, provided they meet the following regulations:
   A.   There shall be a minimum of not less than ten feet (10') between the
adjoining property line and the outside of the pool wall. Side yard setbacks
shall apply to side yards if greater than ten feet (10').
   B.   There shall be a distance of not less than four feet (4') between the
outside pool wall and any building located on the same lot.
   C.   No swimming pool shall be located less than thirty five feet (35') from
any front lot line.
   D.   No swimming pool shall be located in an easement.
   E.   No overhead utility line may be located within ten feet (10') of any
extended vertical side of a swimming pool.
   F.   Swimming pools shall be enclosed with a fence having a height of not
less than forty eight inches (48") and a self-latching gate. All doors leading
to pool area will have an audible alarm.
   G.   All outdoor electrical receptacles and all receptacles providing
electricity to a pump used in connection with a swimming pool shall be
protected with a ground fault circuit interrupter. A dedicated circuit shall be
provided for a pool pump if the amperage drawn by the pool pump is more than
fifty percent (50%) of the rated amperage of the circuit breaker protecting the
circuit.
   H.   Inground pools and any other pool with a depth of more than fifty four
inches (54") shall be protected by an electrical bonding grid and grounding rod
in accordance with the building and electrical codes.
   I.   All swimming pools shall be maintained in a safe, clean and sanitary
condition. Leaves and other debris shall be regularly removed in order to
prevent decomposition. Filtration shall be supplied and chemicals applied in a
manner sufficient to prevent the growth of algae.
   J.   All swimming pools shall be constructed, operated and maintained in
accordance with any applicable provisions of the building and electrical codes.
In the event of a conflict between the provisions of the building and
electrical codes and the provisions of this chapter, the more stringent
requirement as determined by the building inspector shall apply. (Ord. 842, 7-
15-2015)
4-11-3: APPLICATION AND PERMIT:
No swimming pool shall be constructed, placed or installed except in accordance
with the following procedure:
   A.   The owner or occupant of property where a swimming pool is proposed to
be located shall submit an application to the building inspector which
application shall provide the size and specifications of the swimming pool, its
location on the property and any other information deemed necessary by the
building inspector; and
   B.   Issuance by the building inspector of a permit to construct, place or
install the pool and the issuance of an electrical permit where required under
the provisions of this chapter or the building and electrical codes; and
   C.   Inspection and approval of the installation by the building inspector.
Water shall not be placed in a swimming pool prior to inspection and approval
of the installation by the building inspector. (Ord. 842, 7-15-2015)
CHAPTER 12
WIND GENERATORS
SECTION:
4-12-1: Definition
4-12-2: Prohibited
4-12-1: DEFINITION:
For purposes of this chapter "wind generator" means a device intended to
convert energy from wind into electrical energy through the rotation of a vane
or blade. (Ord. 735, 10-8-2007)
4-12-2: PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful to construct, erect, place or operate a wind generator within
the corporate limits of the city. (Ord. 735, 10-8-2007)
TITLE 5
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ZONING DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
5-1-1: Definitions
5-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title certain terms and words are hereby defined. Words
used in the present tense shall include the future; the singular shall include
the plural and the plural the singular; the word "building" shall include the
word "structure" and the word "shall" is mandatory and not directory.
ACCESSORY BUILDING: A subordinate building or a portion of the main building,
the use of which is incidental to that of the main building or to the main use
of the premises. An accessory use is one that is incidental to the main use of
the premises.
ALLEY: A public or private thoroughfare which affords only a secondary means of
access to the property abutting thereon.
APARTMENT: A room or suite of rooms in a multiple- or two-family dwelling, or
where more than one unit is established above nonresidential uses, intended or
designed for use as a residence by a single family.
APARTMENT HOUSE: See definition of Dwelling, Multiple.
BASEMENT: A story of a building or structure having one-half (1/2) or more of
its clear height below grade. A basement shall not be considered as a story for
the purpose of height regulation.
BOARDING HOUSE: A building other than a hotel where, for compensation, meals or
lodging and meals, are provided for three (3) but not more than twelve (12)
persons.
BUILDING: Any structure designed or intended for the support, enclosure,
shelter or protection of persons, animals, chattels or property. When a
structure is divided into separate parts by unpierced walls extending from the
ground, each part is deemed a separate building.
BUILDING, HEIGHT OF: The vertical distance from the grade to the highest point
of the coping of a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to the
mean height level between eaves and ridge for gable, hip and gambrel roofs.
DISTRICT: A section or sections of the city for which the regulations governing
the use of buildings and premises, the height of buildings, the size of yards,
and intensity of use are uniform.
DWELLING: Any building or portion thereof, but not a trailer, which is designed
and used exclusively for residential purposes.
DWELLING DISTRICT: Every district specified in this title, except the C central
business district, and the D industrial district is designated as a dwelling
district.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE: A building designed for or occupied exclusively by more
than two (2) families.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building designed for or occupied exclusively by one
family.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A building designed for or occupied exclusively by two
(2) families.
FAMILY: One or more persons occupying a premises and living as a single
housekeeping unit, whether or not related to each other by birth, adoption or
marriage, but no unrelated group shall consist of more than five (5) persons,
as distinguished from a group occupying a boarding house, lodging house or
hotel, as herein defined.
FARM: An area which is used for the growing of the usual farm products such as
vegetables, fruit, trees and grain, and their storage on the area, as well as
for the raising thereon of the usual farm poultry and farm animals for the use
or consumption of the person operating the farm. The term "farming" includes
the operating of such an area for one or more of the above uses, including the
necessary accessory uses for treating or storing the produce; provided,
however, that the operation of any such accessory uses shall be secondary to
that of the normal farming activities, and providing further, that farming does
not include the feeding of garbage or offal to swine or other animals.
FILLING STATION: Any building or premises used for the dispensing, sale or
offering for sale at retail of any automobile fuels or oils. When the
dispensing, sale or offering for sale is incidental to the conduct of a public
garage, the premises are classified as a public garage.
FRONTAGE: All property on one side of a street between two (2) intersecting
streets (crossing or terminating), measured along the line of the street, or if
the street is dead ended, then all of the property abutting on one side between
an intersecting street and the dead end of the street.
GARAGE, CLASS I: An accessory building housing motor driven vehicles which are
the property of and for the private use of the occupants of the lot on which
the private garage is located. Not more than one of the vehicles may be a
commercial vehicle of not more than three (3) tons' capacity.
GARAGE, CLASS II: Any building or premises used for housing only of motor
driven vehicles, other than trucks and commercial vehicles, pursuant to
previous arrangements and not to transients, and at which automobile fuels and
oils are not sold and motor driven vehicles are not equipped, repaired, hired
or sold.
GARAGE, CLASS III: Any building or premises used for the housing, hiring,
storing, equipping or repairing of motor driven trucks, commercial or other
vehicles owned, leased or operated by the occupant of the premises in the
conduct of or as accessory to a business or occupation.
GARAGE, CLASS IV: Any building or premises except those used as a private or
storage garage, used for equipping, repairing, hiring, selling or storing motor
driven vehicles.
GRADE: A. For buildings having walls adjoining one street, the average of the
established elevation of the sidewalk at the centers of all walls adjoining the
street.
   B.   For buildings having walls adjoining more than one street, the average
of the established elevation of the sidewalk at the centers of all walls
adjoining the streets.
   C.   For buildings having no wall adjoining the street, the average level of
the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the exterior walls of the
building.
   D.   Any wall approximately parallel to and not more than twenty feet (20')
from the street is to be considered as adjoining the street.
HOTEL: A building in which lodging is provided and offered to the public for
compensation, and which is open to transient guests, in contradistinction to a
boarding house or lodging house.
INSTITUTION: A building occupied by a nonprofit corporation or a nonprofit
establishment for public use.
LIVING AREA: Structurally enclosed floor space, based on exterior measurements
(excepting open porches and garages), on which all construction and
installation on inside walls, floors, ceilings, fixtures and other interior
building surfaces and appointments, have been completed and finished to meet
conventionally agreed standards accommodating human habitation and convenience,
and which shall constitute not less than a story.
LODGING HOUSE: A building or place where lodging is provided (or which is
equipped regularly to provide lodging) by prearrangement for a definite period,
for compensation, for three (3) or more but not exceeding twelve (12)
individuals, not open to transient guests, in contradistinction to hotels open
to transients.
LOT: A parcel of land occupied or intended for occupancy by a use permitted in
this title, including one main building together with its accessory buildings,
the open spaces and parking spaces required by this title, and having its
principal frontage upon a street or upon an officially approved place.
LOT, CORNER: A lot abutting upon two (2) or more streets at their intersection.
LOT, DEPTH OF: The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: A lot having a frontage on two (2) nonintersecting
streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot which is a part of a subdivision, the map of which has
been recorded in the office of the recorder of deeds, or a parcel of land, the
deed to which was recorded in the office of the recorder of deeds prior to the
effective date hereof.
MANUFACTURING OR INDUSTRY: Any use in which the major activity is the
treatment, processing, rebuilding, repairing or wholesale storage of material,
products or items, and where the finished product is not acquired by the
ultimate user on the premises, as distinguished from a retail use where the
treatment, processing, repairing or storage is secondary to the sale, exchange
or repairing of materials or products on the premises.
MULTILEVEL: In contemporary terms, trilevel or quadlevel or split level or
split foyer.
MULTIPLE STORY: A "multiple story building or structure" means, in contemporary
terms, a two-story building or structure.
NONCONFORMING USE: Any building or land lawfully occupied by the use at the
time of passage of the original zoning ordinance or any amendment thereto,
which does not conform after the passage of the zoning ordinance or amendment
thereto with the use regulations of the district in which it is situated.
PARKING SPACE: A durably surfaced area, enclosed in the main building, in an
accessory building, or unenclosed, and if the space is unenclosed comprising an
area of not less than one hundred forty (140) square feet, exclusive of a
durable surfaced driveway (concrete, blacktop, crushed rock or washed gravel)
connecting the parking space with a street or alley and permitting satisfactory
ingress and egress of an automobile.
PLACE: An open unoccupied space other than a street or alley permanently
reserved as the principal means of access to abutting property.
PRIVACY FENCE: A fence of such nature and/or material constructed in such a way
as to totally obscure visibility of the area beyond or enclosed by such fence.
ROOMING HOUSE: See definition of Lodging House.
ROW HOUSE: A group of two (2) or more but not exceeding four (4) single-family
dwellings separated by walls without openings not more than two (2) rooms deep.
SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS: Shops wherein the major activities are the repair and
maintenance of wearing apparel, sporting goods and articles for the use in the
home including household appliances.
SIDEWALKS: Sidewalks shall be located with the back side of the sidewalk on the
front property line. They shall be concrete sidewalks and shall be built at the
time that the house located on said premises is constructed, and shall be a
thickness of four inches (4") and of a width of four feet (4').
STABLE: A building accommodating one or more horses.
STORY: That portion of a building, other than a basement included between the
surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there be
no floor above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above
it.
STORY, HALF: A space under a sloping roof which has the line of intersection of
roof decking and wall space not more than three feet (3') above the top floor
level, and in which space not more than sixty percent (60%) of the floor area
is finished off for use.
STREET: All property dedicated or intended for public or private street,
highway, freeway or roadway purposes or subject to easements therefor.
STREET LINE: A dividing line between a lot, tract or parcel of land and a
contiguous street.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders, or any
substantial change in the roof or in the exterior walls.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, that use of which requires
permanent location on the ground or attached to something having a permanent
location on the ground, including, but without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, advertising signs, billboard backstops for tennis courts and
pergolas.
TOURIST OR TRAILER CAMP: An area containing one or more structures, designed or
intended to be used as temporary living facilities of two (2) or more families,
and intended primarily for automobile transients or providing spaces where two
(2) or more tents or auto trailers can be or are intended to be parked. (Where
desired these can be separately defined and regulated.)
TRAILER: Any structure used for living, sleeping, business or storage purposes,
having no foundation other than wheels, blocks, skids, jacks, horses or
skirtings and which is, has been or reasonably can be, equipped with wheels or
other devices for transporting the structure from place to place, whether by
motive power or other means. The term "trailer" shall include camp car and
housecar.
YARD: An open space on the same lot with a building, unoccupied and
unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the ground upward, except as
otherwise provided herein.
In measuring a yard for the purpose of determining the width of a side yard, or
the depth of a rear yard, the mean horizontal distance between the lot line and
the main building shall be used.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending across the front of a lot between the side yard
lines, and being the minimum horizontal distance between the street line and
the main building or any projection thereto other than the projection of the
usual steps.
YARD, REAR: A yard extending across the rear of a lot, measured between the
side lot lines, and being the minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot
line and the rear of the main building or any projections other than steps. On
corner lots the rear yard shall be considered as parallel to the street upon
which the lot has its least dimension. On both corner lots and interior lots,
the rear yard shall in all cases be at the opposite end of the lot from the
front yard.
YARD, SIDE: A yard between the main building and the side line of the lot, and
extending from the front lot line to the rear yard line. (Ord. 36, 12-16-1957;
Ord. 86, 9-21-1964; Ord. 103, 6-19-1967; Ord. 221, 6-13-1977; Ord. 319, 4-22-
1985)
CHAPTER 2
ZONING DISTRICTS; GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Zoning Districts Established
5-2-2: Zoning Map; District Boundaries
5-2-3: Annexed Property
5-2-4: Vacated Streets And Alleys
5-2-5: General Provisions
5-2-6: Accessory Buildings
5-2-7: Enforcement
5-2-8: Violation And Penalty
5-2-1: ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
In order to classify, regulate and restrict the locations of trades, industries
and the location of buildings designed for specific uses, to regulate and limit
the height and bulk of buildings hereafter erected or structurally altered, to
regulate and determine the intensity of use of the lot areas, and to regulate
and determine the areas of yards, courts and other open spaces within and
surrounding such buildings the city is hereby divided into districts, of which
there shall be five (5) in number, known as: (Ord. 36, 12-16-1957)
A Single-family dwelling district
B Single-family larger homes district
C Business and commercial district
D Industrial district
AG Agricultural district
(Ord. 36, 12-16-1957; amd. Ord. 86, 9-21-1964; Ord. 461, 4-25-1994)
5-2-2: ZONING MAP; DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
The boundaries of the districts are shown upon the map designated as the
"district map", which is made a part of this title by reference. Said district
map and all notations, references and other information shown thereon are
considered a part of this title and have the same force and effect as if the
district map and all the notation references and other information shown
thereon were all fully set forth or described herein, the original of which
district map is properly attested and is on file with the city clerk.
Where uncertainty may exist with respect to the boundaries of the various
districts as shown on the district map, the following rules shall apply:
   A.   The district boundaries are either streets or alleys unless otherwise
shown and where the districts designated on the district map are bounded
approximately by the street or alley lines, the street or alley shall be
construed to be the boundary of the district.
   B.   Where district boundaries are not otherwise indicated, and where the
property has been or may hereafter be divided into blocks and lots, the
district boundaries shall be construed to be the lot lines; and where the
districts designated on said district map are bounded approximately by lot
lines, the lot lines shall be construed to be the boundary of the districts
unless the boundaries are otherwise indicated on the map.
   C.   In unsubdivided property the district boundary lines on the map shall
be determined by use of the scale appearing on the map. (Ord. 36, 12-16-1957)
5-2-3: ANNEXED PROPERTY:
   A.   Any and all property which may hereafter be annexed to the city shall
be zoned AG agricultural district upon its annexation. Any property annexed to
the city may be rezoned at any time after annexation, in the manner provided by
this code and by the applicable laws and statutes of the state.
   B.   If the owner of any property sought to be annexed to the city is
desirous of having same zoned anything other than an AG agricultural district,
the owner may, prior to annexation, present a proposed use plan and
preannexation agreement to the city council for its review. Said proposed use
plan and preannexation agreement shall comply with all applicable city
ordinances and state laws regarding plats, subdivisions, land use, city plans
and preannexation agreements and state the requested zoning classification. The
owner of such property shall pay a nonrefundable fee to the city of five
hundred dollars ($500.00) plus ten dollars ($10.00) per acre (or any part
thereof) for every acre over twenty five (25) acres in the property proposed to
be annexed. Upon approval of the proposed use plan and preannexation agreement,
if same are approved by the city council, the city may commit to zoning the
land as something other than AG agricultural upon annexation.
   C.   The city's approval of any preannexation agreement and zoning
classification shall not be final and binding upon the city until the
preannexation agreement is executed by all parties.
   D.   Any preannexation agreement executed by the city shall contain a
deadline date by which the person seeking annexation shall petition for same
with the city. Failure to petition for annexation by said deadline date shall
invalidate and render null and void the preannexation agreement and none of the
parties shall have any further rights or obligations with respect thereof.
(Ord. 461, 4-25-1994)
5-2-4: VACATED STREETS AND ALLEYS:
Whenever any street, alley or other public way is vacated, the zoning district
adjoining each side of such street, alley or public way shall be automatically
extended to the center of such a vacation, and all areas included in the
vacation shall then and henceforth be subject to all appropriate regulations of
the extended districts. (Ord. 36, 12-16-1957)
5-2-5: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
Except as hereinafter provided:
   A.   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or
structurally altered, nor shall any building or land be used except for the
purpose permitted in the district in which the building or land is located.
   B.   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or
structurally altered to exceed the height limit herein established for the
district in which the building is located.
   C.   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or
structurally altered except in conformity with the area regulations of the
district in which the building is located.
   D.   The minimum yards and other open spaces, including lot area per family,
required by this title for each and every building existing at the time of the
effective date hereof, or for any building hereafter erected shall not be
encroached upon or considered as yard or open space requirements for any other
building.
   E.   Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be
located on a "lot" as herein defined and in no case shall there be more than
one main building on one lot unless otherwise provided in this title.
   F.   The front yard requirements on both streets of a corner lot shall be
observed for all buildings and structures, including accessory buildings. (Ord.
36, 12-16-1957)
5-2-6: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
In addition to all other regulations governing the size, location and use of
accessory buildings, the following regulations shall also apply:
   A.   No Quonset hut style accessory building may be constructed or located
in either the A single-family dwelling district or in the B single-family
larger homes district.
   B.   No accessory building having a metal exterior may be constructed or
located in either the A single-family dwelling district or the B single-family
larger homes district unless the entire exterior of the building is finished
with a durable factory applied paint. Any portion of such metal exterior which
deteriorates as a result of damage, weathering or aging shall be promptly
repaired. Such repair shall include the application of matching paint.
   C.   No freestanding metal framed carport or other similar freestanding
metal framed structure may be constructed or located in either the A single-
family dwelling district or in the B single-family larger homes district;
provided, however, that this limitation shall not apply to:
      1.   Temporary structures such as tents which are left in place for a
total period of not more than ten (10) days in any calendar year; or
      2.   Screened enclosures or shade tents designed solely for human
occupancy, but only if located in a rear yard. (Ord. 580, 5-22-2000)
   D.   No storage or shipping container shall be used as an accessory
building. No storage or shipping container shall be located in either the A
single-family dwelling district or the B single-family larger homes district
for a total of more than sixty (60) calendar days during any period of one
hundred eighty (180) consecutive calendar days.
      1.   For purposes of this section, a "storage or shipping container" is
any walk-in wheel-less enclosed structure designed or used for the purpose of
transporting multiple items of personal property from one location to another.
Characteristics of a storage or shipping container include, but are not limited
to, integrated support structures allowing for the lifting of the container by
a forklift or crane and a flat top upon which other similar containers may be
stacked and safely supported. (Ord. 707, 4-10-2006)
5-2-7: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the building inspector to enforce this title.
It shall also be the duty of all officers and employees of the city and
especially of all members of the police department to assist the building
inspector by reporting to him upon any new construction, reconstruction or land
uses, or upon any seeming violation. The building inspector shall send a
description of any violations of these zoning regulations to the zoning
committee within fifteen (15) days after he discovers such violation.
   B.   Appeal from the decision of the building inspector may be made to the
board of appeals, as provided in title 2, chapter 3 of this code. (Ord. 36, 12-
16-1957)
5-2-8: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with,
or who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this title shall,
upon conviction, be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. (Ord. 436, 11-23-1992)
CHAPTER 3
A SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
SECTION:
5-3-1: Scope Of Regulations
5-3-2: Use Regulations
5-3-3: Parking Regulations
5-3-4: Height Regulations
5-3-5: Area Regulations
5-3-1: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
The regulations set forth in this chapter, or set forth elsewhere in this title
when referred to in this chapter, are the district regulations in the A single-
family dwelling district. (Ord. 36, 12-16-1957; amd. Ord. 86, 9-21-1964)
5-3-2: USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   General: A building or premises shall be used only for the following
purposes:
Churches, but only when off street parking is provided upon the lot or within
two hundred feet (200') thereof, which space is adequate to accommodate one car
for every eight (8) persons for which seating is provided in the main
auditorium of the church.
Public libraries.
Public schools, elementary, high, colleges or private schools having a
curriculum equivalent to a public elementary school, public high school or
public institution of higher learning, and having no rooms regularly used for
housing or sleeping purposes.
Single-family dwellings with a minimum of one thousand two hundred (1,200)
square feet of ground floor area of main structure with no basement or partial
basement, or one thousand (1,000) square feet with full basement, or one
thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet of living area in a multilevel home,
or one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet of living area in a multi-
story home with a minimum of nine hundred (900) square feet on one story. All
square footage is exclusive of open porches and garages.
Accessory buildings including a class I garage and accessory uses customarily
incident to the above uses and home occupations, not involving the conduct of a
business. Accessory buildings shall also include church and public building
bulletin boards and signs not exceeding twenty (20) square feet in area and
temporary signs appertaining to the lease, hire or sale of a building or
premises, not exceeding ten (10) square feet in area.
   B.   Specific Areas, Requirements: In the case of blocks 37, 38, 39, 40, 41
and 45, all being in zoning district A, buildings or premises shall be used
only for the following purposes:
Single-family dwelling with minimum specified as:
Single-family dwellings with a minimum of one thousand two hundred (1,200)
square feet of ground floor area of the main structure with no basement or
partial basement, or one thousand (1,000) square feet with full basement, or
one thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet of living area in a multilevel
home, or one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet of living area in a
multi-story home with a minimum of nine hundred (900) square feet on one story.
All square footage is exclusive of open porches and garages. (Ord. 529, 3-9-
1998)
5-3-3: PARKING REGULATIONS:
Off street parking shall be provided for a minimum of two (2) vehicles. A
suitably surfaced driveway will satisfy this requirement. (Ord. 36, 12-16-1957;
amd. Ord. 86, 9-21-1964)
5-3-4: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
No building shall exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories or thirty feet (30')
in height. (Ord. 36, 12-16-1957)
5-3-5: AREA REGULATIONS:
   A.   Setback: No building shall be erected closer than twenty five feet
(25') nor more than fifty six feet (56') from any street. Unenclosed covered
porches, the floors of which are not higher than the level of the first floor
may encroach on such restricted area by projecting thereon no more than ten
feet (10') and not exceeding two hundred (200) square feet in area. Uncovered
porches and terraces may encroach on such area by projecting thereon not more
than fifteen feet (15'). (Ord. 823, 10-14-2013)
   B.   Front Yard: The front yard shall be determined by the setback.
   C.   Side Yard: Except as may be hereinafter provided, there shall be a side
yard on each side of the building having a width of not less than five feet
(5'), except that a detached garage or other outbuilding located sixty feet
(60') or more from the front property line may be located within two feet (2')
of the side lot line.
Uncovered porches or terraces may, however, be built and maintained within any
part of such free and open spaces so long as they do not encroach within three
feet (3') of a lot division line. (Ord. 36, 12-16-1957)
   D.   Unenclosed Covered Porch: Unenclosed covered porch changed to a part of
the main structure requires an authorized permit. (Ord. 307, 3-26-1984)
   E.   Rear Yard: The rear yard shall consist of twenty percent (20%) of the
area of the lot and shall have a setback from the rear lot line of not less
than two feet (2'). (Ord. 458, 11-22-1993)
CHAPTER 4
B SINGLE-FAMILY LARGER HOMES DISTRICT
SECTION:
5-4-1: Scope Of Regulations
5-4-2: Use Regulations
5-4-3: Parking Regulations
5-4-4: Height Regulations
5-4-5: Area Regulations
5-4-1: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
The regulations set forth in this chapter, or set forth elsewhere in this title
when referred to in this chapter are the district regulations in the B single-
family larger homes district. (Ord. 36, 12-16-1957)
5-4-2: USE REGULATIONS:
A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:
Single-family dwellings with a minimum of one thousand two hundred (1,200)
square feet of ground floor area of the main structure with no basement, or one
thousand (1,000) square feet with full basement, or one thousand two hundred
(1,200) square feet of living area in a multilevel home, or one thousand five
hundred (1,500) square feet of living area in a multi-story home with a minimum
of nine hundred (900) square feet on one story. All square footage is exclusive
of open porches and garages.
The use regulations of this section shall henceforward apply to blocks 42, 43,
and 44 as well as to those areas of the city already covered by this section,
as specified on the zoning map. (Ord. 529, 3-9-1998)
5-4-3: PARKING REGULATIONS:
Same as for A single-family dwelling district pursuant to section
5-3-3 of this title. (Ord. 36, 12-16-1957; amd. Ord. 86, 9-21-1964)
5-4-4: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
Same as for the A single-family dwelling district pursuant to section
5-3-4 of this title. (Ord. 36, 12-16-1957; amd. Ord. 86, 9-21-1964)
5-4-5: AREA REGULATIONS:
Same as for the A single-family dwelling district pursuant to section
5-3-5 of this title. (Ord. 36, 12-16-1957; amd. Ord. 86, 9-21-1964)
CHAPTER 5
C BUSINESS AND COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
5-5-1: Scope Of Regulations
5-5-2: Use Regulations
5-5-3: Parking Regulations
5-5-4: Height Regulations
5-5-5: Area Regulations
5-5-6: Application For Use With Approval
5-5-7: Notice And Hearing
5-5-8: Hearing Procedure
5-5-9: Standards
5-5-10: Conditions And Guarantees
5-5-11: Effect Of Denial
5-5-12: Revocation
5-5-1: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
The regulations set forth in this chapter or set forth elsewhere in this title
when referred to in this chapter, are the regulations of the C business and
commercial district. (Ord. 938, 5-10-2023)
5-5-2: USE REGULATIONS:
Designated business establishments or any other establishments approved for
commercial operation within the city limits shall in no manner be of such
nature to be noxious or offensive to the residents of adjacent areas.
Complaints of such nature may be made either to the building commissioner or
directly to the zoning board of appeals. (Ord. 938, 5-10-2023)
5-5-3: PARKING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Off street parking spaces shall be provided at the rate of one space
for each three hundred (300) square feet of floor area in the building which is
used for commercial purposes.
   B.   Off street parking areas of four or more spaces shall parking spaces
with paint or other permanent materials. (Ord. 36, 12-16-1957; amd. Ord. 938,
5-10-2023)
5-5-4: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
No building shall exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories or thirty feet (30')
eave height, except as otherwise provided in chapter 9 of this title. (Ord. 36,
12-16-1957; amd. Ord. 938, 5-10-2023)
5-5-5: AREA REGULATIONS:
   A.   Front Yard: The front yard shall be determined by the setback which
shall be thirty five feet (35') from the street to provide a parking area.
   B.   Side Yard: The side yard requirements are the same as the front yard
when the building abuts a street on two (2) sides; that is, on the front and on
one side, otherwise there are no side yard requirements.
   C.   Rear Yard: The rear yard will be ten feet (10') from the lot line and
will be left open. (Ord. 36, 12-16-1957; amd. Ord. 938, 5-10-2023)
5-5-6: APPLICATION FOR USE WITH APPROVAL:
Any person owning or having an interest in the subject property may file an
application to use such land with approval as hereinafter provided for business
and commercial districts. Such application shall be filed with the city clerk
together with tentative plans, including site plans, floor plans. Said
application shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable filing fee of one hundred
dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 381, 2-27-1989; amd. Ord. 938, 5-10-2023)
5-5-7: NOTICE AND HEARING:
Upon receipt of an application for use with approval the clerk shall cause to
be scheduled a public hearing before the city council at the next convenient
date. A notice of such public hearing shall be published by the clerk at least
once, not more than thirty (30) nor less than fifteen (15) days before the
public hearing, in one or more newspapers with a general circulation within the
city. The notice shall contain the particular location for which the use with
approval is requested as well as a brief statement of what the proposed use
with approval consists. (Ord. 381, 2-27-1989; amd. Ord. 938, 5-10-2023)
5-5-8: HEARING PROCEDURE:
   A.   The city council shall conduct a hearing on all applications for use
with approval.
   B.   At each such hearing the rules of evidence as are generally applicable
to administrative proceedings shall apply.
   C.   All interested parties shall be given an opportunity to be heard at
such public hearing.
   D.   Upon conclusion of the public hearing and no later than fifteen (15)
days thereafter the city council by a majority vote of the quorum present at
the public hearing shall determine in writing whether or not such use with
approval shall be granted. (Ord. 381, 2-27-1989; amd. Ord. 938, 5-10-2023)
5-5-9: STANDARDS:
No use permitted with approval shall be approved by the city council unless all
of the following findings are made in writing:
   A.   That the establishment, maintenance, location and operation of the use
permitted with approval will not be detrimental to, nor endanger the public
health, safety, comfort or general welfare; and
   B.   That the use permitted with approval will not be injurious to the use
and enjoyment of other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes
permitted, nor substantially diminish or impair property values within the
neighborhood; and
   C.   That the establishment of the use permitted with approval will not
impede the normal and orderly development and improvement of surrounding
property for uses permitted in that district; and
   D.   That adequate utilities, access roads, drainage and other necessary
facilities have been or will be provided; and
   E.   That adequate measures have or will be taken to provide ingress and
egress designed so as to minimize traffic congestion in the public streets; and
   F.   That the use permitted with approval will in all other respects conform
to the applicable regulations of the district in which it is located. (Ord.
381, 2-27-1989; amd. Ord. 938, 5-10-2023)
5-5-10: CONDITIONS AND GUARANTEES:
Prior to the granting of any use permitted with approval, the city council may
modify any existing requirements or impose any additional conditions or
limitations upon the establishment, location, construction, maintenance or
operation of the use permitted with approval as may in its judgment be
necessary for the protection of the public interest and to secure compliance
with the standards as specified in section
5-5-9 of this chapter. The city council may require such evidence and
guarantees as it deems necessary, as proof that the conditions stipulated in
connection therewith are being and will be fulfilled. (Ord. 381, 2-27-1989;
amd. Ord. 938, 5-10-2023)
5-5-11: EFFECT OF DENIAL:
No application for a use permitted with approval which has been denied wholly
or in part by the city council shall be resubmitted for a period of one year
from the date of said order of denial, except on the grounds of new evidence or
proof of change of conditions found to be valid by the city council. (Ord. 381,
2-27-1989; amd. Ord. 938, 5-10-2023)
5-5-12: REVOCATION:
   A.   In any case where a permit for a special use permitted with approval
has not been established within six (6) months after the granting thereof, and
without further action by the city council the use permitted with approval
shall be null and void.
   B.   The violation of any conditions and guarantees attached to the granting
of the use with approval shall be subject to an action by the city or any
property owner with valid standing as in the case of any other violation of
this title. (Ord. 381, 2-27-1989)
CHAPTER 6
D INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
5-6-1: Scope Of Regulations
5-6-2: Use Regulations
5-6-3: Parking Regulations
5-6-4: Height Regulations
5-6-5: Area Regulations
5-6-1: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
The regulations set forth in this chapter, or set forth elsewhere in this title
when referred to in this chapter are the district regulations in the D
industrial district. (Ord. 36, 12-16-1957)
5-6-2: USE REGULATIONS:
A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:
Any use permitted in the C business and commercial district pursuant to section
5-5-2 of this title.
Blacksmith shop.
Bottling works.
Coal yards.
Dyeing and cleaning establishments.
Industrial and manufacturing plants, where the operations are conducted in one
or more buildings and not more than ten percent (10%) of the tract is used for
open storage of products, materials or equipment.
Junkyards, but only when such lot or tract devoted to such use is covered by a
building in conformity with the building code of the city 1 .
Lumber or building materials yard.
Milk distribution station.
Printing plants.
Public utility substations and facilities.
Warehouses and storage plants.
Wholesale establishments.
Wholesale storage of oil, gasoline or other petroleum products. (Ord. 36, 12-
16-1957)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 4, chapter 1 of this code.
5-6-3: PARKING REGULATIONS:
Off street parking spaces shall be provided on the lot or in a building on the
lot adequate to accommodate the cars of the employees of any of the uses
permitted in this district as well as the trucks and other vehicles owned by or
in custody of the establishment. (Ord. 36, 12-16-1957)
5-6-4: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
No building shall exceed three (3) stories or forty five feet (45') in height.
(Ord. 36, 12-16-1957)
5-6-5: AREA REGULATIONS:
   A.   Front Yard: There are no front yard requirements except where a
building abuts a street, said building will then be set back ten feet (10')
from curb line.
   B.   Side Yard: There are no side yard requirements except where a building
abuts a street, and such side yards then will be ten feet (10') from the curb
line.
   C.   Rear Yard: There are no rear yard requirements except where a building
abuts a street, and the setback will then be ten feet (10') from the curb line.
(Ord. 36, 12-16-1957)
CHAPTER 7
NONCONFORMING USES
SECTION:
5-7-1: Continuance Of Nonconforming Uses
5-7-2: Special Permits
5-7-1: CONTINUANCE OF NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   The lawful uses of land for storage purposes (where such use is not an
adjunct of any structure) and for advertising signs and billboards which do not
conform to the provisions of this title shall be discontinued within five (5)
years from the effective date hereof, and the same uses of land which become
nonconforming by reason of a subsequent change by amending this title shall
also be discontinued within five (5) years from the date of the change.
   B.   The lawful use of a building existing at the time of the effective date
hereof may be continued, subject to the provisions of this title, although such
use does not conform with the provisions hereof. If no structural alterations
are made, a nonconforming use may be changed to another nonconforming use of
the same or more restricted classification. The foregoing provisions shall also
apply to nonconforming uses in districts hereafter changed. Whenever a
nonconforming use of a building has been changed to a more restricted use or to
a conforming use, such use shall not hereafter be changed to a less restricted
use 1 .
   C.   No building which has been damaged by fire, explosion, act of God or
the public enemy, to the extent of more than fifty percent (50%) of its value,
shall be restored except in conformity with the regulations of this title.
   D.   In the event that a nonconforming use of any building or premises is
discontinued or its normal operation stopped for a period of two (2) years, the
use of the same shall thereafter conform to the regulations of the district in
which it is located.
   E.   The nonconforming structure that was erected, converted or structurally
altered in violation of the provisions of this title shall not be validated by
the adoption of these regulations or amendments hereto, and the same may be
ordered removed or corrected by the proper officials at any time.
   F.   Except as hereafter provided, all nonconforming commercial or
industrial buildings located within any dwelling district shall be removed or
converted, and the building thereafter devoted to a use permitted in the
district in accordance with the following schedule:
      1.   In the case of buildings erected before January 1, 1925, on or
before January 1, 1925.
      2.   In the case of buildings erected between January 1, 1925 and January
1, 1940, on or before January 1, 1980.
      3.   In the case of buildings erected between January 1, 1940 and January
1, 1945, on or before January 1, 1985.
      4.   In the case of buildings erected since January 1, 1945, within forty
(40) years from the date of issue of a building permit therefor. (Ord. 36, 12-
16-1957)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 10 of this title for certificate of occupancy regulations.
5-7-2: SPECIAL PERMITS:
The city council may, by special permit, after public hearing held by the board
of appeals and advertised as provided in title 2, chapter 3 of this code, and
subject to such protective restrictions as it may deem necessary, authorize the
location, extension or structural alteration of any of the following buildings
or uses, or an increase in their height, in any district from which they are
prohibited or limited by this title; provided, that such buildings or uses will
not have any serious and depreciating effect upon the value of surrounding
property:
Airport, landing field or landing strip.
Any public building erected and used by any department of a municipal, county,
state or federal government.
Any tower used to provide commercial wireless telecommunication services.
Any use which is generally similar to the uses permitted in the district in
which such proposed use is sought to be located by special permit which
conforms to the regulations for such district.
Areas for the dumping or disposal of trash and garbage.
Cemetery or mausoleum.
Extraction of sand, gravel or other raw materials.
Greenhouses.
Hospitals, clinics and institutions, except institutions for criminals and
those for persons who are mentally ill or have contagious diseases; provided
however, that such buildings may occupy not over fifty percent (50%) of the
total area of the lot or tract and, provided further, that the buildings shall
be set back from all yard lines heretofore established an additional distance
of not less than two feet (2') for each foot of building height, and that
adequate off street parking space will be provided.
Hotels where the primary purpose is to provide seasonal or year around living
facilities, but only when they are located on large tracts and would not
adversely affect surrounding residential development.
Nurseries and truck gardens.
Parking lots on land not more than three hundred feet (300') from the boundary
of any commercial, business or industrial district under such conditions as
will protect the character of surrounding property.
Radio towers and radio broadcasting stations.
Riding stables.
Roadside stands, commercial amusement or recreational development for temporary
or seasonal periods.
Before issuance of any special permit for any of the above buildings or uses,
the board of appeals shall report to the council of the city regarding the
public hearing thereon and also upon the effect of such proposed building or
use upon the character of the neighborhood, traffic conditions, public utility
facilities, and other matters pertaining to the public health, public safety or
general welfare. No action shall be taken upon any application for a proposed
building or use above referred to until and unless the report of the board of
appeals has been filed, but such report shall be made within sixty (60) days
after the matter has been referred to the board of appeals by the city council.
If the board of appeals recommends against the issuance of the special permits,
then it may be issued only by an affirmative two-thirds (2/3) vote of the
voting members of the council of the city. (Ord. 549, 12-14-1998)
CHAPTER 8
COMMUNITY UNIT PLAN
SECTION:
5-8-1: Approval Of Development Plan
5-8-2: Issuance Of Permits, Certificates
5-8-1: APPROVAL OF DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
The owner of any tract of land may submit to the city council a plan for the
use and development of all of the tract of land for residential and allied
purposes. The development plan shall be referred to the board of appeals 1  for
study and report and for a public hearing. If the zoning committee approves the
plan, they shall then be submitted to the council for consideration and
approval. The approval and recommendations of the board of appeals shall be
accompanied by a report stating the reasons for approval or disapproval of the
application and specific evidence that the proposed community unit plan meets
or does not meet with the following conditions:
   A.   The property adjacent to the area included in the plan will not be
adversely affected.
   B.   The plan is consistent with the intent and purposes of this title to
promote public health, safety, morals and general welfare. (Ord. 36, 12-16-
1957)
   C.   The buildings shall be used only for single-family dwellings and the
usual accessory uses such as garages, storage spaces or community activities,
including churches. (Ord. 36, 12-16-1957; amd. Ord. 103, 6-19-1967)
   D.   The average lot area per family contained in the site, exclusive of the
area occupied by streets, will not be less than the lot area per family
required in the district in which the development is located. (Ord. 36, 12-16-
1957)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 2, chapter 3 of this code.
5-8-2: ISSUANCE OF PERMITS, CERTIFICATES 1 :
If the city council approves the plan, a building permit and certificate of
occupancy may be issued even though the use of land and the location of the
buildings to be erected in the area, and the yards and open spaces contemplated
by the plan, do not conform in all respects to the district regulations for the
district in which it is located. (Ord. 36, 12-16-1957)
 
Notes
1 2. See chapter 10 of this title.
CHAPTER 9
ZONING EXCEPTIONS AND VARIATIONS
SECTION:
5-9-1: Supplementary Regulations
5-9-2: Accessory Buildings
5-9-3: Yards; Open Space, Projections
5-9-4: Fences, Height And Location (Rep. by Ord. 367, 7-11-1988)
5-9-5: Restrictions Concerning Buildings
5-9-6: Resubdivision Of Lots
5-9-1: SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS:
The district regulations hereinafter set forth in this chapter qualify or
supplement, as the case may be, the district regulations appearing elsewhere in
this title.
   A.   Public, semipublic or public service buildings, hospitals, institutions
or schools, when permitted in a district, may be erected to a height not
exceeding sixty feet (60'), and churches and temples may be erected to a height
not exceeding seventy five feet (75') if the building is set back from each
yard line at least one foot (1') for each foot of additional building height
above the height limit otherwise provided in the district in which the building
is located. (Ord. 36, 12-16-1957)
   B.   Single-family dwellings may be increased in height by not more than ten
feet (10') when the side and rear yards are increased over the yard
requirements of the district in which they are located by not less than ten
feet (10'), but they shall not exceed three (3) stories in height. (Ord. 36,
12-16-1957; amd. Ord. 86, 9-21-1964)
   C.   Chimneys, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, fire towers, monuments,
stocks, stage towers or scenery lofts, tanks, water towers, ornamental towers
and spires, church steeples, radio towers or necessary mechanical
appurtenances, may be erected to a height in accordance with existing or
hereafter adopted ordinances of the city. (Ord. 36, 12-16-1957)
   D.   Accessory buildings may be built in a required rear yard subject to the
following limitations:
      1.   Accessory buildings shall not occupy more than thirty percent (30%)
of the required rear yard;
      2.   The aggregate ground floor area of all accessory buildings on a lot
shall not exceed the ground floor area of the principal structure on that lot.
For purposes of this section, the ground floor area of a principal structure
shall include totally enclosed structures such as garages and enclosed porches
attached to the principal building by a common wall, but not unenclosed
structures such as carports, patios or covered but unenclosed porches; and
      3.   No accessory building shall exceed fifteen feet (15') in mean height
from grade to the highest point on the building. (Ord. 569, 8-23-1999)
      4.   Not more than two (2) accessory buildings may be placed on any
property. (Ord. 686, 12-15-2004)
   E.   Whenever a lot abuts upon an alley, one-half (1/2) of the width of the
alley may be considered as a portion of the required rear yard. (Ord. 36, 12-
16-1957)
5-9-2: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
No accessory building shall be constructed upon a lot until the construction of
the main building has been actually commenced, and no accessory building shall
be used for dwelling purposes. (Ord. 36, 12-16-1957; amd. Ord. 86, 9-21-1964)
5-9-3: YARDS; OPEN SPACE, PROJECTIONS:
   A.   Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky, unobstructed,
except for accessory buildings in a rear yard, and except for the ordinary
projections of sills, belt courses, cornices and ornamental features projecting
not to exceed twelve inches (12").
   B.   Open or lattice enclosed fire escapes, fireproof outside stairways, and
balconies opening upon fire towers projecting into a rear yard not more than
five feet (5'), and the ordinary projections of chimneys and flues into the
rear yard may be permitted by the building inspector. (Ord. 36, 12-16-1957)
5-9-4: FENCES, HEIGHT AND LOCATION:
(Rep. by Ord. 367, 7-11-1988)
5-9-5: RESTRICTIONS CONCERNING BUILDINGS:
   A.   Building Height:
      1.   Near Airports: No building exceeding two and one-half (21/2) stories
or thirty feet (30') in height shall be erected within seven hundred fifty feet
(750') of any airport, landing strip or landing field.
      2.   Storage Buildings: Buildings that are to be used for storage
purposes may exceed the maximum number of stories that are permitted in the
district in which they are located, but such buildings shall not exceed the
number of feet of building height permitted in such districts.
   B.   Temporary Buildings: Temporary buildings that are used in conjunction
with construction work only may be permitted in any district during the period
that such construction work is in progress, but such temporary buildings shall
be removed upon completion of the construction. (Ord. 36, 12-16-1957)
   C.   Erecting Several Buildings: More than one industrial, commercial or
institutional building may be erected upon a single lot or tract; provided,
that such buildings are developed as a unit, but the yards and open spaces
required around the boundaries of the lot or tract shall not be encroached upon
by any such building, nor shall there be any change in the intensity of use
regulations. (Ord. 36, 12-16-1957; amd. Ord. 86, 9-21-1964)
5-9-6: RESUBDIVISION OF LOTS 1 :
Two (2) or more contiguous nonconforming lots of record may be resubdivided
into the same or lesser numbers of lots; provided, that none of such lots,
after such resubdivision, will have an area less than that which any of said
lots so resubdivided had prior to such resubdivision. (Ord. 36, 12-16-1957)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 6 of this code for subdivision regulations.
CHAPTER 10
OCCUPANCY PERMITS
SECTION:
5-10-1: Certificate Of Occupancy Required
5-10-2: Nonconforming Uses
5-10-1: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY REQUIRED:
Subsequent to the effective date hereof, no change in the use or occupancy of
land, nor any change of use or occupancy in an existing building shall be made,
nor shall any new building be occupied for any purpose, until a certificate of
occupancy signed by the building inspector, the electrical inspector, and the
public works director has been issued. Every certificate of occupancy shall
state that the new occupancy complies with all provisions of this title. No
occupancy permit shall be issued until the erection, construction or alteration
has been completed, inspected and approved by the building inspector,
electrical inspector, and the public works director, and no building or
premises shall be occupied until that certificate is issued.
A record of all certificates of occupancy shall be kept on file in the office
of the building inspector, and copies shall be furnished on request to any
person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in land or in a building
affected by such certificate of occupancy. (Ord. 725, 8-13-2007)
5-10-2: NONCONFORMING USES:
A certificate of occupancy shall be required of all nonconforming uses of land
or buildings created by the adoption of these regulations. Application for such
certificate of occupancy for a nonconforming use shall be filed with the
building inspector by the owner or lessee of the land or building occupied by
such nonconforming use within two (2) years from the effective date hereof. It
shall be the duty of the building inspector to issue a certificate of occupancy
for nonconforming use.
Any nonconforming use for which an occupancy permit has not been obtained in
conformity with the requirements of section
5-10-1 of this chapter, shall be presumed to be operating in violation of this
title and such use shall thereupon be abated. (Ord. 36, 12-16-1957)
CHAPTER 11
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
5-11-1: Purpose
5-11-2: Definitions
5-11-3: Base Flood Elevation
5-11-4: Duties Of The Building Inspector
5-11-5: Development Permit
5-11-6: Preventing Increased Flood Heights And Resulting Damages
5-11-7: Protecting Buildings
5-11-8: Subdivision Requirements
5-11-9: Public Health And Other Standards
5-11-10: Carrying Capacity And Notification
5-11-11: Variances
5-11-12: Disclaimer Of Liability
5-11-13: Penalty
5-11-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to this city of
Marquette Heights by the Illinois municipal code 1  in order to accomplish the
following purposes:
   A.   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   B.   Protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from flood
damage;
   C.   To promote and protect the public health, safety, and general welfare
of the citizens from the hazards of flooding;
   D.   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
   E.   Maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   F.   Make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   G.   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and storm water impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development. (Ord. 863, 2-13-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-30-2, 5/11-30-8, 5/11-31-2.
5-11-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions are adopted:
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) probability of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. The base flood is also known as the 100-year flood.
The base flood elevation at any location is as defined in section
5-11-3 of this chapter.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): The elevation in relation to mean sea level of the
crest of the base flood.
BASEMENT: That portion of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
BUILDING: A walled and roofed structure, including gas or liquid storage tank
that is principally above ground including manufactured homes, prefabricated
buildings and gas or liquid storage tanks. The term also includes recreational
vehicles and travel trailers installed on a site for more than one hundred
eighty (180) days per year.
CRITICAL FACILITY: Any facility which is critical to the health and welfare of
the population and, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the
disaster. Damage to these critical facilities can impact the delivery of vital
services, can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or can
put special populations at risk.
Examples of critical facilities where flood protection should be required
include: emergency services facilities (such as fire and police stations),
schools, hospitals, retirement homes and senior care facilities, major roads
and bridges, critical utility sites (telephone switching stations or electrical
transformers), and hazardous material storage facilities (chemicals,
petrochemicals, hazardous or toxic substances).
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to real estate including, but not necessarily
limited to:
   A.   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a
building, or any structural alteration to a building;
   B.   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
   C.   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days per year;
   D.   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges, culverts or
similar projects;
   E.   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls or fences;
   F.   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving, or
other alterations of the ground surface;
   G.   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid storage
tanks, and channel modifications or any other activity that might change the
direction, height, or velocity of flood or surface waters.
"Development" does not include routine maintenance of existing buildings and
facilities, resurfacing roads, or gardening, plowing, and similar practices
that do not involve filling, grading, or construction of levees.
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before the effective date of this chapter.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FEMA: Federal emergency management agency.
FLOOD: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid accumulation,
or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
FLOOD FRINGE: That portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP: A map prepared by the federal emergency management
agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a
community. This map includes insurance rate zones and may or may not depict
floodways and show base flood elevations.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE): The elevation of the base flood plus one foot
(1') of freeboard at any given location in the floodplain.
FLOODPLAIN AND SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): These two (2) terms are
synonymous. Those lands within the jurisdiction of the city of Marquette
Heights, the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city of Marquette Heights, or
that may be annexed into the city of Marquette Heights, that are subject to
inundation by the base flood. The floodplains of the city of Marquette Heights
are generally identified as such on panel number(s) 40 and 180 of the
countywide flood insurance rate map of Tazewell County prepared by the federal
emergency management agency and dated February 17, 2017. Floodplain also
includes those areas of known flooding as identified by the community.
The floodplains of those parts of unincorporated Tazewell County that are
within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city of Marquette Heights or
that may be annexed into the city of Marquette Heights are generally identified
as such on the flood insurance rate map prepared for Tazewell County by the
federal emergency management agency and dated February 17, 2017.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural or nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property and their contents.
FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE: A form published by the federal emergency management
agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry floodproofed to the flood protection
elevation.
FLOODWAY: That portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the base
flood. The floodways for each of the floodplains of the city of Marquette
Heights shall be according to the best data available from federal, state, or
other sources.
FREEBOARD: An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed
development, unknown localized conditions, wave actions and unpredictable
effects such as those caused by ice or debris jams.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the national register of historic places or
preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the national register.
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily determined
by the secretary to qualify as a registered historic district.
   C.   Individually listed on the state inventory of historic places by the
Illinois historic preservation agency.
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that has
been certified by the Illinois historic preservation agency.
IDNR/OWR: Illinois department of natural resources/office of water resources.
IDNR/OWR JURISDICTIONAL STREAM: Illinois department of natural resources/office
of water resources has jurisdiction over any stream serving a tributary area of
six hundred forty (640) acres or more in an urban area, or in the floodway of
any stream serving a tributary area of six thousand four hundred (6,400) acres
or more in a rural area. Construction on these streams requires a permit from
the department (Ill. adm. code title 17, part 3700.30). The department may
grant approval for specific types of activities by issuance of a statewide
permit which meets the standards defined in section
5-11-6 of this chapter.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor. Provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirements of section
5-11-7 of this chapter.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections that is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more lots for rent or sale.
NFIP: National flood insurance program.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the start of construction commenced or
after the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a
community and includes any subsequent improvements of such structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed on or after the effective date of this chapter.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR TRAVEL TRAILER: A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less in size;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
REPETITIVE LOSS: Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two (2)
separate occasions during a ten (10) year period for which the cost of repairs
at the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds twenty
five percent (25%) of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
SFHA: See definition of Floodplain And Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA).
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement and means the date the
building permit was issued. This, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or other
improvement, was within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The
actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of a
structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation
of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of
excavation or placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. For a
substantial improvement, actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: See definition of Building.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cumulative percentage of damage subsequent to the adoption of this chapter,
equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure
before the damage occurred regardless of actual repair work performed.
Volunteer labor and materials must be included in this determination. The term
includes "repetitive loss buildings" (see definition of Repetitive Loss).
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
improvement of a structure taking place subsequent to the adoption of this
chapter in which the cumulative percentage of improvements:
   A.   Equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the
structure before the improvement or repair is started, or
   B.   Increases the floor area by more than twenty percent (20%).
"Substantial improvement" is considered to occur when the first alteration of
any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building commences,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the
structure. This term includes structures which have incurred repetitive loss or
substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work done.
The term does not include:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions, or
   B.   Any alteration of a structure listed on the national register of
historic places or the Illinois register of historic places.
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the required federal, state, and/or local permits
and elevation certification is presumed to be in violation until such time as
the documentation is provided. (Ord. 863, 2-13-2017)
5-11-3: BASE FLOOD ELEVATION:
This chapter's protection standard is the base flood. The best available base
flood data are listed below. Whenever a party disagrees with the best available
data, the party shall finance the detailed engineering study needed to replace
the existing data with better data and submit it to the FEMA and IDNR/OWR for
approval prior to any development of the site.
   A.   The base flood elevation for each of the floodplains delineated as an
"A zone" on the countywide flood insurance rate map of Tazewell County shall be
according to the best data available from federal, state or other sources.
Should no other data exist, an engineering study must be financed by the
applicant to determine base flood elevations.
   B.   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of those parts of
unincorporated Tazewell County that are within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of the city of Marquette Heights or that may be annexed into the
city of Marquette Heights, shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood
profiles in the flood insurance study of Tazewell County prepared by the
federal emergency management agency and dated February 17, 2017. (Ord. 863, 2-
13-2017)
5-11-4: DUTIES OF THE BUILDING INSPECTOR:
The building inspector shall be responsible for the general administration of
this chapter and ensure that all development activities within the floodplains
under the jurisdiction of the city of Marquette Heights meet the requirements
of this chapter. Specifically, the building inspector shall:
   A.   Process development permits in accordance with section
5-11-5 of this chapter;
   B.   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of section
5-11-6 of this chapter;
   C.   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to section
5-11-7 of this chapter are met and maintain a record of the "as built"
elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) or floodproof certificate;
   D.   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements of
section
5-11-8 of this chapter;
   E.   Ensure that water supply and waste disposal systems meet the public
health standards of section
5-11-9 of this chapter;
   F.   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of section
5-11-11 of this chapter are met and maintain documentation of any variances
granted;
   G.   Inspect all development projects and take any and all penalty actions
outlined in section
5-11-13 of this chapter as necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter;
   H.   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state, and federal permits;
   I.   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any alteration
or relocation of a watercourse;
   J.   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
   K.   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this chapter;
   L.   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps, copies
of state and federal permits, and documentation of compliance for development
activities subject to this chapter;
   M.   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with this chapter and
make substantial damage determinations for structures within the floodplain;
and
   N.   Maintain the accuracy of floodplain maps including notifying IDNR/OWR
and/or submitting information to FEMA within six (6) months whenever a
modification of the floodplain may change the base flood elevation or result in
a change to the floodplain map. (Ord. 863, 2-13-2017)
5-11-5: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body not exempted by law shall
commence any development in the floodplain without first obtaining a
development permit from the building inspector. The building inspector shall
not issue a development permit if the proposed development does not meet the
requirements of this chapter.
   A.   The application for development permit shall be accompanied by:
      1.   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line
dimensions;
      2.   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from
excavation or filling;
      3.   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings;
      4.   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of section
5-11-7 of this chapter; and
      5.   Cost of project or improvements as estimated by a licensed engineer
or architect. A signed estimate by a contractor may also meet this requirement.
   B.   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the building
inspector shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood elevation.
Any development located on land that is shown by survey elevation to be below
the current base flood elevation is subject to the provisions of this chapter.
In addition, any development located on land shown to be below the base flood
elevation and hydraulically connected to a flood source, but not identified as
floodplain on the current flood insurance rate map, is subject to the
provisions of this chapter. Any development located on land that can be shown
by survey data to be higher than the current base flood elevation and which has
not been filled after the date of the site's first flood insurance rate map is
not in the floodplain and therefore not subject to the provisions of this
chapter.
The building inspector shall maintain documentation of the existing ground
elevation at the development site and certification that this ground elevation
existed prior to the date of the site's first flood insurance rate map
identification.
The building inspector shall be responsible for obtaining from the applicant
copies of all other federal, state, and local permits, approvals or permit not
required letters that may be required for this type of activity. The building
inspector shall not issue a permit unless all other federal, state, and local
permits have been obtained. (Ord. 863, 2-13-2017)
5-11-6: PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND RESULTING DAMAGES:
Within any floodway identified on the countywide flood insurance rate map, and
within all other floodplains where a floodway has not been delineated, the
following standards shall apply:
   A.   Except as provided in subsection B of this section, no development
shall be allowed which, acting in combination with existing and anticipated
development will cause any increase in flood heights or velocities or threat to
public health and safety. The following specific development activities shall
be considered as meeting this requirement:
      1.   Bridge and culvert crossings of streams in rural areas meeting the
conditions of the Illinois department of natural resources/office of water
resources statewide permit number 2;
      2.   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit number 3;
      3.   Aerial utility crossings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit number 4;
      4.   Minor boat docks meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit
number 5;
      5.   Minor, nonobstructive activities such as underground utility lines,
light poles, signposts, driveways, athletic fields, patios, playground
equipment, minor storage buildings not exceeding seventy (70) square feet and
raising buildings on the same footprint which does not involve fill and any
other activity meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 6;
      6.   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the conditions
of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 7;
      7.   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions of
IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 8;
      8.   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit number 9;
      9.   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential buildings
meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 10;
      10.   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the conditions of
IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 11;
      11.   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widening
meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 12;
      12.   Temporary construction activities meeting the conditions of IDNR/
OWR statewide permit number 13;
      13.   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely
within a flood fringe area shall be exempt from state floodway permit
requirements.
   B.   Other development activities not listed in subsection A of this section
may be permitted only if:
      1.   Permit has been issued for the work by IDNR/OWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required), or
      2.   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA when necessary, and
approval obtained from FEMA for a revision of the regulatory map and base flood
elevation. (Ord. 863, 2-13-2017)
5-11-7: PROTECTING BUILDINGS:
   A.   In addition to the state permit and damage prevention requirements of
section
5-11-6 of this chapter, all buildings located in the floodplain shall be
protected from flood damage below the flood protection elevation. This building
protection requirement applies to the following situations:
      1.   Construction or placement of a new building or alteration or
addition to an existing building valued at more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or seventy (70) square feet.
      2.   Substantial improvements or structural alterations made to an
existing building that increase the floor area by more than twenty percent
(20%) or equal or exceed the market value by fifty percent (50%). Alteration
shall be figured cumulatively subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. If
substantially improved, the existing structure and the addition must meet the
flood protection standards of this section.
      3.   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. If
substantially damaged the entire structure must meet the flood protection
standards of this section within twenty four (24) months of the date the damage
occurred.
      4.   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. (The building protection requirements do not apply to
returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage.)
      5.   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than one hundred eighty (180) days per year.
      6.   "Repetitive loss" to an existing building as defined in section
5-11-2 of this chapter.
   B.   Residential or nonresidential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by one of the following methods:
      1.   The building may be constructed on permanent land fill in accordance
with the following:
         a.   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation.
         b.   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
(6") before compaction and should extend at least ten feet (10') beyond the
foundation before sloping below the flood protection elevation.
         c.   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or other structural measure.
         d.   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporated
debris or refuse material, and
         e.   Shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage from or
onto neighboring properties and when necessary stormwater management techniques
such as swales or basins shall be incorporated.
      2.   The building may be elevated on solid walls in accordance with the
following:
         a.   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls, crawl space, or other foundation that is permanently open to
floodwaters.
         b.   All components located below the flood protection elevation shall
be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage.
         c.   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at
or above the flood protection elevation.
         d.   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the flood protection
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs must either be certified by a licensed
professional engineer or by having a minimum of one permanent opening on each
wall no more than one foot (1') above grade with a minimum of two (2) openings.
The openings shall provide a total net area of not less than one square inch
for every one square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding below the base
flood elevation, and
         e.   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored,
designed, and certified so as to minimize exposure to hydrodynamic forces such
as current, waves, ice, and floating debris.
            (1)   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps, and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation provided they are waterproofed.
            (2)   The area below the flood protection elevation shall be used
solely for parking or building access and not later modified or occupied as
habitable space, or
            (3)   In lieu of the above criteria, the design methods to comply
with these requirements may be certified by a licensed professional engineer or
architect.
      3.   The building may be constructed with a crawl space located below the
flood protection elevation provided that the following conditions are met:
         a.   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
         b.   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall have
openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. A minimum of one opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than one square inch per one square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than one foot (1') above grade.
         c.   The interior grade of the crawl space below the flood protection
elevation must not be more than two feet (2') below the lowest adjacent
exterior grade.
         d.   The interior height of the crawl space measured from the interior
grade of the crawl to the top of the foundations wall must not exceed four feet
(4') at any point.
         e.   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawl space within a reasonable
period of time after a flood event.
         f.   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation
must be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage, and
         g.   Utility systems within the crawl space must be elevated above the
flood protection elevation.
   C.   Nonresidential buildings may be structurally dry floodproofed (in lieu
of elevation) provided a licensed professional engineer or architect certifies
that:
      1.   Below the flood protection elevation the structure and attendant
utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood.
      2.   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration, rate of
rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy, and the
impact from debris and ice.
      3.   Floodproofing measures will be incorporated into the building design
and operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity.
      4.   Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
floodproofing for the purpose of this subsection.
   D.   Manufactured homes or travel trailers to be permanently installed on
site shall be:
      1.   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation in accordance
with subsection B of this section, and
      2.   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement by being
tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations for the Illinois mobile
home tie-down act issued pursuant to 77 Illinois administrative code section
870.
   E.   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles on site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days per year shall meet the elevation requirements of
subsection D of this section unless the following conditions are met:
      1.   The vehicle must be either self-propelled or towable by a light duty
truck.
      2.   The hitch must remain on the vehicle at all times.
      3.   The vehicle must not be attached to external structures such as
decks and porches.
      4.   The vehicle must be designed solely for recreation, camping, travel,
or seasonal use rather than as a permanent dwelling.
      5.   The vehicle's largest horizontal projections must be no larger than
four hundred (400) square feet.
      6.   The vehicle's wheels must remain on axles and inflated.
      7.   Air conditioning units must be attached to the frame so as to be
safe for movement of the floodplain.
      8.   Propane tanks as well as electrical and sewage connections must be
quick disconnect.
      9.   The vehicle must be licensed and titled as a recreational vehicle or
park model, and
      10.   Must either:
         a.   Entirely be supported by jacks, or
         b.   Have a hitch jack permanently mounted, have the tires touching
the ground and be supported by block in a manner that will allow the block to
be easily removed by use of the hitch jack.
   F.   Garages, sheds or other minor accessory structures constructed
ancillary to an existing residential use may be permitted provided the
following conditions are met:
      1.   The garage or shed must be nonhabitable.
      2.   The garage or shed must be used only for the storage of vehicles and
tools and cannot be modified later into another use.
      3.   The garage or shed must be located outside of the floodway or have
the appropriate state and/or federal permits.
      4.   The garage or shed must be on a single-family lot and be accessory
to an existing principal structure on the same lot.
      5.   Below the base flood elevation, the garage or shed must be built of
materials not susceptible to flood damage.
      6.   All utilities, plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
must be elevated above the flood protection elevation.
      7.   The garage or shed must have at least one permanent opening on each
wall not more than one foot (1') above grade with one square inch of opening
for every one square foot of floor area.
      8.   The garage or shed must be less than fifteen thousand dollars
($15,000.00) in market value or replacement cost whichever is greater or less
than five hundred seventy six (576) square feet (24 feet x 24 feet).
      9.   The structure shall be anchored to resist flotation and overturning.
      10.   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers, etc.) shall be stored above the flood protection elevation.
      11.   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implications. (Ord. 863, 2-13-2017)
5-11-8: SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS:
The building inspector shall take into account hazards, to the extent that they
are known, in all official actions related to land management use and
development.
   A.   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
planned unit developments, and additions to manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protections
standards of sections
5-11-6 and
5-11-7 of this chapter. Any proposal for such development shall include the
following data:
      1.   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain, where
the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the applicant
shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation;
      2.   The boundary of the floodway when applicable; and
      3.   A signed statement by a licensed professional engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the plat act 1 .
Streets, blocks, lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located and laid
out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and channels.
Wherever possible the floodplains shall be included within parks or other
public grounds. (Ord. 863, 2-13-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. 765 ILCS 205/2.
5-11-9: PUBLIC HEALTH AND OTHER STANDARDS:
   A.   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development. In
addition to the requirements of sections
5-11-6 and
5-11-7 of this chapter the following standards apply:
      1.   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants, or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation unless
such materials are stored in a floodproofed and anchored storage tank and
certified by a professional engineer or floodproofed building constructed
according to the requirements of section
5-11-7 of this chapter.
      2.   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
      3.   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
      4.   New and replacement on site sanitary sewer lines or waste disposal
systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during flooding. Manholes or other aboveground openings
located below the flood protection elevation shall be watertight.
      5.   Construction of new or substantially improved critical facilities
shall be located outside the limits of the floodplain. Construction of new
critical facilities shall be permitted within the floodplain only if no
feasible alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within
the SFHA shall be elevated or structurally dry floodproofed to the 500-year
flood frequency elevation. In situations where a 500-year flood elevation has
not been determined the flood protection elevation shall be three feet (3')
above the 100-year flood frequency elevation. Floodproofing and sealing
measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be displaced by
or released into floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above the level of
the base flood elevation shall be provided to all critical facilities.
   B.   All other activities defined as "development" shall be designed so as
not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages. (Ord. 863, 2-13-
2017)
5-11-10: CARRYING CAPACITY AND NOTIFICATION:
For all projects involving channel modification, fill, or stream maintenance
(including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse shall be
maintained.
In addition, the city of Marquette Heights shall notify adjacent communities in
writing thirty (30) days prior to the issuance of a permit for the alteration
or relocation of the watercourse. (Ord. 863, 2-13-2017)
5-11-11: VARIANCES:
Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a specific
development proposal, the applicant may apply to the city of Marquette Heights
zoning board for a variance. The city of Marquette Heights zoning board shall
review the applicant's request for a variance and shall submit its
recommendation to the city of Marquette Heights council. The city of Marquette
Heights council may attach such conditions to granting of a variance as it
deems necessary to further the intent of this chapter.
   A.   Conditions: No variance shall be granted unless the applicant
demonstrates that all of the following conditions are met:
      1.   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain.
      2.   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted.
      3.   The relief requested is the minimum necessary.
      4.   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety or
creation of a nuisance.
      5.   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities, or other
public facilities.
      6.   The applicant's circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP, and
      7.   All other state and federal permits have been obtained.
   B.   Notification: The city of Marquette Heights zoning board shall notify
an applicant in writing that a variance from the requirements of the building
protections standards of section
5-11-7 of this chapter that would lessen the degree of protection to a building
will:
      1.   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to twenty
five dollars ($25.00) per one hundred dollars ($100.00) of insurance coverage;
      2.   Increase the risk to life and property; and
      3.   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks and
that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
   C.   Historic Structures:
      1.   Variances to the building protection requirements of section
5-11-7 of this chapter which are requested in connection with reconstruction,
repair, or alteration of a historic site or historic structure as defined in
"historic structures", may be granted using criteria more permissive than the
requirements of sections
5-11-6 and
5-11-7 of this chapter subject to the conditions that:
         a.   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure.
         b.   The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure
being removed as a certified historic structure.
   D.   Agriculture: Any variance granted for an agricultural structure shall
be decided individually based on a case by case analysis of the building's
unique circumstances. Variances granted shall meet the following conditions as
well as those criteria and conditions set forth in this chapter.
In order to minimize flood damages during the 100-year flood and the threat to
public health and safety, the following conditions shall be included for any
variance issued for agricultural structures that are constructed at grade and
wet floodproofed:
      1.   All agricultural structures considered for a variance from the
floodplain management regulations of this chapter shall demonstrate that the
varied structure is located in wide, expansive floodplain areas and no other
alternate location outside of the special flood hazard area exists for the
agricultural structure. Residential structures or animal confinement
facilities, such as farmhouses, cannot be considered agricultural structures.
      2.   Use of the varied structures must be limited to agricultural
purposes in zone A only as identified on the community's flood insurance rate
map (FIRM).
      3.   For any new or substantially damaged agricultural structures, the
exterior and interior building components and elements (i.e., foundation, wall
framing, exterior and interior finishes, flooring, etc.) below the base flood
elevation, must be built with flood resistant materials in accordance with
section
5-11-7 of this chapter.
      4.   The agricultural structures must be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structures in accordance with
section
5-11-7 of this chapter. All of the building's structural components must be
capable of resisting specific flood related forces including hydrostatic,
buoyancy, and hydrodynamic and debris impact forces.
      5.   Any mechanical, electrical, or other utility equipment must be
located above the base flood elevation or floodproofed so that they are
contained within a watertight, floodproofed enclosure that is capable of
resisting damage during flood conditions in accordance with section
5-11-7 of this chapter.
      6.   The NFIP requires that enclosure or foundation walls, subject to the
100-year flood, contain openings that will permit the automatic entry and exit
of floodwaters in accordance with subsection 5-11-7B of this chapter.
      7.   The agricultural structures must comply with the floodplain
management floodway provisions of section
5-11-6 of this chapter. No variances may be issued for agricultural structures
within any designated floodway.
      8.   Wet floodproofing construction techniques must be reviewed and
approved by the floodplain administrator and a registered professional engineer
or architect prior to the issuance of any floodplain development permit for
construction. (Ord. 863, 2-13-2017)
5-11-12: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable for
regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the floodplain will be free
from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on the part of
the city of Marquette Heights or any officer or employee thereof for any flood
damage that results from proper reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision made lawfully thereunder. (Ord. 863, 2-13-2017)
5-11-13: PENALTY:
Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain or failure to
comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed to be a
violation of this chapter. Upon due investigation, the city attorney may
determine that a violation of the minimum standards of this chapter exists. The
city attorney shall notify the owner in writing of such violation.
   A.   If such owner fails after ten (10) days' notice to correct the
violation:
      1.   The city attorney shall make application to the circuit court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order as
the court deems necessary to secure compliance with this chapter.
      2.   Any person who violates this chapter shall upon conviction thereof
be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) or more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
      3.   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues, and
      4.   The city attorney shall record a notice of violation on the title of
the property.
   B.   The city attorney shall inform the owner that any such violation is
considered a wilful act to increase flood damages and therefore may cause
coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
The city of Marquette Heights building inspector is authorized to issue an
order requiring the suspension of the subject development. The stop work order
shall be in writing, indicate the reason for the issuance, and shall order the
action, if necessary, to resolve the circumstances requiring the stop work
order. The stop work order constitutes a suspension of the permit.
No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or revoked until a
hearing is held by the city of Marquette Heights zoning board. Written notice
of such hearing shall be served on the permittee and shall state:
      1.   The grounds for the complaint, reasons for suspension or revocation,
and
      2.   The time and place of the hearing.
At such hearing the permittee shall be given an opportunity to present evidence
on their behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the city of Marquette
Heights zoning board shall determine whether the permit shall be suspended or
revoked.
   C.   Nothing herein shall prevent the city of Marquette Heights from taking
such other lawful action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs
connected therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible. (Ord.
863, 2-13-2017)
CHAPTER 12
HOME OCCUPATIONS
(Rep. by Ord. 943, 12-11-2023)
CHAPTER 13
MOBILE HOMES AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
SECTION:
5-13-1: Definitions
5-13-2: Mobile Home Uses Regulated
5-13-3: Recreational Vehicle Uses Regulated
5-13-4: Standards For Temporary Use Permit
5-13-1: DEFINITIONS:
CAMPING TRAILER: A trailer, not used commercially, constructed with partial
side walls which fold for towing and unfold to provide temporary living
quarters for recreational camping or travel use and of a size or weight not
requiring an overdimension permit when towed on a highway.
MOBILE HOME: Any vehicle or structure so designed and constructed in such a
manner as will permit permanent occupancy thereof as living and sleeping
quarters for one or more persons; or any vehicle or structure so designed and
constructed in such a manner as will permit the conducting of any business,
profession, office or storage use, place of assembly, occupation or trade or
use as a selling or advertising device; and so designed that it is or may be
mounted on wheels and conveyed on a highway, or street, propelled or drawn by
its own or other power.
MOTOR HOME, MINIMOTOR HOME OR VAN CAMPER: A self-contained motor vehicle, not
used commercially, designed or permanently converted to provide living quarters
for recreational camping or travel use, with direct walk-through access to the
living quarters from the driver's seat.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: Every camping trailer, motor home, minimotor home, travel
trailer, truck camper or van camper used primarily for recreational purposes
and not used commercially nor owned by a commercial business.
TRAVEL TRAILER: A trailer, not used commercially, designed to provide living
quarters for recreational camping or travel use, and of a size or weight not
requiring an overdimension permit when towed on a highway.
TRUCK CAMPER: A truck, not used commercially, when equipped with a portable
unit designed to be loaded onto the bed which is suitable to provide temporary
living quarters for recreational, travel or camping use. (Ord. 414, 3-25-1991)
5-13-2: MOBILE HOME USES REGULATED:
   A.   Placement: Except as may be provided for in mobile home parks, it shall
be unlawful within the city limits, for any person to park any mobile home on
any street, public way, parkway, public place or on any private property, or
tract of land, occupied or unoccupied.
   B.   Special Use Permit: A mobile home may be allowed or permitted within a
commercial or industrial district, but not until and unless a special use
permit has been granted therefor, in accordance with the zoning regulations of
the city.
   C.   Temporary Mobile Home Permit: Subject to prior city council approval,
the city clerk may issue a temporary use permit. The permit process requires an
application, council approval and the clerk issuing a permit. (Ord. 414, 3-25-
1991)
5-13-3: RECREATIONAL VEHICLE USES REGULATED:
   A.   Parking: Except as may be provided for in mobile home parks, it shall
be unlawful within the city limits, for any person to park any recreational
vehicle on any property or tract of land for the purpose of occupancy, or the
conducting of any business, profession, office or storage use, place of
assembly, occupation, trade or use as a selling or advertising device.
   B.   Exception: Recreational vehicles of out of town guests may be occupied
during the duration of a visit at a private residence, subject to the parking
regulations set forth in section
11-3-14 of this code.
   C.   Temporary Recreational Vehicle Permit: Subject to prior city council
approval, the city clerk may issue a temporary use permit. The permit process
requires an application, council approval and the clerk issuing a permit. (Ord.
414, 3-25-1991)
5-13-4: STANDARDS FOR TEMPORARY USE PERMIT:
   A.   Considerations Of Issuance: When considering the issuance of any
temporary use permit for any mobile home or recreational vehicle, the city
council shall consider the following factors:
      1.   Intended use of the structure and its compatibility with relation to
the use(s) of contiguous and nearby properties.
      2.   The availability of adequate electrical, plumbing and mechanical
equipment as may be needed for the intended use of the structure.
      3.   The availability of adequate parking as may be needed for the
intended use of the structure.
      4.   The anticipated traffic which will be associated with the intended
use of the structure.
      5.   Any other factors which in the reasonable judgment of the city
council are pertinent to the intended use at the intended location.
   B.   Time Limit: A temporary use permit for a mobile home or recreational
vehicle shall not be issued for any period of time in excess of fourteen (14)
days.
   C.   Permit Fee: No temporary use permit for a mobile home or recreational
vehicle may be granted unless a nonrefundable fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) is
paid at the time the application therefor is filed.
   D.   Exceptions: No temporary use permit shall be required for the use of a
mobile home or recreational vehicle in either of the following instances:
      1.   When a mobile home or recreational vehicle is used in conjunction
with, or as a part of any festival or carnival which has been granted a permit
under section
3-5-2 of this code.
      2.   When a mobile home or recreational vehicle is used in conjunction
with (but not for overnight habitation) any construction project for which a
building permit has been issued by the city, for that period of time from the
issuance of the building project through and including the issuance of a
certificate of occupancy for the structure covered by said building permit.
(Ord. 414, 3-25-1991)
CHAPTER 14
AG AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
5-14-1: Scope Of Regulations
5-14-2: Principal Uses Permitted
5-14-3: Height Regulations
5-14-4: Area Regulations
5-14-5: Uses Permitted With Approval
5-14-1: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
The regulations set forth in this chapter, or set forth elsewhere in this title
when referred to in this chapter, are the regulations of the AG agricultural
district. The AG agricultural district is designed to accommodate limited
agricultural uses, to the extent not inconsistent with other provisions of this
code, and such other uses as are permitted by this chapter. (Ord. 791, 6-13-
2011)
5-14-2: PRINCIPAL USES PERMITTED:
In an agricultural district, no building or land shall be used and no building
shall be erected, except for one or more of the following specified uses,
unless otherwise provided in this title:
Cemeteries.
Churches and places of worship.
Farms on those parcels of land having an area of not less than twenty five (25)
acres, all subject to the health and sanitation provisions of the city, and
provided further, that no farms shall be operated as piggeries or for the
disposal of garbage, sewage, rubbish, offal or rendering plants or for the
slaughtering of animals except such animals as have been raised on the premises
or have been maintained on the premises for at least a period of one year
immediately prior thereto and for the use and consumption by persons residing
on the premises.
Municipal buildings and uses necessary to service adjacent areas, publicly
owned and operated libraries, parks, parkways and recreational facilities.
One-family detached dwellings.
Parks and park land devoted to park and recreation purposes.
Public, parochial and other private elementary schools offering courses in
general education.
Utility and public service buildings and uses when operating requirements
necessitate the locating of such uses within the district in order to serve the
immediate vicinity.
Accessory buildings and uses, customarily incident to any of the above
permitted uses. (Ord. 791, 6-13-2011)
5-14-3: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
No building in an AG district shall exceed three (3) stories or thirty feet
(30') in height. (Ord. 791, 6-13-2011)
5-14-4: AREA REGULATIONS:
   A.   No building or other structure (except fences) shall be located closer
than forty feet (40') from any street, or lot line of the tract.
   B.   No dwelling other than single-family dwellings may be located on any
tract zoned AG, with no more than two (2) per tract, each of which must meet
the minimum regulations applicable to B single-family larger homes district,
and all other applicable ordinances and regulations pertaining to a single-
family residence in a B district. (Ord. 791, 6-13-2011)
5-14-5: USES PERMITTED WITH APPROVAL:
Agricultural uses may be established on parcels having an area of not less than
seven (7) acres and not more than twenty five (25) acres but only through a use
with approval granted by the city council in accordance with the procedures set
forth at sections
5-5-7 through
5-5-13 of the zoning regulations found in this title. Any such use with
approval shall be subject to such conditions as the city council deems
necessary to protect the interests of the public. (Ord. 791, 6-13-2011)
CHAPTER 15
SIGNS
SECTION:
5-15-1: Regulations
5-15-2: Definitions
5-15-3: Permit Not Required
5-15-4: Permit Required
5-15-5: Temporary Signs Requiring A Permit
5-15-6: Restrictions On All Signs
5-15-1: REGULATIONS:
The following conditions shall apply to all signs erected or located in any use
district:
All signs shall conform to all applicable codes and ordinances of the city and,
when a permit is required, shall be approved by the building inspector. The
city may approve signs regardless of the regulations herein. (Ord. 704, 11-14-
2005)
5-15-2: DEFINITIONS:
COMMERCIAL ENTERPRISE: Any action undertaken, with the intent of profit, where
an exchange of money or other items of value occur.
POLITICAL SIGNS: Signs that advocate support or nonsupport of any elected
person, party or political ideal. These signs also include the conveyance of a
political opinion or otherwise express thought regarding any government issue
or action.
SPECIAL EVENT SIGNS: Signs that advertise, promote, direct or otherwise
reference a garage or rummage sale located at a private residence within the
city. (Ord. 704, 11-14-2005)
5-15-3: PERMIT NOT REQUIRED:
   A.   Enumerated: A permit is not required for the following signs:
      1.   Memorial signs or tablets, names of buildings and date of erection,
when cut into any masonry surface or when constructed of bronze or aluminum.
      2.   Traffic or other municipal signs, legal notices, danger and such
temporary emergency or nonadvertising signs as may be approved by the city,
county or state of Illinois.
      3.   Signs advertising the rental, sale and/or lease of the property upon
which it is located.
      4.   Special event signs smaller than twelve (12) square feet.
      5.   Signs that advertise home improvement or construction providing that
they are:
         a.   Located on the property where the work is being done.
         b.   Not allowed to remain for more than thirty (30) days after the
work is complete.
         c.   Do not exceed six (6) square feet.
      6.   Political signs no larger than thirty two (32) square feet.
      7.   Temporary or portable signs erected by a recognized local service
organization for the advertisement of an event within the city. These signs
will be allowed for not more than thirty (30) days without special approval
from the city council.
      8.   Awnings or canopies, only within commercial zoned property. Provided
that the bottoms of valances of such awnings are no less than seven feet six
inches (7'6") above the immediate grade and project no closer than two feet
(2') from the nearest curb or pavement edge. Any awning with vertical supports
reaching the ground shall be considered to be a canopy.
   B.   Restrictions On Signs Not Requiring A Permit:
      1.   Signs shall not be located within the public right of way or on city
property, except:
         a.   Signs that the city council has authorized an exemption.
         b.   Signs that are advertising an event that is sponsored by a
recognized local service organization within the city, upon notification of the
city that the signs are being placed and the duration that they will remain.
         c.   Signs that are adhered to licensed vehicles.
         d.   Real estate signs and signs directing towards open house
locations from nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. Thursday through six o'clock (6:00)
P.M. on Sunday.
      2.   Signs not requiring a permit shall not be illuminated. (Ord. 704,
11-14-2005)
5-15-4: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Requirements: A permit is required for all signs not listed under
section
5-15-3 of this chapter.
   B.   Restrictions On Permanent Signs Requiring A Permit:
      1.   Signs must comply with the building codes as defined under title 4
of this code.
      2.   Temporary or portable signs that are converted to permanent must be
certified by an Illinois licensed professional engineer that the conversion
meets the applicable building codes.
      3.   No sign shall project above or beyond the maximum height of fifty
feet (50') above the ground level.
      4.   Illuminated signs must be constructed such that the illumination is
shielded so as to direct light away from residential districts. (Ord. 704, 11-
14-2005)
5-15-5: TEMPORARY SIGNS REQUIRING A PERMIT:
   A.   Construction Of Signs: Temporary signs must be constructed in such a
manner so as not to create a threat or hazard to people or property within the
city.
   B.   Ground Clearance: The bottom of temporary signs shall not be more than
twelve inches (12") off the ground.
   C.   Height Of Signs: Temporary signs shall not exceed twenty feet (20') in
height from the ground.
   D.   Permits For Temporary Signs:
      1.   Permits will be valid for thirty (30) days.
      2.   Not more than four (4) permits will be authorized within any twelve
(12) month period.
      3.   Permits must be expired for thirty (30) days before an additional
permit can be issued. (Ord. 704, 11-14-2005)
5-15-6: RESTRICTIONS ON ALL SIGNS:
   A.   No sign shall be located in such a manner to impede pedestrian or
vehicular traffic.
   B.   No sign shall be located in such a manner to block, or partially block,
the view of drivers entering or exiting any drive, intersection or roadway
within the city.
   C.   Signs which advertise, promote, direct or otherwise reference a
commercial enterprise shall not be located in residential districts, except for
those specifically allowed herein. (Ord. 704, 11-14-2005)
TITLE 6
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
PREAMBLE
SECTION:
6-1-1: Title
6-1-2: Purpose
6-1-3: Objectives
6-1-4: Jurisdiction
6-1-5: Responsibilities
6-1-5-1: Subdivider's Responsibility
6-1-5-2: Responsibility Of City Officials, Administration
6-1-6: Suitability
6-1-7: Penalty
6-1-1: TITLE:
These regulations shall hereinafter be known, cited and referred to as the
SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE FOR THE CITY OF MARQUETTE HEIGHTS, ILLINOIS. (Ord. 287,
11-8-1982)
6-1-2: PURPOSE:
The city council is called upon to accept subdivisions for and on behalf of the
city, whereby the city assumes certain responsibilities, including
responsibilities for the care and maintenance of the streets and alleys
included in said subdivisions, that for the purpose of the present and future
development of the city, and for the purpose of public health and the safety,
comfort, morals and welfare of the persons living within the territory
governed, the provisions and regulations hereinafter contained shall govern the
subdividing and platting of lands lying within the corporate limits of the city
and within one and one-half (11/2) miles thereof, as now or hereafter existing.
(Ord. 287, 11-8-1982)
6-1-3: OBJECTIVES:
Pursuant to the authority conferred by the Illinois Compiled Statutes the
objectives of these regulations are to provide for the orderly, planned,
efficient and economic development of the city; to facilitate adequate
provisions for transportation, water supply, drainage, sanitary sewerage and
health requirements; to achieve individual lots of reasonable utility and
liveability; to encourage adequate provision for open space, recreational
areas, school sites and other public ways and facilities; and to provide
administrative and review procedures for the attainment of these objectives.
(Ord. 287, 11-8-1982)
6-1-4: JURISDICTION:
This subdivision ordinance shall apply to all subdivisions of lands, as defined
herein, located within the corporate limits of the city as shown on the
official map of Marquette Heights and all unincorporated territory within one
and one-half (11/2) miles of the corporate limits. (Ord. 287, 11-8-1982)
6-1-5: RESPONSIBILITIES:
6-1-5-1: SUBDIVIDER'S RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   No land shall be subdivided within the subdivision jurisdiction of the
city unless the subdivider or his agent has:
      1.   Satisfied the zoning requirements as contained in title 5 of this
code and as appropriate the Tazewell County zoning ordinance.
      2.   Submitted required plats of the parcel to the planning commission
through the chairman, and said plats have been submitted and approved by the
city council.
      3.   Obtained a review of the preliminary and final plat by the planning
commission and approval of the preliminary and final plat by the city council.
      4.   Affixed to the plat the seal of the licensed Illinois land surveyor.
   B.   No subdivision of land shall take place unless the final plat, as
approved by the city council, has been filed with the Tazewell County recorder
of deeds.
   C.   No construction of public improvements shall take place within the
subdivision until final plans have been submitted to the city delineating
proposed improvements. The subdivider shall obtain all permits and licenses
required for the proposed construction and pay all costs subject thereto.
   D.   No building permit or certificate of occupancy shall be issued for any
parcel or plat of land which was created by subdivision after the effective
date of, and not in conformance with these subdivision regulations, and no
construction of public or private improvements shall take place or be commenced
except in conformity with this title. (Ord. 530, 3-23-1998)
6-1-5-2: RESPONSIBILITY OF CITY OFFICIALS, ADMINISTRATION:
The responsibility for the administration of this title by the city shall
generally be as follows:
   A.   Planning Commission:
      1.   To review the preliminary plat and advise the subdivider in
preparation of the final plat.
      2.   To require resubmittal of the preliminary plat and final plat if
changes are advised to the subdivider and subsequently review the final plat.
      3.   To make recommendations to the city council on approval or
disapproval of all plats.
      4.   To recommend to the city council any variances to this title
following a public hearing.
      5.   Conduct all public hearings pertaining to this title.
   B.   City Engineer:
      1.   Review all plans and specifications regarding public improvements
required by this title and submit an oral or written report of any
recommendations to the planning commission and city council.
      2.   Inspect all public improvements constructed or installed prior to
the release of the performance bond to ensure said improvements were
constructed or installed in accordance with the plans, specifications and
pertinent data as had been approved by the city council and report the results
of said inspection to the city council.
   C.   City Council:
      1.   Approve or disapprove all preliminary and final plats referred to it
by the planning commission.
      2.   Approve or disapprove, after public hearing, amendments to this
title referred to it by the planning commission or by its own recommendation.
      3.   Approve or disapprove variances to the requirements of this title
referred to it by the planning commission.
      4.   Approve or disapprove intended dedications and, by ordinance,
declare public reservations of land.
      5.   Approve or disapprove requests for or order vacations of streets,
alleys, easements or other public places and compensate justly, accordingly.
      6.   Accept public improvements for maintenance by the city, said
improvements constructed in a subdivision as required by this title. Deny
acceptance for maintenance of public improvements constructed, but not in
conformance with plans, specifications and other pertinent data as required by
this title.
   D.   City Attorney: Review all bonds issued by the subdivider in conjunction
with construction of public improvements as required by this title.
   E.   Reasonably Necessary Acts: Each of the above city officials and bodies
shall perform such acts and functions as reasonably necessary to carry out its
specifically enumerated powers and shall perform such other acts and functions
reasonably necessary to execute and implement the intent of this title. (Ord.
287, 11-8-1982)
6-1-6: SUITABILITY:
Lands subject to flooding and land deemed to be topographically unsuitable
should not be subdivided for residential purposes, nor for such other uses as
may increase the danger to health, life or property or aggravate erosion or
floods. The city participates in the federal flood control program and a map
designating flood prone areas may be obtained from the city clerk.
The city planning commission shall not approve the subdivision land if upon
adequate investigation the planning commission determines that in the best
interest of the public the site is not suited for the proposed subdivision.
(Ord. 287, 11-8-1982)
6-1-7: PENALTY:
Any person or other entity who or which violates any provision of this title,
or who undertakes any activity or performs any act in violation of, or without
having first obtained any approval or authorization as required in this title,
shall be subject to a penalty of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00)
nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 436, 11-23-1992)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: General Rules
6-2-2: Terms Defined
6-2-1: GENERAL RULES:
For the purpose of these regulations certain terms are herewith defined. When
not inconsistent with the context, the present tense includes the past and
future; words used in the singular number include the plural number. A word in
the masculine gender shall include the feminine and neuter genders. The word
"building" includes structure and shall be construed as if followed by the
words "or portion thereof". The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely
permissive. Any term not defined herein shall have the meaning of common or
standard use. (Ord. 287, 11-8-1982)
6-2-2: TERMS DEFINED:
ALLEY: A public thoroughfare which affords only a secondary means of access to
abutting property.
AREA GENERAL PLAN: A general plan prepared by the subdivider, or subdividers,
for the progressive development of a large landholding, or several properties
proposed to be subdivided by sections, meeting the requirements of these
regulations.
BLOCK: Property abutting on one side of a street, and lying between the two (2)
nearest intersecting or intercepting streets, or between the nearest
intersecting or intercepting street and railroad right of way, waterway or
other definite barrier.
BLOCK FACE: Property having frontage on one side of a street and lying between
the two (2) nearest intersecting streets, or nearest intersecting or
intercepting street and railroad right of way, waterway or other barrier.
BOULEVARD: A street, other than a freeway or an expressway, developed with two
(2) lane, one-way pavements separated by a landscaped island, median or
barrier.
BUILDING PERMIT: A permit authorizing construction or alteration of a structure
which is issued and administered in accordance with section
4-1-1 of this code.
BUILDING SETBACK LINE: A line within a lot or other parcel of land so
designated on the plat of the proposed subdivision between which and the
adjacent boundary of the street upon which the lot abuts, the erection of an
enclosed structure or portion thereof is prohibited.
CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY: A certificate authorizing a building or premises to
be occupied which is issued and administered in accordance with section
5-10-1 of this code.
CITY: The city of Marquette Heights.
CITY COUNCIL: The elected governing body of the city consisting of the mayor,
aldermen, clerk and treasurer.
CIVIL DIVISION LINE: The boundary line for utilities, jurisdiction or service
areas or schools, township, fire district, utilities, etc.
CROSSWALK: A public or private right of way across a block to be used by
pedestrians and/or for underground utilities.
CUL-DE-SAC: A local street having one open end, and being terminated at the
other by a vehicular turnaround.
CULVERT: A transverse drain pipe that channels water under a street or
driveway.
DEDICATION: The deliberate appropriation of land by its owner for any general
public uses, reserving to himself no other right than such as are compatible
with the full exercise and enjoyment of the public uses to which the property
has been devoted.
DRAINAGE BASIN: An area of land which, because of the nature of the topography,
collects naturally the surface drainage of the surrounding land.
EASEMENT: The quantity of land set aside or over which a liberty, privilege or
advantage in land without profit existing distinct from the ownership of the
land is granted to the public or some particular person or part of the public.
ENGINEER: A professional engineer, employed by the developer, registered as
such and licensed to practice in the state of Illinois or qualified to practice
as provided by the Illinois Compiled Statutes.
ENGINEER, CITY: A professional engineer, registered as such and licensed to
practice in the state of Illinois, and employed by the city council of the city
of Marquette Heights.
FINAL PLAT: A drawing of a subdivision which has been accurately surveyed and
such survey marked on the ground so that streets, alleys, blocks, lots or other
divisions thereof can be identified.
FLOOD: An overflow of water on lands adjacent to a river, stream, lake not
normally covered by water.
FLOODPLAIN: The land adjacent to a body of water which has been or may be
hereafter covered by floodwater.
LOT: A portion of a subdivision, or other parcel of land intended as a unit for
transfer of ownership or for development.
LOT AREA: The horizontal projection (in square feet) of a parcel of land or a
body of water, or combination of both, exclusive of any portion of the right of
way of any public or private streets; measurements are to be made by standard
surveying practice methods.
LOT, CORNER: A parcel of land at the junction of and fronting or abutting on
two (2) or more intersecting streets.
LOT DEPTH: The average distance between the front and rear line of a lot
measured in the general direction of its side lot lines.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot.
LOT WIDTH: For regular shaped lots, the average distance between the side lines
of a lot measured at right angles to the depth of the lot. For pie shaped lots
the lot width shall be measured in the building setback line.
MONUMENT: A physical structure which marks the location of a lot corner or
other survey point as required by provisions contained herein.
OWNER: Any person having any legal, equitable or beneficial interest in the
land sought to be subdivided, including the plural as well as the singular, and
firm, association, partnership, private corporation, or combination of any of
them responsible for the development of the property and construction of
required public improvements.
PLANNING COMMISSION: The designated body per title 2, chapter 2 of this code
whose responsibility is orderly planning.
PRELIMINARY PLAT: A preliminary drawing and supporting data, indicating the
proposed layout of the subdivision in sufficient detail to provide adequate
basis for review by the city of Marquette Heights, meeting the requirements of
these regulations.
PUBLIC: Property or population subject to jurisdiction of governmental entity.
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS: Street pavements, public walkways, monuments, water mains,
sanitary and storm sewers, street signs, culverts and appurtenances to the
foregoing items and for use by the public.
PUBLIC WALKWAY: A right of way dedicated for the purpose of pedestrian access
and located so as to connect two (2) or more streets, or a street and a public
land parcel, or any two (2) public parcels of land.
QUASI-PUBLIC: Privately owned facilities or property maintained for use and
service to the general population.
REPRODUCIBLE COPY: A print or copy of a plat or drawing on transparent film or
of adequate weight to withstand handling.
SETBACK LINE: The line within a property defining the required minimum distance
between any enclosed structure and the adjacent or proposed right of way line
of a street.
SIDEWALK: A pedestrian walkway within the public road right of way or easement.
SKETCH PLAN: A preliminary drawing indicating the proposed general development
of the area to be subdivided.
STREET (HIGHWAY): A right of way, whether designated as a street, highway,
road, lane, court, thoroughfare, parkway, freeway, expressway, boulevard or
avenue, other than an alley or place, usually affording the principal means of
access to abutting property.
STREET, ARTERIAL: A public thoroughfare with high traffic projections and
service as a through route.
STREET, COLLECTOR: A street which carries traffic from local streets to the
arterial street system, including the principal entrance streets of a
development and the primary circulating streets within such a development.
STREET LINE: The dividing line between the street or highway right of way and
the lot.
STREET, LOCAL: A street providing direct access to abutting properties and is
not subject to through traffic.
SUBDIVIDER: See the definition of Owner.
SUBDIVISION: A division of a lot, tract, or parcel of land into two (2) or more
lots, or other divisions of land, for the purpose whether immediate or future,
of: a) transfer of ownership; b) building development; or c) redevelopment,
including all changes in street lines, provided that divisions of land for
agricultural purposes in parcels of five (5) acres or more not involving any
new street or easement of access, and other enumerated situations shall be
exempted as set forth in 765 Illinois Compiled Statutes.
SURVEYOR: A professional land surveyor licensed as such in the state of
Illinois as provided in the Illinois Compiled Statutes.
TENTATIVE APPROVAL: An approval without or with recommended alterations given
to a preliminary plat by the commission and provides the necessary authority to
proceed with the preparation and presentation of the final plat.
VARIANCE: A modification of the strict terms of the relevant regulations where
such modification will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing
to conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the action of the
applicant, literal enforcement of the regulations would result in unnecessary
and undue hardship.
VICINITY MAP: A drawing located on the preliminary plat which sets forth by
dimensions or other means, the relationship of the proposed subdivision or use
to other nearby developments, landmarks, community facilities or services.
(Ord. 530, 3-23-1998)
CHAPTER 3
PROCEDURES
SECTION:
6-3-1: Submission Phases
6-3-2: Preapplication Phase
6-3-2-1: Purpose
6-3-2-2: Procedure
6-3-2-3: Processing
6-3-2-4: Review
6-3-2-5: Inspection
6-3-2-6: Area General Plan Submission
6-3-3: Preliminary Plat Submission
6-3-3-1: Purpose
6-3-3-2: Waiver Of Requirement
6-3-3-3: Copies Required
6-3-3-4: Information Required
6-3-3-5: Procedures For Submission
6-3-3-6: Procedures For Review And Approval
6-3-3-7: Preliminary Plat Approval
6-3-4: Final Plat Submission
6-3-4-1: Copies Required
6-3-4-2: Information Required
6-3-5: Final Plat Approval
6-3-5-1: Planning Commission Recommendations
6-3-5-2: Denial
6-3-5-3: Approval
6-3-5-4: Certificate
6-3-6: City Council Action On Final Plat
6-3-6-1: Final Approval
6-3-7: Procedures For Resubdividing And Replatting Recorded Lots And For
Vacation Of Plats
6-3-7-1: Procedure For Resubdivision
6-3-7-2: Procedure For Subdivisions Where Future Resubdivision Is Indicated
6-3-7-3: Vacation Of Plats
6-3-1: SUBMISSION PHASES:
Subdivision planning, review and approval shall proceed through the following
sequential phases:
   A.   Preapplication phase.
   B.   Preliminary plat review and approval phase.
   C.   Final plat review and approval phase.
   D.   Recording phase. (Ord. 287, 11-8-1982)
6-3-2: PREAPPLICATION PHASE:
6-3-2-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the preapplication phase, insofar as possible, is to guide and
assist the subdivider in his future decisions with a view to avoiding later
difficulties and delays. During an informal meeting with the planning
commission, the subdivider should make known his tentative plans for
subdividing and development. Sketch plans may be submitted as exhibits and
shall be apprised by the planning commission concerning specific public
policies and objectives which the planning commission may have for the area in
question. Discussions at this phase will include the entire area of ownership
and anticipated development. (Ord. 287, 11-8-1982)
6-3-2-2: PROCEDURE:
A preapplication conference may be requested by all subdividers prior to
initial plat applications. Subdividers may contact the chairman of the planning
commission to arrange a preapplication conference. Subdividers may submit an
area general plan with material sufficient to identify the tract and establish
the relationship of the proposed development with surrounding area. (Ord. 287,
11-8-1982)
6-3-2-3: PROCESSING:
Upon a request for a preapplication conference, the chairman of the planning
commission shall schedule the preapplication conference within thirty five (35)
days of the date of the request. All materials will be considered as submitted
for informal discussion. Discussions will involve the proposals in compliance
with these regulations, determination of the scope of the proposed subdivision,
an outline of the procedures for the recording of plats and general information
exchange. No approvals will result from this conference; however, the planning
commission may make recommendations on the scope of the initial plat
application by the subdivider, continuity of the proposed subdivision, and
other factors based on peculiarities of the area in which the subdivision is
proposed. (Ord. 287, 11-8-1982)
6-3-2-4: REVIEW:
Review of any material submitted by the subdivider during the preapplication
phase shall be made by the planning commission. Any sketch plan or area general
plan submitted shall be studied with regard to the best principles of land
subdividing and development; to lot sizes, and proportions; to existing and
planned land uses; to topography and drainage; to provisions for recreation
areas, public open space, schools, parks and other public facilities; to design
and location of streets; and to conformity with the continuity of existing
street systems, walkways and related matters. (Ord. 287, 11-8-1982)
6-3-2-5: INSPECTION:
The planning commission may make an inspection of the site to determine its
relationship to and effect upon major thoroughfares, utility systems, and
adjacent land uses (existing and planned) and ascertain the existence of any
unusual problems; and shall determine:
   A.   The conformity of the proposed development to existing zoning
regulations, existing roadway patterns and municipal development plans and
policies.
   B.   The effect of the proposed development upon schools, public open spaces
and other nearby community facilities.
   C.   The need for preparation and review of an area general plan prior to
consideration of the preliminary plat. (Ord. 287, 11-8-1982)
6-3-2-6: AREA GENERAL PLAN SUBMISSION:
An area general plan may, or if required shall, be prepared and submitted by
the subdivider for approval by the planning commission, prior to the submission
of the initial preliminary plat. The planning commission shall determine that
either of the following conditions exists to warrant a requirement of
preparation and submission of an area general plan:
   A.   The parcel initially proposed for platting constitutes a portion of a
larger tract of land owned, or under option to purchase by the subdivider.
   B.   The parcel initially proposed for platting constitutes a portion of a
larger land area, the development of which will be complicated by unusual
problems of drainage, street layout, utility services, land usage, or land
ownership pattern.
The area general plan shall show property boundaries, existing easements, land
characteristics including wetlands, drainage, floodprone areas as identified on
flood prone area maps of the flood insurance agency, wooded areas and major
topographic features, development characteristics, streets, existing building,
sewer lines, water lines and pipelines. Also to be shown in the area general
plan are the proposed general pattern traffic flows of streets, proposed land
use in the area or other public areas. The area general plan shall be prepared
to a proper scale of one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100') or larger,
and to proper accuracy.
The planning commission shall review the area general plan at a regular meeting
for compliance with these regulations and applicable municipal development
plans, or parts thereof. Commission action shall take the form of approval or
denial within thirty (30) days following the complete submittal of the area
general plan and such action shall be indicated on the area general plan. (Ord.
287, 11-8-1982)
6-3-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT SUBMISSION:
6-3-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the preliminary plat phase, insofar as possible, is to assist
the subdivider and the reviewing authorities in determining whether the
proposed subdivision conforms to the standards and requirements of these
regulations and as applicable, the tentative approved area general plan. The
preliminary plat is the document which shall be used for review by the planning
commission. (Ord. 287, 11-8-1982)
6-3-3-2: WAIVER OF REQUIREMENT:
Where any tract of land within the city limits is to be divided into less than
five (5) lots of less than five (5) acres each and no public improvements are
required, the planning commission may waive the requirements for a preliminary
plat. The requirements for a final plat shall continue to be in effect.
When the planning commission does waive the aforesaid requirements for a
preliminary plat, no further subdivision of adjacent land owned by the same
beneficial interests shall be considered for subdivision within five (5) years
without full compliance with the requirements for a preliminary plat. (Ord.
287, 11-8-1982)
6-3-3-3: COPIES REQUIRED:
When a preliminary plat is required, and the zoning requirements have been
satisfied, the subdivider shall submit to the chairman of the planning
commission five (5) copies of the preliminary plat fourteen (14) calendar days
prior to the next regular meeting of the planning commission. Two (2) copies
shall be submitted directly to the city engineer. (Ord. 287, 11-8-1982)
6-3-3-4: INFORMATION REQUIRED:
The preliminary plat shall be prepared by a registered engineer and a surveyor.
The following items and information shall be shown on the preliminary plat; all
mapped data shall be presented at a scale of one inch to one hundred feet (1" =
100') or larger:
   A.   General Information:
      1.   The proposed name of the subdivision; owner, engineer's and
surveyor's names and addresses.
      2.   The location of the subdivision by township section for reference;
section or quarter section corners shall be indicated.
      3.   The graphic scale, north arrow, and date of preparation.
   B.   Existing Conditions:
      1.   The locations, width, and names of all existing public and/or
private streets, railroads or other public ways and utility rights of way
within and/or adjacent to the tract to within two hundred feet (200') of the
boundary of the tract.
      2.   The locations and size of all existing sanitary sewerage, water
mains and appurtenances, storm drainage, known field drainage tile or other
known underground facilities, mines or entrances, within the tract or near the
tract, and any such known facilities entering or exiting the tract.
      3.   The topography, by contour intervals of not greater than two feet
(2') on grades less than ten percent (10%) related to mean sea level.
      4.   The location and identification of all public and quasi-public areas
and civil division lines within and/or adjacent to the tract, to within two
hundred feet (200') of the boundary of the tract.
      5.   The location and identification of all recorded subdivisions lying
adjacent to, or across a public right of way from, the tract.
      6.   The acreage and identification of the drainage basin or basins that
lie upstream from the tract of land that is proposed for subdivision.
      7.   The location and identification of all existing manmade features
such as buildings, high tension towers, public water and sewer lines,
pipelines, excavations, bridges, railroad tracts, culverts and related items
within and/or adjacent to the tract, to within two hundred feet (200') of the
boundary of the tract proposed to be subdivided. The preliminary plat shall
note the location of the nearest public sewer and public water lines.
      8.   The location of existing streams, rivers, drains, lakes, ponds and
impoundments within and/or adjacent to the tract, to within two hundred feet
(200') of the boundary of the tract.
      9.   The land use and existing zoning of the proposed subdivision and
adjacent tracts.
      10.   Boundary line of proposed subdivision indicated by solid heavy line
so designated and the total approximate acreage encompassed thereby.
   C.   Proposed Conditions:
      1.   The locations, width and names of proposed streets and right of way
widths including connections to adjoining public and/or private street rights
of way.
      2.   The location and width of walkways and easements including
connections to adjoining public lands and public and/or private walkways and
easements.
      3.   All lots, including the required setback lines and scaled dimensions
of typical lots. All blocks and lots contained on the proposed plat must be
numbered in consecutive order.
      4.   The location and acreage of any proposed public and/or quasi- public
land within the tract.
      5.   The plan of any proposed watercourses or impoundments including
stream relocations, showing normal water levels and direction of flow.
      6.   The provisions for water supply, sewage disposal, and stormwater
disposal indicated by a general drainage plan of sufficient detail to show how
the water will be moved over the site, and subsurface drainage including
provisions for continual maintenance of natural drainage courses and field
drainage tile systems. Known on site field drainage tile systems serving areas
off the site shall be located in designated easements.
      7.   The developer shall mail two (2) prints of the preliminary plat to
Central Telephone Company of Illinois, c/o engineering department; two (2)
prints of the preliminary plat to Central Illinois Light Company; and one print
to the Tazewell County superintendent of highways, Pekin, Illinois; and one
print to locally franchised television subscription service. (Ord. 287, 11-8-
1982)
6-3-3-5: PROCEDURES FOR SUBMISSION:
Subdividers shall submit:
   A.   Five (5) copies of the preliminary plat.
   B.   A reduction of the preliminary plat or sketch showing lots and streets
submitted on an eight and one-half inch by eleven inch (81/2" x 11") sheet.
   C.   Supportive material to the chairman of the planning commission at least
fourteen (14) calendar days prior to the planning commission meeting at which
the subdivider wishes the plat considered.
The preliminary plat for a subdivision within the corporate limits or within
the jurisdictional area shall be accompanied by a filing fee of three hundred
dollars ($300.00) plus an additional fifteen dollars ($15.00) for each lot in
excess of twenty (20) lots. The payment shall be made to the city. (Ord. 287,
11-8-1982)
6-3-3-6: PROCEDURES FOR REVIEW AND APPROVAL:
The planning commission shall examine the preliminary plat for compliance with
these regulations with special attention given to the following:
   A.   Design standards and information requirements as set forth by these
regulations.
   B.   Streets and thoroughfares as related to neighborhood circulation and
existing and proposed topography.
   C.   Existing zoning and existing and planned land use.
   D.   Land required for schools, parks or other public use.
   E.   Utility methods and systems, drainage and street improvement.
   F.   Watercourses. (Ord. 287, 11-8-1982)
6-3-3-7: PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL:
   A.   If requirements pertaining to the preliminary plat have been satisfied,
the chairman of the planning commission will present the preliminary plat to
the planning commission at the next regular meeting. The subdivider or a
responsible representative shall attend this meeting. The planning commission
shall either:
      1.   Recommend denial of approval of the preliminary plat.
      2.   Recommend approval of the preliminary plat.
      3.   Recommend approval of the preliminary plat, subject to minor
modifications.
   B.   If the planning commission recommends denial of approval of the
preliminary plat, the reasons for the recommendation for denial shall be
clearly set forth and communicated to the subdivider.
   C.   If the planning commission recommends approval of the preliminary plat,
it shall be so executed at that time. The original preliminary plat and two (2)
copies must be executed.
   D.   The chairman of the planning commission shall then submit the
recommendation of the planning commission to the city council for their review,
consideration and approval.
   E.   The approval of the preliminary plat by the city council shall be in
effect for a period of one year from the approval date. If the final plat and
subdivision improvement plans and specifications have not been filed on or
before this date, then the preliminary plat approval shall become null and
void.
   F.   On the preliminary plat the following certificate shall appear:
            PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL
The preliminary plat entitled                      has received approval by the
Planning Commission of the City of Marquette Heights, Illinois, this         
day of                , 19        .
            Chairman
            PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL
The preliminary plat entitled                           has received approval
by the City Council of the City of Marquette Heights, Illinois, this         
day of                , 19        .
            Mayor
Clerk
(Ord. 287, 11-8-1982)
6-3-4: FINAL PLAT SUBMISSION:
6-3-4-1: COPIES REQUIRED:
At any time within one year after receiving preliminary plat approval, the
subdivider shall submit to the chairman of the planning commission five (5)
copies of the final plat fourteen (14) calendar days prior to any regular
meeting of the planning commission. The subdivider shall submit to the city
engineer two (2) copies of the engineering plans and specifications for the
subdivision with two (2) copies of the final plat. (Ord. 287, 11-8-1982)
6-3-4-2: INFORMATION REQUIRED:
The final plat shall contain or be accompanied by the information herein
specified and shall comply with the following requirements:
   A.   General:
      1.   The name of the subdivision.
      2.   The certificate of a registered land surveyor.
      3.   The date of preparation, scale and north arrow. The scale and size
of the plat shall be such that photographic reduction to sixteen inches by
seventeen inches (16" x 17") will not impair the details. Plats in several
sections are permissible. The plat shall be presented at a scale of one inch to
one hundred feet (1" = 100') or larger, except that a different scale may be
used if approved during the preliminary plat phase.
      4.   The location and position of the subdivision indicated in each of
the following ways:
         a.   By quarter section, township, range, meridian, county and state.
         b.   By distances and bearings with reference to a corner or corners
established in the United States public land survey.
         c.   By a written legal description of the exterior boundaries of the
land as surveyed and divided.
      5.   The plat shall comply with the current Illinois Compiled Statutes.
Information which shall appear on the plat or on subsidiary documents:
         a.   The following notation:
A part of the property covered by this plat is (is not) situated within five
hundred feet (500') of a surface drain or watercourse serving a tributary area
of six hundred forty (640) acres or more.
         b.   Location of subdivision relative to city limits.
         c.   The effect of stormwater runoff on other potentially developable
land and the county's streams and open drainage channels, and a subsidiary
drainage plat showing the topography, with certification on its face by the
engineer and owner, stating that to the best of their knowledge and belief the
drainage and surface waters will not be changed by any such subdivision; or if
surface water drainage will be changed, adequate provision has been made for
collection and division of such surface waters into public areas and drains
which the subdivider has a right to use.
      6.   The final plat shall be drawn with ink on either linen cloth or a
stable plastic film.
   B.   Detailed Information:
      1.   Boundary line of proposed subdivisions indicated by solid heavy line
and the total acreage encompassed thereby. The plat shall clearly indicate all
streets, alleys, blocks, lots, parcels, easements, and rights of way. Angular
and linear dimensions shall be shown to describe and/or reproduce any of these
features.
      2.   Abutting street lines of platted, adjoining subdivisions shown in
their correct location.
      3.   The description and location of all subdivision and public land
system survey monuments.
      4.   A consecutive numbering system for all lots and blocks.
      5.   Location and names of all existing or prior platted streets or other
public ways, railroads and utility rights of way, parks and other public open
spaces, permanent easements or prior platted lots within and adjacent to the
subdivision.
      6.   A graphic representation of the minimum setback lines on all lots
and parcels, and a notation of the distance between such lines and the street
line, or lot line.
      7.   Pipes or other equivalent physical markers shall be placed at each
lot corner. All such markers (pipes, deformed reinforcing rod, standard weight
water pipe or Tubeco type survey marker) shall be at least one-half inch (1/2")
diameter by thirty inch (30") minimum length. Iron pipe encased in concrete at
least four inches by four inches by forty two inches (4" x 4" x 42"), or
equivalent, markers shall be placed at the beginning and ending of all curves
and at all block corners. All monuments shall be imprinted with the
registration number of the surveyor making the survey and shall be described on
the plat.
      8.   The final plat shall be accompanied by:
         a.   All covenants, agreements, and deed restrictions which are to be
imposed by the subdivider on future owners of lots within the subdivision once
approved.
         b.   A notarized certification by owner and by mortgage holder of
record, of the adoption of the plat and the dedication of streets and other
public areas, and any restrictions as to usage, buildings, occupancy, etc. See
partial form as follows in this subsection.
         c.   Certification from the county clerk that all taxes and special
assessments due on the property to be subdivided have been paid in full as
required by statutes.
         d.   Certification from the city treasurer that all special
assessments due on the property to be subdivided have been paid in full (not
required for subdivision out of city limits).
         e.   Certificates to appear on subsidiary drainage plat:
To the best of our knowledge and belief adequate provisions have been made for
the collection and diversion of surface waters into public areas, or drains
which the subdivider has the right to use, and that such surface waters will
not be deposited on the property of adjoining landowners in such concentrations
as may cause damage to the adjoining property because of the construction of
                          subdivision.
         Developer's Engineer and Registration Number
         Owner's Name or Attorney
      9.   A subsidiary drainage plat shall be filed in accordance with the
following requirements:
         a.   Show topographically and by profile the elevation of the land,
prior to the commencement of any change in the elevations, by contours at not
greater than a two foot (2') interval on slopes less than ten percent (10%) and
extending one hundred feet (100') beyond the exterior boundaries of the
subdivision.
         b.   Show proposed changes in the elevations and the flow of surface
water from the subdivision.
   C.   Performance Guarantee: Performance guarantee shall be on file and
remain in effect for one year after final acceptance of the public improvements
by the city. This shall be one of the following:
      1.   Performance bond as approved by city attorney.
      2.   Certificate of deposit as approved by city attorney.
      3.   Cash.
The performance guarantee shall be based on the estimated value of the public
improvements at the time of approval of the subdivision, ensuring the city
adequate coverage to secure the satisfactory construction, installation and
dedication of the uncompleted portions of the required improvements. The city
attorney shall approve such performance guarantee only after a recommendation
of approval of the amount of the guarantee is received from the city engineer.
The amount of the performance bond, whether guaranteed by the corporate surety,
a certificate of deposit, or cash, shall be one hundred ten percent (110%) of
the estimated value of construction of the public improvements has not
commenced. If construction of the public improvements was commenced prior to
approval of the subdivision, the amount of the performance bond shall be two
hundred percent (200%) of the estimated cost of completing the remaining public
improvements. (Ord. 287, 11-8-1982)
6-3-5: FINAL PLAT APPROVAL:
6-3-5-1: PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDATIONS:
If all of the above requirements have been satisfied, the chairman of the
planning commission will present the final plat to the commission at the next
regular meeting. The commission shall make one of the following recommendations
to the city council:
   A.   Deny approval of the final plat.
   B.   Recommend approval of the final plat.
   C.   Recommend approval of the final plat, subject to the minor
modifications. (Ord. 287, 11-8-1982)
6-3-5-2: DENIAL:
If the planning commission recommends denial of approval of the final plat, the
reason for denial shall be clearly set forth and communicated to the
subdivider. (Ord. 287, 11-8-1982)
6-3-5-3: APPROVAL:
If the planning commission recommends to the city council approval of the final
plat, it shall be so executed at that time. The original plat and two (2)
copies shall be executed by the planning commission. The chairman of the
commission shall then present the final plat to the city council at its next
regular meeting and inform them of their recommendation. At the same council
meeting, the city engineer shall present the engineer plans and specifications
for the subdivision. At that time, the city council shall approve or disapprove
the final plat, and the engineering plans and specifications and shall state
their reasons for their actions. In the event the city council disapproves
either the plat or the engineering plans and specifications, the subdivider has
one year from the date of such disapproval to make the corrections and resubmit
to the city council; otherwise, the prior approval of the planning commission
and/or the approval of the city engineer shall become null and void. (Ord. 287,
11-8-1982)
6-3-5-4: CERTIFICATE:
On the final plat, the following certificate shall appear:
   FINAL PLAT APPROVAL
The Final Plat entitled                                has received a
recommendation for (approval) (disapproval) by the Planning Commission of the
City of Marquette Heights, Illinois, this          day of                ,
19        .
            Chairman
(Ord. 287, 11-8-1982)
6-3-6: CITY COUNCIL ACTION ON FINAL PLAT:
6-3-6-1: FINAL APPROVAL:
The city council shall not give final approval to any proposed subdivision
until:
   A.   The planning commission has recommended approval or disapproval of the
final plat.
   B.   The city engineer has recommended approval or disapproval of the
subdivision improvement plans and specifications.
   C.   The subdivider presents his performance guarantee in the amount and
form in accordance with these regulations and as approved by the city attorney.
   D.   The city council, after receiving recommendations from the planning
commission and city engineer shall then consider the final plat of the proposed
subdivision.
The following certificate shall appear on the final plat directly below the
planning commission certificate:
The final plat entitled                       has received approval by the City
Council of the City of Marquette Heights, Illinois. This plat shall be recorded
with the Recorder of Deeds, Tazewell County, Illinois, within one year of this
date, otherwise this plat shall become VOID.
      Mayor      Date
      City Clerk      Date
(SEAL)
The following certificate shall appear on the cover sheet of the engineering
plans for the subdivision:
            APPROVAL BY THE CITY OF MARQUETTE HEIGHTS
The plans and specifications for
                                                   has received a
recommendation for (approval) (disapproval) by the City Engineer.
      City Engineer      Date
      Attest      Date
The plans and specifications for
                                                   have received approval by
the City Council of the City of Marquette Heights.
      Mayor      Date
      City Clerk      Date
After approval of the final plat, plans and specifications by the city council,
the final plat shall be recorded by the subdivider. (Ord. 287, 11-8-1982)
6-3-7: PROCEDURES FOR RESUBDIVIDING AND REPLATTING RECORDED LOTS AND FOR
VACATION OF PLATS:
All regulations, procedures and standards made applicable herein to original
subdividing shall also apply to the resubdividing and replatting of a plat or
parts thereof, as provided by these regulations. (Ord. 287, 11-8-1982)
6-3-7-1: PROCEDURE FOR RESUBDIVISION:
For any change in a map of an approved or recorded subdivision plat, if such
change affects any street layout shown on such map, or area reserved thereon
for public use, or any lot line, or if it affects any map or plan legally
reached prior to the adoption of any regulations controlling subdivision, such
parcel shall be approved by the planning commission and city council by the
same procedure, rules and regulations as for a subdivision. (Ord. 287, 11-8-
1982)
6-3-7-2: PROCEDURE FOR SUBDIVISIONS WHERE FUTURE RESUBDIVISION IS INDICATED:
Whenever a parcel of land is subdivided and the subdivision plat shows one or
more lots containing more than one acre of land and there are indications that
such lots will eventually be resubdivided into small building sites, the
planning commission and city council may require that such parcel of land allow
for the future opening of streets and the ultimate extension of adjacent
streets. Easements providing for the future opening and extension of such
streets may be made a requirement of the plat. (Ord. 287, 11-8-1982)
6-3-7-3: VACATION OF PLATS:
Any plat or any part of any plat may be vacated by the owner of the premises,
at any time before the sale of any lot therein, by a written instrument, to
which a copy of such plat shall be attached, declaring the same to be vacated.
Such an instrument shall be approved by the planning commission and the city
council in like manner as plats of subdivisions. The governing body may reject
any such instrument which abridges or destroys any public rights in any of its
public uses, improvements, streets or alleys.
Such an instrument shall be executed, acknowledged or approved, and recorded
and filed, in like manner as plats of subdivisions; and being duly recorded or
filed shall operate to destroy the force and effect of the recording of the
plat so vacated, and to divest all public rights in the streets, alleys, and
public grounds, and all dedications laid out or described in such plat.
When lots have been sold, the plat may be vacated in the manner herein provided
by all the owners of lots in such plat joining in the execution of such
writing. (Ord. 287, 11-8-1982)
CHAPTER 4
STANDARDS
SECTION:
6-4-1: General
6-4-2: Streets
6-4-2-1: General
6-4-2-2: Design Criteria
6-4-3: Blocks, Lots And Easements
6-4-3-1: Blocks
6-4-3-2: Lots
6-4-3-3: Easements
6-4-4: Utilities
6-4-4-1: General
6-4-4-2: Water Mains
6-4-4-3: Sanitary Sewers And Appurtenances
6-4-4-4: Storm Sewers And Appurtenances
6-4-5: Miscellaneous Requirements
6-4-5-1: Street Lighting
6-4-5-2: Street Signs
6-4-5-3: Inspection And Testing
6-4-5-4: Construction Plans
6-4-5-5: Final Inspection
6-4-5-6: Repair Of Public Improvements
6-4-5-7: Final Acceptance
6-4-1: GENERAL:
   A.   The standards provided herein shall be considered the minimum
requirements to govern the layout and construction of subdivisions.
   B.   The design of the subdivision shall be in harmony with the character of
the city and as allowed in the respective zoning districts of the city.
   C.   Natural features such as distinctive trees or vegetation, streams,
ponds, hilltops, bluffs, creek bottoms and outlook views shall be preserved and
enhanced wherever possible. Due consideration shall be given to aesthetic
features which exist within the tract being subdivided and which may add to the
aesthetic quality of existing nearby subdivisions.
   D.   All subdivisions within a flood hazard area are subject to the
provisions of title 5, chapter 11 of this code. (Ord. 287, 11-8-1982)
6-4-2: STREETS:
6-4-2-1: GENERAL:
   A.   The course, width, grade and location of all streets shall be
considered in relation to existing and planned streets, to topographic
conditions, and to proposed uses of land to be served. The proposed streets
shall provide for the continuation of principal streets through the proposed
subdivision.
   B.   Minor streets shall be aligned to discourage through traffic. The use
of cul-de-sacs and U-streets is encouraged.
   C.   Half streets are prohibited. Wherever an existing half street is
adjacent to a tract to be subdivided, the other half of the street shall be
platted with such tract.
   D.   Alleys shall not be permitted in residential districts. (Ord. 530, 3-
23-1998)
6-4-2-2: DESIGN CRITERIA:
   A.   The streets shall intersect as nearly as possible at right angles, and
no street shall intersect another street at less than seventy five degrees
(75°). Street intersections with centerline offsets of less than one hundred
twenty five feet (125') are prohibited.
   B.   The vertical grade for the streets shall not be less than three-tenths
of one percent (0.3%) for local streets and one- half of one percent (0.5%) for
arterial and collector streets, and not greater than seven percent (7%) for any
class of street. Vertical curves shall be used for all changes of grade of one
percent (1%) or greater.
   C.   Horizontal curves shall be utilized for all deflections of centerline
tangents exceeding two degrees (2°). A tangent of at least one hundred feet
(100') shall be provided between curves on arterial and collector streets where
the curve radius is less than five hundred feet (500').
   D.   The minimum allowable sight distance shall be three hundred feet (300')
for arterial and collector streets and two hundred feet (200') for local
streets.
   E.   The minimum right of way and pavement width excluding curb and gutter
shall be:
      1.   Arterial streets shall have an eighty foot (80') right of way and
forty six feet (46') of pavement. Boulevards when provided, shall have a
minimum median width of sixteen feet (16'), edge to edge of pavement.
      2.   Collector streets shall have a sixty foot (60') right of way and
thirty six feet (36') of pavement.
      3.   Local streets shall have a fifty foot (50') right of way and twenty
eight feet (28') of pavement.
      4.   Cul-de-sacs shall have a radius of forty five feet (45') for right
of way and a pavement radius of thirty five feet (35') to the edge of pavement.
The center of the cul-de-sac shall be located between the centerline of the
approach right of way to twenty feet (20') left of the centerline (facing the
cul-de-sac). The pavement shall be centered to the right of way. (Ord. 530, 3-
23-1998)
   F.   All street pavements shall be constructed utilizing a minimum of eight
inches (8") aggregate base course and three inches (3") of bituminous concrete
surface course, class 1, conforming with the most recent edition of the
standard specifications for road and bridge construction of the Illinois
department of transportation. The aggregate base course shall be crushed gravel
or crushed stone. All street pavements shall be crowned utilizing a minimum
slope of three-sixteenths inch (3/16") per foot. On an arterial or collector
street, the proposed pavement design shall be submitted to the city engineer
for review. (Ord. 635, 5-13-2002)
   G.   All street pavements shall be constructed with Portland cement concrete
curbs and gutters conforming to Illinois highway standard 606001, type B-6.12,
except type B-6.18 shall be utilized for arterial and collector streets. (Ord.
587, 8-14-2000)
   H.   All underground utilities that lie or cross under the pavement, curb
and gutter, or sidewalk shall be constructed prior to construction of the
pavement, curb and gutter, or sidewalk. All utility trenches beneath proposed
pavements, curbs and gutter, or sidewalk, shall be backfilled with compacted
granular trench backfill materials to a point two feet (2') beyond the edge of
pavement, back of curb, or back of sidewalk or to the right of way line.
   I.   All arterial and collector streets shall be provided pavement markings
where appropriate.
   J.   Curb ramps accessible to the disabled, conforming with Illinois highway
standard 424001, shall be provided at all intersections on streets having
sidewalks.
   K.   Portland cement concrete sidewalks shall be provided in all
subdivisions except in block 3 as governed by ordinance 88. The sidewalks shall
have a minimum width of forty eight inches (48") and a minimum thickness of
four inches (4"). The back of the sidewalk shall be located six inches (6")
inside of the right of way line. Sidewalks shall be constructed a minimum of
six inches (6") above the top of curb grade. The maximum slope between the top
of curb and the front of the sidewalk shall be one foot (1') vertical per six
feet (6') horizontal. Transverse expansion joints, three-fourths inch (3/4")
thick, shall be placed at intervals not greater than one hundred feet (100') in
the sidewalk. The surface of the sidewalks shall be grooved at right angles to
the centerline of the sidewalk at intervals not less than four feet (4') and
not greater than six feet (6'). Driveways shall be constructed through the
sidewalk with a minimum thickness of six inches (6"). (Ord. 530, 3-23-1998)
6-4-3: BLOCKS, LOTS AND EASEMENTS:
6-4-3-1: BLOCKS:
   A.   The length, width and shapes of blocks shall be determined with due
regard to:
      1.   Provisions of adequate building sites suitable to the special needs
of the type of use contemplated.
      2.   Zoning requirements governing setback limitations for the buildings
anticipated.
      3.   Needs for convenient access, traffic movement, control and safety of
street traffic.
      4.   Limitations and opportunity of topography.
   B.   The maximum allowable block length shall be one thousand three hundred
twenty feet (1,320'). A block face length of six hundred feet (600') to eight
hundred feet (800') is recommended.
   C.   Pedestrian crosswalks through a block shall be required where deemed
essential to provide circulation, or access to schools, playgrounds, shopping
centers, transportation and other community facilities. (Ord. 287, 11-8-1982)
6-4-3-2: LOTS:
   A.   Building setback lines shall be established on all lots and shall be
appropriate to the location of the subdivision and use contemplated.
   B.   The minimum lot width shall be sixty feet (60'). The minimum lot depth
shall be ninety five feet (95'). The minimum lot size shall be six thousand
eight hundred (6,800) square feet. The depth and width of lots for commercial
and industrial purposes shall be adequate to provide off street service and
parking required by the type of use and development contemplated, as required
by the zoning code 1 .
   C.   Corner lots for residential use shall have extra width to permit
appropriate setback from and orientation to both streets.
   D.   Double frontage and reverse frontage lots should be avoided except to
overcome specific disadvantages of traffic arteries, topography or orientation.
   E.   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles or radial to
street lines. (Ord. 287, 11-8-1982)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 5 of this code.
6-4-3-3: EASEMENTS:
   A.   Easements across lots or centered on rear and side yard lot lines shall
be provided for utilities where necessary. All easements shall be ten feet
(10') minimum width.
   B.   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainageway channel,
or stream, there shall be provided a stormwater easement or drainage right of
way conforming to the lines of such watercourse, and such further width or
construction, or both, as shall be adequate for the purpose. (Ord. 287, 11-8-
1982)
6-4-4: UTILITIES:
6-4-4-1: GENERAL:
   A.   All subdivisions shall be provided utilities including electricity, gas
(as available), telephone, cable television (as available), water, storm and
sanitary sewers. Any proposed improvement which deviates from or is not defined
by these requirements shall be submitted to the city engineer and city council
for review and consideration prior to submittal of final plans and
specifications. Utilities controlled by private enterprise shall be installed
by those corporations or directly under their supervision.
   B.   The subdivision shall be provided underground utility services for all
utilities proposed. The subdivision shall provide for utilities that are
operated and maintained by the city within street rights of way.
   C.   Utilities shall be located such that whenever possible, gas mains are
located on the opposite side of the street than the water mains. (Ord. 530, 3-
23-1998)
6-4-4-2: WATER MAINS:
   A.   Water mains shall be provided of no less than six inches (6") diameter.
Acceptable materials for water mains are AWWA C900 DR 18 polyvinyl chloride
(PVC) and ductile iron pipe, cement lined. Mains shall be sized considering
future extension, pressure, and demand requirements including fire flow. All
polyvinyl chloride (PVC) water mains shall be installed with a copper tracer
locating wire. The wire shall terminate in valve boxes near the top for easy
access. (Ord. 687, 12-28-2004)
   B.   Water mains shall be looped and valved to permit shutting off service
to a small number of connections for repairs or maintenance. Where future
development is indicated, looping or extensions shall be required.
   C.   Unlooped mains or dead ends shall be equipped with a fire hydrant. A
flushing hydrant may be used on a dead end of a four inch (4") water main of
less than one hundred seventy five (175) linear feet. (Ord. 530, 3-23-1998)
   D.   Fire hydrants shall be provided at a nominal spacing of five hundred
feet (500'). Hydrants shall have a seven inch (7") dry type barrel with a five
and one-fourth inch (51/4") valve. The hydrant shall be a Mueller (improved)
type, or approved equal, with two (2) 21/2-inch ID (71/2 threads per inch) hose
nozzles and one 41/2-inch ID pumper connection (4 threads per inch). Hydrants
shall open counterclockwise.
   E.   Corporation stops and curb stops shall be one inch (1") as manufactured
by Mueller Co. Individual lot water service lines shall be one inch (1") type
"K" copper from the corporation stop to the curb stop, which shall be located
midway between the sidewalk and curb. The curb stop shall not be installed in
any driveway area. The water service line from the curb stop toward the house
shall be one inch (1") type "K" copper or one inch (1") polyethylene,
SDR9PE3406, and shall terminate at least two feet (2') inside the property
line. (Ord. 687, 12-28-2004)
   F.   No water service line or valve shall be constructed such that the
service line runs under and parallel to any driveway. Water service lines may
cross beneath driveways, but the skew angle shall be seventy five (75) to one
hundred five degrees (105°).
   G.   In areas previously platted and having water mains previously
constructed, all existing curb boxes and curb stops shall be replaced. (Ord.
530, 3-23-1998)
6-4-4-3: SANITARY SEWERS AND APPURTENANCES:
   A.   Sanitary sewers shall be provided of no less than eight inches (8")
diameter. Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe, SDR-35 minimum, ASTM D-3034, type PSM
with solvent welded joints, ASTM D-2855, or flexible elastomeric seals, ASTM D-
3212. The subdivider shall determine the adequacy of the existing system to
carry the proposed connected load and future extension. All capacity
calculations shall be subject to review by the city engineer.
   B.   Manholes shall be a minimum of forty eight inches (48") in diameter
provided at a spacing not exceeding four hundred feet (400'). Manhole frame and
lids shall be closed type with recessed pick hole. All lines shall terminate at
manholes.
   C.   Sanitary sewage pump stations shall match existing systems and be of
the separate dry well and wet well type. Screening of sewage influent and
standby power systems are required. Sanitary sewage pump stations shall be
sized with consideration of the needs of the surrounding developable areas in
conjunction with the proposed subdivision.
   D.   Sanitary sewage force mains shall be constructed of ductile iron pipe
of sufficient diameter to minimize operating head conditions and maintain a
flushing velocity of three feet (3') per second. Force mains shall be valved at
the lift station and provided a system to allow connection of a portable pump
for purposes of bypassing the wet well for maintenance.
   E.   House service connection shall be through standard tee connections laid
at thirty degrees (30°) to the vertical. House service connections shall be six
inches (6") in diameter. House service laterals shall terminate a minimum three
feet (3') inside the property line and be approximately centered on the lot. A
minimum elevation difference of three feet (3') shall be required between the
crown of the sanitary sewer main and proposed basement floor elevations. House
service laterals shall be installed at a minimum slope of eight-tenths of one
percent (0.8%) and maximum slope of three percent (3%).
   F.   No sanitary sewer service line or valve shall be constructed such that
the service line runs under and parallel to any driveway. Sanitary sewer
service lines may cross beneath driveways, but the skew angle shall be seventy
five (75) to one hundred five degrees (105°).
   G.   Sanitary sewer service lines shall be constructed with a cleanout
located not more than five feet (5') from the point of the service line
entering the building. (Ord. 530, 3-23-1998)
6-4-4-4: STORM SEWERS AND APPURTENANCES:
   A.   Storm sewers may be constructed of either concrete or PVC pipe with the
following specifications:
      1.   Concrete:
         a.   Reinforced concrete shall meet AASHTO M17OM specification and/or
IDOT specification #550.
         b.   A minimum class 3 concrete pipe is required under all pavement
areas.
      2.   PVC:
         a.   Straight walled PVC pipe with smooth interior:
            (1)   PVC pipe shall have a minimum standard dimension ratio (SDR)
of 35.
            (2)   The pipe shall conform to ASTM D1784 and ASTM D3034.
            (3)   The joints shall be bell and spigot with rubber gaskets
conforming to ASTM D3212.
         b.   Corrugated PVC pipe with smooth interior:
            (1)   PVC pipe shall have a minimum stiffness of forty six (46)
pounds/in./in.
            (2)   The pipe shall conform to ASTM D1784 and ASTM F949 (or ASTM
F794).
            (3)   The joints shall be bell and spigot with rubber gaskets
conforming to ASTM D3212. (Ord. 658, 6-9-2003)
   B.   Storm sewer capacity shall be adequate to carry the surface water
falling or coming on the streets in a 2-year storm as that term is used by the
Illinois state water survey. (Ord. 530, 3-23-1998)
   C.   Storm sewer inlets shall be provided at a spacing not greater than two
hundred fifty feet (250'). Storm laterals connecting inlets or manholes shall
be a minimum diameter of twelve inches (12"). Inlets shall be located as near
to intersections as possible, but shall not conflict with ramps as described in
subsection 6-4-2-2J of this chapter. Inlets shall not be installed in front of
any residential driveway area. Storm flows shall be intercepted such that cross
crown flow on the streets is not required. (Ord. 530, 3-23-1998; amd. Ord. 687,
12-28-2004)
   D.   Inlet drop boxes shall be cast in place concrete or precast concrete.
Inlet frame and grates shall be provided with an open style curb box and a
minimum, nominal grate area of six (6) square feet. The frames and grates shall
be Neenah model R-3246-A, East Jordan Iron Works, model 7510, or approved
equal. Grates shall be diagonally slotted. Vane type grates may be utilized on
pavement slopes greater than two percent (2%). Grates utilized shall be safe to
bicycle riders.
Where possible, the inlet frame and grate shall be recessed into the curb line
so that the edge of the grate nearest the pavement is located one foot (1')
from the edge of pavement. The curb line transition, or the edge of pavement
transition when the inlet cannot be recessed, shall occur over a distance of
six feet (6') either side of the inlet. The concrete gutter shall be widened to
encase the inlet frame from the edge of pavement to the face of the curb.
   E.   Storm sewer outlets to natural drainageways shall be provided end
sections, headwalls or appurtenances designed to control erosion and energy
dissipation. Storm sewer outlet pipes shall discharge at or within one foot
(1') of elevation to the flow line of the drainageway. (Ord. 530, 3-23-1998)
6-4-5: MISCELLANEOUS REQUIREMENTS:
6-4-5-1: STREET LIGHTING:
The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with street lightings of
sufficient number for proper lighting. The location and style of the lighting
shall be submitted to the city engineer for review. The subdivider shall pay to
the city in advance the cost for the operation and maintenance of the
streetlights for a period of two (2) years from final acceptance of the public
improvements. (Ord. 287, 11-8-1982)
6-4-5-2: STREET SIGNS:
The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with street signs. The location
and style of the signs and posts shall be subject to the approval of the city
council. (Ord. 287, 11-8-1982)
6-4-5-3: INSPECTION AND TESTING:
The subdivider shall provide inspection and testing of the public improvements
as necessary to document the construction undertaken complies with the material
and performance specifications governing the construction. The subdivider shall
provide an opinion and recommendation by a registered engineer in responsible
charge of the inspections stating that the public improvements were constructed
in accordance with the intent of the plans and specifications governing the
improvements. (Ord. 287, 11-8-1982)
6-4-5-4: CONSTRUCTION PLANS:
The procedures for the preparation and review of construction plans shall be as
follows:
   A.   Submittal Of Construction Plans: Upon approval of the preliminary plat,
the developer shall have prepared engineering drawings for the proposed
required improvements containing the data and information specified in this
title. Such drawings shall be certified by a licensed professional engineer and
shall be submitted in seven (7) copies on twenty four inch by thirty six inch
(24" x 36") bond paper and two (2) electronic copies (CD) in AutoCAD or Arcinfo
format to the city.
   B.   Content Of Construction Plans: Engineering drawings for required
improvements shall contain the following minimum information (additional
information may be requested by the director of public works and/or the city
engineer):
      1.   Plans, details, specifications and cost estimates for roadways and
sidewalk construction. Plans shall include existing topography and elevations
based on city datum, curb and sidewalk elevations, intersection control
elevations, paving geometry for each street, and a typical cross section of
each street.
      2.   Plans shall include right of way line, property lines, centerline of
both proposed and existing streets, and survey plat lines.
      3.   Plans, profiles, details, specifications and cost estimate of
proposed storm drainage improvements with calculations.
      4.   Plans, profiles, details, specifications and cost estimate of
proposed water supply facilities.
      5.   Plans, profiles, details, specifications and cost estimate of
proposed sanitary sewage facilities with calculations.
      6.   When unusual site or construction conditions exist, the director of
public works and/or the city engineer may request such additional plans,
specifications and drawings as may be necessary for an adequate review of the
improvements to be installed.
      7.   Topography shall be shown as specified by the director of public
works and/or the city engineer.
      8.   Developer shall submit two (2) copies on twenty four inch by thirty
six inch (24" x 36") bond paper and two (2) electronic copies (CD) in AutoCAD
or Arcinfo format to the city of the as built plans for the project. The as
built plans shall contain the following information:
         a.   Proposed plans incorporating all changes made during
construction.
         b.   The location of each sanitary sewer service termination. The
location shall be noted by station and offset from the nearest downstream
manhole. The invert elevation at the termination of each service line shall be
shown.
         c.   The location of each water service termination. The location
shall be noted by station and offset from the nearest in-line valve or fire
hydrant.
         d.   The location of all pipeline sleeves where adequate clearance
between water and sewer lines could not be achieved.
         e.   The rim and invert elevation of all sanitary and storm sewer
manholes and inlets.
         f.   The location and approximate depth of all other installed
utilities. (Ord. 665, 9-22-2003)
6-4-5-5: FINAL INSPECTION:
On completion of all requirements governing the installation of the public
improvements, the subdivider shall request a final inspection by the city
engineer. The city engineer may request submittal of inspection lots or testing
data and/or carry out visual inspections of the completed work to his
satisfaction to prepare a recommendation for acceptance of the public
improvements to the city council. (Ord. 287, 11-8-1982)
6-4-5-6: REPAIR OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
The subdivider shall be responsible for the repair of any deficiencies in the
public improvements constructed in accordance with this title for a period of
one year from the date of final acceptance by the city council. The performance
guarantee, as required in subsection 6-3-4-2C of this title, shall be subject
to charges by the city for performance of any work which the subdivider fails
to provide as required herein. (Ord. 287, 11-8-1982)
6-4-5-7: FINAL ACCEPTANCE:
On completion of all requirements herein, the subdivider shall request in
writing final acceptance of the public improvements within the subdivision. The
city council shall take action on final acceptance after consideration of the
recommendations of the city engineer. (Ord. 287, 11-8-1982)
TITLE 7
FIRE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
7-1-1: Department Created
7-1-2: Meetings; Organization
7-1-3: Qualifications For Membership
7-1-4: Fire Chief; Duties
7-1-5: Duties Of Secretary And Treasurer
7-1-6: Duties Of Members
7-1-7: Bylaws Of Department
7-1-8: Suspension Of Member
7-1-9: Unlawful Use Of Equipment
7-1-10: Equipment Property Of City
7-1-11: Call For Assistance
7-1-12: Enforcement Authority
7-1-13: Records To Be Kept
7-1-14: Fundraising Projects
7-1-15: Emergency Response Vehicles And Personnel
7-1-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED:
There shall be and is hereby created and established a fire department
consisting of one fire chief, one assistant chief, one deputy chief, two (2)
captains, one rescue lieutenant, one assistant rescue lieutenant, one
secretary, one treasurer, and one fire inspector and such members as may from
time to time be appointed. (Ord. 847, 12-14-2015)
7-1-2: MEETINGS; ORGANIZATION:
The duty sections of the fire department shall hold not less than twelve (12)
monthly business meetings during each calendar year and shall, at a joint
meeting of the entire department held on the first Saturday in January of each
year, elect one fire chief, one assistant chief, one deputy chief, two (2)
captains, one rescue lieutenant, one assistant rescue lieutenant, one
secretary, one fire inspector, and one treasurer for the ensuing year. Such
officers shall qualify and take office at the following regular meeting. (Ord.
847, 12-14-2015)
7-1-3: QUALIFICATIONS FOR MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Qualifications For Fire Personnel: Any person eighteen (18) years of
age or more, who is able of body, and who lives in the city, may be an active
fire department member, subject to the approval of the fire department
membership. Associate membership may be extended by the voting membership to
those persons who are not eligible due to physical, age or residential
qualifications. Associate members shall not be issued equipment or respond to
fire department emergencies.
   B.   Qualifications For Cadets: Any person sixteen (16) or seventeen (17)
years of age, who is able of body, and who lives in the city, may be an active
fire department cadet, subject to approval of the chief and cadet leadership.
(Ord. 847, 12-14-2015)
7-1-4: FIRE CHIEF; DUTIES:
The fire chief shall, upon taking office, appoint such engine men, ladder men,
hose men, nozzle men, hydrant men, and make such other appointments and
prescribe such duties as may be necessary and proper in the organization and
effective operation of said fire department during that year. The fire chief
shall have the control and supervision, subject to the order and direction of
the city council, of the fire department and all fire apparatus and equipment
belonging to the department and all fire apparatus and equipment belonging to
or leased by the city. In case of fire, the fire chief, assistant chief, deputy
chief, in their order of rank, shall take command at such fire, and the officer
highest in rank shall take command of the fire department and direct the
management thereof for the suppression of fire in the best manner possible; and
when it may be necessary for the protection of other property and to prevent
the spread of the conflagration, the officer in command may cause buildings to
be removed, torn down or destroyed in the best manner possible. (Ord. 847, 12-
14-2015)
7-1-5: DUTIES OF SECRETARY AND TREASURER:
   A.   The secretary shall keep the minutes of the regular meetings of the
fire department, shall be custodian of the minute book and all papers
pertaining to the business of the department, keep a record of all training
completed by each member of the department and shall perform such other duties
as the chief shall prescribe.
   B.   The treasurer shall receive all monies collected for and on behalf of
the department, including the tax or license fee for foreign fire insurance 1 ,
and shall pay the same, upon order of the Chief, for the purposes of
maintenance, use and benefit of the department. The Treasurer shall also make a
report every month to the department on the status of the department's finances
and on the third Monday of January in each year, submit a verified report and
financial statement to the City Council, showing receipts, disbursements and
the balance of proceeds on hand. The books, records and accounts of the
Treasurer shall at all times be open to inspection and for audit by the City
Council.
Before performing the duties of his office, the Treasurer shall be required to
execute and file with the Office of City Clerk, a bond in an amount approved by
the City Council to ensure faithful performance of his duties under this
chapter. (Ord. 847, 12-14-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  3-1-5 of this Code.
7-1-6: DUTIES OF MEMBERS:
It shall be the function and duties of the Fire Department and every member
thereof to extinguish accidental or destructive fires, to prevent the
occurrence or spread of fires and to respond to medical emergencies when
notified thereof.
Any fire personnel in attendance at a fire or medical emergency shall obey the
orders of the officer in command at such fire or medical emergency. (Ord. 847,
12-14-2015)
7-1-7: BYLAWS OF DEPARTMENT:
The Fire Department shall adopt bylaws in order to further set forth the matter
of the further details in connection with the operating of the Fire Department,
and a copy of said bylaws shall be filed with the City Clerk, after which, they
must be approved by the City Council. Any amendments to the bylaws made
thereafter by the Fire Department must be approved by the City Council.
Further, the City Council may amend the bylaws of the Fire Department at any
time by a majority vote of the City Council members attending the meeting
wherein such an action takes place. (Ord. 882, 7-9-2018)
7-1-8: SUSPENSION OF MEMBER:
The Fire Department is an inherent responsibility and function of the City
government 1 . The Mayor, when he deems it in the best interest of the City and
to ensure proper and continued fire protection for the City, shall have the
right to suspend any member of the Fire Department or deny the use of fire
equipment to any member of the Fire Department. The Mayor may demand that the
Fire Chief suspend a member and that the Chief convene a hearing according to
bylaws of the Fire Department. The Mayor shall have the advice and consent of
the City Council Fire Committee on contemplated action. However, the Mayor
shall have the right to take any action without committee consent, to ensure
proper fire protection for the City. The Mayor shall enter upon the minutes of
the next regular City Council meeting, the action taken and reasons therefor.
The Council, by majority vote, shall uphold or reverse the action taken.
In the event a Fire Department member is suspended by the Mayor, the Mayor
shall set a hearing date of not less than five (5) days nor more than ten (10)
days after suspension. If a hearing is not held, the suspension shall be of no
effect.
The Hearing Board shall be the City Council Fire Committee who will hear facts
and opinions to the cause of the suspension. They shall render a report to the
City Council at the next regular meeting, with or without the recommendation.
The Council shall vote to uphold or reverse the suspension by majority vote.
(Ord. 847, 12-14-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-6-1.
7-1-9: UNLAWFUL USE OF EQUIPMENT:
Whoever uses any fire engine, hose, cart or any other apparatus belonging to
the Municipality without the consent of the Fire Chief for any purpose other
than the extinguishment of fires, or whoever shall remove the same or any part
thereof from its place of deposit, or having the control thereof, shall permit
such engine, hose, cart or other apparatus to be used for any private purpose
other than aforesaid, shall upon conviction be fined not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00).
Whoever shall wilfully or negligently break, deface or in any manner injure any
fire engine, hose, equipment or other fire apparatus belonging to the
Municipality or shall remove any screw, bolt, nut or part of any engine or
other apparatus, or in any manner interfere with the working or use of the same
being used by the proper person or authority, shall upon conviction, be fined
in any sum not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than two thousand
dollars ($2,000.00). (Ord. 847, 12-14-2015)
7-1-10: EQUIPMENT PROPERTY OF CITY:
All equipment and supplies, including personal issue, now possessed and
hereinafter obtained by or for the Marquette Heights Fire Department, whatever
the source, however financed, purchased or acquired, which are or which become,
by virtue of either use or description, Fire Department equipment or supplies
(exception: distinctively private equipment and possessions of department
members or others) are declared to be, and shall be the exclusive property of
the Marquette Heights Fire Department and of the City for their joint and
common control, convenience and necessity in terms of the official functions of
each and both, insofar as those functions relate to the avowed purposes of the
Marquette Heights Fire Department. (Ord. 847, 12-14-2015)
7-1-11: CALL FOR ASSISTANCE:
Every person eighteen (18) years of age and above who shall be present at a
fire, shall be subject to the orders of the officer in command at such fire and
shall render all the assistance in his power, and in the removal of and
protection of property, and any person refusing to obey such orders, shall upon
conviction be fined in any sum not exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00);
provided no person shall be bound to obey any such officer, unless such
official character shall be known or be made known to such person. It shall be
lawful for any Fire Chief or any assistant, or other person in command of the
fire company to require any person eighteen (18) years and above with or
without any motor vehicles that such person may own or control, to assist in
hauling or conveying any fire apparatus to the place of the fire, and any such
person who shall refuse to render such assistance when within his power to do
so shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor
more than two hundred dollars ($200.00). (Ord. 847, 12-14-2015)
7-1-12: ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY:
It shall be the duty of officers of the Fire Department and all police officers
of the Municipality to see that the provisions of this chapter are enforced and
to arrest on view any person who shall be found violating any of the provisions
of this chapter or who shall be found violating any of the provisions hereof or
who shall hinder, resist or refuse to obey any such officer in the discharge of
his duty, and to that end all such officers are hereby vested with the usual
power and authority of police officers. (Ord. 847, 12-14-2015)
7-1-13: RECORDS TO BE KEPT:
The officer or member in charge of a Fire Department emergency shall make a
record of the emergency, including attendance of membership at such emergency.
The Fire Chief shall furnish such statistics, records and reports as requested
by the City Council at any time during the year of his term of office. (Ord.
847, 12-14-2015)
7-1-14: FUNDRAISING PROJECTS:
Fundraising projects contemplated by the Fire Department, or by volunteer
groups of any kind on behalf of the Fire Department, must be approved by the
Fire Committee of the City Council, or by Council approval, if the Fire
Committee deems so necessary. A full report on such projects will be rendered
to the City Council at its next regular meeting, following completion of the
project. All receipts of money transactions shall be provided to the Council
but will then remain with the official records of the Fire Department. (Ord.
847, 12-14-2015)
7-1-15: EMERGENCY RESPONSE VEHICLES AND PERSONNEL:
When answering emergency calls, either in their personal vehicles or in
official vehicles, members of the Fire Department shall operate any such
vehicles in accordance with the authority granted and limitations imposed by
the Illinois Vehicle Code as it may from time to time be amended. (Ord. 847,
12-14-2015)
CHAPTER 2
PUBLIC BUILDINGS
(Rep. by Ord. 305, 3-12-1984)
CHAPTER 3
LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Definitions
7-3-2: Permit Required; Fee
7-3-3: Compliance With Provisions
7-3-4: Enforcement; Inspections
7-3-5: Container And Equipment Standards
7-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS: Any material which is composed predominantly of any of
the following hydrocarbons, or mixtures of them: propane, propylene, butane
(normal butane or isobutane) and butylenes.
LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS EQUIPMENT: All containers, apparatus, piping (not
including utility distribution piping systems) and equipment pertinent to the
storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gas. Gas consuming appliances shall
not be considered as being liquefied petroleum gas equipment.
TOTAL WATER CAPACITY: Allowable tank capacity in gallons or pounds of water.
(Ord. 166, 9-24-1973)
7-3-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE:
No equipment or containers necessary for the utilization of liquified petroleum
gas shall be installed in the city unless a permit therefor shall have been
first secured. Application for such permits shall be made to the city clerk and
shall contain a description of the location of containers and equipment and the
intended use of the same. The fee for such permits shall be five dollars
($5.00). (Ord. 166, 9-24-1973)
7-3-3: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
It shall be unlawful to store or use liquefied petroleum gas, or to install or
maintain any equipment for such use, unless such storage and utilization
equipment is constructed and maintained in compliance with the provisions of
this chapter. (Ord. 166, 9-24-1973)
7-3-4: ENFORCEMENT; INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the building inspector, or such other officer or
employee as may be designated by the mayor, to enforce the provisions of this
chapter and to make such inspections or tests as may be necessary. (Ord. 166,
9-24-1973)
7-3-5: CONTAINER AND EQUIPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Containers: All containers used for liquified petroleum gases shall be
constructed and used in accordance to the standards prescribed therefor in the
"Standards For The Storage And Handling Of Liquefied Petroleum Gases" as
published in the 1969 edition of pamphlet no. 58 by the National Fire
Protection Association.
   B.   Equipment: No equipment for the utilization of liquefied petroleum gas
shall be installed or used unless it complies with the standards therefor
established in the NFPA pamphlet no. 58.
The clerk shall keep on hand copies of the NFPA pamphlet herein referred to for
inspection by any interested person. (Ord. 166, 9-24-1973)
CHAPTER 4
MISCELLANEOUS FIRE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Fireworks
7-4-2: Explosives
7-4-3: Open Burning
7-4-1: FIREWORKS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to buy, sell, provide, ignite or explode
fireworks of any kind within the city; however, a permit may be secured from
the city clerk, by a state licensed operator, allowing displays and exhibitions
to be held on holidays or other special occasions when adequate precautions are
taken, and facilities provided to prevent injury to person or property.
   A.   Definitions: The term "fireworks" shall mean and include any explosive
composition, or any substance or combination of substances, or article prepared
for the purpose of producing a visible or audible effect of a temporary
exhibitional nature by explosion, combustion, deflagration or detonation, and
shall include toy cannons, in which explosives are used, the type of balloons
which require fire underneath to propel the same, firecrackers, torpedoes, sky
rockets, bottle rockets, Roman candles, bombs, or other fireworks of like
construction and any tablets or other device containing combustible substances
producing visual effects.
      1.   The term fireworks shall not include snake or glowworm pellets,
smoke devices, trick noisemakers known as "party poppers", "snappers", "trick
matches", "cigarette loads", "toy guns", "sparklers". These items may be used
on private property only; not allowed at any time on city or public property.
(Ord. 610, 8-27-2001)
7-4-2: EXPLOSIVES:
No person shall set off, discharge, or explode any gunpowder, dynamite,
nitroglycerin or any other explosive on any street, avenue, alley, park, or any
other place within the city or upon any property so as to endanger the life,
limb or property of any person. (Ord. 610, 8-27-2001)
7-4-3: OPEN BURNING:
   A.   No person shall at any time burn any “garbage”, “litter”, “refuse”, or
“rubbish” as described in title 8, chapter 3 of this code. Burning is
prohibited on city streets, sidewalks or within the public right of way.
   B.   When deemed necessary due to climatic conditions, the Marquette Heights
fire department fire chief or his designated appointee shall have the authority
to impose temporary bans on all outdoor burning including those fires otherwise
authorized by this section. It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation,
partnership, association or other entity to burn or cause or allow any
materials to burn during the term of a burning ban.
   C.   There are three (3) forms of authorized burning: permitted burning,
campfires and yard waste fires. Any authorized burning shall be attended by a
responsible adult of the minimum age of eighteen (18) for the duration of the
burn. Fire extinguishing equipment such as an approved fire extinguisher, water
hose or “5 gallon” water containers must be available and ready for immediate
use for the duration of any authorized burning.
   D.   Permitted fires, permitted burning or a bonfire requires a formal
written permit issued from the city of Marquette Heights. A permitted fire is
not allowed within fifty feet (50') of any structure, including neighboring
structures and wooded areas. A permitted fire shall be no larger than five feet
by five feet (5' x 5') and burn no longer than three (3) hours. Permitted fires
are allowed from sunup until sunset and must be completely extinguished
thereafter. Exceptions for permitted fires such as size, duration and location
may be allowed provided the burn site has been inspected and approved by the
Marquette Heights fire department fire chief or his designated appointee. The
permittee shall not thereafter alter the material, duration, volume or location
of the permitted fire.
   E.   Campfires including cooking fires, warming fires or recreational fires
are allowed where only clean, untreated wood or charcoal is used. A campfire is
not allowed within twenty feet (20') of any structure, including neighboring
structures and fifty feet (50') of wooded area. A campfire shall be no larger
than three feet by three feet (3' x 3'). A minimum area of five feet (5') must
be cleared of all combustible material from around the campfire. Campfires are
allowed from sunup until legal curfew and must be completely extinguished
thereafter.
   F.   Yard waste fires including leaf burning, limb and grass clippings are
allowed provided smoke and odor emissions do not create a nuisance of hazardous
situation. A yard waste fire is not allowed within twenty feet (20') of any
structure, including neighboring structures and fifty feet (50') of wooded
area. Yard waste fires shall be no larger than five feet by five feet (5' x
5'). A yard waste fire is allowed from sunup until sunset and must be
completely extinguished thereafter. (Ord. 640, 6-10-2002; amd. Ord. 939, 6-12-
2023)
TITLE 8
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
8-1-1: Creating, Maintaining Nuisances
8-1-2: Septic Tanks And Cesspools
8-1-3: Outside Toilets
8-1-4: Storm Sewers, Prohibited Discharges
8-1-5: Garbage, Refuse And Dead Animals (Rep. by Ord. 436, 11-23-1992)
8-1-6: Injurious Materials On Thoroughfares
8-1-7: Foul, Stagnant Or Standing Water
8-1-8: Failure To Abate Nuisance After Notice
8-1-1: CREATING, MAINTAINING NUISANCES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to create or maintain anywhere
within the city, any nuisance as declared or defined in any provision of this
code, or to permit or direct another to do the same.
   B.   Notice of such nuisance and violation shall be given to the person
responsible, or his agent, and to the chief of police or officer in charge
whose duties include the abatement of such nuisances 1 . (Ord. 153, 8-21-1972)
 
Notes
  1. See also section
1 10-2-23 of this code regarding deteriorated real estate, and section
  10-2-32, "Civil Rights Violations", of this code.
8-1-2: SEPTIC TANKS AND CESSPOOLS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to have a septic tank or cesspool in the
city. Fine for violation of this section is five dollars ($5.00) for each day
of violation. (Ord. 23, 5-21-1957)
8-1-3: OUTSIDE TOILETS:
No outside toilets shall be kept or allowed in the city, except for
professionally maintained portable toilet units for which the city has approved
a permit. The mayor shall have the authority to issue permits for the placement
of professionally maintained portable toilet units at such locations in the
city as the mayor deems necessary to avoid unsanitary conditions or practices.
Any such permit shall be in writing and shall include the location of the unit,
the term of the permit and the name of the person authorized to place and
maintain the unit. The person to whom the permit is issued shall maintain the
portable toilet unit in a clean and sanitary condition. Permits may not be
issued for a term of more than nine (9) months. (Ord. 625, 3-11-2002)
8-1-4: STORM SEWERS, PROHIBITED DISCHARGES:
It shall be unlawful to knowingly cause or permit to flow into the city storm
sewer system any gasoline, benzene or other petroleum products, garbage, offal,
broken glass or other substance causing water pollution and/or an obstruction
in the system. (Ord. 219, 5-23-1977)
8-1-5: GARBAGE, REFUSE AND DEAD ANIMALS:
(Rep. by Ord. 436, 11-23-1992)
8-1-6: INJURIOUS MATERIALS ON THOROUGHFARES 1 :
It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or place any glass, nails, tacks
or other items which shall be damaging to automobile tires, in any street,
driveway or parking area owned by any other person. (Ord. 23, 5-21-1957; amd.
Ord. 436, 11-23-1992)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 8-3-2 of this title and sections 10-2-22 and 11-1-4 of
  this code.
8-1-7: FOUL, STAGNANT OR STANDING WATER:
It shall be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any person to allow
the storage or containment of foul, stagnant or standing water under conditions
which are conducive to the creation of foul odors or conducive to the breeding
or support of mosquitoes or other insects and their larvae. (Ord. 650, 10-14-
2002)
8-1-8: FAILURE TO ABATE NUISANCE AFTER NOTICE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain, to allow or permit to remain,
or to refuse to abate any nuisance, after forty eight (48) hours from the time
notice was given such person by his agent, by the chief of police or officer in
charge; and it shall be deemed a separate and recurring offense each twenty
four (24) hour period thereafter that such nuisance continues to exist. (Ord.
153, 8-21-1972; amd. Ord. 650, 10-14-2002)
CHAPTER 2
WEEDS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Nuisance Declared
8-2-2: Height
8-2-3: Removal Notice
8-2-4: Abatement
8-2-1: NUISANCE DECLARED:
Any weeds such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, cockleburr, wild lettuce, thistle
or other weeds of a like kind, found growing in any lot or tract of land in the
city are hereby declared to be a nuisance, and it shall be unlawful to permit
any such weeds to grow or remain in any such place. (Ord. 244, 7-9-1979)
8-2-2: HEIGHT:
It shall be unlawful for anyone to permit any weeds, grass or plants, other
than trees, bushes, flowers or other ornamental plants, to grow to a height
exceeding eight inches (8") anywhere in the city. Any such plants or weeds
exceeding such height are hereby declared to be a nuisance. (Ord. 244, 7-9-
1979)
8-2-3: REMOVAL NOTICE:
It shall be the duty of the police chief to serve or cause to be served a
notice upon the owner or occupant of any premises on which weeds or plants are
permitted to grow in violation of the provisions of this chapter and to demand
the abatement of the nuisance within five (5) days. (Ord. 567, 8-23-1999)
8-2-4: ABATEMENT:
   A.   If the person so served does not abate the nuisance within five (5)
days, the city may proceed to abate such nuisance with a minimum expense of the
abatement to be not less than fifty dollars ($50.00), and such expense shall be
charged and paid by such owner or occupant. A lien for unpaid expenses may be
imposed against the affected premises in the manner prescribed by the Illinois
municipal code. The cost of preparing and filing such a lien may be added to
the cost of abatement.
   B.   Upon being notified of a third offense, the owner or occupant of the
premises will be formally charged in Tazewell County circuit court with a
violation of this chapter. Any fine or costs imposed by the court shall be in
addition to the cost of abatement. (Ord. 567, 8-23-1999)
CHAPTER 3
GARBAGE AND LITTER
SECTION:
8-3-1: Definitions
8-3-2: Storage Of Garbage, Refuse And Rubbish
8-3-3: Placement And Storage Of Container
8-3-4: Littering
8-3-5: Littering; Additional Regulations
8-3-6: Distribution Of Handbills And Advertising Material
8-3-7: Placement Of Indoor Furniture Outdoors
8-3-8: Disposal And Storage Of Tree Waste
8-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future tense; words in
the plural number include the singular number, words used in the singular
number include the plural number, and the masculine gender shall include the
feminine. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory.
CITY: The city of Marquette Heights, Illinois.
CONTAINER: Garbage can, plastic bag or dumpster.
DUMPSTER: A metal refuse container of one cubic yard or more in volume with an
attached lid designed for handling by mechanical means.
GARBAGE: Means and shall include all accumulations of animal, fruit, or
vegetable matter that attends the preparation, use, cooking and dealing in, or
storage of meats, fish, fowl, fruit, vegetables and other matter, of any nature
whatsoever, which is subject to decay, putrefaction and the generation of
noxious and offensive smells or odors, which during and after decay may be a
food source for rodents and may serve as breeding or feeding materials for
flies and/or other germ carrying insects; bottles, cans or other food
containers which due to their ability to retain water can serve as a breeding
place for mosquitoes, or other water breeding insects. Garbage includes
rejected household food, waste, offal, pet feces, swill and carrion.
GARBAGE CAN: A waterproof and ratproof container capable of receiving and
storing garbage or litter, equipped with a tightly fitting cover or lid.
HANDBILL: Any sample, dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet or
magazine, whether intended for advertising or other purpose.
LITTER: "Garbage", "refuse" or "rubbish" as defined in this section, and all
other waste material or other material which, if thrown, deposited or allowed
to exist is prohibited by this chapter.
PERSON: Any natural person or any firm, corporation, or other entity acting
through its agents, employees or members.
PLASTIC BAG: A large heavy gauge waterproof plastic bag suitable for the
receipt and storage of rubbish, tightly sealed or bound at the top. A plastic
bag is not a garbage can.
RATPROOF: A form of construction which will prevent the entrance and exit of
rats, mice and other rodents to and from a given container.
REFUSE: All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes except body wastes,
including rubbish, street cleanings and solid market and industrial wastes.
RUBBISH: Nonputrescible, solid waste consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, metal
cans, yard clippings, lumber, glass, bedding, crockery and similar materials.
TREE WASTE: Tree limbs, dead trees, logs and branches, including materials
designed and intended for use as fuel.
WATERPROOF: A form of construction which causes a thing or object to be
impervious to water. (Ord. 280, 4-26-1982; amd. Ord. 672, 3-8-2004)
8-3-2: STORAGE OF GARBAGE, REFUSE AND RUBBISH:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to store or permit or allow the
storage of garbage on or about any premises in the city owned or occupied by
him except in a garbage can or dumpster with the lid in place.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to store or permit or allow the
storage of refuse or rubbish on or about any premises in the city owned or
occupied by him except in a container.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to store or permit or allow the
storage of mattresses, discarded furniture and appliances or any other rubbish,
refuse or other discarded material whereby its nature is unsuitable for storage
in a container, on or about any premises in the city owned or occupied by him
except for garbage collection purposes as set forth in subsection 8-3-3B of
this chapter. (Ord. 280, 4-26-1982)
8-3-3: PLACEMENT AND STORAGE OF CONTAINER:
   A.   Except as provided in subsection B of this section, containers shall at
all times be stored and kept within side and rear lot lines of any premises
owned or occupied by the person or persons who own or use such containers, and
containers shall further be stored and kept behind the front (and side for
corner lots) setback lines established for any structure on such premises.
(Ord. 280, 4-26-1982)
   B.   For garbage collection purposes only, containers (excluding dumpsters)
and materials described in subsection 8-3-2C of this chapter, may be placed in
the parkway area in front of any premises at or near the curb line no sooner
than the day preceding the regularly scheduled garbage collection day for such
premises and shall be removed no later than the day next following such
regularly scheduled garbage collection day. The regularly scheduled garbage
collection days shall be Monday and Tuesday. Wednesday will be the in lieu of
collection day if Monday or Tuesday is a holiday. (Ord. 756, 12-22-2008)
   C.   Except as provided in subsection B of this section, no privately owned
container shall be stored or kept in or on any street, sidewalk, alley or other
public place or public property within the city.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than owner of the container,
occupant, tenant or members of their families, or a scavenger employed or
licensed by the city, or the owner's agent, employees or servants to deposit
any article, substance or thing in any container, or to remove, displace,
injure, deface, destroy, uncover or in any manner disturb such container or any
container that is placed at any curb line for collection. (Ord. 280, 4-26-1982)
   E.   Dumpsters located within either the A single-family dwelling district
or the B single-family larger homes district shall be governed by the following
restrictions:
      1.   Existing homes shall not have a dumpster remain on the residence for
a total of more than sixty (60) calendar days during any period of one hundred
eighty (180) consecutive calendar days.
      2.   New homes under construction shall not have a dumpster remain on the
residence for a total of more than sixty (60) calendar days after the issuance
of an occupancy permit.
The city council may grant exceptions, by the issuance of a permit allowing the
dumpster to remain on a property outside of these guidelines. (Ord. 715, 8-21-
2006)
8-3-4: LITTERING:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or allow any litter to
collect or accumulate on or about any premises in the city owned or occupied by
him or from which he operates a business, except in a properly placed
container.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or deposit any litter upon
any private property or, in or upon any street, sidewalk, parkway (except for
garbage collection purposes as provided in subsection 8-3-3B of this chapter),
park or other public place or property within the city, except in public
receptacles or containers provided for such purposes.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to store or permit or allow the
exterior storage on or about any premises owned or occupied by him of any
bricks, concrete blocks, lumber or other building materials; except when the
storage of such brick, concrete block, lumber or other building materials is
necessarily incident to the remodeling or expansion of any structure located on
such premises and is kept at all times behind the front and side yard setback
lines established for any structure on said premises and when such storage does
not continue or exist for more than ninety (90) days. For the purposes of this
subsection, "exterior storage" shall mean the storage of any of the above
enumerated material or things outside of any structure located on the subject
premises. This section shall not apply to new construction. (Ord. 280, 4-26-
1982)
   D.   (Rep. by Ord. 672, 3-8-2004)
   E.   It shall be the duty of the police department, to enforce the
provisions of this chapter, and to notify persons violating the same to remove
the litter within forty eight (48) hours from the date of the service of the
notice.
Notice shall be given by means of personal service of a copy of the complaint
or by certified or registered mail of a copy of the complaint, which is
addressed to the residence or usual place of business of the owner or person in
control of the private property. Personal service shall be made by any police
officer of the police department or any person authorized by law to make
personal service.
   F.   The city may dispose of litter within forty eight (48) hours after the
proper individual has received written notice provided for in subsection E of
this section. If the notice provided for in subsection E of this section is
returned to the United States post office because of its inability to make
delivery thereof, the responsible city officials are hereby authorized and
empowered to dispose of such litter.
   G.   The cost and expense of removing and disposing of such litter from
private property shall be recoverable from the owner or owners of the real
estate and is a lien thereon, which lien shall be superior to all prior
existing liens and encumbrances except taxes; provided, however, that within
ninety (90) days after completion of the removing and disposing of litter, the
city attorney shall file a notice of lien for the cost and expense incurred by
the city, in the office of the recorder of deeds of Tazewell County. Upon
payment of said cost of removing and disposing of the litter, the lien shall be
released by the city attorney.
The lien may be enforced by proceedings to foreclose as in case of mortgages or
mechanic's liens. Suit to foreclose this lien shall be commenced by the city
attorney within three (3) years after the date of filing of notice of lien.
If payment of the city's cost of removing and disposing of the litter is not
paid to the city within fifteen (15) days of the filing of the notice of lien,
the city attorney may commence proceedings in the circuit court seeking a
personal judgment from the owner of the subject property in the amount of said
costs. The action authorized by this subsection G shall be in addition to, and
without waiver of, any other remedies. (Ord. 280, 4-26-1982)
8-3-5: LITTERING; ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other
public place within the city an accumulation of litter from any building or lot
or from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk and city right of way in front of their
premises free of litter.
   B.   No person, while a driver or passenger in a vehicle shall throw or
deposit litter upon any street or other public place within the city.
   C.   No person shall drive or move any truck or other vehicle within the
city unless such vehicle is so constructed and loaded as to prevent any load of
material or litter from being blown or deposited upon any street, alley or
other public place. Nor shall any person drive or move any vehicle or truck
within the city, the wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit in any
street, alley or other public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances or foreign
matter of any kind.
   D.   No person in an aircraft shall throw out, drop or deposit within the
city any litter, handbill or any other object.
   E.   It shall be unlawful for any person to spill any turpentine, kerosene,
gasoline, benzine, naphtha, coal oil or any product thereof, or any oil for
lubricating, illuminating or fuel purposes, or to allow any of such fluid to
escape to or upon any asphalt or other pavement of the city, or to operate or
permit to be operated any tank wagon or other vehicle from which any of such
fluids are permitted to escape.
   F.   All persons hauling dirt, sand, gravel, cinders or other materials, or
any waste matter on streets or alleys, shall so construct and maintain their
vehicle as at all times to prevent the spilling of such material or matter from
the same. (Ord. 280, 4-26-1982)
8-3-6: DISTRIBUTION OF HANDBILLS AND ADVERTISING MATERIAL:
   A.   No person shall throw or deposit any handbill in or upon any sidewalk,
street or other public place within the city. It shall not be unlawful on any
sidewalk, street or other public place within the city for any person to hand
out or distribute, without charge to the receiver thereof, any handbill to any
person willing to accept it.
   B.   No person shall throw or deposit any handbill in or upon any vehicle;
however, it shall not be unlawful in any public place for a person to hand out
or distribute, without charge to the receiver thereof, a handbill to any
occupant of a vehicle who is willing to accept it.
   C.   No person shall throw or deposit any handbill in or upon any private
premises which are temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant.
   D.   No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any handbill in or upon
private premises which are inhabited, except by handing or transmitting any
such handbill directly to the owner, occupant or other person then present in
or upon private premises; provided, however, that in case of inhabited private
premises, such person, unless requested by anyone upon such premises not to do
so, shall have the authority to place or deposit any such handbill in or upon
such inhabited private premises, if such handbill is so placed or deposited as
to secure or prevent such handbill from being blown or drifted about such
premises or sidewalks, streets or other public places, and except that
mailboxes may not be used when so prohibited by federal postal law or
regulations.
   E.   No person shall paste, post, paint, nail or otherwise fasten any
handbill, sign, poster, advertisement or notice of any kind whatsoever or cause
the same to be done on any curbstone, flagstone or any other portion or part of
any sidewalk or street or upon any tree, lamppost, telephone pole, electric
light pole, hydrant, public litter receptacle, bridge, pier or upon any
structure within the right of way limits of any street or alley in the city
except as such may be permitted by this code or other ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 280, 4-26-1982)
      1.   Real estate signs advertising and directing towards open house
locations are permitted between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. on
Thursday through and until six o'clock (6:00) P.M. on Sunday. Signs must be of
a size, nature and location so as not to restrict the safe flow of traffic or
jeopardize pedestrians.
      2.   All signs must be freestanding and unattached to any tree, sign or
structure within the right of way limits of any street in the city. Any signs
not removed within the time guidelines may be removed by officers of the city
and disposed of. No signs allowed by the above conditions shall be permitted
within four hundred feet (400') of State Route 29 on LaSalle Boulevard.
      3.   The city council may approve permits that allow freestanding signs
to be placed along the right of way. The permit shall include the duration,
size and location of each sign. (Ord. 617, 12-10-2001)
   F.   No person shall paste, post, paint, print, nail or otherwise fasten any
handbill, sign, poster, advertisement or notice of any kind or cause the same
to be done upon any private wall, window, door, gate, fence, advertising board
or sign or upon any other private structure or building, unless he is the
owner, agent or lessee thereof, or without the consent, in writing of the owner
of such wall, window, fence, gate, advertising board or sign or other building
or structure. (Ord. 280, 4-26-1982; amd. Ord. 436, 11-23-1992)
8-3-7: PLACEMENT OF INDOOR FURNITURE OUTDOORS:
   A.   Except as provided in subsection B of this section, no person shall
place, use, keep, store or maintain outdoors any indoor furniture not
manufactured for outdoor use, including, but not limited to, upholstered chairs
and couches or mattresses designed for indoor bedding use. As used in this
section, "outdoors" means any place exposed to weather, including, but not
limited to, yards, porches, decks, patios, balconies and rooftops, but
excluding enclosed weatherproof porches.
   B.   Indoor furniture shall only be allowed to stay outdoors for a period
not to exceed thirty six (36) hours in any seven (7) day period, only under the
following circumstances:
      1.   When said indoor furniture is placed at the curb on the customary
collection day for it to be removed as part of bulky waste removal.
      2.   When said indoor furniture is placed outdoors as part of a garage
sale.
   C.   It shall be the duty of the police chief to serve or cause to be served
a notice upon the owner or occupant of any premises where a violation of this
section is occurring, and to demand abatement of the violation within twenty
four (24) hours. If the person so served fails to abate the violation within
twenty four (24) hours, the police chief, or any police officer under his
direction, shall commence enforcement proceedings against the owner or
occupant. (Ord. 623, 2-11-2002)
8-3-8: DISPOSAL AND STORAGE OF TREE WASTE:
   A.   Tree waste intended for use as a fuel may be neatly stored with regular
maintenance and kept free from other foliage and debris, on the exterior of any
structure, but shall at all times be kept and stored behind the front and side
yard setback lines established for any structure on such premises.
   B.   Tree waste may be placed in the parkway area in front of any premises
at or near the curb line no sooner than seven (7) days before the regularly
scheduled pick up published by the city. (Ord. 672, 3-8-2004)
CHAPTER 4
DELIVERY AND POSSESSION OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Definitions
8-4-2: Delivery To And Possession Of By Minors
8-4-3: Penalties
8-4-4: Enforcement
8-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this chapter:
POSSESSION: To have upon one's person or have in close proximity to one's
person or in one's control.
TOBACCO PRODUCTS: Cigarettes, cigars, smokeless tobacco (which means tobacco in
any form which is suitable for dipping and/or chewing), or in any other form,
(vape products). (Ord. 890, 7-8-2019)
8-4-2: DELIVERY TO AND POSSESSION OF BY MINORS:
   A.   Delivery Of Tobacco Products To Minors: It shall be unlawful for any
person, whether acting individually or acting through an owner, officer,
employee or agent, to sell, give, distribute, furnish, or deliver any tobacco
products in any form to any person under the age of twenty one (21) years old.
   B.   Possession Of Tobacco Products By A Minor: No person under twenty one
(21) years of age shall have in his or her possession any tobacco product in
any of its forms. It shall not be a violation of this section for any such
person to have tobacco products in his or her possession while in the presence
of his or her parents or legal guardian, or in the performance of a religious
ceremony or while participating in any theatrical performance where possession
of a tobacco product is necessary. (Ord. 890, 7-8-2019)
8-4-3: PENALTIES:
   A.   A violation of subsection
8-4-2A of this chapter is a petty offense and shall be punishable by a fine of
two hundred dollars ($200.00), four hundred dollars ($400.00) for the second
offense in a twelve (12) month period, and six hundred dollars ($600.00) for
the third or any subsequent offense in a twelve (12) month period.
   B.   A violation of subsection
8-4-2B of this chapter is a petty offense and shall be punishable by a fine of
one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a first offense, and a fine not to exceed
five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a second or subsequent offense; provided,
however, that in addition to or in lieu of a fine, a final disposition may
include community service and/or education regarding the effect of tobacco
products on the human body. (Ord. 890, 7-8-2019; amd. Ord. 909, 7- 13-2021)
8-4-4: ENFORCEMENT:
The observation of a violation of subsection
8-4-2B of this chapter shall not constitute the sole basis for law enforcement
authorities to stop a motor vehicle in which an alleged offender is a driver or
passenger. (Ord. 890, 7-8-2019)
CHAPTER 5
BODY PIERCING
SECTION:
8-5-1: Definitions
8-5-2: License Required
8-5-3: License Fee
8-5-4: Application For License
8-5-5: Licensed Physician Required
8-5-6: Violations
8-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the words and terms defined below shall have the
following meanings:
BODY PIERCING: Any procedure whereby a part or parts of the human body are
pierced by a sharp instrument in order to allow insertion of a piece or pieces
of jewelry, a ring or other ornamental device through the orifice thus created.
OPERATOR: Any individual, firm, company, corporation or association that owns
or operates an establishment where body piercing is performed for a fee or
performed in conjunction with the sale of jewelry, rings or other ornamental
devices inserted through orifices created by body piercing. (Ord. 532, 4-13-
1998)
8-5-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any operator or any agent of any operator to engage in
or offer to engage in body piercing unless the operator has first obtained a
license from the city. (Ord. 532, 4-13-1998)
8-5-3: LICENSE FEE:
Each operator shall pay a license fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each
calendar year or part thereof during which such operator engages in or offers
to engage in body piercing. (Ord. 532, 4-13-1998)
8-5-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
All applications for a license to operate a body piercing establishment shall
be made in writing to the city clerk and shall be accompanied by the license
fee for the period for which the application is made. Any change of ownership
in such establishment shall require a new application and license with payment
of fees thereafter. (Ord. 532, 4-13-1998)
8-5-5: LICENSED PHYSICIAN REQUIRED:
Each operator must be licensed to practice medicine or osteopathic medicine in
the state of Illinois as set forth in the Illinois medical practice act of 1987
1  or any replacement legislation. All body piercing performed within such
establishment shall be either done by a licensed physician or osteopath or in
the presence and under the direct supervision of a licensed physician or
osteopath. This provision shall not apply to those lawfully engaged only in the
piercing of earlobes. (Ord. 532, 4-13-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 60/1 et seq.
8-5-6: VIOLATIONS:
A violation of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) and not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for
each offense. (Ord. 532, 4-13-1998)
CHAPTER 6
TATTOOING BODY
SECTION:
8-6-1: Definition
8-6-2: License To Practice Medicine Required
8-6-3: Penalties
8-6-1: DEFINITION:
As used in this chapter, to "tattoo" means to insert pigment under the surface
of the skin of a human being, by pricking with a needle or otherwise, so as to
produce an indelible mark or figure visible through the skin. (Ord. 531, 4-13-
1998)
8-6-2: LICENSE TO PRACTICE MEDICINE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, other than a person licensed to practice
medicine in all its branches, to tattoo or offer to tattoo a person. (Ord. 531,
4-13-1998)
8-6-3: PENALTIES:
Violation of any provision of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of not
less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each offense. (Ord. 531, 4-13-1998)
CHAPTER 7
PONDS
SECTION:
8-7-1: Definition
8-7-2: Construction Standards
8-7-3: License
8-7-1: DEFINITION:
A "pond" is any body of water within the city having a volume in excess of two
thousand (2,000) gallons, or a depth at any point in excess of twenty four
inches (24") which is not intended to be a swimming pool. (Ord. 731, 9-24-2007)
8-7-2: CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
All ponds must meet the following requirements:
   A.   Ponds must be constructed with circulating pumps and filters of
sufficient size to recycle at least twenty five percent (25%) of the volume of
the pond each hour, or be certified by a professional engineer licensed in the
state of Illinois that the natural exchange of water is sufficient, in a year
where one-third (1/3) the normal rainfall occurs, that the pond will not become
stagnant. Circulating systems must be operated from April 1 through October 31.
   B.   Ponds must be equipped with a piping system which allows for the
discharge of excess water in such a manner that no water cascades over earthen
material during or due to the runoff created by a 50-year storm, and to ensure
that under any circumstance excess water does not erode soil in the vicinity of
the pond.
   C.   A professional engineer licensed in the state of Illinois must certify
that any pond created by damming a watercourse is constructed such that, in a
year of three (3) times the normal rainfall, the pond will not exceed the
design boundaries.
   D.   Ponds must be enclosed by a fence or a combination of a fence and
buildings not less than four feet (4') tall. All gates, doors or other devices
which allow access to the pond through the fence must be equipped with a
locking mechanism which is sufficient in the opinion of the building inspector
to exclude children under the age of eight (8). (Ord. 695, 6-27-2005)
   E.   Ponds shall not exceed ten thousand (10,000) gallons or three feet (3')
in depth. (Ord. 731, 9-24-2007)
8-7-3: LICENSE:
   A.   Required: Prior to construction or reconstruction of any pond, the
owner, tenant or other person in possession of property upon which the pond is
to be constructed, reconstructed, created or otherwise allowed to exist must
obtain a license from the city for such pond. The owner of an existing pond
shall annually apply for renewal of the license issued for that pond by March 1
of each calendar year. No license shall be issued for any pond which will not
or does not meet the construction standards established in section
8-7-2 of this chapter.
   B.   Application: Any person seeking to construct or reconstruct a pond
shall first submit an application to the building inspector which includes the
following information:
      1.   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant.
      2.   The location of the proposed or existing pond.
      3.   A description of the manner in which the pond will be constructed or
reconstructed.
      4.   The volume and depth of the pond.
      5.   A detailed description of a circulation system and overflow system
which will be incorporated into the pond.
      6.   Any certifications required by section
8-7-2 of this chapter.
      7.   A description of the fence which will control access to the pond.
      8.   A diagram showing the location of the pond and all related
improvements on the parcel where the pond will be located.
   C.   Term: Pond licenses shall have a term from April 1 of each calendar
year through March 31 of the following calendar year.
   D.   Renewal: Pond licenses are renewable following inspection and approval
by the city building inspector.
   E.   Fees:
      1.   All persons obtaining a license to construct or reconstruct a pond
shall pay an application fee of thirty five dollars ($35.00) which shall
include the first year's license fee. If the application for a license is
denied, the fee is forfeited.
      2.   License renewal fee shall be ten dollars ($10.00). If the
application for license renewal is denied, the fee is forfeited.
      3.   License reinstatement after revocation shall be thirty five dollars
($35.00).
   F.   Revocation: The mayor may at any time revoke any pond license for any
violation of this chapter or violation of any other provision of this code
including, without limitation, the following reasons:
      1.   The pond is stagnant, emits a noxious smell or otherwise creates any
condition which interferes with the use or enjoyment of nearby properties.
      2.   The pond is constructed or maintained in a manner inconsistent with
the regulations set forth in section
8-7-2 of this chapter.
After such revocation, the owner or occupant of the property where the pond
exists shall have thirty (30) days to either remove the pond from the property
or remediate the deficiencies which are the basis for revocation. Notice of
revocation of license shall be mailed to the license holder both by certified
mail and regular mail at the last known address of the license holder or,
alternatively, the notice may be personally served on the licensee on an adult
member of the licensee's household.
   G.   Appeal: Any applicant or license holder may appeal any denial of an
application for a pond license or any revocation of a pond license to the city
council. The appeal must be in writing, must explain the basis of the appeal
and must be delivered to the office of the city clerk within ten (10) days
after denial of an application or after notice of revocation was mailed or
personally delivered to the license holder. Any party to the appeal may present
evidence and be represented by counsel at the expense of the party. The city
council shall convene within ten (10) days after receipt of the appeal for the
purpose of hearing the appeal. The city council will by roll call vote in open
session render a decision regarding the appeal. The decision of the city
council shall be final. (Ord. 695, 6-27-2005)
TITLE 9
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS, PUBLIC WAYS AND EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Supervision
9-1-2: Right Of Way Defined
9-1-3: Obstructing Right Of Way Prohibited
9-1-4: Permitted Uses Within Right Of Way
9-1-5: Prohibited Uses Of Right Of Way
9-1-6: Construction Requirements
9-1-7: Defects; Repairs
9-1-8: Street Opening Repairs
9-1-9: Repairs To Sidewalks, Shoulders, Curbs And Gutters
9-1-10: Notification And Protection Of The Public
9-1-11: Nonliability Of City
9-1-12: Emergency Excavations
9-1-13: Fines And Penalties
9-1-14: Moving Of Houses Within Rights Of Way
9-1-1: SUPERVISION:
All public streets, sidewalks and other public ways in the city shall be under
the supervision of the superintendent of streets. He shall be charged with the
compliance of all ordinance provisions relating to such public places. (Ord.
550, 2-22-1999)
9-1-2: RIGHT OF WAY DEFINED:
"Right of way" means that portion of any street, roadway, sidewalk, or other
public passageway reserved to the public use or otherwise owned or controlled
by the city (or any other governmental entity) including, but not limited to,
any unpaved or unimproved part or parts thereof. (Ord. 550, 2-22-1999)
9-1-3: OBSTRUCTING RIGHT OF WAY PROHIBITED:
Other than as permitted or allowed by this code, it shall be unlawful for any
person, corporation, firm or other entity to place, deposit, install or
maintain any structure, material, debris, artifact or thing, in, on or upon any
right of way within the city. (Ord. 550, 2-22-1999)
9-1-4: PERMITTED USES WITHIN RIGHT OF WAY:
The placement of any of the following things within a right of way is hereby
permitted:
   A.   Any traffic control sign, signal device, street sign, barricade or the
like installed by any governmental entity with authority to install and
maintain same.
   B.   Any other sign or device deemed in the public convenience and/or
necessity installed and maintained by the city.
   C.   Any utility pole, wire, line, conduit, water line, shutoff valve, fire
hydrant or the like which is either:
      1.   Installed and maintained by the city; or
      2.   Permitted or allowed by any ordinance, resolution or franchise
enacted or adopted by the city, or otherwise expressly authorized by the city.
   D.   Mailboxes and newspaper boxes.
   E.   Driveways, to the extent permitted and regulated by title 4, chapter 7
of this code.
   F.   Grass, flower arrangements and other decorative plantings (other than
trees and shrubs) not exceeding eighteen inches (18") in height and not planted
in any manner so as to obstruct vehicular traffic sightlines or so as to cause
any other obstruction or danger to vehicular or pedestrian traffic. (Ord. 550,
2-22-1999)
9-1-5: PROHIBITED USES OF RIGHT OF WAY:
The placement of the following things within a right of way are hereby
prohibited:
   A.   Trees and shrubs except to the extent permitted and regulated by
chapter 8 of this title.
   B.   Garbage, garbage cans, litter, refuse and rubbish, except as permitted
for pick up purposes, title 8, chapter 3 of this code.
   C.   Weeds which are in violation of title 8, chapter 2 of this code.
   D.   Any other structure, thing, artifact or device except as specifically
allowed by section
9-1-4 of this chapter.
   E.   Discharge of snow, ice, or any like material into the street portion of
the right of way. (Ord. 550, 2-22-1999)
9-1-6: CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required:
      1.   Street Openings: No public street may be cut or opened except by an
approved contractor who shall first have obtained a permit for same.
   B.   Obtaining Permits; Cash Or Surety Bond:
      1.   Franchise Utility Companies And Sewer Contractors: The permit for
said cut or opening shall be obtained from the city, after first having paid a
bond for street opening, or cut, in the amount as set forth below. Said bond
shall cover the cost of inspection. A permit may be denied to any contractor
who has previously failed to comply with this code.
      2.   Maintenance And Excavation Contractors; Bond: Maintenance and
excavation opening permit for replacement or renewal/removal of facilities:
         a.   In order to obtain said permit, said person, firm, or corporation
shall file with the city clerk a written application therefor, which
application shall set forth the type of hole, digging or excavating proposed to
be done, giving the approximate length and depth thereof, and when same shall
be done. Whereupon, the city clerk shall refer said application to the
superintendent of the streets, and if said superintendent approves said
application, the city clerk shall thereupon, issue said permit; provided,
however, that before said permit is issued the said applicant shall file with
the city clerk a cash or surety bond in the sum of five hundred dollars
($500.00), which bond shall be for the purpose of guaranteeing to the city that
said applicant replace, cover and surface said hole, digging or excavating, in
the same manner and in as good condition as said street or public property was
in before said work was done, and shall be retained by the city as damages and
for the purpose of paying for the replacement of said work in the proper
manner. Said applicant shall also be responsible for replacement costs
exceeding the five hundred dollar ($500.00) bond. The city shall have sixty
(60) days from completion of said work before the city shall be required to
approve or disapprove same.
   C.   Compliance With Specifications Of City Council: All street and sidewalk
pavements shall be made in conformity with specifications laid down or approved
from time to time by the city council. (Ord. 550, 2-22-1999)
9-1-7: DEFECTS; REPAIRS:
   A.   Reports Of Defects: It shall be the duty of every city officer, or
employee becoming cognizant of any defect in any street or sidewalk, or any
obstruction thereof, to report the same to the superintendent of streets as
soon as possible.
   B.   Repairs Required: All public streets and sidewalk pavement shall be
kept in good repair. Such repair work, whether done by the city or by the
abutting owner shall be under the supervision of the superintendent of streets.
(Ord. 550, 2-22-1999)
9-1-8: STREET OPENING REPAIRS:
The permittee must repair the area affected by the disruption of the street
surface and subsurface to a condition equal to or better than the surrounding
street surface and maintain the area affected by the disruption until such time
as the street, sidewalk or other area is either rebuilt or overlaid. The
permittee must further repair or remove and replace any street or other surface
scarred by work performed pursuant to this section. All repairs shall be
inspected and approved by the superintendent of streets upon completion. If a
repair is not approved by the superintendent of streets, it must be repaired
again to meet approval.
Restoration or repair of streets shall be in accordance with the "Standard
Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In Illinois", July 1994,
subject to the provisions in subsections A and B of this section. (Ord. 550, 2-
22-1999)
   A.   If the excavation is less than ten feet (10') deep from the existing
ground level to the bottom of the excavation, the restoration or repair shall
be made as follows:
      1.   All street openings that are to be repaired in the area of an
existing pavement subgrade or where the inner edge of a trench for such
conduits of closer than two feet (2') to the edge of the existing pavement,
stabilized shoulder, curb, gutter or sidewalk shall be backfilled with the
following materials:
         a.   All trenches, structures, culverts, utility cuts and other work
extending under pavement locations shall be filled with control low strength
material (CLSM). No material excavated may be placed back in the excavation.
         b.   CLSM shall consist of one of the following mixtures:
            MIXTURE NO. 1
 
Portland cement               50      pounds
Fly ash                       200     pounds
Fine aggregate (SSD saturated 2,990   pounds
surface dry)
Water                         49 - 57 gallons
 
(Ord. 575, 3-27-2000)
            MIXTURE NO. 2
 
Portland cement          185     pounds
Fine aggregate (SSD)     2,990   pounds (SSD)
Air-entraining admixture 6       fluid ounces
Water                    49 - 57 gallons (as directed)
 
These quantities will give an approximate yield of one cubic yard. The flow
ability of the mixture shall be observed by the street superintendent or his/
her designee and the water content increased/decreased within the stated limits
for mixture no. 1 and the water content and the air-entraining admixture
content increased/decreased as directed for mixture no. 2.
The mixing of the CLSM shall be as specified in section 803 of the "Standard
Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction" adopted July 1994, by the
Illinois department of transportation or as approved by the street
superintendent.
         c.   All materials incorporated shall meet all requirements of the
"Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction" adopted July 1994,
and more specifically the following or as approved by the street superintendent
or his/her designee:
 
Water                     702
Fine aggregate            703 ASTM C 33
Portland cement (type 1)  718.19 (b)
Fly ash (class C)         701
Air-entraining admixtures 718.01 (b)
 
         d.   The CLSM must be free of frost prior to placement of any surface.
(Ord. 550, 2-22-1999)
      2.   Areas that have been opened in existing pavement to facilitate the
installation or repair of utilities shall be saw cut to provide a square edge
with the existing pavement. All holes shall be temporarily patched with a
minimum of six inches (6") of bituminous cold patch mixture or shall be
permanently patched as set forth below.
A permanent patch shall be constructed by October 15 following the installation
of the temporary patch in the following manner: a) if concrete, the same
thickness of concrete as the existing pavement, but not less than six inches
(6") of PCC concrete; b) if bituminous surface, three inches (3") of bituminous
cap and six inches (6") of PCC concrete base, or if the pavement is full depth
bituminous eight inches (8") or greater, then bituminous of the same thickness
as the existing bituminous. (Ord. 636, 5-13-2002)
   B.   If the excavation is greater than ten feet (10') deep from the existing
ground level to the bottom of the excavation, the restoration or repair may be
made as provided in subsection A of this section, or shall be made as follows:
      1.   All street openings that are to be repaired in the area of an
existing pavement subgrade or where the inner edge of a trench for such
conduits is closer than two feet (2') to the edge of the existing pavement,
stabilized shoulder, curb, gutter or sidewalk shall be backfilled with the
following materials:
The top ten feet (10') shall comply with the CLSM requirements as provided in
subsection A of this section. Below the initial ten feet (10') of CLSM,
selected granular backfill materials for the repair of said openings shall
consist only of sand, stone sand, crushed stone, or crushed gravel with
gradations as specified in 20-2, 21C of the said standard specifications. This
backfill material is to be placed and compacted in lifts not to exceed eighteen
inches (18") and placed to within six inches (6") of the finished surface.
(Ord. 575, 3-27-2000)
      2.   Areas that have been opened in existing pavement to facilitate the
installation or repair of utilities shall be saw cut to provide a square edge
with the existing pavement. All holes shall be temporarily patched with a
minimum of six inches (6") of bituminous cold patch mixture or shall be
permanently patched as set forth below.
A permanent patch shall be constructed by October 15 following the installation
of the temporary patch in the following manner: a) if concrete, the same
thickness of concrete as the existing pavement, but not less than six inches
(6") of PCC concrete; b) if bituminous surface, three inches (3") of bituminous
cap and six inches (6") of PCC concrete base, or if the pavement is full depth
bituminous eight inches (8") or greater, then bituminous of the same thickness
as the existing bituminous. (Ord. 636, 5-13-2002)
      3.   The material for granular cradle for restoration of streets opened
for the repair or installation of sanitary sewer, storm sewers or water
distribution shall be stone, screening, crushed stone, pit run gravel, washed
gravel, crushed boiler slag, or other granular material approved by the city or
its representative and conform to gradations specified in said standard
specifications. (Ord. 575, 3-27-2000)
   C.   If the permittee fails to repair in accordance with this section or
section
9-1-9 of this chapter, after notification by the superintendent of streets,
then the city may, at its option, repair or replace such portion of the street,
sidewalk or other area and the permittee shall be liable for the city's
reasonable costs, including labor, engineering and attorney fees. Said
notification shall be in writing and shall grant the permittee five (5) days to
repair or replace in accordance with these provisions before the city
undertakes repair or replacement. (Ord. 550, 2-22-1999)
9-1-9: REPAIRS TO SIDEWALKS, SHOULDERS, CURBS AND GUTTERS:
All sidewalks, shoulders, curbs and gutter openings shall be restored to their
original condition and with original materials or their equivalent. Said
repairs shall be inspected and approved by the superintendent of streets upon
completion. (Ord. 550, 2-22-1999)
9-1-10: NOTIFICATION AND PROTECTION OF THE PUBLIC:
   A.   All franchisees, utility companies, and other users of the public ways
for utility purposes shall barricade as necessary to respond to emergency
situations involving or caused by their use of the public ways as directed by
the police department or street department. If the emergency is discovered by
the city and the city barricades, the user shall reimburse the city for its
costs, including labor, if deemed necessary by the street superintendent.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove any barricade which any
officer of the city has placed upon a public street or public place in the
city, or to drive any motor vehicle of any kind or pass over any street or
public place which has been closed from traffic by any city officer.
   C.   All franchisees, utility companies, and other users of the public ways
for utility purposes shall notify the street department when they become aware
of actual or potential structural damage to the public right of way or
structures which is or may be caused by their installations.
   D.   The city shall be notified by each permittee of its schedule for
backfilling and roadway repairs prior to commencing the work. Roadway repairs
made without notification are subject to the fines listed in section
9-1-13 of this chapter and will require reexcavation and replacement in
compliance with subsection 9-1-8A or B of this chapter, as applicable. All
franchisees, utility companies, and other users of the public ways for utility
purposes shall supply the street superintendent with proof of the backfilling
materials, i.e., CLSM tickets, within seven (7) days of the completion of the
backfilling.
   E.   Franchisees, utility companies, and other users of the public ways for
utility purposes shall remove or repair all utility structures determined by
the street superintendent to pose a threat to public safety within twenty four
(24) hours after notification by the city.
   F.   Failed patches shall be repaired within twenty four (24) hours after
notification by the city.
   G.   All temporary patches shall be converted to approved permanent patches
by October 15 of each year.
   H.   All test holes drilled in public ways shall be backfilled with CLSM, or
compatible fill, capped with a permanent patch on the same day that the public
way is patched.
   I.   Franchisees, utility companies, and other users of the public ways for
utility purposes shall use normally accepted treatment and precautionary
measures to control water and ice on streets and sidewalks resulting from
breakage or repair work. If such measures are not used promptly after
notification by the city, the city may take such measures as it deems necessary
to control water and ice and the user shall reimburse the city for its costs,
including labor. (Ord. 550, 2-22-1999)
9-1-11: NONLIABILITY OF CITY:
The said applicant shall save and keep harmless the city from any and all
liability of any kind and character in connection with said work, including
damages or suits for damage in connection therewith. (Ord. 550, 2-22-1999)
9-1-12: EMERGENCY EXCAVATIONS:
In the event of an emergency which requires immediate excavating or digging,
the superintendent of streets, superintendent of water, mayor or chairman of
streets shall have the right to authorize the immediate digging and excavating,
in which event said applicant shall comply with all of the provisions of this
chapter as soon as it is possible. (Ord. 550, 2-22-1999)
9-1-13: FINES AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Violations of subsections 9-1-10A through D and I of this chapter shall
be subject to a fine of two hundred dollars ($200.00) per violation.
   B.   Violations of subsections 9-1-10E through G of this chapter shall be
subject to a fine of two hundred dollars ($200.00) per day per violation.
   C.   Violations of subsection 9-1-10H of this chapter shall be subject to a
fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) per day per hole. (Ord. 550, 2-22-1999)
9-1-14: MOVING OF HOUSES WITHIN RIGHTS OF WAY:
   A.   It is unlawful to move any house within or upon the right of way of the
city.
   B.   For purposes of this section, "house" means any structure intended to
be used as a single- or multi-family residence, or any other structure of
whatever use having a floor area of two hundred fifty (250) square feet or
more, any of which has been constructed and at any time placed on a permanent
foundation.
   C.   Subsection A of this section does not apply to any new structure
intended to be used for residential purposes which is of prefabricated, precut
or modular construction. (Ord. 732, 10-8-2007)
CHAPTER 2
BLOCKS RENUMBERED
SECTION:
9-2-1: Certain Blocks Renumbered
9-2-1: CERTAIN BLOCKS RENUMBERED:
Certain blocks abutting LaSalle Boulevard in the city shall be renumbered as
designated below:
   A.   That portion of land abutting LaSalle Boulevard and lying between Route
29 and St. Clair Drive will be designated as zero to ninety nine (0–99) block
of LaSalle Boulevard.
   B.   That portion of land abutting LaSalle Boulevard and lying between St.
Clair Drive and Cavalier Road will be designated as the one hundred (100) block
of LaSalle Boulevard. (Ord. 550, 2-22-1999)
CHAPTER 3
MOVING BUILDINGS
(Rep. by Ord. 305, 3-12-1984)
CHAPTER 4
CITY PARKS AND PUBLIC PLACES
SECTION:
9-4-1: Alcoholic Beverages
9-4-2: Closing Hours
9-4-3: Sale, Possession And Consumption Of Alcoholic Beverages In City Parks
9-4-1: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
   A.   Except as provided by subsection 3-9-6H of this Code and section
9-4-3 of this chapter, no person shall sell, give away, possess or consume
alcoholic beverages at any time in any park within the City unless such
alcoholic beverage is purchased from a Class H licensee at special event as
provided in subsection 3-9-6H of this Code. Possession and consumption of such
alcoholic beverages is limited to the area and time approved in the Class H
license application. No person shall be under the influence of intoxicating
liquors while in such parks, no person shall bring within, have in his/her
possession or transport, carry or have any alcoholic beverages in, upon or
about any motor vehicle in any such park, except in the original package and
with the seal unbroken.
   B.   No person may consume or have in his/her possession an open container
or a container with a broken seal containing alcoholic beverages in any
vehicle, vehicle parking area, or on any public street, sidewalk, alley or
other public way, or in any restaurant or eating places not licensed to serve
alcoholic beverages within the City. (Ord. 897, 8-12-2019)
9-4-2: CLOSING HOURS:
   A.   No person shall enter upon Marquette Heights Park, at LaSalle Boulevard
or Sangamon Road, or upon Independence Park on LaSalle Boulevard between the
hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) pm and six o'clock (6:00) am except when
authorized to do so by written consent of the City Council or Mayor.
   B.   No person shall enter upon Marquette Heights Skate Park or Basketball
Court or Dog Park between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) pm and six o'clock
(6:00) am.
   C.   No person shall enter upon the Dog Park, Highline Park, between Lincoln
Road and Fulton Road, or the Main Street Park, between dusk and dawn. (Ord.
865, 5-8-2017; amd. Ord. 919, - -2021)
9-4-3: SALE, POSSESSION AND CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN CITY PARKS:
   A.   A Class H liquor license holder as defined by subsection 3-9-6H of this
Code, may, upon the approval of the City Council, offer for retail sale,
alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises of a City park pursuant to
the terms of the Class H license.
   B.   A person may possess and consume alcoholic beverages in a City park if
such alcoholic beverage is purchased or received from a Class H licensee and
the possession and consumption of such alcoholic beverage remains within the
area governed by the Class H license. (Ord. 897, 8-12-2019)
CHAPTER 5
COMBINED WATER AND SEWER UTILITY
SECTION:
9-5-1: Combined Utility
9-5-2: Department Created, Superintendent
9-5-3: Clerk, Duties
9-5-4: Audit Of Accounts
9-5-5: Deposit Of Receipts
9-5-6: Sewer Replacement Fund
9-5-7: Water And Sewer Capital Improvement Fund
9-5-8: Penalties
9-5-1: COMBINED UTILITY:
The waterworks and sewerage systems of the city are hereby combined and shall
be operated by the city as one combined utility. (Ord. 390, 9-11-1989)
9-5-2: DEPARTMENT CREATED, SUPERINTENDENT:
There is hereby established a department of the city known as the "combined
waterworks and sewerage department" (hereinafter in this title called the
"department"). There shall be placed in charge of the general management and
control of said department a superintendent, who shall be appointed by the
mayor with the approval of the city council (hereinafter in this title called
the "superintendent"), who shall also be the superintendent of water pollution
control as provided in subsection 9-7-2A of this title. The superintendent
shall be bonded in the amount as may be determined by the city council. All
other full time employees of the department shall likewise be appointed by the
mayor with the approval of the city council. (Ord. 390, 9-11-1989)
9-5-3: CLERK, DUTIES:
   A.   The city clerk is designated as collector for the collection of water
and sewer charges, and it shall be the duty of the clerk to render bills for
service and all other charges in connection therewith and to collect all monies
due thereon. All monies so collected shall be promptly delivered over to the
city treasurer.
   B.   The method of computing rates and service charges established in this
title for the combined water and sewer utility shall be made available to any
user of the utility within seven (7) days of receipt by the clerk of a written
request from the user for such information. Any user billed for water or sewer
charges may submit a written appeal to the superintendent regarding either the
method utilized in calculating the charge or the application of that method to
calculate the charge. The superintendent shall enter a written decision in
response to any such appeal within ten (10) days after receipt of the appeal.
The decision of the superintendent shall be final. (Ord. 671, 2-9-2004)
9-5-4: AUDIT OF ACCOUNTS:
   A.   The city clerk shall establish a proper system of accounts and shall
keep proper books and records of accounts in which complete and correct entries
shall be made of all transactions relative to the waterworks and sewerage
system, and at regular annual intervals shall cause to be made an audit by a
certified public accountant of the books to show receipts and disbursements.
   B.   Either the Illinois environmental protection agency ("IEPA") or the
United States environmental protection agency ("USEPA") shall through any
authorized representative during business hours of the city have prompt access
to any books, documents, papers or records of the city which are applicable to
the combined water and sewer utility operated by the city for the purpose of
monitoring compliance with the terms and conditions of any grant or loan
received by the city from either the IEPA or the USEPA. Any such agency may
audit and examine any such records and extract such excerpts and/or
transcriptions thereof as such agencies deem necessary to ensure compliance
with the terms and conditions under which any such grant or loan was provided
to the city. (Ord. 671, 2-9-2004)
9-5-5: DEPOSIT OF RECEIPTS:
The city treasurer shall deposit all funds delivered to him by the city clerk
in a separate fund designated as the waterworks and sewerage fund and shall
administer such fund in a manner provided by the Illinois municipal code, and
as provided by city ordinance. (Ord. 390, 9-11-1989)
9-5-6: SEWER REPLACEMENT FUND:
   A.   There is hereby created by the city, the "sewer replacement fund" (the
"fund"). The fund shall be created and used solely and only for the purpose of
accumulating funds for replacement, for the purpose of retaining their design
capacities, any existing sewer lines, equipment and other facilities which
constitute a part of the existing city sewer system or as same may hereafter be
expanded. Said fund shall be maintained in the form of a savings (or similar)
account in a financial institution designated by the city treasurer in the same
manner as are other city funds. Sums on deposit in the fund may also, from time
to time, be invested and reinvested by the city treasurer in the manner and to
the extent permitted by law. Interest accumulating on the investment of sums on
deposit in the fund shall remain in and become a part of the fund.
   B.   The city shall designate as a part of its sewer user rates, a specific
amount of money to be deposited in the fund on a monthly basis. (Ord. 390, 9-
11-1989)
9-5-7: WATER AND SEWER CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND:
   A.   There is hereby created by the city, the "water and sewer capital
improvement fund" (the "fund"). The fund shall be created and used solely and
only for the purpose of accumulating funds for the replacement, extension,
expansion or improvement of any equipment, water mains, storage and treatment
structures, sewer lines, or other facilities which constitute a part of the
existing city water and sewer system or as same may hereafter be expanded. Said
fund shall be maintained in the form of a savings (or similar) account in a
financial institution designated by the city treasurer in the same manner as
are other city funds. Sums on deposit in the fund may also, from time to time,
be invested and reinvested by the city treasurer in the manner and to the
extent permitted by law. Interest accumulating on the sums on deposit in the
fund shall remain in and become a part of the fund.
   B.   The city shall designate as a part of its water rate structure, and its
sewer user charge rates, a specific amount of money to be deposited in the fund
on a monthly basis. (Ord. 390, 9-11-1989)
9-5-8: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who violates any provision of chapters 6 through 9 of this
title, or who fails to comply with any requirement thereof, shall be fined for
each such offense in an amount not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00). Each day a violation or noncompliance is
found to exist, shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   Any person violating any of the provisions of chapters 6 through 9 of
this title shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned by the city including attorney fees by reason of such violation.
   C.   Violation of chapter 6, 7, or 9 of this title shall be punishable by an
ordinance violation and/or disconnection of service. If disconnection of
service is necessary, sections
9-6-21 and
9-6-22 of this title shall apply. (Ord. 700, 9-26-2005)
CHAPTER 6
WATER SERVICE PROCEDURES, REGULATIONS AND RATES
SECTION:
9-6-1: Definitions
9-6-2: Connections, Permits Required; Fee
9-6-3: Service Installation
9-6-4: Lateral Connections (Water)
9-6-5: Compliance With Codes
9-6-6: Shutoff Boxes
9-6-7: Right Of Access
9-6-8: Water Meters
9-6-9: Multi-Unit Structures
9-6-10: Water Wells
9-6-11: Resale Or Distribution
9-6-12: Tampering Or Obstructing System
9-6-13: Nonliability Of City
9-6-14: Application For Service And Payment Of Deposit
9-6-15: Refund Of Deposit
9-6-16: Rates And Charges
9-6-17: Billing And Payment Dates
9-6-18: Late Charges
9-6-19: Exceptions And Extensions
9-6-20: Delinquencies
9-6-21: Disconnection
9-6-22: Reconnection Procedures And Fees
9-6-23: Liability Of Owner, Occupant And Service User
9-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used herein, the following terms shall have the following meanings unless
the context in which they are used clearly indicates otherwise:
COMMERCIAL USER: Any service user other than a homeowner or a renter.
DEPOSIT: The sum hereafter required to be paid by system users of the water and
sewer system in the city, for the initial provision of water and sewer service.
Said deposit shall be:
Commercial user   $ 75.00
Homeowner   75.00
Renter   150.00
HOMEOWNER: Any adult person (and his or her spouse) living in any home in the
city who owns the home (and the property) wherein he or she lives, or who is
purchasing said home and property subject to mortgage, contract for deed or
similar arrangement.
RENTER: Any adult person (and his or her spouse) living in a home in the city
who is not a homeowner and who, as the occupant thereof, is the person
responsible for said premises.
SENIOR CITIZEN: A person being the head of a household who is age sixty two
(62) or older who is the registered user of water service at any specific
premises and who has provided proof of his or her date of birth to the office
of the city clerk on a yearly basis during the month of January. A person is
the "head of the household" if such a person provides at least one-half (1/2)
of the cost of maintaining the household and resides at such address where
water service is registered. Senior citizens shall qualify for the water rate
as set forth in subsection 9-6-16B of this chapter.
SERVICE USER: Any homeowner, renter or commercial user to whom water service is
provided by the city. (Ord. 642, 7-22-2002; amd. Ord. 944, 12-11-2023)
9-6-2: CONNECTIONS, PERMITS REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   No connections to or with the city’s water system shall be made without
a permit being issued and twenty four (24) hours’ notice having been given to
the superintendent. All such connections shall be made and all such work done
at the expense of the applicant who shall furnish all materials necessary for
such work. The connections shall be made under the supervision of the
superintendent and shall not be covered over until the work has been inspected
and approved by him. (Ord. 390, 9-11-1989)
   B.   No connection or tap into the water system shall be made until a permit
for same is first obtained from the superintendent and all required fees are
paid to the department. The water service tap fee shall be two thousand dollars
($2,000.00) per connection, plus the actual cost to the city for all materials
provided in relation thereto, including, but not limited to, water meter, pipe
and shutoff box. (Ord. 852, 5-9-2016; amd. Ord. 930, 11-14-2022)
9-6-3: SERVICE INSTALLATION:
All service pipes, tiles or other conduit from the main line to the premises
served shall be installed by, and at the cost of the owner of the property to
be served or the applicant for the service. No service shall be installed
unless said pipes or tiling have first been inspected by the superintendent and
found by him to meet the specifications required by the city. (Ord. 390, 9-11-
1989)
9-6-4: LATERAL CONNECTIONS (WATER):
   A.   A lateral connection is the water pipe extending from a water main into
any lot, property or tract of land.
   B.   The city shall be responsible for the maintenance and repair of all
lateral connections extending from any water main up to and including the
shutoff box, except for damage to the shutoff box caused by the owner or
occupier of the property being served.
   C.   The owner of any lot, property or tract of land shall be responsible
for the maintenance and repair of any lateral connection extending from the
shutoff box to any other point on the property so served, and the city shall
have no responsibility for the repair and maintenance of same. The owner shall
further be responsible for any damage to the shutoff box caused by the owner
and/or occupier of the property so served. (Ord. 390, 9-11-1989)
9-6-5: COMPLIANCE WITH CODES:
In addition to the requirements set forth in this code, all installations of
water service to any premises in the city shall comply with all building codes
and other regulations duly adopted by the city and in force on the date an
application for a permit is made. (Ord. 390, 9-11-1989)
9-6-6: SHUTOFF BOXES:
   A.   Water shutoff boxes or service boxes shall be placed on every service
pipe, and shall be located between the curb line and the sidewalk line where
this is practical. Such boxes shall be located so that they are easily
accessible and protected from frost.
   B.   After final construction and landscaping is completed, shutoff boxes
must be exposed and in an undamaged condition. Notification of completion of
construction and landscaping must be given to the department within twenty four
(24) hours and an inspection shall be made by the department. (Ord. 390, 9-11-
1989)
9-6-7: RIGHT OF ACCESS:
Employees of the department shall have ready access to the premises, place or
building where service is supplied for the purpose of inspecting and testing
any part of the system. In the event that access to a remote meter reader
becomes impaired for any reason including, without limitation, the growth or
placement of vegetation, the placement of fencing, the construction of an
addition or the presence of pets, the city may in its discretion, relocate the
remote reader to a location deemed by the city to be reasonably and efficiently
accessible. The owner of the property shall cooperate with the relocation and
shall provide access to the premises to the extent reasonably necessary to
facilitate such relocation. It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere
with, prevent or obstruct any employee or agent of the city in the performance
of his duty. In addition, in the event of impaired access to any premises for
purposes of this section, the city may after not less than ten (10) days' prior
written notice mailed to the person to whom the water service for such premises
is billed interrupt water service to such premises until representatives of the
city have been provided with the access necessary to allow completion of any
inspection or testing or relocation of a meter or remote meter reader. (Ord.
667, 12-8-2003)
9-6-8: WATER METERS:
All premises using the city water supply must be equipped with an adequate
water meter and remote purchased from the city. It shall be the duty of the
city to maintain all meters in good and accurate working condition, and to
replace all meters which are determined to have become inaccurate or faulty.
Meters and remotes shall be installed in a location that will provide easy
access for repair and monthly reading. (Ord. 667, 12-8-2003)
9-6-9: MULTI-UNIT STRUCTURES:
Each separate unit of any multi-unit structure regardless of use (i.e.,
residential, commercial, etc.) shall be supplied with separate water and sewer
service, and a separate water meter. It shall be unlawful for the owner or
occupier of any multi-unit structure to construct, reconstruct, alter, renovate
or occupy same in violation of this section. (Ord. 390, 9-11-1989)
9-6-10: WATER WELLS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to dig, drill, sink or operate any water
well and use the same for a water supply for any purpose within the corporate
limits of the City. (Ord. 390, 9-11-1989)
9-6-11: RESALE OR DISTRIBUTION:
No water shall be resold or distributed by the recipient thereof from the City
water supply to any premises other than that for which application has been
made and the meter installed, except in case of emergency and with the
permission of the City Council. (Ord. 390, 9-11-1989)
9-6-12: TAMPERING OR OBSTRUCTING SYSTEM:
It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the City to tamper with,
alter, injure or obstruct any part of the water system. Any person violating
this section shall be liable for the damage caused in addition to any penalty
imposed. (Ord. 390, 9-11-1989)
9-6-13: NONLIABILITY OF CITY:
All services of the combined water and sewerage system which are applied for
and utilized shall be upon the express condition that the City shall not be
liable, nor shall any claim be made against it, for damages or injury caused by
breakage of said system, or for any interruption of services by reason of
breakage, repairs, cleaning, acts of nature, alteration or extension of any
part of the system. (Ord. 390, 9-11-1989)
9-6-14: APPLICATION FOR SERVICE AND PAYMENT OF DEPOSIT:
   A.   From and after the effective date of this chapter all applications for
water service in the City must be in writing, signed by the applicant and
accompanied by a fully paid deposit.
   B.   All applicants for water service must pay in full the deposit before
water service will be provided to the requested premises. (Ord. 390, 9-11-1989)
   C.   No deposit will be accepted for water service to any property that has
an outstanding unpaid utility bill due and owing to the City. Said unpaid
utility bill must be paid in full before a deposit will be accepted and water
service provided to such premises. (Ord. 390, 9-11-1989; amd. Ord. 706, 3-13-
2006; Ord. 953, 8-12-2024)
9-6-15: REFUND OF DEPOSIT:
   A.   Homeowner And Renter: The deposit paid by a homeowner or renter shall
be retained by the City for as long as water service is provided to the
premises for which such deposit has been paid. Said deposit (or appropriate
part thereof) shall be refunded to the homeowner or renter only after a request
for discontinuance of service has been received from said homeowner or renter
and all water service provided to said premises has been paid in full through
the date of discontinuance of service. All charges due or unpaid for water
service through the date of discontinuance of service as determined by City
personnel and reported to the City Clerk’s Office may be deducted from the
deposit and the balance, if any, refunded to the homeowner or renter. (Ord.
390, 9-11-1989; amd. Ord. 951, 7-8-2024; Ord. 953, 8-12-2024)
9-6-16: RATES AND CHARGES:
There are hereby established rates and charges for the use and service supplied
by the municipal water system of the city of Marquette Heights.
   A.   Residential And Commercial Rates: Each residential or commercial user
shall pay a minimum monthly charge of thirteen dollars thirty eight cents
($13.38) regardless of the quantity of water used to cover the following costs:
 
Fixed overhead associated with operation and maintenance of the      $ 5.26
water system
Construction of water treatment plant                                5.00
Construction of water tower                                          2.80
Construction of water well                                           0.32
                                                                Total $ 13.38
 
      The minimum monthly charge shall be paid even if no water is used in any
given month. In addition to the minimum monthly charge, each such user shall
pay for water used each month at the following rate:
      Beginning with bills mailed on or after May 1, 2007, $0.500 per one
hundred (100) gallons of water or any part thereof used. On May 1, 2008, and on
each May 1 thereafter, the city clerk shall adjust the rate for water used by
adding to the rate in effect on the date of adjustment a sum equal to three
percent (3%) of such rate.
      The minimum monthly charges and rates in effect prior to September 1,
2008, shall continue to apply with respect to water used and billed prior to
September 1, 2008.
   B.   Senior Citizen Rates: Each senior citizen user shall pay a minimum
monthly charge of thirteen dollars thirty eight cents ($13.38) per month
regardless of the quantity of water used to cover the following costs:
 
Fixed overhead associated with operation and maintenance of the      $5.26
water system
Construction of water treatment plant                                $5.00
Construction of water tower                                          2.80
Construction of water well                                           0.32
                                                                Total $ 13.38
 
      The minimum monthly charge shall be paid even if no water is used in any
given month. In addition to the minimum monthly charge, each such user shall
pay for water used each month at the following rates:
      Beginning with bills mailed on or after May 1, 2007, $0.200 per one
hundred (100) gallons of water or any part thereof used up to a total of four
thousand (4,000) gallons. For water used in excess of four thousand (4,000)
gallons, $0.500 per one hundred (100) gallons of water or any part thereof
used. On May 1, 2008, and on each May 1 thereafter, the city clerk shall adjust
each of the foregoing rates for water used by adding to the respective rates in
effect on the date of adjustment a sum equal to three percent (3%) of such
rates.
      The minimum monthly charges and rates in effect prior to September 1,
2008, shall continue to apply with respect to water used and billed prior to
September 1, 2008.
   C.   Fire Department Rates: Each qualifying member of the Marquette Heights
fire department shall pay a minimum monthly charge of thirteen dollars thirty
eight cents ($13.38) regardless of the quantity of water used to cover the
following costs:
 
Fixed overhead associated with operation and maintenance of the      $5.26
water system
Construction of water treatment plant                                $5.00
Construction of water tower                                          2.80
Construction of water well                                           0.32
                                                                Total $ 13.38
 
      The minimum monthly charge shall be paid even if no water is used in any
given month. In addition to the minimum monthly charge, each such user shall
pay for water used each month at the following rates:
      Beginning with bills mailed on or after May 1, 2007, $0.200 per one
hundred (100) gallons of water or any part thereof used up to a total of four
thousand (4,000) gallons. For water used in excess of four thousand (4,000)
gallons, $0.500 per one hundred (100) gallons of water or any part thereof. On
May 1, 2008, and on each May 1 thereafter, the city clerk shall adjust each of
the foregoing rates for water used by adding to the respective rates in effect
on the date of adjustment a sum equal to three percent (3%) of such rates.
      The minimum monthly charges and rates in effect prior to September 1,
2008, shall continue to apply with respect to water used and billed prior to
September 1, 2008.
      After one year service, any member in good standing of the Marquette
Heights fire department shall receive the fire department rate. This rate will
be applied to the member’s home address.
      On May 1, the fire chief is required to submit to the city office a list
of qualified members. Any changes to this list must be submitted to the city
office by the twentieth of each month.
   D.   Outside Of City Limits: All users of city water service outside of the
city limits shall pay two hundred percent (200%) plus an additional five dollar
($5.00) fee depending upon which classification is applicable to each user,
except senior citizen rates, which apply only to those residing within the city
limits. (Ord. 752, 8-11-2008; amd. Ord. 934, 2-13-2023; Ord. 950, 6-10-2024)
9-6-17: BILLING AND PAYMENT DATES:
The city will send out water bills on or about the first day of each month for
all water service provided as of the most recent reading of each service user's
water meter. Water bills will be due and payable on or before the twentieth day
of each month following receipt thereof by each service user. Each service user
shall be deemed to have received his or her monthly water bill on the fifth day
after the sending thereof by the city through the United States postal service.
When the twentieth day of any month shall be a weekend or legal holiday, then
such bills for service shall be payable on the next succeeding business day
without any penalty. (Ord. 796, 9-12-2011)
9-6-18: LATE CHARGES:
   A.   All water bills not paid by the twentieth day of the month following
the receipt thereof by the service user shall be subject to a late charge
penalty of ten percent (10%) of the total water and sewer charges for the
month, which shall be added to all bills not paid by the twentieth day of the
month in which they are sent out. (Ord. 446, 6-28-1993)
   B.   Whenever any check received by the city for the payment of any water
and/or sewer bill is returned by the drawee bank for nonsufficient funds, said
user shall be assessed a penalty of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each check
so returned, plus any late charges as may be required. This twenty five dollar
($25.00) penalty may be added onto the user's next or any subsequent water and
sewer bill. (Ord. 486, 10-24-1995)
9-6-19: EXCEPTIONS AND EXTENSIONS:
   A.   Office Authorized Extensions: Any service user may, by contacting the
city clerk's office, receive a seven (7) day extension (beyond the first day of
the month) for payment of a water bill, but only if all previous water bills
are paid current. Any bill for which such an extension has been granted, not
paid by the end of the seven (7) day extension period, shall be deemed to be
delinquent and the service user shall be subject to disconnection of water
service.
   B.   Additional Authorized Extension: Any service user may be granted an
additional extension of time to pay a water bill (beyond a 7 day office
authorized extension) for good cause shown, by applying for and being granted
same by either the chairman of the water and sewer committee of the city
council, the mayor or the city clerk, or in the absence of all three (3) of
said city officials, then by any member of the city council, but in no event
shall such an additional extension be for a period of time in excess of twenty
one (21) days beyond the expiration of an office authorized extension. An
additional authorized extension may be granted only if all previous water bills
(of the applicant) are paid current. Any water bill for which an additional
authorized extension has been granted which has not been paid by the end of
such extension period shall be deemed delinquent and the service user shall be
subject to a disconnection of water service.
   C.   Partial Payments: Payments of one-half (1/2) or more (of the monthly
water bill) may be accepted for any monthly bill without such water bill being
deemed delinquent, but only if all previous water bills are fully paid up and
current. Any water bill for which a partial payment has been accepted must be
paid up in full by no later than the payment due date of the service user's
next succeeding monthly water bill.
   D.   High Usage Exception: If any service user has an unusually high water
usage for any given month, a two (2) part payment (on that month's water bill
only) may be granted to the service user at the discretion of the water
superintendent, chairman of the water and sewer committee of the city council,
mayor or city clerk, without such water bill being deemed delinquent. Any water
bill for which a high usage exception is granted, must be paid up in full by no
later than the payment due date of the service user's next succeeding monthly
water bill. For purposes of this section, an "unusually high water usage" shall
mean usage in excess of one hundred seventy five percent (175%) of the user's
average water usage for the immediately preceding six (6) months. A high usage
exception when promptly paid as above provided shall not be subject to any
"late charges".
   E.   Special Payment Due Date Exception: Any service user on a fixed income
or in a similar circumstance may, upon application to the chairman of the water
and sewer committee of the city council, be granted a different monthly payment
due date, subject to all other requirements of these regulations, and if same
is granted, any allowable exceptions or extensions, late payment charges and
delinquencies shall be determined as of such adjusted monthly due date.
   F.   Unforeseen Events:
      1.   In the event any service user experiences any unforeseen event, such
as a broken water pipe, catastrophe, act of God or similar event which causes
an abnormal amount of water to run through the user's water meter, and which
said water is not in fact used or consumed by the user, then in such event, the
user may apply to the Superintendent for an abatement of water service charges
as set forth in section
9-6-16 of this chapter. No event will be considered to be an "unforeseen event"
as contemplated herein, unless the quantity of water which runs through the
service user's water meter for the billing period during which the event occurs
is at least two hundred percent (200%) of the service user's average monthly
water bill for the twelve (12) months immediately preceding the event, or if
twelve (12) immediately preceding water bills are not available for said
service user, then the average for the number of, consecutive months preceding
the event which are available.
      2.   Upon the finding by the Superintendent that a legitimate, unforeseen
event (as described in this subsection F) has occurred, he may abate all or any
part of the water service charge for the period or periods as affected by the
excess usage, but in no event may the service user be charged less than one
dollar ($1.00) per thousand gallons of water consumed during the unforeseen
event in excess of the monthly average (as described in subsection F1 of this
section).
      3.   If any service user affected by an unforeseen event as contemplated
herein is not satisfied by the ruling of the Superintendent as to an adjustment
of the water service charge, said service user may appeal the decision of the
Superintendent to the Water and Sewer Committee of the City Council.
      4.   The Water and Sewer Committee may, by majority vote thereof, affirm
the ruling of the Superintendent or adjust his ruling upward or downward within
the limits prescribed in this subsection. The vote of the Water and Sewer
Committee shall be final with respect to the water service charge in question.
(Ord. 390, 9-11-1989)
9-6-20: DELINQUENCIES:
   A.   Any water bill not paid by the first day of each month following
receipt thereof by the service user shall be deemed to be delinquent.
   B.   Any water service user, who has been deemed delinquent and fails to pay
before nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. on the shutoff date, shall be charged an
administrative fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00). (Ord. 753, 9-8-2008, eff.
11-1-2008)
9-6-21: DISCONNECTION:
   A.   Any water service user, whose bill is not paid by the due date, and
delinquent, shall be subject to having his or her water service disconnected
without any further notice. (Ord. 877, 5-14-2018, eff. 7-1-2018)
   B.   Whenever water service is disconnected to any nonowner occupied (or
used) premises, the City will attempt to notify the owner thereof (if owner's
identity is known) of the fact of disconnection. (Ord. 390, 9-11-1989)
9-6-22: RECONNECTION PROCEDURES AND FEES:
There are hereby established reconnection procedures and fees for the Municipal
water system of the City of Marquette Heights.
   A.   Payment In Full Required: Any service user whose water service has been
disconnected for nonpayment of a water bill may have water service restored by
the payment of the bill in full, plus all required administrative charges and
reconnection fees due on such unpaid bill.
   B.   Water Service Reconnection Fee:
      1.   Water service reconnection fee shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) for
the reconnection.
      2.   An additional twenty five dollars ($25.00) will be added to the
connection fee if the reconnection occurs after office hours. (Ord. 877, 5-14-
2018, eff. 7-1-2018)
9-6-23: LIABILITY OF OWNER, OCCUPANT AND SERVICE USER:
The owner of the premises, the occupant thereof and the service user of the
utility services provided by the city shall be jointly and severally liable for
payment of the utility service on the premises, and the utility service is
furnished to the premises by the city only upon the condition that the owner of
the premises, the occupant thereof and the user of the utility service are
jointly and severally liable thereof to the city. (Ord. 706, 3-13-2006)
CHAPTER 7
WASTEWATER TREATMENT
SECTION:
9-7-1: Definitions
9-7-2: Water Pollution Control
9-7-3: Use Of Public Sewers Required
9-7-4: Lateral Connection (Sewers)
9-7-5: Connections, Permits Required; Fee
9-7-6: Installation
9-7-7: Nonconforming Sewers
9-7-8: Sewer Specifications
9-7-9: Low Building Drain
9-7-10: Roof Downspouts
9-7-11: Excavations
9-7-12: Connections
9-7-13: Use Of The Public Sewers
9-7-14: Protection From Damage
9-7-15: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
9-7-16: Pretreatment
9-7-17: User Charge System
9-7-18: Second Meter Option
9-7-19: Late Charges
9-7-20: Exceptions And Extensions
9-7-21: Billing And Payment Dates
9-7-22: Delinquencies
9-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
ACT: The federal water pollution control act, as amended, 33 USC 1151 et seq.
ADMINISTRATOR: The administrator of the U.S. environmental protection agency.
BOD (Denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand): The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C), expressed in milligrams
per liter.
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet (5') outside the inner face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The sewer pipe from the building drain to the connection point
on the public sewer main or other place of disposal.
CITY: The city of Marquette Heights and any reference to "within the city"
shall mean all territory within the perimeter of the city of Marquette Heights
boundaries.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
COMMERCIAL USER: Any user of publicly owned treatment works identified in the
"Standard Industrial Classification Manual", 1972, office of management and
budget, as amended and supplemented, under the following divisions:
 
Division F Wholesale trade.
Division G Retail trade.
Division H Finance, insurance and real estate.
Division I Services except establishments that discharge "industrial wastes".
 
COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT: Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and fecal
coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES permit.
DEBT SERVICE CHARGE: A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost
of any bond debt to be paid by revenue generated from the operation of the
treatment works.
DEPRECIATION: The decrease in the monetary value of an asset with time.
DIRECTOR: The chief administrative officer of a state water pollution control
agency or interstate agency. In the event responsibility for water pollution
control and enforcement is divided among two (2) or more state or interstate
agencies, the term "director" means the administrative officer authorized to
perform the particular procedure to which reference is made.
EASEMENT: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by others.
FEDERAL GRANT: The U.S. government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by title II - grants for
construction of treatment works in the act.
FLOATABLE OIL: Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable oil if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT: Any pollutant which is not a "compatible pollutant" as
defined in this section.
INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY: Recovery by the grantee from the industrial users of
a treatment works the grant amount allocable to the treatment of wastes from
such users pursuant to section 204(b) of the act.
INDUSTRIAL USER: Any user of publicly owned treatment works identified in the
"Standard Industrial Classification Manual", 1972, office of management and
budget, as amended and supplemented, under the following divisions:
 
Division A Agriculture, forestry and fishing.
Division B Mining.
Division D Manufacturing.
Division E Transportation, communications, electric, gas and sanitary services.
Division I Services.
 
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The wastewater discharges from industrial manufacturing
process, trade, or business separate from or in combination with their
employees' domestic wastes and wastes from sanitary conveniences.
INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT: That agreement entered into between the city of
Marquette Heights, Illinois, and the village of Creve Coeur, Illinois, and
dated December 18, 1982, pertaining to (among other things) the use, operations
and maintenance by said city and village of the combined Creve Coeur/Marquette
Heights regional sewage treatment facility and establishing certain rights and
obligations between said city and village with respect thereto.
MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY (Significant Industrial User): An industrial user
of the publicly owned treatment works that:
   A.   Has a flow of twenty five thousand (25,000) gallons or more per average
workday;
   B.   Discharges more than seventy three (73) pounds per day of BOD5 or
suspended solids;
   C.   Has in its waste, a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under section 307(a) of the act; or
   D.   Is found by the permit issuance authority, in connection with the
issuance of an NPDES permit to the publicly owned treatment works receiving the
waste, to have significant impact, either singly or in combination with other
contributing industries, on that treatment works or upon the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
MILLIGRAMS PER LITER: A unit of the concentration of water or wastewater
constituent. It is 0.001 gram of the constituent in one thousand milliliters
(1,000 ml) of water. It has replaced the unit formerly used commonly (parts per
million) to which it is approximately equivalent, in reporting results of water
and wastewater analyses.
NPDES PERMIT: Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by the
administrator, or, where appropriate by the director, after enactment of the
federal water pollution control amendments of 1972, to regulate the discharge
of pollutants pursuant to section 402 of the act.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body
of surface or ground water.
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE: Those actions, materials and services necessary for
the proper functioning of treatment and collection facilities over their useful
life.
ppm: Parts per million by weight.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per
liter of solution.
POPULATION EQUIVALENT: A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other waste on a treatment works or stream. One population equivalent is one
hundred (100) gallons of sewage per day, containing seventeen hundredths (0.17)
pound of BOD and twenty hundredths (0.20) pound of suspended solids. The impact
on a treatment works is evaluated as the equivalent of the highest of the three
(3) parameters. Impact on a stream is the higher of the BOD and suspended
solids parameters.
PRETREATMENT: The treatment of wastewaters from sources before introduction
into the wastewater treatment works.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particles greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer main in which all owners of abutting properties have
equal rights, and is controlled by public authority.
REPLACEMENT: Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment, accessories,
or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the treatment
works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were
designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance" includes
replacement.
RESIDENTIAL USER: Any single-family residence, or any single- family quarters
as a part of a duplex, apartment house or multi-family dwellings and complexes
shall be defined as a separate residential user of the system.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface, and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
SEWAGE: A combination of the water carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface, and storm waters as may be present.
SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT: Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
SEWAGE WORKS: All facilities for collection, pumping, treating, and disposal of
sewage.
SEWER: A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
SEWER RATE: A charge for the use of and services supplied by the sewage works
of the city. This charge shall consist of a "user charge" and a "debt service
charge" as such terms are defined in this section.
SHALL: Is mandatory; "may" is permissive.
SLUG: Any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times
the average twenty four (24) hour concentration or flow during normal
operation.
STORM DRAIN (Sometimes Termed STORM SEWER): A sewer which carries storm and
surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted cooling water.
SUPERINTENDENT: An employee of the city charged with the responsibility of
overseeing the general day to day operation of the sewage works.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
UNPOLLUTED WATER: Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria, in effect, and water that would not cause violation of receiving
water quality standards.
USEFUL LIFE: The estimated period during which the treatment works will be
operated and is anticipated to exceed thirty (30) years from the date of
startup of any wastewater facilities constructed with a federal grant.
USER (OR USER OF THE SYSTEM, OR SYSTEM USER): Any person who occupies any
building which is connected to the public sewer, or, in the case of an
unoccupied building, any person who owns any building which is connected to the
public sewer.
USER CHARGE: A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost of
operation and maintenance including replacement.
USER CLASS: The type of user either "residential", "commercial" or
"industrial", as defined herein.
WASTEWATER: The spent water of a community. From this standpoint, of course, it
may be a combination of the liquid and water carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any
ground water, surface water, and stormwater that may be present.
WASTEWATER FACILITIES: The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of
the effluent.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS: An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge. Sometimes used as
synonymous with "waste treatment plant" or "pollution control plant".
WATERCOURSE: A channel in which flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently. (Ord. 390, 9-11-1989)
9-7-2: WATER POLLUTION CONTROL:
   A.   The superintendent of the combined waterworks and sewage department
shall have general supervision of the public sewers and sewage treatment plant
of the city. He shall ascertain the conditions and needs thereof and shall from
time to time report the same to the city council. The superintendent shall keep
proper records of the location of all sewers, Y branches, and building sewer
connections and the condition of private sewage disposal systems and building
sewers. He shall also have the duties specifically set forth in this chapter
and shall have authority to supervise the construction and installation of
building sewers and to issue permits therefor. The superintendent shall be
responsible for the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter, and he is
hereby authorized to make such inspections, observations, and measurements, and
authorized to enter any property for that purpose. (Ord. 708, 6-12-2006)
9-7-3: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in an unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any sewage or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   D.   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley, or right of way in which there is now
located or may in the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of
the city, is hereby required at his own expense to install suitable toilet
facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within ninety
(90) days after date of notice by certified letter, return receipt requested,
to do so, provided that said public sewer is within two hundred feet (200') of
the property line, and provided capacity is available in downstream sewers,
lift stations, pumping stations, force mains and the sewage treatment plant
including pollutant removal capacity for BOD and suspended solids. (Ord. 390,
9-11-1989)
9-7-4: LATERAL CONNECTION (SEWERS):
   A.   A lateral connection is the building drain and building sewer from the
main sanitary sewer into any lot, property or tract of land.
   B.   The owner of any lot, property or tract of land shall be responsible
for the maintenance and repair of all lateral connections from the point of
connection with the main sanitary sewer to any other point on the property
serviced, and the city shall have no responsibility for the repair and
maintenance of same.
   C.   When any failure, obstruction or other malfunction of any lateral
connection is the apparent cause of surface deterioration (such as erosion,
sinkholes or the like) within any public right of way and, in the opinion of
the superintendent, such surface deterioration poses an immediate threat to
public health or to the safety of persons and/or property within such public
right of way, then in such event, the city may, after notice to the owner(s) of
the property served by the failed, obstructed or malfunctioning lateral
connection, make such repairs or alterations to the lateral connection as may
be necessary to correct the problem and recover the cost of such repairs or
alterations from the owner(s) of the property served by such lateral
connection. (Ord. 818, 5-28-2013)
9-7-5: CONNECTIONS, PERMITS REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   No unauthorized persons shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the superintendent.
   B.   There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer permits:
      1.   For residential service, and
      2.   For service to a commercial or industrial user.
      In either case, the owner or his agent shall make application on a
special form furnished by the city. The permit application shall besupplemented
by any plans, specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the
judgment of the superintendent.
   C.   A permit and inspection fee shall be paid to the city clerk at the time
of application for permit. The minimum fee for permit and inspection of sewer
connection for users within the city limits shall be two thousand dollars
($2,000.00) for each single-family residential permit; that for each additional
single residential unit of a multiple-unit dwelling, an additional charge of
one hundred dollars ($100.00) per unit; that for a commercial or industrial
permit a fee of three thousand dollars ($3,000.00) for each building; that for
each additional establishment in a single commercial or industrial building,
single-family apartments in a commercial building, or each room in motels,
hotels and nursing care facilities, an additional charge of one hundred dollars
($100.00). (Ord. 390, 9-11-1989; amd. Ord. 851, 5-9-2016; Ord. 930, 11-14-2022)
9-7-6: INSTALLATION:
All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer to the public sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall
indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer. (Ord. 390, 9-11-1989)
9-7-7: NONCONFORMING SEWERS:
Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when they
are found, on examination and test by the superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 390, 9-11-1989)
9-7-8: SEWER SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   The building sewer shall be polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe, SDR-35
minimum, conforming to ASTM specifications D-3034 type PSM with solvent weld
joints conforming to ASTM D-2855 or flexible elastomeric seals per ASTM D-3212.
Joints shall be tight and waterproof. Any part of the building sewer that is
located within ten feet (10') of a water service pipe shall be laid in a
separate trench and at such an elevation that the top of the sewer is at least
eighteen inches (18") below the bottom of the water service pipe. If it is
impossible to obtain a vertical separation of at least eighteen inches (18"),
as stipulated above, the sewer shall be constructed of mechanical or slip on
joint ductile iron pipe, and be tested to assure watertightness.
   B.   The size and slope of the building sewer shall be subject to the
approval of the superintendent. The diameter shall be not less than six inches
(6"). The slope of such six inch (6") pipe shall be not less than one foot (1')
per one hundred feet (100'). For larger sizes of pipe, the minimum slopes shall
be according to all state and local regulations. Multiple housing units,
commercial and industrial building sewers shall be not less than six inches
(6") diameter.
   C.   All building sewers shall be provided an exterior tee type cleanout
located within ten feet (10') of the exterior foundation wall. The cleanout
shall be six inches (6") diameter and terminate four inches (4") below the
finished grade. A threaded plug shall be used to seal the cleanout.
   D.   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be laid
parallel to any bearing wall if within three feet (3') of any said wall, which
might thereby be weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection
from frost. The building sewer shall be laid at uniform grade and in straight
alignment insofar as possible. Changes in direction or grade shall be allowed
only when a proper manhole is constructed at the location of the change. (Ord.
390, 9-11-1989)
9-7-9: LOW BUILDING DRAIN:
In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow
to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain shall be lifted by
approved artificial means and discharged to the building sewer. Such approval
shall be obtained from the superintendent as part of the permitting process.
(Ord. 390, 9-11-1989)
9-7-10: ROOF DOWNSPOUTS:
No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation drains,
areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or ground water to a
building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer. Such connections may be made to sewers
designated as combined sewers. (Ord. 390, 9-11-1989)
9-7-11: EXCAVATIONS:
   A.   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer shall
be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the superintendent. Pipe
laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with ASTM specification
(C12-58-T) (or most current ASTM designation) except that no backfill shall be
placed until the work has been inspected.
   B.   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city, and any
other governmental agency affected. (Ord. 390, 9-11-1989)
9-7-12: CONNECTIONS:
   A.   All joints and connections shall be made gastight and watertight.
   B.   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer main shall
be made at the Y branch, if such branch is available at a suitable location. If
the public sewer is twelve inches (12") in diameter or less, and no properly
located Y branch is available, the owner shall, at his expense, install a Y
branch in the public sewer at the location specified by the superintendent.
Where the public sewer is greater than twelve inches (12") in diameter, and no
properly located Y branch is available, a neat machined hole may be cut into
the public sewer to receive the building sewer, with entry in the downstream
direction at an angle of about forty five degrees (45°). A forty five degree
(45°) ell may be used to make such connection with the spigot end cut so as not
to extend past the inner surface of the public sewer. The invert of the
building sewer at the point of connection shall be at the same or at a higher
elevation than the invert of the public sewer, but no higher than a point one-
half (1/2) the vertical distance between the invert and the crown of the sewer.
A smooth, neat joint shall be made, and the connection made secure and
watertight by encasement in concrete. Special fittings may be used for the
connection only when approved by the superintendent. Manholes shall be
constructed at any junction of an eight inch (8") diameter or larger building
sewer into a public sewer.
   C.   No building sewer connection shall be made in a manhole unless such
manhole is designed and constructed to receive such building sewer.
   D.   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
superintendent or his representative between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and four
o'clock (4:00) P.M. Monday through Friday except holidays.
   E.   No new connection shall be made to a public sewer which would cause the
average daily organic loading to exceed six hundred forty nine (649) pounds of
BOD or cause the average daily flow to exceed 0.42 million gallons per day
influent to the wastewater treatment facilities. (Ord. 390, 9-11-1989)
9-7-13: USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWERS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the city to
tamper with, alter, injure or obstruct any part of the combined waterworks and
sewerage system. Any person violating this section shall be liable for the
damage caused in addition to any penalty imposed.
   B.   No person shall discharge or cause, by sump pump or any other means, to
be discharged any stormwater, surface water, ground water, roof runoff,
subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling water, or unpolluted industrial
process waters to any sewer which is designated a sanitary sewer.
   C.   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the superintendent. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on approval of the
superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
   D.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      1.   Sand, gravel, soil, metal filings, broken glass or any material
which by its nature could create an obstruction in the sewer.
      2.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, waste engine oil, or other
flammable or explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
      3.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
      4.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
      5.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, underground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails, and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either
whole or ground by garbage grinders.
      6.   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 mg/l as Hg
at any time except as may be permitted based on the conditions of the "water
pollution regulations of Illinois", rule 702. A special permit must be obtained
from the superintendent prior to the discharge of any mercury in excess of
0.0005 mg/l as Hg.
      7.   Any waste containing detectable levels of cyanide at any time except
as permitted with the approval of the Illinois environmental protection agency
as specified in the "water pollution regulations of Illinois", rule 703.
   E.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C).
      2.   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per liter (100 mg/l) or
containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures
between thirty two degrees (32°) and one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit
(150°F) (0° - 65°C).
      3.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the
superintendent.
      4.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes, or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not.
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing in excess of the following
concentrations and similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes
exerting an excessive chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such
material received in the composite sewage at the treatment works exceeds the
limits established by the superintendent or the current national pollutant
discharge elimination system permit (NPDES) for such materials.
Waste Or Chemical  Concentration (mg/l)
Waste Or Chemical              Concentration (mg/l)
                              
Arsenic                       0.25
Barium                        2.0
Boron                         1.0
Cadmium                       0.15
Chlorine demand               30.0
Chromium (hexavalent)         0.3
Chromium (trivalent)          1.0
Copper                        3.0
Fluoride                      2.5
Iron (total)                  2.0
Lead                          0.1
Manganese                     1.0
Nickel                        1.0
Oil and grease, etc. (carbon   
tetrachloride 100.0)
Phenols                       0.3
Selenium                      1.0
Silver                        0.1
Zinc                          1.0
 
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal, or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
      7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
      8.   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 10.5.
      9.   Materials which exert or cause:
         a.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate).
         b.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions).
         c.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
         d.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
"slugs" as defined herein.
      10.   Water or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of the current national pollutant
discharge elimination system permit (NPDES) or other agencies having
jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
   F.   The admission into the public sewers of any waters or wastes having: 1)
a five (5) day biochemical oxygen demand greater than three hundred fifty
milligrams per liter (350 mg/l), or 2) containing more than four hundred
fifteen milligrams per liter (415 mg/l) of suspended solids, or 3) containing
any quantity of substances having the characteristics described in subsection D
of this section, or 4) having an average daily flow greater than two percent
(2%) of the average daily sewage flow of the wastewater treatment plant shall
be subject to the review and approval of the superintendent. Acceptance of
wastes not meeting the above stated requirements alone or in combination with
the domestic sanitary waste from the source shall be consistent with the city's
current NPDES permit, chapter 3 of the Illinois pollution control board rules
and regulations and the intergovernmental agreement between the village of
Creve Coeur and the city of Marquette Heights. Where necessary in the opinion
of the superintendent, the owner of any property discharging industrial waste
shall provide, at his expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary
to: 1) reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to three hundred fifty milligrams
per liter (350 mg/l) or 2) reduce objectionable characteristics or constituents
to within the maximum limits provided for in subsection D of this section, or
3) control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or wastes.
Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information relating to proposed
pretreatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval of the
superintendent and of the environmental protection agency of the state of
Illinois, and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced until said
approvals are obtained in writing.
   G.   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when in the
opinion of the superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease, or any flammable wastes, sand, or other
harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the superintendent, and shall be located as to be
readily and easily available for cleaning and inspection. Grease and oil
interceptors shall be constructed of impervious materials capable of
withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature. They shall be of
substantial construction, watertight, and equipped with easily removable covers
which when bolted in place shall be gastight and watertight. Where installed,
all grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be maintained by the owner, at his
expense, in continuously efficient operation at all times.
   H.   Where preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his expense.
   I.   When required by the superintendent, the owner of any property serviced
by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes. Such manholes shall be accessibly and safely located, and shall be
constructed in accordance with plans approved by the superintendent. The
manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense, and shall be maintained
by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times. The owner shall install
such control manhole within ninety (90) days of the date of written
notification to do so.
   J.   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods For The Examination Of
Waste And Wastewater", published by the American Public Health Association, and
the most current edition of "Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures For
Analysis Of Pollutants" as published in 40 CFR, part 136. All measurements,
tests and analyses of the characteristics of water and wastes to which
reference is made in this chapter shall be determined at the control manhole
provided, or upon suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In the event
that no special manhole exists as provided for by subsection I of this section,
the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in
the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected provided
the superintendent shall be permitted to take samples within the premises of
the user, including lagoons, ponds, and other places. Sampling shall be carried
out by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon
the sewage work and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb, and
property. The particular analyses involved will determine whether a twenty four
(24) hour composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a
grab sample or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and
suspended solids analyses are obtained from twenty four (24) hour composites of
all outfalls, whereas pHs are determined from periodic samples. Each "major
contributing industry" shall be responsible for monitoring its own discharge as
required by the city's NPDES permit. As a minimum, testing will be required on
a semiannual basis for BOD5, SS, pH and those toxic chemicals listed in
subsection E5 of this section contained in the waste stream. Samples shall be
collected and tested during the month of May and November each year with the
results reported to the city by June 30 and December 30 of that year.
   K.   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character (not
otherwise permitted by this chapter) may be accepted by the city for treatment
subject to payment therefor in accordance with section
9-7-17, "User Charge System", of this chapter. (Ord. 390, 9-11-1989)
9-7-14: PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or
equipment which is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this
section shall be liable to the city for the amount of damage(s) caused in
addition to any other fine or penalty which may be imposed. (Ord. 390, 9-11-
1989)
9-7-15: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
   A.   Subject to the requirements of law regarding entry upon private
property, the superintendent, his subordinates, any duly authorized peace
officer of the city, and any duly authorized employee of the Illinois
environmental protection agency and/or the United States environmental
protection agency, bearing proper credentials are hereby authorized to enter
upon any property in the city for the purpose of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, or testing in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   B.   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in subsection A of this section, the superintendent or duly authorized
employees of the city, the Illinois and/or United States environmental
protection agency shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises
established by the company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or
death to the city employees and the city shall indemnify the company against
loss or damage to its property by city employees and against liability claims
and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company
and growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be
caused by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as
required in subsection 9-7-13I of this chapter.
   C.   The superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city, the
Illinois and/or United States environmental protection agency bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved. (Ord. 390, 9-11-1989)
9-7-16: PRETREATMENT:
   A.   Wastes not in conformance with subsections 9-7-13D4, E8 and F of this
chapter, shall require pretreatment of compatible pollutants.
   B.   In addition to the prohibitions set forth in subsections 9-7-13D and E
of this chapter, the pretreatment standard for incompatible pollutants
introduced into a treatment works by a major contributing industry shall be
that established by a promulgated effluent limitations guideline defining best
practicable control technology currently available pursuant to sections 301(b)
and 304(b) of the act. Compliance with pretreatment standards shall be as
provided for by the act and subsequent rules and regulations as promulgated by
the administrator. (Ord. 390, 9-11-1989)
9-7-17: USER CHARGE SYSTEM:
   A.   There shall be monthly rates and charges for the residential,
commercial and industrial users for the use of and services supplied by the
sewerage system of the city of Marquette Heights, Tazewell County, Illinois.
The monthly sewer rate incorporates costs to the city for use of the Creve
Coeur regional treatment plant and costs of operation, maintenance, replacement
and debt service for the city sewer collection system. The city is obligated by
terms of the intergovernmental agreement, dated December 18, 1982, to pay the
village of Creve Coeur a user charge computed in accordance with sections XI,
XII, XIII, and exhibit A of the intergovernmental agreement.
   B.   There shall be no distinctions between and among classes of users of
the system, and all users shall pay the same rates as set forth herein
regardless of whether or not they live or are located within or without the
city limits. (Ord. 390, 9-11-1989)
   C.   As of the effective date of this chapter, all users of the system shall
pay a minimum bill of eight dollars forty five cents ($8.45) per month to cover
the following costs:
 
Fixed overhead associated with operation and maintenance of the      $4.95
wastewater treatment system
Sewer main rehabilitation                                              3.50
                                                               Total $8.45
 
This minimum charge shall be billed to every user of the system, regardless of
whether or not the premises being charged such are occupied. (Ord. 786, 3-28-
2011)
   D.   Beginning with bills mailed on or after May 1, 2007, $0.339 per one
hundred (100) gallons of water used or where water consumption does not reflect
the actual quantity of wastewater tributary to the wastewater treatment plant,
$0.339 per one hundred (100) gallons of wastewater as recorded in a control
manhole as required by subsection 9-7-13I of this chapter. On May 1, 2008, and
on each May 1 thereafter, the city clerk shall adjust each of the foregoing
rates by adding to the respective rates in effect on the date of adjustment a
sum equal to three percent (3%) of such rates.
The minimum monthly charges and rates in effect prior to May 1, 2007, that
continue to apply with respect to wastewater discharged and billed prior to May
1, 2007. (Ord. 752, 8-11-2008)
   E.   When the average concentration of BOD exceeds three hundred twenty nine
milligrams per liter (329 mg/l), and/or suspended solids exceeds three hundred
eighty seven milligrams per liter (387 mg/l) a surcharge shall be added to the
base user rate. The surcharge shall be calculated by dividing the annual
treatment costs associated with treatment of BOD or suspended solids by the
current average annual loading to the treatment plant. This surcharge shall be
equal to eight cents ($0.08) per pound BOD and/or eight cents ($0.08) per pound
of suspended solids in excess of the limit. No credit shall be given for a
waste where the BOD or suspended solids are less than the limit. All
measurements, tests and analyses of characteristics of water and wastes to
determine the surcharge shall be conducted in conformance with section
9-7-13 of this chapter.
   F.   The city shall independently audit operation, maintenance and debt
service costs for the wastewater facilities, review sewer rates and charges
annually and revise sewer rates and charges periodically to reflect actual
treatment works operation and maintenance costs and the cost of debt service.
The city shall also annually review user charges and revise as necessary to
ensure that total user charges for each user class are proportional to usage of
the wastewater facilities of the city. The city shall notify annually all users
of the system within the first month of the fiscal year of the current monthly
rates charged for use of the sewerage system of the city. Nothing herein shall
be construed as prohibiting the city from making rate adjustments at any other
time during any fiscal year.
   G.   All users of the sewerage system who do not use the water services of
the city shall be required to install a metering device approved by the
superintendent which records the total sewage flow for the purpose of
determining the basis for sewer rates as provided by subsection D of this
section.
   H.   The city shall calculate necessary user charges to be billed monthly to
recover the fixed costs, debt service costs, operation and maintenance costs
and replacement cost attributed to providing sewerage services to the users of
the system. Each user and user class shall be responsible for its equitable and
proportionate costs to the city for provision of the service.
The city shall inventory the system users by user class and define the
wastewater use and waste characteristics of each user class. Whenever the waste
characteristics of the three (3) user classes are similar and no distinguishing
differences in waste characteristics attribute to differential cost for
operation of the system, all user classes shall be charged the same equitable
rates.
The rates shall be calculated as follows:
 
Minimum bill                (Subsection C of this section)
                            
Monthly minimum bill        = Total fixed costs (annual)
                           Number of system users x 12 (1)
                            
Monthly debt service charge = Annual debt service cost
                           Number of system users x 12 (1)
 
      1.   When applicable, the number of users per class.
 
Flow proportional charges (Subsection D of this section)
 
The operation, maintenance and replacement charges allocated as flow
proportional costs shall be calculated based on billed water use or actual
sewage flow.
 
Flow proportional bill = Total flow proportionate costs
                      Annual billed water use (2)
 
      2.   When applicable, the annual billed water use per class.
Surcharges for high strength (subsection E of this section)
The city shall determine the normal strength of domestic sewage in the
community by the following equation:
Concentrations mg/l  
Concentrations mg/l                               
             0.17 pounds BOD5                    
BOD5 @ 20°C =Person                          x 1 gallon x 106 mg
             Av. domestic water use, gallons  8.345 pounds liter
             Person                              
Suspended     0.22 pounds S.S.                    
solids    =Person                          x 1 gallon x 106 mg
             Av. domestic water use, gallons  8.345 pounds liter
             Person                              
 
The surcharge for treatment of high strength waste shall be based on incurred
costs attributable to operation and maintenance of the collection and treatment
systems.
 
Surcharge BOD 5            = Total costs of O&M for BOD5
                          Total pounds of BOD5 (3)
Surcharge suspended solids = Total costs of O&M for SS
                           Total pounds of suspended solids (3)
 
      3.   The total pounds of these pollutants are determined based on
recordings and samples collected at the city master meter station. (Ord. 390,
9-11-1989)
9-7-18: SECOND METER OPTION:
   A.   Any user of the city sewer system (except users without a water meter)
may, at his or her election, have installed at the use premises a second water
meter for the purpose of metering that water usage at a location at the use
premises which is not returned or drained into the city sewer system. In such
event, the second meter shall be designated the "second meter" and the regular
meter shall be designated the "master meter". In the event any user elects the
option permitted in this section, then the sewer use charge shall be calculated
by subtracting the usage recorded on the second meter from the usage recorded
on the master meter.
   B.   The specific location of the second meter on or at any use premises
shall be subject to the approval of the superintendent.
   C.   Any user electing to take advantage of the option to install a second
meter shall obtain such meter from the water and sewer department of the city,
which shall lease said second meter to the user thereof for a nonrefundable,
one time lease payment equal to the cost to the city for said meter. Any second
meter leased to a user shall at all times remain the property of the city, but
the user thereof, upon payment of the one time lease fee, shall have the use
thereof for as long as he or she desires to avail himself or herself of the
second meter option as herein provided. Installation of the second meter shall
be at the expense of the user and subject to the approval of the
superintendent. (Ord. 390, 9-11-1989)
9-7-19: LATE CHARGES:
   A.   All sewer bills not paid by the twentieth day of the month following
the receipt thereof by the service user, shall be subject to a "late charge". A
penalty of ten percent (10%) shall be added to all bills not paid by the
twentieth day of the month in which they are sent out, and a like amount for
each month thereafter or any part thereof that the bill is not paid.
   B.   Whenever any check is received by the city for the payment of any water
and/or sewer bill is returned by the drawee bank for nonsufficient funds, said
user shall be assessed a penalty of five dollars ($5.00) for each check so
returned, plus any late charges as may be required. This five dollar ($5.00)
penalty may be added on to the user's next or any subsequent water and/or sewer
bill. (Ord. 390, 9-11-1989)
9-7-20: EXCEPTIONS AND EXTENSIONS:
   A.   Office Authorized Extensions: Any service user may, by contacting the
city clerk's office, receive a seven (7) day extension (beyond the first day of
the month) for payment of a sewer bill, but only if all previous sewer bills
are paid current. Any bill for which such an extension has been granted, not
paid by the end of the seven (7) day extension period shall be deemed to be
delinquent and the service user shall be subject to disconnection of sewer
service.
   B.   Additional Authorized Extension: Any service user may be granted an
additional extension of time to pay a sewer bill (beyond a 7 day office
authorized extension) for good cause shown, by applying for and being granted
either the chairman of the water and sewer committee of the city council, the
mayor or the city clerk, or in the absence of all three (3) of said city
officials, then by any member of the city council, but in no event shall such
an additional extension be for a period of time in excess of twenty one (21)
days beyond the expiration of an office authorized extension. An additional
authorized extension may be granted only if all previous sewer bills (of the
applicant) are paid current. Any bill for which an additional authorized
extension has been granted which has not been paid by the end of such extension
period shall be deemed delinquent and the service user shall be subject to a
disconnection of sewer service.
   C.   Partial Payments: Payments of one-half (1/2) or more (of the monthly
sewer bill) may be accepted for any monthly bill without such sewer bill being
deemed delinquent, but only if all previous sewer bills are fully paid up and
current. Any sewer bill for which a partial payment has been accepted must be
paid up in full by no later than the payment due date of the service user's
next succeeding monthly sewer bill.
   D.   High Usage Exception: If any service user has an unusually high water
usage for any given month, a two (2) part payment (on that month's sewer bill
only) may be granted to the service user at the discretion of the water
superintendent, chairman of the water and sewer committee of the city council,
mayor or city clerk, without such sewer bill being deemed delinquent. Any water
bill for which a high usage exception is granted, must be paid up in full by no
later than the payment due date of the service user's next succeeding monthly
sewer bill. For purposes of this section, an "unusually high water usage" shall
mean usage in excess of one hundred seventy five percent (175%) of the user's
average water usage for the immediately preceding six (6) months. A high usage
exception when promptly paid as above provided, shall not be subject to any
"late charges".
   E.   Special Payment Due Date Exception: Any service user on a fixed income
or in a similar circumstance may, upon application to the chairman of the water
and sewer committee of the city council, be granted a different monthly payment
due date, subject to all other requirements of these regulations, and if same
is granted, any allowable exceptions or extensions and late payment charges
shall be determined as of such adjusted monthly due date.
   F.   Unforeseen Events:
      1.   In the event any service user experiences any unforeseen event, such
as a broken water pipe, catastrophe, act of God or similar event which causes
an abnormal amount of water to run through the user's water meter, and which
said water is not returned to the city sewer system, then in such event, the
user may apply to the superintendent for an abatement of sewer service charges
as set forth in subsection 9-7-17D of this chapter.
      2.   Upon the finding by the superintendent that a legitimate, unforeseen
event (as prescribed in this subsection) has occurred, he may abate all or any
part of the sewer service charge for the period or periods so affected by the
excess usage, but in no event may the service user be charged less than the
average of the sewer service charges for that location for the twelve (12)
month period next preceding the unforeseen event, or if no twelve (12) month
history is available, then the average sewer service charge for the preceding
months for which such records are available.
      3.   If any service user affected by an unforeseen event as contemplated
herein is not satisfied by the ruling of the superintendent as to an abatement
of the sewer service charge, said service user may appeal the decision of the
superintendent to the water and sewer committee of the city council.
      4.   The water and sewer committee may, by majority vote thereof, affirm
the ruling of the superintendent or adjust his ruling upward or downward within
the limits prescribed in this subsection. The vote of the water and sewer
committee shall be final with respect to the sewer service charge in question.
(Ord. 390, 9-11-1989)
9-7-21: BILLING AND PAYMENT DATES:
The city will send out sewer bills on or about the first day of each month for
all sewer service provided as of the most recent reading of each service user's
water meter, or flow meter, as the case may be. Sewer bills will be due and
payable on or before the twentieth day of each month following receipt thereof
by each service user. Each service user shall be deemed to have received his or
her monthly sewer bill on the fifth day after the sending thereof by the city
through the United States postal service. When the twentieth day of any month
shall be a Sunday or legal holiday, then such bills for service shall be
payable on the next succeeding business day without any additional penalty.
(Ord. 390, 9-11-1989)
9-7-22: DELINQUENCIES:
Any sewer bill not paid by the first day of each month following receipt
thereof by the service user shall be deemed to be delinquent. (Ord. 390, 9-11-
1989)
CHAPTER 8
TREES AND SHRUBS
SECTION:
9-8-1: Definitions
9-8-2: Public Nuisance
9-8-3: Trees On Private Property
9-8-4: Planting And Removal Of Trees And Shrubs
9-8-5: Trees Prohibited
9-8-6: Tree Advisory Board
9-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words shall have the following meanings
unless the context in which they are used specifically indicates otherwise:
DANGEROUS TREE: Any tree or shrub which is either:
   A.   A diseased tree or shrub;
   B.   A tree or shrub which overhangs or blocks any sidewalk, street, or
other place in the city in such a manner as to impede or interfere with
vehicular or pedestrian traffic or travel upon such street, sidewalk or public
place;
   C.   Any tree or shrub of which any part thereof has become likely to fall
on or across any public way or place;
   D.   Is a dead tree or shrub;
   E.   Is a tree or shrub, the root structure of which poses an immediate
threat or interference to or with any underground water main, sewer main,
electrical or other utility conduit.
DISEASED TREE: Any tree or shrub infected with Dutch elm disease, verticillium
wilt, dothiodella, oak wilt or other injurious parasite, fungus or disease.
PARKWAY: That public area between the sidewalk and curb, of that public area
within the dedicated right of way not used for vehicular or pedestrian traffic
including, but not limited to, all streets and street rights of way, all
sidewalks and sidewalk rights of way, all alleys and alley rights of way and
any and all other public ways within the city.
PERSON: Any natural person, firm, partnership, corporation, company,
association or organization of any kind.
PROPERTY OWNER OR OWNERS: The person owning any lot or other tract of land in
the city as such ownership is reflected on the official records of the Tazewell
County recorder of deeds.
PUBLIC TREES: All shade and ornamental trees or shrubs now or hereafter growing
on any street, right of way, or other publicly owned land in the city.
RIGHT OF WAY: Land, property or other interest therein, usually in a strip,
acquired for or devoted to vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width of every public right of way when any part
thereof is open to the use of the public, as a matter of right, for purposes of
vehicular or pedestrian traffic. (Ord. 390, 9-11-1989)
9-8-2: PUBLIC NUISANCE:
All diseased trees and/or dangerous trees are hereby declared to be a public
nuisance. (Ord. 390, 9-11-1989)
9-8-3: TREES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A.   It shall be the duty of any person or persons owning or occupying any
real property in the city to remove from said property any diseased tree found
thereon.
   B.   It shall be the duty of any person or persons owning or occupying any
real property in the city to trim, otherwise abate or remove any dangerous tree
found on such property to the extent necessary so that said tree is no longer a
dangerous tree.
   C.   It shall be the duty of any person or persons owning or occupying real
property in the city, bordering on any street, sidewalk or other public way,
upon which property there may be trees, to prune such trees in such a manner
that they will not obstruct or shade streetlights, obstruct the passage of
pedestrians on sidewalks, the vision of traffic signs, traffic signals or
obstruct the view of any street or alley intersection. The minimum clearance of
any overhang thereof shall be seven feet (7') over sidewalks and sixteen feet
(16') over all streets and alleys.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupier of any real property in
the city to suffer or permit any dangerous tree to be found or to exist on such
property at any time.
   E.   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupier of any real property in
the city to fail to abate any dangerous or diseased tree as required by
subsection A, B or C of this section.
   F.   Upon failure of any person or persons to remove, abate or prune tree or
trees as required by subsection A, B or C of this section, the city shall give
notice to said person or persons to remove, abate or prune said tree within
fourteen (14) days. Said notice shall be sent to said person or persons by
registered mail, return receipt requested, or may be served upon said person or
persons personally by a member of the Marquette Heights police department.
   G.   When any person or persons fail to remove, abate or prune any tree or
trees for which a notice has been given, as above provided, the city may enter
upon said person's or persons' property and remove, abate or prune said tree or
trees and the cost thereof shall be payable by the owner and collected as a
debt owed to the city. (Ord. 390, 9-11-1989)
9-8-4: PLANTING AND REMOVAL OF TREES AND SHRUBS:
   A.   Permit Required For Planting And Removal: It shall be unlawful to
plant, prune or remove any tree or shrub in any public street or public parkway
or other public place without first securing a permit therefor. Application for
such permits shall be made to the city clerk and shall be referred by said
clerk to the appropriate committee of the city council, for approval or
disapproval.
   B.   Liability For Destruction And/Or Damage: Any person who removes or
damages any tree or shrub located on any street, parkway or any other public
place in violation of this section shall be liable to the city, in addition to
any other fine, penalty or costs assessed for said violation, for the value of
said tree or of the damage thereto, together with the cost for the replacement
or repair thereof.
   C.   Spacing, Location And Height Restrictions: No tree shall be planted
closer than the following:
      1.   Small trees (20 to 35 feet at maturity), thirty feet (30') from
closest tree.
      2.   Medium trees (35 to 60 feet at maturity), forty feet (40') from
closest tree.
      3.   Large trees (60 feet plus at maturity), fifty feet (50') from
closest tree.
      4.   No tree shall be planted closer than thirty five feet (35') to any
street corner. No tree shall be planted closer than ten feet (10') to any fire
hydrant.
      5.   No tree other than species under twenty feet (20') to thirty five
feet (35') may be planted under or within ten (10) lateral feet of any overhead
utility wire or over or within five (5) lateral feet of any underground water
line, sewer line, transmission line or other utility. (Ord. 390, 9-11-1989)
9-8-5: TREES PROHIBITED:
   A.   Certain Trees Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to plant any deciduous
tree on any parkway or public property in the city of the following species:
      1.   Eastern cottonwood;
      2.   American elm;
      3.   Weeping willow;
      4.   Poplar;
      5.   Silver maple;
      6.   River birch;
      7.   Any evergreen species; or
      8.   Any fruit bearing species.
   B.   Attaching Signs, Notices: It shall be unlawful to attach any sign,
advertisement or notice to any tree or shrub in any street, parkway or other
public place. (Ord. 741, 1-14-2008)
   C.   Wires On Or Near Trees: It shall be unlawful to attach any wire or rope
to any tree without permission of the city council.
   D.   Utility Providers: Any person or company given the right to maintain
poles and wires in the streets, alleys or other public ways in the city shall,
in the absence of provision in the franchise concerning the subject, keep such
wires and poles free from and away from any trees or shrubs in such places so
far as may be possible and shall keep all such trees and shrubs properly
trimmed and subject to the supervision of the superintendent of public works,
so that no injury shall be done to the poles or shrubs and trees by contact.
   E.   Right Of The City To Remove Undesirable Trees: The city shall have the
right to remove from any parkway or other city property any tree considered
undesirable or dangerous to any private property, or the public welfare and
safety. The superintendent, subject to review by the city council, shall
determine when such a tree shall be removed for the reason that its roots
interfere with or obstruct a private line. (Ord. 390, 9-11-1989)
9-8-6: TREE ADVISORY BOARD:
   A.   Duties: The board shall act in an advisory capacity to the chair and
shall:
      1.   Coordinate and promote Arbor Day activities;
      2.   Review and update a five-year plan to plant and maintain trees on
city property;
      3.   Support public awareness and education programs relating to trees;
      4.   Review city department concerns relating to tree care;
      5.   Submit an annual report of its activities to the city council;
      6.   Assist with the annual application to renew the Tree City USA
designation;
      7.   Recommend a list of tree species for planting on city property, and
a list of prohibited species; and
      8.   Other duties that may be assigned by city council. (Ord. 949, 3-11-
2024)
CHAPTER 9
EMERGENCY WATER CONSERVATION REGULATION
SECTION:
9-9-1: Emergency Water Shortages
9-9-2: Declaration Of Emergency Water Shortages
9-9-3: Notice Of Emergency Water Shortages
9-9-4: Restrictions
9-9-5: Municipal Conservation
9-9-6: Further Restrictions
9-9-7: Variances
9-9-1: EMERGENCY WATER SHORTAGES:
Procedures described in this chapter are for circumstances related to the
occurrence of emergency water shortage situations, such as seasonal water
shortages, pressure drops, increased consumption, prolonged periods of drought
or similar circumstances. (Ord. 390, 9-11-1989)
9-9-2: DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY WATER SHORTAGES:
The declaration of a shortage situation will be issued by the mayor, explaining
the situation, the expected duration (if such is reasonably possible), the
sequential actions which will take place and the penalties for violations. The
actions will remain in effect until rescinded. (Ord. 390, 9-11-1989)
9-9-3: NOTICE OF EMERGENCY WATER SHORTAGES:
The declaration of an emergency water shortage shall be publicized by the city
through all available communication media and other practicable means available
at the time. (Ord. 390, 9-11-1989)
9-9-4: RESTRICTIONS:
During periods of emergency water shortages, the following water use
restrictions shall apply throughout the city:
   A.   Watering of lawns and gardens, and washing of cars and other vehicles
initially will be restricted to between eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. and eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. Occupants with even numbered residences or other structures
will be permitted to water lawns and gardens on even numbered days, and
occupants of odd numbered residences or other structures, on odd numbered days.
By administrative proclamation, following the issuance of the initial
declaration, all lawn and garden watering and washing of cars and other
vehicles may be further restricted or prohibited if conditions warrant.
   B.   The refilling of swimming pools will be prohibited until further
notice.
   C.   Other prohibited uses are as follows:
      1.   Allowing water to run off to a gutter, ditch or drain during
watering of lawns and gardens.
      2.   Failure to repair a controllable leak within a customer's property.
      3.   Washing buildings, sidewalks, driveways, parking areas, tennis
courts, patios or other paved areas, except to alleviate immediate fire or
public health hazards.
      4.   Operation of any ornamental fountain or other structure making
similar use of water. The use of treated water to fill, refill, or maintain the
level of any fountain is prohibited. (Ord. 390, 9-11-1989)
9-9-5: MUNICIPAL CONSERVATION:
During periods of emergency water shortages, all municipal departments will be
enjoined to restrict activities calling for heavy water consumption. Included
in this category are the testing and cleaning of fire hydrants, the cleaning of
water mains, the conduct of fire drills, street washing, sewer flushing and the
watering of public areas. (Ord. 390, 9-11-1989)
9-9-6: FURTHER RESTRICTIONS:
During periods of emergency water shortages, the city council may by resolution
impose such further water use restrictions as may be deemed appropriate in
light of the circumstances then prevailing. (Ord. 390, 9-11-1989)
9-9-7: VARIANCES:
Variances from the regulatory standards of this chapter may be granted in
accordance with the requirements noted below. No variance shall be granted
unless the applicant for the variance can demonstrate that:
   A.   An exceptional economic or other hardship would result without the
variance; and
   B.   The relief granted is the minimum necessary; and
   C.   There will be no additional threat to public health, welfare or safety
or the creation of a nuisance; and
   D.   No additional public expense will result. (Ord. 390, 9-11-1989)
CHAPTER 10
CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
9-10-1: Definitions
9-10-2: Water System
9-10-3: Cross Connection Control
9-10-4: Violation
9-10-5: System Surveys
9-10-6: Premises Inspections
9-10-7: Disconnection
9-10-8: Cleanup Costs
9-10-9: Cross Connection Prohibited
9-10-10: Survey And Investigations
9-10-11: Where Protection Is Required
9-10-12: Type Of Protection Required
9-10-13: Backflow Prevention Devices
9-10-14: Inspection And Maintenance
9-10-15: Booster Pumps
9-10-16: Violations And Penalties
9-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this chapter:
AGENCY: Illinois environmental protection agency.
APPROVED: Backflow prevention devices or methods approved by the Research
Foundation for Cross Connection Control of the University of Southern
California, Association of State Sanitary Engineers, American Water Works
Association, American National Standards Institute or certified by the National
Sanitation Foundation.
AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM: Any water source or system on or available to a
premises other than the public water supply system and includes the water
supplied by the system. These auxiliary waters may include water from another
purveyor's public water supply system; or water from a source such as wells,
lakes, or streams, or process fluids; or used water.
BACKFLOW: The flow of water, other liquids, mixtures, or substances into the
distribution pipes of a potable water system from any source other than the
intended source of the potable water supply.
BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: Any device, method, or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system. All devices used for
backflow prevention in the city must meet the standards of the Illinois
plumbing code, the Illinois environmental protection agency and this code.
CITY: The city of Marquette Heights, Illinois.
CONSUMER OR CUSTOMER: The owner, official custodian or person in control of any
premises supplied by, or in any manner connected to, a public water system.
CONSUMER'S WATER SYSTEM: Any water system located on the customer's premises. A
building plumbing system is considered to be a consumer's water system.
CONTAMINATION: An impairment of the quality of the water by entrance of any
substance to a degree which could create a health hazard.
CROSS CONNECTION: Any physical connection or arrangement between two (2)
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and the
other a substance of unknown or questionable safety or quality, whereby there
may be a flow from one system into the other.
DIRECT CROSS CONNECTION: A cross connection formed when a water system is
physically joined to any source of water, or other fluids or substances, other
than the city's public water supply.
DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY: An assembly composed of single independently
acting check valves approved under ASSE standard 1015. A double check valve
assembly must include tight shutoff valves located at each end of the assembly
and suitable connections for testing the watertightness of each check valve.
FIXED PROPER AIR GAP: The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the water discharge point and the flood level rim of the
receptacle.
HEALTH HAZARD: Any condition, device or practice in a water system or its
operation resulting from a real or potential danger to the health and well
being of consumers. The word "severe" as used to qualify "health hazard" means
a hazard to the health of the user that could be expected to result in death or
significant reduction in the quality of life.
INDIRECT CROSS CONNECTION: A cross connection through which an unknown
substance can be forced, drawn by vacuum or otherwise introduced into a safe
potable water system.
INSPECTION: A plumbing inspection to examine carefully and critically all
materials, fixtures, piping and appurtenances, appliances and installations of
a plumbing system for compliance with requirements of the Illinois plumbing
code, 77 Illinois administrative code 890, as same now exists or may hereafter
be amended.
NONPOTABLE WATER: Water not safe for drinking, personal, or culinary use as
determined by the requirements of 35 Illinois administrative code 604, as same
now exists or may hereafter be amended.
PLUMBING: The actual installation, repair, maintenance, alteration or extension
of a plumbing system by any person. Plumbing includes all piping, fixtures,
appurtenances and appliances for a supply of water for all purposes, including,
without limitation, lawn sprinkler systems, from the source of a private water
supply on the premises or from the main in the street, alley or at the curb to,
within and about any building or buildings where a person or persons live, work
or assemble. Plumbing includes all piping from discharge of pumping units to
and including pressure tanks in water supply systems. Plumbing includes all
piping, fixtures, appurtenances, and appliances for a building drain and a
sanitary drainage and aerated ventilation system of any building or buildings
where a person or persons live, work or assemble from the point of connection
of such building drain to the building sewer or private sewage disposal system
five feet (5') beyond the foundation walls.
POLLUTION: The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological, or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as
to constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water as potable water.
POTABLE WATER: Water which meets the requirements of 35 Illinois administrative
code 604, as same as now exists or may hereafter be amended, for drinking,
culinary, and domestic purposes.
POTENTIAL CROSS CONNECTION: A fixture or appurtenance with threaded hose
connection, tapered spout, or other connection which would facilitate extension
of a water supply line beyond its legal or intended termination point.
PROCESS FLUID(S): Any fluid or solution which may be chemically, biologically
or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration such as would
constitute a health, pollution, or system hazard if introduced into the public
or a consumer's potable water system. This includes, but is not limited to:
   A.   Polluted or contaminated waters;
   B.   Process waters;
   C.   Used waters originating from the public water supply system which may
have deteriorated in sanitary quality;
   D.   Cooling waters;
   E.   Questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells, lakes,
streams, or irrigation systems;
   F.   Chemicals in solution or suspension;
   G.   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis and other liquid and gaseous fluids used in
industrial or other processes, or for firefighting purposes.
PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY: All mains, pipes and structures through which water is
obtained and distributed to the public, including wells and well structures,
intakes and cribs, pumping stations, treatment plants, reservoirs, storage
tanks and appurtenances, collectively or severally, actually used or intended
for use for the purpose of furnishing water for drinking or general domestic
and which is or are owned, operated and maintained by the city.
REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: A device containing a
minimum of two (2) independently acting check valves together with an
automatically operated pressure differential relief valve located between the
two (2) check valves and approved under ASSE standard 1013. During normal flow
and at the cessation of normal flow, the pressure between these two (2) checks
shall be less than the supply pressure. In case of leakage of either check
valve, the differential relief valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall
operate to maintain the pressure between the check valves at less than the
supply pressure. The unit must include tightly closing shutoff valves located
at each end of the device, and each device shall be fitted with properly
located test cocks.
SERVICE CONNECTION: The opening, including all fittings and appurtenances, at
the water main through which water is supplied to the user.
SUPERINTENDENT: The duly designated superintendent of the water and sewer
department of the city of Marquette Heights, Illinois.
SURVEY: The collection of information pertaining to a customer's piping system
regarding the location of all connections to the public water supply system and
must include the location, type and most recent inspection and testing date of
all cross connection control devices and methods located within that customer's
piping system. The survey must be in written form, and should not be an annual
plumbing inspection.
SYSTEM HAZARD: A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable or
degrading material not dangerous to health may enter the public water supply
system or a consumer's potable water system.
WATER PURVEYOR: The city of Marquette Heights municipal water system. (Ord.
439, 12-28-1992)
9-10-2: WATER SYSTEM:
   A.   The water system shall be considered as made up of two (2) parts: the
public water supply system and the consumer's water system.
   B.   The public water supply system shall consist of the source facilities
and the distribution system, and shall include all those facilities of the
potable water system under the control of the water purveyor up to the point
where the consumer's water system begins.
   C.   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized in
the production, treatment, storage, and delivery of water to the public water
supply distribution system.
   D.   The public water supply distribution system shall include the network
of conduits used to deliver water from the source to the consumer's water
supply distribution system.
   E.   The consumer's water system shall include all parts of the facilities
beyond the service connection used to convey water from the public water supply
distribution system to points of use. (Ord. 439, 12-28-1992)
9-10-3: CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL:
All plumbing installed within the city of Marquette Heights and all plumbing
installed in or at premises serviced by the public water supply, shall be
installed in accordance with the Illinois plumbing code, 77 Illinois
administrative code 890, as same now exists or may hereafter be amended. That,
if in accordance with the Illinois plumbing code or in the judgment of the
superintendent of water, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary
for the safety of the public water supply system, the superintendent of water
will give notice to the water customer to install such an approved device
immediately. The water customer shall, at his own expense, install such an
approved device at a location and in a manner in accordance with the Illinois
plumbing code, Illinois environmental protection agency and all applicable
local ordinances and regulations, and shall have inspections and tests made of
such approved devices upon installation and as required by the Illinois
plumbing code, Illinois environmental protection agency and local ordinances
and regulations. (Ord. 439, 12-28-1992)
9-10-4: VIOLATION:
No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be established or
maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a private, auxiliary
or emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply of the
city may enter the supply or distribution system of the city, unless such
private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the method of connection and
use of such supply shall have been approved by the superintendent and the
Illinois environmental protection agency. (Ord. 439, 12-28-1992)
9-10-5: SYSTEM SURVEYS:
It shall be the duty of the superintendent of water to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of commercial industrial properties served by the
public water supply to determine whether actual or potential hazards to the
public water supply exist. The superintendent may survey such other properties
whereat he may have reason to believe a hazard to the public water supply
exists. Such surveys and investigations shall be made a matter of public record
and shall be in compliance with IL Pollution Control Board requirement on both
occurrence of Survey Completion and Records Keeping of such per section of IL
Pollution Control Board Regulation Code Title 35 Sec. 604.1505. (Ord. 439, 12-
28-1992; amd. Ord. 928, 7-11-2022)
9-10-6: PREMISES INSPECTIONS:
The approved cross connection control device inspector (who shall be the
superintendent) shall have the right to enter at any reasonable time any
property served by a connection to the public water supply or distribution
system of the city for the purpose of verifying the presence or absence of
cross connections, and that the superintendent, or his authorized agent shall
have the right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a
connection to the public water supply or distribution system of the city for
the purpose of verifying information submitted by the customer regarding the
required cross connection control inspection. Upon request, the owner, lessees
or occupants of any property so served shall furnish to the superintendent any
information which he may request regarding the piping system or systems or
water use on such property. The refusal of such information, when requested,
shall, within the discretion of the superintendent, be deemed evidence of the
presence of improper connections as provided in this code. (Ord. 439, 12-28-
1992)
9-10-7: DISCONNECTION:
   A.   The superintendent is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue,
after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the water service to any
property wherein any connection in violation of the provisions of this code is
known to exist, and to take such other precautionary measures as he may deem
necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water supply
distribution mains. Water service to such property shall not be restored until
such conditions have been eliminated or corrected in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter, and until a reconnection fee of one hundred dollars
($100.00) is paid to the city. Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can
be effected when the superintendent reasonably believes that imminent danger of
harmful contamination of the public water supply system exists.
   B.   Such action shall be followed by written notification of the cause of
disconnection. Immediate disconnection without notice to any party can be
effected to prevent actual or anticipated contamination or pollution of the
public water supply, provided that, in the reasonable opinion of the
superintendent or the Illinois environmental protection agency, such action is
required to prevent actual or potential contamination or pollution of the
public water supply. Neither the city, the superintendent, nor its agents or
assigns shall be liable to any customer for an injury, damages or lost revenues
which may result from termination of said customer's water supply in accordance
with the terms of this chapter, whether or not said termination was with or
without notice. (Ord. 439, 12-28-1992)
9-10-8: CLEANUP COSTS:
The consumer responsible for back siphoned or back pressured material or
contamination through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply
system occurs through an illegal cross connection or an improperly installed,
maintained or repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must, in
addition to any fine or penalty imposed by this code, bear the cost of cleanup
of the potable water supply system. (Ord. 439, 12-28-1992)
9-10-9: CROSS CONNECTION PROHIBITED:
   A.   Cross Connection Control Devices: Connections between potable water
systems and other systems or equipment containing water or other substances of
unknown or questionable quality are prohibited except when and where approved
cross connection control devices or methods are installed, tested and
maintained to ensure proper operation on a continuing basis.
   B.   Connection With Unsanitary Substances:
      1.   No physical connection shall be permitted between the potable
portion of a water supply and any other water supply not of equal or better
bacteriological and chemical quality as determined by inspection and analysis
by the agency or superintendent.
      2.   There shall be no arrangement or connection by which an unsafe
substance may enter a supply. (Ord. 439, 12-28-1992)
9-10-10: SURVEY AND INVESTIGATIONS:
   A.   The consumer's premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
approved cross connection control device inspector for the inspection of the
presence or absence of cross connections within the customer's premises, and
testing, repair and maintenance of cross connection control devices within the
consumer's premises.
   B.   On request by the superintendent, or his authorized representative, the
consumer shall furnish information regarding the piping system or systems or
water use within the customer's premises. The consumer's premises shall be open
at all reasonable times to the superintendent for the verification of
information submitted by the consumer to the public water supply custodian
regarding cross connection inspection results.
   C.   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to arrange
periodic surveys of water use practices on his premises to determine whether
there are actual or potential cross connections to his water system through
which contaminants or pollutants could backflow into his or the public potable
water system. All cross connection control or other plumbing inspections must
be conducted in accordance with 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 320/3(1), as
same now exists or may hereafter be amended.
   D.   It is the responsibility of the water consumer to prevent backflow into
the public water system by ensuring that:
      1.   All cross connections are removed; or approved cross connection
control devices are installed for control of backflow and back siphonage.
      2.   Cross connection control devices shall be installed in accordance
with the manufacturer's instructions.
      3.   Cross connection control devices shall be inspected at the time of
installation and at least annually by a person approved by the agency as a
cross connection control device inspector (CCCDI). This inspection of
mechanical devices shall include physical testing in accordance with the
manufacturer's instructions. (Ord. 439, 12-28-1992)
9-10-11: WHERE PROTECTION IS REQUIRED:
   A.   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the plumbing code, 77 Illinois
administrative code 890 and the agency's regulations 35 Illinois administrative
code 680, as same now exist or may hereafter be amended. In addition, an
approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each service line to
a consumer's water system serving premises, where in the judgement of the
superintendent, actual or potential hazards to the public water supply system
exists.
   B.   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer's water system serving premises where the following
conditions exist:
      1.   Premises have an auxiliary water supply, unless such auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source by the superintendent and the source
is approved by the Illinois environmental protection agency.
      2.   Premises on which any substance is handled which can create an
actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system. This shall
include premises having sources containing process fluids or waters originating
from the public water supply system which are no longer under the sanitary
control of the superintendent of water.
      3.   Premises having internal cross connections that, in the judgment of
the superintendent of water and/or the cross connection control device
inspector, are not correctable or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it
impractical to determine whether or not cross connections exist.
      4.   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross connection survey.
      5.   Premises having a repeated history of cross connections being
established and reestablished.
   C.   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the plumbing code, 77 Illinois
administrative code 890 and the agency's regulations 35 Illinois administrative
code 653, as same now exist or may hereafter be amended. In addition, an
approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each service line to
a consumer's water system serving, but not necessarily limited to, the
following types of facilities unless the superintendent determines that no
actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system exists:
      1.   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics, nursing homes.
      2.   Laboratories.
      3.   Piers, docks, waterfront facilities.
      4.   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations or stormwater
pumping stations.
      5.   Food or beverage processing plants.
      6.   Chemical plants.
      7.   Metal plating industries.
      8.   Petroleum processing or storage plants.
      9.   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors.
      10.   Car washes.
      11.   Pesticides, or herbicide or extermination plants and trucks.
      12.   Farm service and fertilizer plants and trucks.
   D.   If, in the judgment of the superintendent or his authorized
representative, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the
safety of the public water supply system, the superintendent shall give notice
to the consumer to install such approved backflow prevention device at each
service connection to the premises. The consumer shall immediately install such
approved device or devices at his own expense. Failure, refusal or inability on
the part of the consumer to install such device or devices immediately shall
constitute grounds for discontinuing water service to the premises until such
device or devices have been installed. (Ord. 439, 12-28-1992)
9-10-12: TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED:
   A.   The type of protection required under subsections 9-10-11B1, B2 and B3
of this chapter shall depend on the degree of hazard which exists as follows:
      1.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation shall be installed where
the public water supply system may be contaminated with substances that could
cause a severe health hazard.
      2.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly shall be installed where the
public water supply system may be contaminated with a substance that could
cause a system or health hazard.
      3.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly or a double check valve
assembly shall be installed where the public water supply system may be
polluted with substances that could cause a pollution hazard not dangerous to
health.
   B.   The type of protection required under subsections 9-10-11B4 and B5 of
this chapter shall be an approved fixed proper air gap separation or an
approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device.
   C.   Where a public water supply or an auxiliary water supply is used for a
fire protection system reduced pressure principal backflow preventers shall be
installed on fire safety systems connected to the public water supply when:
      1.   The fire safety system contains antifreeze, fire retardant or other
chemicals;
      2.   Water is pumped into the system from another source;
      3.   Water flows by gravity from a nonpotable source; or water can be
pumped into the fire safety system from any other source; or
      4.   There is a connection whereby another source can be introduced into
the fire safety system.
   D.   All other fire safety systems connected to the potable water supply
shall be protected by a double check valve assembly on metered service lines
and a double detector check valve assembly on unmetered service lines. (Ord.
439, 12-28-1992)
9-10-13: BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES:
   A.   All backflow prevention devices or methods required by this chapter
shall be approved by the Research Foundation for Cross Connection Control of
the University of Southern California, American Water Works Association,
American Society of Sanitary Engineering, or American National Standards
Institute or certified by the National Sanitation Foundation to be in
compliance with applicable industry specification.
   B.   Installation of approved devices shall be made in accordance with the
manufacturer's instructions. Maintenance as recommended by the manufacturer of
the device shall be performed. Manufacturer's maintenance manual shall be
available on site. (Ord. 439, 12-28-1992)
9-10-14: INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on which backflow
prevention devices required by this chapter are installed to have inspection,
tests, maintenance and repair made in accordance with the following schedule or
more often where inspections indicate a need or are specified in manufacturer's
instructions.
      1.   Fixed proper air gap separations shall be inspected to document that
a proper vertical distance is maintained between the discharge point of the
service line and the flood level rim of the receptacle at the time of
installation and at least annually thereafter. Corrections to improper or
bypassed air gaps shall be made within twenty four (24) hours.
      2.   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested at time
of installation and at least annually thereafter, and required service
performed within five (5) days.
      3.   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies shall be
tested at the time of installation and at least annually or more frequently if
recommended by the manufacturer, and required service performed within five (5)
days.
   B.   Testing shall be performed by a person who has been approved by the
agency as competent to service the device. Proof of approval shall be in
writing.
   C.   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most recent
test or visual inspection, name of tester, and type and date of repairs.
   D.   A maintenance log shall be maintained for a period of at least five (5)
years last past, and shall include:
      1.   Date of each test or visual inspection;
      2.   Name and approval number of person performing the test or visual
inspection;
      3.   Test results;
      4.   Repairs or servicing required;
      5.   Repairs and date completed; and
      6.   Servicing performed and date completed.
   E.   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by this chapter are found
to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the
consumer without delay.
   F.   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the
superintendent.
   G.   The superintendent may require the consumer to submit a cross
connection inspection report to the city to assist in determining whether or
not service line protection will be required. All cross connection inspections
shall be conducted by a cross connection control device inspector certified by
the Illinois environmental protection agency. (Ord. 439, 12-28-1992)
9-10-15: BOOSTER PUMPS:
   A.   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, such pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cutoff
device designed to shut off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to twenty (20) psi or less.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the water consumer to maintain the lower
pressure cutoff device in proper working order and to certify to the
superintendent, at least once a year, that the device is operable. (Ord. 439,
12-28-1992)
9-10-16: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   The superintendent shall deny or discontinue, after reasonable notice
to the occupants thereof, the water service to any premises wherein any
backflow prevention device required by this chapter is not installed, tested,
maintained and repaired in the manner required by this chapter, or if it is
found that the backflow prevention device has been removed or bypassed, or if
an unprotected cross connection exists on the premises, or if a low pressure
cutoff required by this code is not installed and maintained in working order.
   B.   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the consumer
has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance with the
requirements of this chapter and to the satisfaction of the superintendent, and
the required reconnection fee is paid.
   C.   Neither the city, the superintendent, or its agents or assigns shall be
liable to any customers of the public water supply for any injury, damages or
lost revenues which may result from termination of said customer's water supply
in accordance with the terms of this chapter, whether or not said termination
of the water supply was with or without notice.
   D.   The consumer responsible for back siphoned material or contamination
through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs
through an illegal cross connection or an improperly installed, maintained or
repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of
cleanup of the potable water supply system.
   E.   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall be
served with written notice stating the substance of the violation and providing
a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender
shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all
violations.
   F.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter in addition
to the fine provided, shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss or
damage occasioned by the city by reason of such violation, whether the same was
caused before or after notice.
   G.   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to
a fine as provided in the general penalty provisions of this code; provided
however, that any violation continuing past the abatement time limit set in any
notice given pursuant to any section of this chapter, shall be fined not less
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00). Each day such a violation is found to exist shall constitute a
separate offense. (Ord. 439, 12-28-1992)
CHAPTER 11
LIBERTY HALL
SECTION:
9-11-1: General Provisions
9-11-2: Definition Of Terms
9-11-3: Hours Of Operation
9-11-4: Occupancy Requirements
9-11-5: Application And Deposit
9-11-6: Cleanup And Appearance
9-11-7: Alcoholic Beverages
9-11-8: Decorations
9-11-9: Return Of Keys
9-11-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
Liberty hall shall be made available on a first come, first serve basis to any
group, club, organization, individual, business or other entity for the purpose
of conducting meetings, fundraising events, social events and other gatherings
for any lawful purpose, all subject, however, to these rules and regulations.
(Ord. 634, 4-22-2002)
9-11-2: DEFINITION OF TERMS:
As used herein, the following terms shall have the following meanings, unless
the context in which they are used clearly indicates otherwise:
CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION: Any organization organized for the religious or
charitable purposes and so recognized by the internal revenue service of the
United States department of the treasury under section 501(c)(3) of the
internal revenue code, or any hereafter enacted similar provision of the tax
code of the United States of America.
COMMERCIAL GROUP: Any person, firm or other entity generally engaged in a
business for profit and/or any person, firm or other entity not included within
the definition of any other person, group or entity herein defined.
DEPOSIT: The payment of monies to the city in order to ensure compliance with
the rules, return of the key, cleanliness of the building and that no damage
has occurred. Deposit amount is determined in the fee structure based on the
use of Liberty hall. The return of the deposit is based in accordance with this
policy.
EVENT: Any event, gathering, meeting, party, reception or other use of the
facility conducted pursuant to an approved application for such use.
FACILITY: The Marquette Heights community center (building and grounds) located
at 100 Lincoln Road, Marquette Heights, Illinois.
HOBBY GROUPS AND SERVICE ORGANIZATIONS: A group or organization whose primary
function is to provide involvement and service to the residents of the
communities in which they are located, or any fraternal organization, such as
(including, but not limited to) the Kiwanis Club, Lions Club, Rotary Club, the
Optimists Club, Jaycees, Shriners, Elks Club, Moose Club, Knights of Columbus,
any local chapter of such an organization, and any club or group organized for
similar purposes such as (including, but not limited to) Women's Club, Junior
Women's Club, Men's Club, Garden Club, Toll Society, Computer Club, etc.
LOCAL GROUP: Any person, club, group, individual, organization or other entity
who is a resident of or is headquartered in or whose principal area of activity
is in the city of Marquette Heights, Illinois.
MUNICIPAL ORGANIZATION: Any department within the municipal government of the
city of Marquette Heights, such as (including, but not limited to) the fire
department, police department, city council or other municipal department.
OUTSIDE GROUP: Any person, club, group, individual, organization or other
entity not a resident of or headquartered in, or whose principal area of
activity is outside of the city of Marquette Heights, Illinois.
PRIVATE PARTY: Any individual or person, not otherwise defined herein, who
applies for use of the facility for any private use or function such as
weddings, reunions, receptions, etc.
RENTAL FEE: The fee charged by the city of Marquette Heights for the use of the
facility as set forth on the schedule of fees attached to the ordinance
codified herein, on file in the office of the city clerk. The rental fee shall
be paid within ten (10) days of approval of the application for the use of the
facility and will only be returned if cancellation is done in a timely manner,
and further, the rental fee shall be retained by the city of Marquette Heights
in the event that the scheduled use is canceled less than fourteen (14) days
prior to the scheduled date thereof.
YOUTH GROUPS: The Boy Scouts Of America, Cub Scouts, Eagle Scouts, Girl Scouts
Of America, Brownie Scouts, Camp Fire Girls, Indian Guides, Little League, 4-
H Club, Future Farmers Of America or any similar youth organizations. (Ord.
634, 4-22-2002)
9-11-3: HOURS OF OPERATION:
The facility shall be available for use as herein set forth only during the
following hours:
 
Weekdays (Sunday - Thursday)   9:00 A.M. - 11:00 P.M.
Weekends (Friday and Saturday) 9:00 A.M. - 1:00 A.M.
 
(Ord. 832, 10-13-2014)
Any user of the facility shall make all arrangements for filing the
application, payment of fees, pick up and return of keys, refund of deposit and
other necessary things through the city clerk's office. (Ord. 634, 4-22-2002)
9-11-4: OCCUPANCY REQUIREMENTS:
No more than one hundred twenty (120) people may occupy the premises at one
time. This requirement is strictly enforced by the state fire marshal and the
Marquette Heights police and fire departments. Violation of this clause may
cause termination of the event and loss of renter's deposit. (Ord. 634, 4-22-
2002)
9-11-5: APPLICATION AND DEPOSIT:
Application for use of the facility shall be made to the office of the city
clerk on such forms as may be provided for such purpose. Deposit will be paid
at the time when the keys are picked up.
The deposit, if required, shall be returned to the person, group or entity
using the facility within thirty (30) days after the use thereof provided that
the person, group or entity so using the facility has complied with all rules
and regulations pertaining to the use of the facility. Upon failure of any
person, group, or entity to comply with any of the rules and regulations, the
city of Marquette Heights may retain all or any part of the deposit, as it
deems to be appropriate under the circumstances. Violation of any of the rules
and regulations pertaining to alcoholic beverages shall automatically cause a
forfeiture of the entire deposit and may disqualify that person, group, or
entity from ever again using the facility. (Ord. 634, 4-22-2002)
9-11-6: CLEANUP AND APPEARANCE:
Each group, organization or individual renting the facility shall be required
to clean up the premises inside and outside, wash all dishes, properly dispose
of all garbage and litter (placed in appropriate receptacles outside the
facility, for garbage pick up), sweep the floors, and generally police the
grounds, and upon the completion of the use of the facility, shall leave the
premises in the same condition as they were prior to the use thereof.
Failure by user of the facility to abide by the foregoing provisions relating
to cleanup may be cause for:
   A.   Retention of all deposit paid, until cleanup/repairs are completed. If
cleanup/repair costs exceed the deposit, renter is responsible for the balance.
   B.   Disqualification of said group, organization or individual from any
future use of the facility. (Ord. 634, 4-22-2002)
9-11-7: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
The sale of alcoholic beverages in, on, at or about the facility is strictly
prohibited. As used herein the term "sale" shall mean any transfer, exchange or
barter in any manner or by any means whatsoever and shall include, but is not
limited to, the sale of alcoholic beverages on a per drink basis, or when
alcoholic beverages are dispensed by the sponsor of any event and those in
attendance are required to give something of value to gain admission to the
event.
The use and consumption of alcoholic beverages at the facility shall be allowed
only under the following circumstances:
   A.   The person or group sponsoring the event must supply at their own
expense, a dramshop (liquor liability) policy and endorse the city of Marquette
Heights onto that policy as an "additional insured";
   B.   The person or group sponsoring the event gives alcoholic beverages free
of charge to those in attendance and those in attendance are not required to
give anything of value to gain admission to such event; or
   C.   When the sponsor of an event permits or allows those in attendance to
bring with them and to use and consume their own alcoholic beverages.
In no circumstances may alcoholic beverages be used or consumed outside of the
building located at the facility.
Any person violating any of these rules and regulations pertaining to the use
of alcoholic beverages may be removed from the premises for the remainder of
the event which they are attending.
The violation of any of these rules and regulations pertaining to the use of
alcoholic beverages at the facility by the sponsor of any event shall cause an
immediate termination of the event at which the violation occurs and all
persons in attendance at such event shall be required to leave the premises.
This provision may be enforced by the police department of the city of
Marquette Heights, Illinois. This will cause forfeiture of the deposit. (Ord.
634, 4-22-2002)
9-11-8: DECORATIONS:
Signs placed outside the building are only allowed on stakes. There shall be no
signs taped, nailed, stapled or otherwise affixed to the outside of the
building or on the Liberty hall sign.
Decorations are allowed inside the building. However, decorations shall not be
taped to any part of the ceiling. Please use other means of placing decorations
on the ceiling that will not cause damage. (Ord. 634, 4-22-2002)
9-11-9: RETURN OF KEYS:
Keys are to be returned to the city office within twenty four (24) hours of the
termination of the event. If a delinquency problem arises, a twenty five dollar
($25.00) deposit fee, above other regular charges, may be required for
subsequent use. This deposit fee for keys must be approved by the building
committee and reported to the city council. (Ord. 634, 4-22-2002)
CHAPTER 12
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES IN PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY
SECTION:
9-12-1: Purpose And Scope
9-12-2: Definitions
9-12-3: Regulation Of Small Wireless Facilities
9-12-4: Dispute Resolution
9-12-5: Indemnification
9-12-6: Insurance
9-12-7: Severability
9-12-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations,
standards and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless
facilities in the rights-of-way within the City's jurisdiction, or outside the
rights-of-way on property zoned by the City exclusively for commercial or
industrial use, in a manner that is consistent with the Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act (the Act).
   B.   Conflicts With Other Ordinances: This chapter supersedes all ordinances
or parts of ordinances adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to
the extent of such conflict.
   C.   Conflicts With State And Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
Federal or State laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the wireless provider shall comply with the requirements of this
chapter to the maximum extent possible without violating Federal or State laws
or regulations. (Ord. 884, 7-23-2018)
9-12-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
ANTENNA: Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
APPLICABLE CODES: Building, Fire, Electrical, Plumbing, or Mechanical Codes
adopted by a recognized national code organization or local amendments to those
codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
APPLICANT: Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
APPLICATION: A request submitted by an applicant to the City for a permit to
collocate small wireless facilities, and a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such application.
COLLOCATE OR COLLOCATION: To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: Cable service, as defined in 47 USC 522(6), as amended;
information service, as defined in 47 USC 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 USC 153(53), as amended; mobile
service, as defined in 47 USC 153(53), as amended; or wireless service other
than mobile service.
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER: A cable operator, as defined in 47 USC 522(5),
as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 USC 153(24), as
amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 USC 153(51), as
amended; or a wireless provider.
FCC: The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
FEE: A one-time charge.
HISTORIC DISTRICT OR HISTORIC LANDMARK: A building, property, or site, or group
of buildings, properties, or sites that are either: a) listed in the National
Register of Historic Places or formally determined eligible for listing by the
Keeper of the National Register, the individual who has been delegated the
authority by the Federal agency to list properties and determine their
eligibility for the National Register, in accordance with section VI.D.1.a.i
through section VI.D.1.a.v of the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement codified at
47 CFR part 1, appendix C; or b) designated as a locally landmarked building,
property, site, or historic district by an ordinance adopted by the City
pursuant to a preservation program that meets the requirements of the Certified
Local Government Program of the Illinois State Historic Preservation Office or
where such certification of the preservation program by the Illinois State
Historic Preservation Office is pending.
LAW: A Federal or State Statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order, or
local ordinance or resolution.
MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY: A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than twenty four inches (24") in length, fifteen inches (15") in
width, and twelve inches (12") in height and that has an exterior antenna, if
any, no longer than eleven inches (11").
MUNICIPAL UTILITY POLE: A utility pole owned or operated by the City in public
rights-of-way.
PERMIT: A written authorization required by the City to perform an action or
initiate, continue, or complete a project.
PERSON: An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, or other entity or organization.
PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY: The functional division of the Federal government, the
State, a unit of local government, or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within this State, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical, or other emergency services to
respond to and manage emergency incidents.
RATE: A recurring charge.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway, street,
public sidewalk, alley, or utility easement dedicated for compatible use.
Right-of-way does not include City- owned aerial lines.
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY: A wireless facility that meets both of the following
qualifications: a) each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than
six (6) cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed
elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an
imaginary enclosure of no more than six (6) cubic feet; and b) all other
wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole associated with the
facility is cumulatively no more than twenty five (25) cubic feet in volume.
The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not included in the
calculation of equipment volume: electric meter, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation box, ground-based enclosures, grounding
equipment, power transfer switch, cut-off switch, and vertical cable runs for
the connection of power and other services.
UTILITY POLE: A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part by a
communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting, traffic
control, or a similar function.
WIRELESS FACILITY: Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including:
a) equipment associated with wireless communications; and b) radio
transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power
supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological configuration.
Wireless facility includes small wireless facilities. Wireless facility does
not include: a) the structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated; or b) wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber
optic cable that is between wireless support structures or utility poles or
coaxial, or fiber optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or
directly associated with an antenna.
WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the State that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the City.
WIRELESS PROVIDER: A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
WIRELESS SERVICES: Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER: A person who provides wireless services.
WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE: A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. Wireless support structure does not include a utility pole. (Ord.
884, 7-23-2018)
9-12-3: REGULATION OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES:
   A.   Permitted Use: Small wireless facilities shall be classified as
permitted uses and subject to administrative review, except as provided in
subsection C9 of this section regarding height exceptions or variances, but not
subject to zoning review or approval if they are collocated: 1) in rights-of-
way in any zoning district, or 2) outside rights-of-way in property zoned
exclusively for commercial or industrial use.
   B.   Permit Required: An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from the
City to collocate a small wireless facility. An application shall be received
and processed, and permits issued shall be subject to the following conditions
and requirements:
      1.   Application Requirements: A wireless provider shall provide the
following information to the City, together with the City's Small Wireless
Facilities' Permit Application, as a condition of any permit application to
collocate small wireless facilities on a utility pole or wireless support
structure:
         a.   Site specific structural integrity and, for a Municipal utility
pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is
defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989;
         b.   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed. This should include a depiction of the
completed facility;
         c.   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer, as
that term is defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of
1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application as
it is proposed to be installed;
         d.   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
         e.   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved; and
         f.   Certification that the collocation complies with the collocation
requirements and conditions contained herein, to the best of the applicant's
knowledge.
         g.   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to be
attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the City, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of
the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation.
      2.   Completeness Of Application: Within thirty (30) days after receiving
an application, the City shall determine whether the application is complete
and notify the applicant. If an application is incomplete, the City must
specifically identify the missing information. An application shall be deemed
complete if the City fails to provide notification to the applicant within
thirty (30) days after all documents, information and fees specifically
enumerated in the City's permit application form are submitted by the applicant
to the City.
Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the City sends the notice of
incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the missing information.
      3.   Application Process: The City shall process applications as follows:
         a.   The first completed application shall have priority over
applications received by different applicants for collocation on the same
utility pole or wireless support structure.
         b.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility on an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure, or replacement of an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and shall be deemed approved if the City fails to
approve or deny the application within ninety (90) days after the submission of
a completed application.
However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity on a
deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the City in writing of its
intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than seventy five (75)
days after the submission of a completed application.
The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 90th day after
submission of the complete application or the 10th day after the receipt of the
deemed approved notice by the City. The receipt of the deemed approved notice
shall not preclude the City's denial of the permit request within the time
limits as provided under this chapter.
         c.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility that
includes the installation of a new utility pole shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the City fails to approve or
deny the application within one hundred twenty (120) days after the submission
of a completed application.
However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity on a
deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the City in writing of its
intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than one hundred five
(105) days after the submission of a completed application.
The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 120th day after
submission of the complete application or the 10th day after the receipt of the
deemed approved notice by the City. The receipt of the deemed approved notice
shall not preclude the City's denial of the permit request within the time
limits as provided under this chapter.
         d.   The City shall deny an application which does not meet the
requirements of this chapter.
If the City determines that applicable codes, ordinances or regulations that
concern public safety, or the collocation requirements and conditions contained
herein require that the utility pole or wireless support structure be replaced
before the requested collocation, approval shall be conditioned on the
replacement of the utility pole or wireless support structure at the cost of
the wireless provider.
The City shall document the basis for a denial, including the specific code
provisions or application conditions on which the denial is based, and send the
documentation to the applicant on or before the day the City denies an
application.
The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the City and resubmit the
revised application once within thirty (30) days after notice of denial is sent
to the applicant without paying an additional application fee. The City shall
approve or deny the revised application within thirty (30) days after the
applicant resubmits the application, or it is deemed approved. Failure to
resubmit a revised application within thirty (30) days of the denial shall
require the applicant to submit a new application with applicable fees, and
recommencement of the City's review period.
The applicant must notify the City in writing of its intention to proceed with
the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, which may be submitted with
the resubmitted application.
Any review of a revised application shall be limited to the deficiencies cited
in the denial. However, this revised application to cure defects, does not
apply if the cure requires the review of a new location, new or different
structure to be collocated upon, new antennas, or other wireless equipment
associated with the small wireless facility.
      4.   Tolling: Any time period involving an application may be further
tolled by:
         a.   An express written agreement by both the applicant and the City;
or
         b.   A local, State or Federal disaster declaration or similar
emergency that causes the delay.
      5.   Consolidated Applications: An applicant seeking to collocate small
wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the City shall be allowed, at
the applicant's discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a
single permit for the collocation of up to twenty five (25) small wireless
facilities if the collocations each involve substantially the same type of
small wireless facility and substantially the same type of structure.
If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities, the City may
remove small wireless facility collocations from the application and treat
separately small wireless facility collocations for which incomplete
information has been provided or that do not qualify for consolidated treatment
or that are denied. The City may issue separate permits for each collocation
that is approved in a consolidated application.
      6.   Duration Of Permits: The duration of a permit shall be for a period
of five (5) years, and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent durations
unless the City makes a finding that the small wireless facility or the new or
modified utility pole do not comply with the applicable City codes or any
provision, condition or requirement contained in this chapter.
If the Act is repealed as provided in section 90 therein, renewals of permits
shall be subject to the applicable City Code provisions or regulations in
effect at the time of renewal.
      7.   Means Of Submitting Applications: Applicants shall submit
applications, supporting information and notices to the City by personal
delivery, by regular mail postmarked on the date due or by any other commonly
used means, including electronic mail.
   C.   Collocation Requirements And Conditions:
      1.   Public Safety Space Reservation: The City may reserve space on
Municipal utility poles for future public safety uses, for the City's electric
utility uses, or both, but a reservation of space may not preclude the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless the City reasonably determines
that the Municipal utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
      2.   Installation And Maintenance: The wireless provider shall install,
maintain, repair and modify its small wireless facilities in safe condition and
good repair and in compliance with the requirements and conditions of this
chapter. The wireless provider shall ensure that its employees, agents or
contractors that perform work in connection with its small wireless facilities
are adequately trained and skilled in accordance with all applicable industry
and governmental standards and regulations.
      3.   No Interference With Public Safety Communication Frequencies: The
wireless provider's operation of the small wireless facilities shall not
interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety agency for public safety
communications.
A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of the type and
frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a public safety
agency's communications equipment.
Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in accordance with
industry standards and the FCC's regulations addressing unacceptable
interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum licensed by a
public safety agency.
If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the wireless
provider has been given written notice of the interference by the public safety
agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall remedy the
interference in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC
including 47 CFR 22.970 through 47 CFR 22.973 and 47 CFR 90.672 through 47 CFR
90.675.
The City may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility based on such
interference if the wireless provider is not in compliance with the Code of
Federal Regulations cited in the previous paragraph. Failure to remedy the
interference as required herein shall constitute a public nuisance.
      4.   Certain Poles Prohibited; Exceptions: The wireless provider shall
not collocate small wireless facilities on City utility poles that are part of
an electric distribution or transmission system within the communication worker
safety zone of the pole or the electric supply zone of the pole.
However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless facility may
be located in the communications space on the City utility pole and on the top
of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless provider complies
with applicable codes for work involving the top of the pole.
For purposes of this subparagraph, the terms "communications space",
"communication worker safety zone", and "electric supply zone" have the
meanings given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published
by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
      5.   Code Compliance: The wireless provider shall comply with all
applicable codes and local code provisions or regulations that concern public
safety.
      6.   Design Standards: The wireless provider shall comply with written
design standards that are generally applicable for decorative utility poles, or
reasonable stealth, concealment and aesthetic requirements that are set forth
in any City ordinance, written policy adopted by the City, comprehensive plan
or other written design plan that applies to other occupiers of the rights-of-
way, including location on a historic landmark or in a historic district.
      7.   Alternate Placements: Except as provided in this collocation
requirements and conditions section, a wireless provider shall not be required
to collocate small wireless facilities on any specific utility pole, or
category of utility poles, or be required to collocate multiple antenna systems
on a single utility pole. However, with respect to an application for the
collocation of a small wireless facility associated with a new utility pole,
the City may propose that the small wireless facility be collocated on an
existing utility pole or existing wireless support structure within one hundred
feet (100') of the proposed collocation, which the applicant shall accept if it
has the right to use the alternate structure on reasonable terms and
conditions, and the alternate location and structure do not impose technical
limits or additional material costs as determined by the applicant.
If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the City, the applicant
shall provide written certification describing the property rights, technical
limits or material cost reasons the alternate location does not satisfy the
criteria in this paragraph.
      8.   Height Limitations: The maximum height of a small wireless facility
shall be no more than ten feet (10') above the utility pole or wireless support
structure on which the small wireless facility is collocated.
New or replacement utility poles or wireless support structures on which small
wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed the higher of:
         a.   Ten feet (10') in height above the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place
on the date the application is submitted to the City, that is located within
three hundred feet (300') of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless
support structure and that is in the same right-of-way within the
jurisdictional boundary of the City, provided the City may designate which
intersecting right-of-way within three hundred feet (300') of the proposed
utility pole or wireless support structures shall control the height limitation
for such facility; or
         b.   Forty five feet (45') above ground level.
      9.   Height Exceptions Or Variances: If an applicant proposes a height
for a new or replacement pole in excess of the above height limitations on
which the small wireless facility is proposed for collocation, the applicant
shall apply for a special use permit in conformance with procedures, terms and
conditions set forth in this chapter.
      10.   Contractual Design Requirements: The wireless provider shall comply
with requirements that are imposed by a contract between the City and a private
property owner that concern design or construction standards applicable to
utility poles and ground- mounted equipment located in the rights-of-way.
      11.   Ground-Mounted Equipment Spacing: The wireless provider shall
comply with applicable spacing requirements in applicable codes and ordinances
concerning the location of ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way
if the requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses a
wireless provider's request for exception or variance and do not prohibit
granting of such exceptions or variances.
      12.   Undergrounding Regulations: The wireless provider shall comply with
local code provisions or regulations concerning undergrounding requirements
that prohibit the installation of new or the modification of existing utility
poles in a right-of-way without prior approval if the requirements include a
waiver, zoning or other process that addresses requests to install such new
utility poles or modify such existing utility poles and do not prohibit the
replacement of utility poles.
      13.   Collocation Completion Deadline: Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within one hundred eighty (180) days after issuance
of the permit, unless the City and the wireless provider agree to extend this
period or a delay is caused by make-ready work for a Municipal utility pole or
by the lack of commercial power or backhaul availability at the site, provided
the wireless provider has made a timely request within sixty (60) days after
the issuance of the permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and the
additional time to complete installation does not exceed three hundred sixty
(360) days after issuance of the permit. Otherwise, the permit shall be void
unless the City grants an extension in writing to the applicant.
   D.   Application Fees: Application fees are imposed as follows:
      1.   Applicant shall pay an application fee of six hundred fifty dollars
($650.00) for an application to collocate a single small wireless facility on
an existing utility pole or wireless support structure, and three hundred fifty
dollars ($350.00) for each small wireless facility addressed in a consolidated
application to collocate more than one small wireless facility on existing
utility poles or wireless support structures.
      2.   Applicant shall pay an application fee of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each small wireless facility addressed in an application that
includes the installation of a new utility pole for such collocation.
      3.   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of State law or local
ordinance, applications pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by the
required application fee. Application fees shall be non-refundable.
      4.   The City shall not require an application, approval or permit, or
require any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider
authorized to occupy the rights-of-way, for:
         a.   Routine maintenance;
         b.   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless
provider notifies the City at least ten (10) days prior to the planned
replacement and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of
equipment consistent with subsection B1d of this section; or
         c.   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or
replacement of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung
between existing utility poles in compliance with applicable Safety Codes.
      5.   Wireless providers shall secure a permit from the City to work
within rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or require
lane closures.
   E.   Exceptions To Applicability: Nothing in this chapter authorizes a
person to collocate small wireless facilities on:
      1.   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled by
the City or another unit of local government that is not located within rights-
of-way, or a privately-owned utility pole or wireless support structure without
the consent of the property owner;
      2.   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
      3.   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under section 18c-7201
of the Illinois Vehicle Code, Metra Commuter Rail or any other public commuter
rail service, or an electric utility as defined in section 16-102 of the Public
Utilities Act, without the consent of the rail carrier, public commuter rail
service, or electric utility. The provisions of this chapter do not apply to an
electric or gas public utility or such utility's wireless facilities if the
facilities are being used, developed and maintained consistent with the
provisions of subsection (i) of section 16-108.5 of the Public Utilities Act.
For the purposes of this subsection, "public utility" has the meaning given to
that term in section 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act. Nothing in this chapter
shall be construed to relieve any person from any requirement: a) to obtain a
franchise or a State-issued authorization to offer cable service or video
service or b) to obtain any required permission to install, place, maintain, or
operate communications facilities, other than small wireless facilities subject
to this chapter.
   F.   Pre-Existing Agreements: Existing agreements between the City and
wireless providers that relate to the collocation of small wireless facilities
in the rights-of-way, including the collocation of small wireless facilities on
City utility poles, that are in effect on June 1, 2018, remain in effect for
all small wireless facilities collocated on the City's utility poles pursuant
to applications submitted to the City before June 1, 2018, subject to
applicable termination provisions contained therein. Agreements entered into
after June 1, 2018, shall comply with this chapter.
A wireless provider that has an existing agreement with the City on the
effective date of the Act may accept the rates, fees and terms that the City
makes available under this chapter for the collocation of small wireless
facilities or the installation of new utility poles for the collocation of
small wireless facilities that are the subject of an application submitted two
(2) or more years after the effective date of the Act, by notifying the City
that it opts to accept such rates, fees and terms. The existing agreement
remains in effect, subject to applicable termination provisions, for the small
wireless facilities the wireless provider has collocated on the City's utility
poles pursuant to applications submitted to the City before the wireless
provider provides such notice and exercises its option under this paragraph.
   G.   Annual Recurring Rate: A wireless provider shall pay to the City an
annual recurring rate to collocate a small wireless facility on a City utility
pole located in a right-of-way that equals: 1) two hundred dollars ($200.00)
per year or 2) the actual, direct and reasonable costs related to the wireless
provider's use of space on the City utility pole.
If the City has not billed the wireless provider actual and direct costs, the
fee shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00) payable on the first day after the
first annual anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice of intent to
collocate, and on each annual anniversary date thereafter.
   H.   Abandonment: A small wireless facility that is not operated for a
continuous period of twelve (12) months shall be considered abandoned. The
owner of the facility shall remove the small wireless facility within ninety
(90) days after receipt of written notice from the City notifying the wireless
provider of the abandonment.
The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt
requested, by the City to the owner at the last known address of the wireless
provider. If the small wireless facility is not removed within ninety (90) days
of such notice, the City may remove or cause the removal of such facility
through whatever actions are provided for abatement of nuisances or by other
law for removal and cost recovery.
A wireless provider shall provide written notice to the City within thirty (30)
days of the sale or transfer of a small wireless facility within the
jurisdiction of the City. Such notice shall include the name and contact
information of the new wireless provider. (Ord. 884, 7-23-2018)
9-12-4: DISPUTE RESOLUTION:
The Circuit Court of Tazewell County shall have exclusive jurisdiction to
resolve all disputes arising under the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment
Act. Pending resolution of a dispute concerning rates for collocation of small
wireless facilities on Municipal utility poles within the right-of-way, the
City shall allow the collocating person to collocate on its poles at annual
rates of no more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) per year per Municipal
utility pole, with rates to be determined upon final resolution of the dispute.
(Ord. 884, 7-23-2018)
9-12-5: INDEMNIFICATION:
A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the City harmless against any and
all liability or loss from personal injury or property damage resulting from or
arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or occupancy of the City
improvements or right-of- way associated with such improvements by the wireless
provider or its employees, agents, or contractors arising out of the rights and
privileges granted under this chapter and the Act. A wireless provider has no
obligation to indemnify or hold harmless against any liabilities and losses as
may be due to or caused by the sole negligence of the City or its employees or
agents. A wireless provider shall further waive any claims that they may have
against the City with respect to consequential, incidental, or special damages,
however caused, based on the theory of liability. (Ord. 884, 7-23-2018)
9-12-6: INSURANCE:
The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless provider's own cost and
expense, the following insurance:
   A.   Property insurance for its property's replacement cost against all
risks;
   B.   Workers' compensation insurance, as required by law; or
   C.   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its activities
on the City improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum protection limits
consistent with its requirements of other users of City improvements or rights-
of-way, including coverage for bodily injury and property damage.
The wireless provider shall include the City as an additional insured on the
commercial general liability policy and provide certification and documentation
of inclusion of the City in a commercial general liability policy prior to the
collocation of any wireless facility.
A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the insurance coverage
and limit requirement required by the City. A wireless provider that self-
insures is not required, to the extent of the self-insurance, to comply with
the requirement for the name of additional insureds under this section. A
wireless provider that elects to self-insure shall provide to the City evidence
sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self- insure the insurance
coverage limits required by the City.
As used in this section, "financial ability to self-insure" shall mean having
and maintaining net unrestricted assets of at least one hundred million dollars
($100,000,000.00), as determined in accordance with generally accepted
accounting methods consistently applied, while maintaining appropriate loss
reserves for the amount of self-insurance obligations established in this
section and otherwise which are actuarially derived in accordance with accepted
standards of insurance industry and accrued or otherwise funded. (Ord. 884, 7-
23-2018)
9-12-7: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this chapter or application thereof to any person or
circumstances is held or ruled to be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid,
such invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of this
chapter that can be given effect without the invalid application or provision,
and each invalid provision or invalid application of this chapter is severable.
(Ord. 884, 7-23-2018)
TITLE 10
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
10-1-1: Chief Of Police
10-1-2: Hiring Of Policemen; Work Shift
10-1-3: Number Of Police Officers; Compensation
10-1-4: Related Persons
10-1-5: Bond And Oath Of Office
10-1-6: Term Of Office
10-1-7: Police Powers
10-1-8: Record Of Persons Arrested
10-1-9: Responsibility For Police Property
10-1-10: Appointment Of Special Police
10-1-11: Rules And Regulations
10-1-12: Disciplinary Actions
10-1-1: CHIEF OF POLICE:
   A.   Office Established: There shall be established the Office of Chief of
Police for the City, who shall be head of the department and a full time
employee of the City. The Chief of Police shall be appointed by the Mayor with
the advice and consent of the City Council.
   B.   Duties; Chief Of Police: The Chief of Police shall be the Chief Law
Enforcement Officer in the City. He shall be the Chief Administrative Officer
of the Police Department and shall oversee the day to day operation of the
Police Department. He shall perform such duties as are required of him by the
laws and Statutes of the State and the ordinances of the City, and such other
duties as may from time to time be assigned to him by the City Council. He
shall administer and enforce all Police Department rules and regulations as may
from time to time be adopted by the City Council. He shall work under the
direction of and report to the Police Committee of the City Council and shall
file a monthly report of Police Department activities with the Chairman of the
Police Committee, containing such information as may be required by the
committee. (Ord. 396, 1-8-1990)
      1.   Accountability And Conflicts: The Chief of Police shall be
responsible and accountable to the Chairperson of the Police Committee.
Conflicts between priority of work, and work assignments between the Police
Department and Administration of Rental Registration shall be resolved by the
Chairperson of the Police Committee. (Ord. 887, 6-10-2019)
   C.   Salary: The salary of the Chief of Police shall be set by resolution.
   D.   Removal From Office: The Chief of Police may be removed from office at
any time by the affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the City
Council, then holding office.
   E.   Reconsideration: If the Chief of Police is removed from office as
provided in subsection D of this section, he shall have the right to petition
the City Council, within twenty one (21) days from the date of such action, for
a reconsideration of such action of removal. The City Council, sitting as a
Committee of the Whole, shall reconsider such action of removal at the soonest
date practicable after its receipt of a request for same. Upon reconsideration,
the Chief of Police shall have the right to present any competent material and
relevant evidence he wishes the City Council to consider in the course of its
reconsideration of his removal from office. Upon reconsideration the removal of
the Chief of Police shall stand confirmed unless rescinded by a majority vote
of the members of the City Council then holding office. The reconsideration
process shall not be deemed to be a hearing. (Ord. 396, 1-8-1990)
10-1-2: HIRING OF POLICEMEN; WORK SHIFT:
   A.   Hiring Of Policemen: All policemen shall be hired by the Police
Committee of the City Council, after consultation with the Chief of Police.
   B.   Shift: The normal working hours of all full time policemen shall be
forty (40) hours per week. Any full shift in excess of the normal working hours
shall be compensated at the regular rate that is then in effect. (Ord. 396, 1-
8-1990)
   C.   Part Time Officers:
      1.   Any person employed as a part time police officer must meet the
following standards:
         a.   Be of good moral character, of sound health, and physically and
mentally able to perform assigned duties.
         b.   Be at least twenty one (21) years of age.
         c.   Pass a drug screen test.
         d.   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate.
         e.   Possess a valid State of Illinois driver's license.
         f.   Possess no prior felony convictions.
         g.   Any individual who has served in the U.S. military must have been
honorably discharged.
      2.   A part time police officer shall have all the responsibilities of a
full time police officer and such specific duties as delineated in the general
orders of the Marquette Heights Police Department, but the number of hours a
part time officer may work within a calendar year is restricted.
      3.   A part time police officer shall be qualified to enter and
successfully complete any training mandated by the Illinois Law Enforcement
Training and Standards Board.
      4.   The aforesaid hiring standard, particularly with respect to part
time police officers employed by the City of Marquette Heights, shall be
submitted to the Illinois Law Enforcement Training and Standards Board, as
required by statute. (Ord. 813, 9-10-2012)
10-1-3: NUMBER OF POLICE OFFICERS; COMPENSATION:
There shall be as many full time and part time police officers of the Police
Department as the City Council may from time to time deem necessary. The
compensation of all full time and part time police officers shall be set by
resolution of the City Council. (Ord. 396, 1-8-1990)
10-1-4: RELATED PERSONS:
From and after the effective date of this chapter, no person shall be appointed
to the Police Department who is related to the Chief of Police in any of the
following ways: son, daughter, spouse, parent, son-in-law or daughter-in-law.
Nothing herein shall prevent any such person from being employed by any other
department of City government nor shall this section apply to any person who is
a member of the Police Department as of the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 396, 1-8-1990)
10-1-5: BOND AND OATH OF OFFICE:
   A.   Bond: Each full time policeman, before entering upon his duties as a
police officer, shall have a bond, executed by the City, in the sum of two
thousand dollars ($2,000.00) with surety to be approved by the Mayor. Such bond
will be filed with the City Clerk.
   B.   Oath: Each of said policemen shall, before entering upon his duties as
a police officer, take the oath of office as by the statute 1  in such cases
made and provided and subscribe same, which oath shall be filed with the City
Clerk. (Ord. 396, 1-8-1990)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3-14-3.
10-1-6: TERM OF OFFICE:
Each policeman shall hold his office from the time of his hiring until the date
of his resignation or other termination of employment by the City. (Ord. 396,
1-8-1990)
10-1-7: POLICE POWERS:
Each police officer shall have police powers and authority as provided by the
Statutes of the State and the ordinances of the City. Such officers shall
enforce all ordinances of the City and laws of the State, and shall arrest,
with or without warrant, according to the Statutes of the State and ordinances
of this City, all persons who may violate any of said laws of the State or
ordinances of this City. They shall perform all other duties which they may be
directed to perform either by the Chief of Police, his next in command, or any
appropriate commanding officer. (Ord. 396, 1-8-1990)
10-1-8: RECORD OF PERSONS ARRESTED:
Policemen shall keep a full record of all persons arrested by them, including
the names of the persons arrested, the offenses for which the arrests were
made, the court before which they were brought, the disposition of the case and
the amount of fine assessed or other penalty imposed by the court. (Ord. 396,
1-8-1990)
10-1-9: RESPONSIBILITY FOR POLICE PROPERTY:
The Chief of Police shall be responsible for the police property which comes
under the jurisdiction of the Police Department. (Ord. 396, 1-8-1990)
10-1-10: APPOINTMENT OF SPECIAL POLICE:
In case of emergency, the Mayor shall have the right to appoint a special
policeman, but the Mayor shall report such appointment at the next meeting of
the City Council. (Ord. 396, 1-8-1990)
10-1-11: RULES AND REGULATIONS 1 :
All police officers, full time and part time, shall be subject to and shall
abide by all rules and regulations pertaining to the Police Department, as from
time to time be approved by the City Council. (Ord. 396, 1-8-1990)
 
Notes
  1. Ordinance 394, passed January 8, 1990, which sets out in full the Police
1 Department rules and regulations, shall be and remain on file in the Office
  of the City Clerk.
10-1-12: DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS:
Disciplinary actions against all police officers (except the Chief of Police)
shall be as prescribed in State Statute. (Ord. 396, 1-8-1990)
CHAPTER 2
MISDEMEANORS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Definitions
10-2-2: Civil Remedies Preserved
10-2-3: Penalties (Rep. by Ord. 436, 11-23-1992)
10-2-4: Civil Emergency Provisions
10-2-5: Disorderly Conduct
10-2-6: Public Intoxication
10-2-7: Vagrancy
10-2-8: Disturbing Lawful Assemblies
10-2-9: Disturbing Elections, Process
10-2-10: Assault
10-2-11: Battery
10-2-12: Reckless Conduct
10-2-13: Unlawful Assemblies
10-2-14: Mob Action
10-2-15: Obstructing Stairways Or Exits
10-2-16: Resisting Arrest
10-2-17: Hindering, Refusing To Obey City Officers
10-2-18: Weapons And Firearms
10-2-18-1: Unlawful Use Of Weapons
10-2-18-2: Firing Or Discharging Weapons
10-2-18-3: Carrying Loaded Weapons
10-2-18-4: Unlawful Display Of Weapon
10-2-18-5: Confiscation And Disposition Of Weapons
10-2-19: Abandoned Refrigerators, Iceboxes
10-2-20: Noises, Loud And Disturbing
10-2-21: Stench Bombs, Nauseous Gases And Substances
10-2-22: Throwing Missiles, Bottles
10-2-23: Criminal Housing Management
10-2-24: Trespassing
10-2-25: Malicious Mischief, Destruction
10-2-26: Criminal Damage To Property
10-2-27: Coin Operated Devices; Slugs, Tampering
10-2-28: Prostitution And Related Offenses
10-2-28-1: Prostitution Defined
10-2-28-2: Keeping A Place Of Prostitution
10-2-28-3: Patronizing A Prostitute
10-2-28-4: Soliciting For A Prostitute
10-2-28-5: Pandering
10-2-28-6: Pimping
10-2-29: Obscenity And Related Offenses
10-2-29-1: Public Indecency, Acts Or Language
10-2-29-2: Distribution Of Obscene Literature, Articles
10-2-29-3: Obscene Marking In Public View
10-2-29-4: Obscenity; Affirmative Defense
10-2-30: Window Peeping
10-2-31: Gambling And Related Offenses
10-2-31-1: Gambling Defined And Prohibited
10-2-31-2: Keeping A Gambling Place Prohibited
10-2-32: Civil Rights Violations
10-2-33: Cannabis And Drug Paraphernalia
10-2-34: Bribery; Offering Or Accepting
10-2-35: Solicitation And Conspiracy To Commit Offense
10-2-36: Telephone Calls; Obscene, Anonymous
10-2-37: False Alarms
10-2-38: Intimidation; Threats Communicated
10-2-39: Retail Sale Of Alcoholic Liquor Prohibited
10-2-40: Theft Of Property Valued At Less Than One Hundred Fifty Dollars
10-2-41: Presence On Premises Where Minors Are Illegally Possessing Or
Consuming Alcoholic Liquor
10-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
ACT: A failure or omission to take action.
AIR RIFLE: Any air gun, air pistol, spring gun, spring pistol, BB gun or pellet
gun which impels a pellet constructed of hard plastic, steel, lead, stone or
other hard materials with force that reasonably is expected to cause bodily
harm or property damage.
ANOTHER: A person or persons as defined in this code other than the offender.
ASSAULT: When, without lawful authority, a person engages in conduct which
places another in reasonable apprehension of receiving a battery.
BATTERY: If a person intentionally or knowingly, without legal justification
and by any means: a) causes bodily harm to an individual, or b) makes physical
contact of an insulting or provoking nature with an individual.
CIVIL EMERGENCY: A. A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of
actual force or violence or any threat to use force if accompanied by immediate
power to execute by three (3) or more persons acting together without authority
of law; or
   B.   Any natural disaster or manmade calamity including flood,
conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or explosion within the corporate
limits of the city resulting in the death or injury of persons or the
destruction of property to such an extent that extraordinary measures must be
taken to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
CURFEW: A prohibition against any person walking, running, loitering, standing
or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public property or vacant premises
within the corporate limits of the city, excepting officials of any
governmental unit and persons officially designated to duty with reference to
said civil emergency.
POLICE OFFICER: Any person who, by virtue of his office or public employment,
is vested by law with a duty to maintain public order or to make arrests for
offenses, whether that duty extends to all offenses or is limited to specific
offenses.
PUBLIC EMPLOYEE: A person, other than a public officer, who is authorized to
perform any official function on behalf of, and is paid by, the city or any of
its subdivisions or agencies.
PUBLIC OFFICER: A person who is elected to office pursuant to a statute or
ordinance, or who is appointed to an office which is established, and the
qualifications and duties of which are prescribed, by statute or ordinance, to
discharge a public duty for the city, or any of its subdivisions or agencies.
REASONABLE BELIEF OR REASONABLY BELIEVES: The person concerned, acting as a
reasonable man, believes that the described facts exist. (Ord. 153, 8-21-1972)
10-2-2: CIVIL REMEDIES PRESERVED:
This chapter does not bar, suspend or otherwise affect any right or liability
to damages, penalty, forfeiture or other remedy authorized by law to be
recovered or enforced in a civil action, for any conduct which this chapter
makes punishment; and the civil injury is not merged in the offense. (Ord. 153,
8-21-1972)
10-2-3: PENALTIES:
(Rep. by Ord. 436, 11-23-1992)
10-2-4: CIVIL EMERGENCY PROVISIONS 1 :
   A.   Declaration Of Emergency: Whenever an emergency as defined in section
10-2-1 of this chapter exists, the mayor shall declare the existence by means
of a written declaration setting forth the facts which constitute the
emergency.
   B.   General Curfew: After proclamation of a civil emergency by the mayor,
he may order a general curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the city
or the city as a whole, as he deems advisable, and applicable during such hours
of the day or night as he deems necessary in the interest of the public safety
and welfare.
   C.   General Orders: After the proclamation of a civil emergency, the mayor
may also, in the interest of public safety and welfare, make any or all of the
following orders:
      1.   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle.
      2.   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing or
giving away of any firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever.
      3.   Issue such other orders as are imminently necessary for the
protection of life and property.
   D.   Duration Of Proclamation: The proclamation herein authorized shall be
effective for a period of forty eight (48) hours unless sooner terminated by a
proclamation of the mayor indicating that the civil emergency no longer exists.
The mayor shall have the power to reproclaim the existence of a civil emergency
at the end of each forty eight (48) hour period during the time the said civil
emergency exists.
   E.   Notice Of Proclamation: Upon issuing the proclamation herein
authorized, the chief of police or officer in charge shall notify the news
media situated within the city, and shall cause three (3) copies of the
proclamation declaring the existence of the emergency to be posted at the
following places within the city: the city hall, the police station and the
post office.
   F.   Construction: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to
impair the powers contained in the provisions of this code giving powers to the
police and fire departments, but shall be construed together with existing
ordinances that are now, or shall be, in effect for the safety and welfare of
the citizens of the city. (Ord. 153, 8-21-1972)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 1-5-2, and title 2, chapter 4 of this code.
10-2-5: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any violent, tumultuous,
offensive or disorderly conduct by threatening, traducing, quarreling,
challenging to fight or fighting by using obscene, offensive, profane or
unseemly language to the annoyance, disturbance or vexation of another; or to
be guilty of any conduct calculated to breach the peace. (Ord. 153, 8-21-1972)
10-2-6: PUBLIC INTOXICATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person in any public place, to be in such a state
of intoxication that:
   A.   He is unreasonably loud, obscene or disorderly so as to breach the
peace, or
   B.   He is incoherent, incapacitated or asleep so as not to be able to
control, direct or protect himself. It shall be the duty of police officers to
arrest any such person when they reasonably believe such condition exists.
(Ord. 153, 8-21-1972)
10-2-7: VAGRANCY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to be guilty of vagrancy as herein defined.
The following persons shall be deemed vagrant:
   A.   Burglar's Tools: Any person in whose possession shall be found any
instrument, tool or other implement for picking locks or pockets, or any
implement that is usually employed or that reasonably may be referred to have
been designed to be employed in the commission of any felony, misdemeanor or
the violation of any ordinance, and who shall fail to account satisfactorily
for the possession of the same.
   B.   Unlawful Occupancy: Any person wandering abroad and occupying, lodging
or sleeping in any vacant or unoccupied barn, garage, shed, shop or other
building or structure, or in any automobile, truck, railroad car, or other
vehicle, without owning the same or without permission of the owner or person
entitled to the possession of the same, or sleeping in any vacant lot during
the hours of darkness and not giving a satisfactory account for himself.
   C.   Begging: Any person wandering abroad and begging, or any person who
goes about from door to door of private homes or commercial and business
establishments, or places himself in or upon any public way or public place to
beg or receive alms for himself.
   D.   Illegal Association: Any person who keeps, operates, frequents, lives
in or is employed in any house or other establishment of ill fame, or who
(whether married or single) engages in or commits acts of fornication or
perversion for hire.
   E.   Loitering: Any person found loitering or strolling in, about or upon
any street, alley or other public way or public place or at any public
gathering or assembly, or in or around any store, shop or business or
commercial establishment, or on any private property or place without lawful
business and conducting himself in a lewd, lascivious manner in speech or
behavior. (Ord. 153, 8-21-1972)
10-2-8: DISTURBING LAWFUL ASSEMBLIES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully interrupt or disturb any
funeral assembly, funeral procession, school, any assembly not for a lawful
purpose by any offensive behavior, or by any disorderly conduct. (Ord. 153, 8-
21-1972)
10-2-9: DISTURBING ELECTIONS, PROCESS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to create any disturbance at an election
poll or to interfere with the election process. (Ord. 153, 8-21-1972)
10-2-10: ASSAULT:
It shall be unlawful for any person, not having lawful authority, to engage in
any conduct which places another in reasonable apprehension of receiving a
battery. (Ord. 224, 8-22-1977)
10-2-11: BATTERY:
It shall be unlawful for any person, not having legal justification, by any
means to knowingly or intentionally:
   A.   Cause bodily harm to an individual.
   B.   Make physical contact of an insulting or provoking nature with an
individual. (Ord. 224, 8-22-1977)
10-2-12: RECKLESS CONDUCT:
No person shall cause bodily harm to, or endanger the bodily safety of, an
individual by any means, commit reckless conduct by performing recklessly the
acts which cause the harm or endanger the safety of an individual, whether they
are lawful or are unlawful. (Ord. 153, 8-21-1972)
10-2-13: UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLIES:
It shall be unlawful for any two (2) or more persons to assemble together for
any unlawful purpose, or who, being assembled, to act in concert to do an
unlawful act, against the property of the city, or the person or property of
another, or against the public peace or to make any movement or preparation
therefor.
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly suffer or permit any
assemblage for the purpose of committing any unlawful act or breach of the
peace, or any riotous, offensive or disorderly conduct in or upon premises
owned or occupied by him, or under his control within the city. (Ord. 153, 8-
21-1972)
10-2-14: MOB ACTION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to participate in mob action, as defined as
follows:
   A.   The use of force, violence or other disruptive conduct by two (2) or
more persons acting together, without lawful authority, so as to constitute a
breach of the peace; or
   B.   The assembly of two (2) or more persons to do an unlawful act; or
   C.   The assembly of two (2) or more persons without authority of law to do
violence to the person or property of another. (Ord. 153, 8-21-1972)
10-2-15: OBSTRUCTING STAIRWAYS OR EXITS:
It shall be unlawful to obstruct or permit the obstruction of any stairway,
aisle, corridor or exit in any office building, factory, hotel, school, church,
theater, assembly hall, lodge or other public hall, or any building used by two
(2) or more tenants or families in such a manner that it interferes with the
free use of such stairway, aisle, corridor or exit. (Ord. 153, 8-21-1972)
10-2-16: RESISTING ARREST:
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly or wilfully resist an arrest
which he knows is being made by a police officer, or by a private person
summoned and directed by a police officer, to make an arrest, even if he
believes that the arrest is unlawful, and the arrest is in fact unlawful. (Ord.
153, 8-21-1972)
10-2-17: HINDERING, REFUSING TO OBEY CITY OFFICERS:
It shall be unlawful for any person:
   A.   To knowingly prevent, obstruct, harass or endanger, by any means, any
police officer, fire officer or other official or employee, or any military
personnel on emergency duty within the city in the lawful performance of his
duties.
   B.   To knowingly or wilfully refuse or neglect to obey, without reasonable
justification therefor, any lawful order or direction of any police officer,
fire officer or other official or employee, or any military personnel on
emergency duty within the city. (Ord. 153, 8-21-1972)
10-2-18: WEAPONS AND FIREARMS:
10-2-18-1: UNLAWFUL USE OF WEAPONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to 1 :
      1.   Possess or carry any bludgeon, blackjack, slingshot, sandclub,
sandbag, metal knuckles or any knife, commonly referred to as a switchblade
knife, which has a blade that opens automatically by hand pressure applied to a
button, spring or other device in the handle of the knife; or
      2.   Carry or possess with intent to use the same unlawfully against
another, a dagger, dirk, billy, dangerous knife, razor, stiletto, broken bottle
or other piece of glass, or any other dangerous or deadly weapon or instrument
of like character; or
      3.   Carry on or about his person or in any vehicle, a tear gas gun
projector or bomb, or any object containing noxious liquid gas or substance; or
      4.   Carry concealed in any vehicle or concealed on or about his person
except when on his land or in his own abode or fixed place of business, any
pistol, revolver or other firearm; or
      5.   Set a spring gun; or
      6.   Possess any device or attachment of any kind designed, used or
intended for use in silencing the report of any firearm; or
      7.   Possess or carry any weapon from which more than eight (8) shots or
bullets may be discharged by a single function of the firing device, any
shotgun with a barrel less than eighteen inches (18") in length, or any bomb,
bombshell, grenade, bottle or other container containing an explosive
substance, such as, but not limited to, black powder bombs and Molotov
cocktails; or
      8.   Carry or possess any firearm or other deadly weapon at any public
gathering held pursuant to a license issued by any governmental body or any
public gathering at which an admission is charged, excluding a place where a
showing, demonstration or lecture involving the exhibition of unloaded firearms
is conducted; within the limits of the city.
   B.   The presence in an automobile other than a public omnibus of any
weapon, instrument or substance referred to in subsection A7 of this section is
prima facie evidence that it is in the possession of, and is being carried by,
all persons occupying such automobile at the time such weapon, instrument or
substance is found, except under the following circumstances:
      1.   If such weapon, instrument or instrumentality is found upon the
person of one of the occupants therein; or
      2.   If such weapon, instrument or substance is found in an automobile
operated for hire by a duly licensed driver in the due, lawful and proper
pursuit of his trade, then such presumption shall not apply to the driver.
   C.   Subsections A3 and A4 of this section shall not be construed to apply
to any duly authorized and appointed police officer or agent of the city, of
the state or of the United States; or to any member of the armed forces or
reserve forces of the United States or the Illinois national guard, while in
the performance of their duties. (Ord. 153, 8-21-1972)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  10-3-3 of this chapter.
10-2-18-2: FIRING OR DISCHARGING WEAPONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to fire or discharge any firearm, air gun,
slingshot, bow, cross bow or other device designed to fire, project or throw
any stone, bullet or other hard substance within the city; provided, however,
that this section shall not apply to any police officer discharging a firearm
in the performance of his duty, nor any citizen from discharging any firearm
when lawfully defending his person or property. (Ord. 153, 8-21-1972)
10-2-18-3: CARRYING LOADED WEAPONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, except persons permitted by law, to have
or carry any shotgun or rifle or air gun in or on any vehicle, unless such
shotgun or rifle or air gun is dismantled to render it incapable of being fired
or is unloaded when enclosed in a case; the mere removal of the belt from a
belt action rifle shall not be construed as dismantled so as to render it
incapable of firing. (Ord. 153, 8-21-1972)
10-2-18-4: UNLAWFUL DISPLAY OF WEAPON:
It shall be unlawful for any person in possession of any weapon or device set
forth in this code to display or flourish any such weapon in a threatening or
boisterous manner such as might alarm a reasonable man. (Ord. 153, 8-21-1972)
10-2-18-5: CONFISCATION AND DISPOSITION OF WEAPONS:
   A.   Upon conviction of a violation of this section
10-2-18, any weapons seized shall be confiscated by the trial court.
   B.   Any stolen weapon so confiscated, when no longer needed for evidentiary
purposes, shall be returned to the person entitled to possession, if known. All
other confiscated weapons, when no longer needed for evidentiary purposes,
shall, in the discretion of the trial court, be destroyed or preserved as the
property of the city. (Ord. 153, 8-21-1972)
10-2-19: ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS, ICEBOXES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to leave or permit to leave outside of any
dwelling, building or other structure, or within any unoccupied or abandoned
building, dwelling or any other structure under his control, in a place
accessible to children, any abandoned, unattended or discarded icebox,
refrigerator or other container which has an airtight door or lid, snap, lock
or other locking device which may not be released from the inside, without
first removing said door or lid, snap, lock or other locking device from said
icebox, refrigerator or container. (Ord. 153, 8-21-1972)
10-2-20: NOISES, LOUD AND DISTURBING:
   A.   Subject to the provisions of this section, it shall be unlawful for any
person to make, or cause, allow or permit to be made, any loud, disturbing and
unnecessary noise within the city limits. Further, subject to the provisions of
this section, it shall be unlawful for the principal occupant of any premises
in the city (owner who lives on the premises, lessor of any premises or person
in whose name city water service is issued) to make, cause, permit or allow any
loud, disturbing and unnecessary noise to emanate from any premises occupied by
him/her or to have any such noise emanate from any such premises. (Ord. 448, 7-
26-1993)
   B.   Noise of such character, intensity or duration as to be detrimental to
the life or health of any individual, or in disturbance of the public peace and
welfare is prohibited.
   C.   The following acts are declared to be loud, disturbing and unnecessary
noises in violation of this section, but this enumeration shall not be deemed
to be exclusive, namely:
      1.   Blowing Horns: The sounding of any horn or signal device on any
automobile, motorcycle or bus, so as to create an unreasonably loud or harsh
sound; and the sounding of such device for an unnecessary and unreasonable
period of time. (Ord. 153, 8-21-1972)
      2.   Radios, Phonographs: The playing of any radio, phonograph, stereo or
any musical instrument with such volume, as to unreasonably annoy or disturb
the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in the vicinity.
      3.   Yelling, Shouting, Hooting: Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling or
singing on the public streets, at any time or place so as to unreasonably annoy
or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of any persons in the vicinity. (Ord.
448, 7-26-1993)
      4.   Pets: The keeping of any animal, bird or fowl which by causing
frequent or long continued noise shall disturb the comfort or repose of any
person in the vicinity.
      5.   Blowing Whistles: The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any
stationary boiler except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work as a
warning of fire or danger, or upon request of proper city authorities.
      6.   Exhaust Discharge: To discharge into the open air the exhaust of any
steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motor vehicle or motorboat
engine, except through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent
loud or explosive noises therefrom. (Ord. 153, 8-21-1972)
      7.   Building Operations: The erection, including excavation, demolition,
alteration or repair of any building in any residential section, the excavation
of streets and highways in any residential section, other than between the
hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and sunset, except in case of urgent
necessity in the interest of public health and safety, and then only with a
permit from the inspector of buildings 1 . This limitation shall not apply to
employees of the City engaged in the repair of water mains, sanitary sewers, or
streets. (Ord. 565, 7-12-1999)
      8.   Noises Near Schools, Churches: The creation of any excessive noise
on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning, church or court
while the same are in session, which unreasonably interferes with the workings
or sessions thereof.
      9.   Noises To Attract Attention: The use of any drum, loudspeaker or
other instrument or device for the purpose of attracting attention by creation
of noise to any performance, show, sale or display of merchandise.
      10.   Loudspeaker Or Amplifiers On Vehicles: The reasonable use of
amplifiers or loudspeakers in the course of public addresses which are
noncommercial in character; provided, that a permit has been first obtained
from the City Council. (Ord. 153, 8-21-1972)
      11.   Car Radios Or Stereos: The playing of any radio or stereo in any
motor vehicle at such a volume that same can be heard at a distance of seventy
five feet (75') from such vehicle.
   D.   With the exception of subsection C7 of this section, if any violation
of this section is found to have occurred between the hours of eleven o'clock
(11:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M., the minimum fine for such offense
shall be seventy five dollars ($75.00). (Ord. 448, 7-26-1993)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  9-1-6 of this Code.
10-2-21: STENCH BOMBS, NAUSEOUS GASES AND SUBSTANCES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, drop, pour, deposit or
discharge upon the person or the property of another any liquid, gaseous or
solid substance which is injurious to person or property, or which is nauseous,
sickening, irritating or offensive to any of the senses with the intent to
unlawfully injure, molest, discomfort, discommode or cause the same to another
in the use, management, conduct or control of his personal property. No person
shall attempt, or aid in the attempt or commission of any of these prohibited
acts. (Ord. 153, 8-21-1972)
10-2-22: THROWING MISSILES, BOTTLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person purposely or recklessly to cast, throw,
drop or break any stone, rock, brick, glass bottle or other missile or
substance from any overpass, or onto any street, alley or other public way, or
in or against any person, residence, building, car or other property. (Ord.
153, 8-21-1972)
10-2-23: CRIMINAL HOUSING MANAGEMENT:
A person commits the offense of criminal housing management when, having
personal management or control of residential real estate, whether as legal or
equitable owner, or as a managing agent or otherwise, he knowingly permits by
his gross carelessness or neglect, the physical condition or facilities of the
residential real estate to become or remain so deteriorated that the health or
safety is endangered. (Ord. 153, 8-21-1972)
10-2-24: TRESPASSING:
   A.   Land And Buildings: It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Enter upon the private premises, property or land of another, or any
part thereof, after receiving notice from the owner, occupant or persons in
control of same that such entry is forbidden.
      2.   Remain upon the private premises, property or land of another after
receiving notice from the owner, occupant or person in control of same to
depart.
      3.   Enter or remain in any building or facility which is owned, operated
or within the control of the State, County or City, or any agency thereof,
except during such hours as it is open to the public; provided, that this
subsection shall not apply to persons entering or remaining after such hours on
lawful business or employment.
   B.   Vehicles: It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly and without
authority enter any vehicle, aircraft or watercraft, or any part thereof of
another without his consent. (Ord. 153, 8-21-1972)
10-2-25: MALICIOUS MISCHIEF, DESTRUCTION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully and maliciously tear up,
injure, deface or destroy the following:
   A.   Any sidewalk, curbing, street paving or crossing upon any street, alley
or public ground.
   B.   Any fire alarm, sewer drain or any other municipal improvement.
   C.   Any building, bridge or any other property, real or personal, belonging
to the city, or any property used in any business impressed with a public
interest and usually designated as a public service corporation, that is,
waterworks, gas, electric light, telephone or street companies. No person shall
maliciously and wilfully interfere or meddle in any way with the operation of
any such businesses as enumerated herein. (Ord. 153, 8-21-1972)
10-2-26: CRIMINAL DAMAGE TO PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Knowingly damage any property of another without his consent; or
   B.   Recklessly by means of fire or explosive, damage property of another;
or
   C.   Knowingly start a fire on the land of another without his consent; or
   D.   Knowingly injure a domestic animal of another without his consent; or
   E.   Knowingly deposit on the land or in the building of another, without
his consent, any stink bomb or any offensive smelling compound and thereby
intend to interfere with the use by another of the land or building. (Ord. 200)
10-2-27: COIN OPERATED DEVICES; SLUGS, TAMPERING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to insert or attempt to insert in any
parking meter, vending machine or other coin operated device, any slug,
counterfeit coin or other foreign or metallic substance not a coin of United
States currency (denomination). (Ord. 153, 8-21-1972)
10-2-28: PROSTITUTION AND RELATED OFFENSES:
10-2-28-1: PROSTITUTION DEFINED:
Any person who performs, offers or agrees to perform any of the following acts
for money commits an act of prostitution:
   A.   Any act of sexual intercourse; or (Ord. 153, 8-21-1972)
   B.   Any act of deviate sexual conduct. (Ord. 153, 8-21-1972; amd. Ord. 436,
11-23-1992)
10-2-28-2: KEEPING A PLACE OF PROSTITUTION:
Any person who has or exercises control over the use of any place which could
offer seclusion or shelter for the practice of prostitution and who performs
any of the following acts, keeps a place of prostitution:
   A.   Knowingly grants or permits the use of such place for the purpose of
prostitution; or (Ord. 153, 8-21-1972)
   B.   Grants or permits the use of such place under circumstances from which
he could reasonably know that the place is used or is to be used for purposes
of prostitution; or
   C.   Permits the continued use of a place after becoming aware of facts or
circumstances from which he should reasonably know that the place is being used
for purposes of prostitution. (Ord. 153, 8-21-1972; amd. Ord. 436, 11-23-1992)
10-2-28-3: PATRONIZING A PROSTITUTE:
Any person who performs any of the following acts with a person not his spouse
commits the offense of patronizing a prostitute:
   A.   Engages in an act of sexual intercourse or deviate sexual conduct with
a prostitute; or (Ord. 153, 8-21-1972)
   B.   Enters or remains in a place of prostitution with a prostitute with the
intention to engage in an act of sexual intercourse or deviate sexual conduct.
(Ord. 153, 8-21-1972; amd. Ord. 436, 11-23-1992)
10-2-28-4: SOLICITING FOR A PROSTITUTE:
Any person who performs any of the following acts commits soliciting for a
prostitute:
   A.   Solicit another for the purpose of prostitution; or (Ord. 153, 8-21-
1972)
   B.   Arranges or offers to arrange a meeting of persons for the purpose of
prostitution; or
   C.   Directs another to the place knowing such direction is for the purpose
of prostitution. (Ord. 153, 8-21-1972; amd. Ord. 436, 11-23-1992)
10-2-28-5: PANDERING:
Any person who performs any of the following acts for money commits pandering:
   A.   Compels a female to become a prostitute; or (Ord. 153, 8-21-1972)
   B.   Arranges or offers to arrange a situation in which a female may
practice prostitution. (Ord. 153, 8-21-1972; amd. Ord. 436, 11-23-1992)
10-2-28-6: PIMPING:
   A.   Any person who receives money or other property from a prostitute, not
for a lawful consideration, knowing it was earned in whole or in part from the
practice of prostitution, commits pimping. (Ord. 153, 8-21-1972)
10-2-29: OBSCENITY AND RELATED OFFENSES:
10-2-29-1: PUBLIC INDECENCY, ACTS OR LANGUAGE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any indecent, lewd or
lascivious act in any public place in the city, or to utter any lewd or
offensive words or to use any threatening or abusive language within the
hearing of another person, publicly.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to appear in a public place in a
state of nudity, or to make any indecent exposure or any other lewd or indecent
act or behavior.
   C.   "Public place" for purposes of this section means any place where such
conduct may reasonably be expected to be viewed by others. (Ord. 153, 8-21-
1972)
10-2-29-2: DISTRIBUTION OF OBSCENE LITERATURE, ARTICLES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to exhibit, sell, print,
offer to sell, give away, circulate, publish, distribute or attempt to
distribute any obscene book, magazine, pamphlet, paper, writing, card,
advertisement, circular, print, picture, photograph, motion picture film, play,
image, instrument, statue, drawing or other article which is obscene.
   B.   "Obscene" for the purpose of this section is defined as follows:
Whether to a reasonable person, applying contemporary community standards, the
dominant theme of the material taken as a whole appeals to prurient interests
and is without redeeming social value. (Ord. 153, 8-21-1972)
10-2-29-3: OBSCENE MARKING IN PUBLIC VIEW:
It shall be unlawful for any person to write, mark, draw, cut or make any
profane or indecent word, sentence, design or figure in any place open to
public view. (Ord. 153, 8-21-1972)
10-2-29-4: OBSCENITY; AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE:
It shall be an affirmative defense to a charge under the preceding sections
that the dissemination:
   A.   Was not for sale or gain and was made only to personal associates other
than children under eighteen (18) years of age;
   B.   Was to institutions or individuals having scientific or other specific
educational purpose for possession of such material. (Ord. 153, 8-21-1972)
10-2-30: WINDOW PEEPING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to look, peer or peep into, or be found
loitering around within view of any window within a building occupied as a
residence of another with the intent of watching or observing the activities of
persons therein. (Ord. 153, 8-21-1972)
10-2-31: GAMBLING AND RELATED OFFENSES:
10-2-31-1: GAMBLING DEFINED AND PROHIBITED:
Except as may be permitted by Federal and/or State law, and title 3, chapter 10
of this Code, it shall be unlawful for any person to gamble or to keep a
gambling place within the corporate limits of the City, as these terms are
herein defined.
GAMBLING: A person commits gambling when he:
   A.   Plays a game of chance or skill for money or other things of value; or
   B.   Makes a wager upon the result of any game, contest or any political
nomination, appointment or election; or
   C.   Operates, keeps, owns, uses, purchases, exhibits, rents, sells,
bargains for the sale or lease of any gambling device; or
   D.   Knowingly owns or possesses any books, instruments or apparatus by
means of which bets or wagers have been or are recorded or registered; or
   E.   Sells pools upon the result of any game or contest of skill or chance,
political nomination, appointment or election; or
   F.   Sets up or promotes any lottery or sells, offers to sell or offers or
transfers any ticket or share for any lottery; or
   G.   Sets up or promotes any policy game or sells, offers to sell or
knowingly possesses or transfers any policy ticket or other similar device; or
   H.   Knowingly advertises any lottery game, or drafts, prints, or publishes
any lottery ticket or share, or any policy ticket or similar device, or any
advertisement of any lottery or policy game; or
   I.   Knowingly transmits information as to wagers, betting odds, or changes
in betting odds by telephone, telegraph, radio, megaphone or similar means; or
knowingly installs equipment for the transmission or receipt of such
information; except that nothing in this subsection prohibits transmission or
receipt of such information for the use of news reporting of sporting events or
contests.
GAMBLING DEVICE: Any clock, tape machine, slot machine or other machines or
devices for the reception of money or other things of value on chance or skill
or upon the action of which money or other things of value is staked, hazarded,
bet, won or lost; or any mechanism, furniture, fixture, equipment or other
device designed primarily for use in a gambling place. A gambling device does
not include:
   A.   A coin in the slot operated mechanical device played for amusement
which awards the player with the right to replay such mechanical device, which
device is so constructed or devised as to make such result of the operation
thereof depend in part upon the skill of the player and which returns to the
player thereof no money, property or right to receive money or property.
   B.   Vending machines by which full and adequate return is made for the
money invested and in which there is no element of chance or hazard.
   C.   Video gaming terminal as defined by section
3-10-1 of this Code.
GAMBLING PLACE: Any real estate, vehicle, boat or any other property whatsoever
used for the purpose of gambling.
LOTTERY: A scheme or procedure whereby one or more prizes are distributed by
chance among persons who have paid or promised consideration for a chance to
win such prizes, whether such scheme or procedure is called a lottery, raffle,
gift or sale or some other name.
POLICY GAME: Any scheme or procedure whereby a person promises or guarantees by
an instrument, bill, certificate, writing, token or other device that any
particular number, character, ticket or certificate shall, in the event of any
contingency in the nature of a lottery, entitle the purchaser or holder to
receive money, property or evidence of debt. (Ord. 899, 8-12-2019)
10-2-31-2: KEEPING A GAMBLING PLACE PROHIBITED:
   A.   Unlawful; License Or Permit Void: It shall be unlawful for any person
to knowingly permit any premises or property owned or occupied by him under his
control to be used as a gambling place except as permitted pursuant to title 3,
chapter 10 of this Code.
When any premises is determined by a court having jurisdiction to be a gambling
place, all licenses or permits issued under the authority authorizing the
serving of food or liquor on such premises shall be void; and no license or
permit so cancelled shall be reissued for such premises for a period of sixty
(60) days thereafter; nor shall any person convicted of keeping a gambling
place be reissued such license for one year from his conviction and, after a
second conviction of keeping a gambling place, any such person shall not be
reissued such license or permit.
   B.   Seizure Of Gambling Devices And Gambling Funds: Every gambling device
which is incapable of lawful use is contraband and shall be subject to seizure
and confiscation by City police officers. Any money or other thing of value
intricately related to acts of gambling or such gambling devices as may be
seized or confiscated shall be made according to law.
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating this section shall be subject to a fine
of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for the first offense, and not less than two hundred dollars
($200.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for a subsequent
offense; in addition to any other penalty herein provided. (Ord. 899, 8-12-
2019)
10-2-32: CIVIL RIGHTS VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Elements: A person commits a violation of civil rights when:
      1.   He prevents, interferes with or denies to another, or conspires to
do the same, the full and equal access to, and enjoyment of the facilities and
services of any office, place, business, accommodation, amusement or conveyance
because of race, religion, color or national ancestry; or
      2.   He, as an official, denies or refuses to any person the full and
equal access, use or enjoyment of the services, facilities, accommodations,
advantages or privileges of his office, or of any property accommodations or
facilities under his care because of race, religion, color or national
ancestry. (Ord. 153, 8-21-1972)
   B.   Sanctions:
      1.   Enjoining As A Public Nuisance: Any violation of civil rights
occurring in any public office, accommodation or amusement is declared a public
nuisance and may be abated in any manner provided by this Code for the
abatement of public nuisances.
      2.   Discharge Of Public Officials: When a public official shall be found
guilty of a violation of civil rights the person(s) (or City Attorney, State
Attorney) aggrieved may file a petition in the Circuit Court wherein the public
official holds office or is employed, to discharge the official complained of
from office. The court shall order that the official be immediately relieved of
his office or duties, and shall order the official to resign or be removed or
discharged. Any person violating or refusing to enforce such court order or
decree shall be deemed in contempt of court.
      3.   Exclusivity: The penalties and remedies herein provided by this
subsection shall not be deemed mutually exclusive.
      4.   Necessity As Affirmative Defense: Conduct which would otherwise be
an offense is justifiable by reason of necessity if the accused was without
blame in occasioning or developing the situation, and reasonably believed such
conduct was necessary to avoid a public or private injury greater than the
injury which might reasonably result from his own conduct. (Ord. 153, 8-21-
1972; amd. Ord. 436, 11-23-1992)
10-2-33: CANNABIS AND DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this Section 10-2-33, the following
words have the meanings ascribed to them:
               includes marijuana, hashish and other substances which are identified as
               including any parts of the plant Cannabis Sativa, whether growing or not; the
               seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of such plant; and any compound,
               manufacture, salt, derivatives, mixture or preparation of such plant, its seeds
               or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all other cannabinol
               derivatives, including its naturally occurring or synthetically produced
               ingredients, whether produced directly or indirectly by extraction, or
CANNABIS:      independently by means of chemical synthesis or by a combination of extraction
               and chemical synthesis; but shall not include the mature stalks of such plant,
               fiber produced from such stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of such plant,
               any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of such
               mature stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil or cake, or the
               sterilized seed of such plant which is incapable of germination. "Cannabis" does
               not include industrial hemp as defined and authorized under the Illinois
               Industrial Hemp Act (505 ILCS 89/5).
CRTA:          The Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (410 ILCS 705/1 et seq.).
               Includes all equipment, products and materials of any kind, other than
               methamphetamine manufacturing materials as defined in Section 10 of the
               "Methamphetamine Control and Community Protection Act" (720 ILCS 646/10) and
               cannabis paraphernalia as defined in the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (410
               ILCS 705/1 -10), which are (i) possessed or intended for use, (ii) being or have
               been used, or (iii) peculiar to and marketed for use in planting, propagating,
               cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting,
               producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging,
               storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise
               introducing into the human body look-alike substances, synthetic alternative
               drugs or a controlled substance in violation of this ordinance, the "Illinois
               Controlled Substances Act" (720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.), or the "Methamphetamine
               Control and Community Protection Act" (720 ILCS 646/1 et seq.). This includes,
               but is not limited to, the following:
               1.   Kits that are (i) possessed or intended for use, (ii) being used or have
               been used, or (iii) peculiar to and marketed for use, in manufacturing,
               compounding, converting, producing, processing or preparing controlled
               substances, look-alike substances, or synthetic alternative drugs;
               2.   Isomerization devices that are (i) possessed or intended for use, (ii) being
               used or have been used, or (iii) peculiar to and marketed for use, to increase
               the potency of any species of plant which is a controlled substance, look-alike
               substance, or synthetic alternative drug;
               3.   Testing equipment that is (i) possessed or intended for use, (ii) being or
DRUG           has been used, or (iii) peculiar to and marketed, for private home use in
PARAPHERNALIA: identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of controlled
               substances, look-alike substances, or synthetic alternative drugs;
               4.   Diluents and adulterants that are (i) possessed or intended for use, (ii)
               being used or have been used, or (iii) peculiar to and marketed, for cutting
               controlled substance, look-alike substances, or synthetic alternative drugs by
               private persons;
               5.   Objects that are (i) possessed or intended for use, (ii) being used or have
               been used, or (iii) peculiarto and marketed for use, in injecting, ingesting,
               inhaling, or otherwise introducing look-alike substances, cocaine, or any
               controlled substance, look-alike substances, or synthetic alternative drugs into
               the human body including, where applicable, the following items:
               a. Water pipes;
               b. Carburetion tubes and devices;
               c. Smoking and carburetion masks;
               d. Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
               e. Carburetor pipes;
               f. Electric pipes;
               g. Air-driven pipes;
               h. Chillums;
               i. Bongs;
               j. Ice pipes or chillers
               6. Any item whose purpose, as announced or described by the seller, is for use in
               violation of this article or the "Drug Paraphernalia Control Act" (720 ILCS 600/
               1 et seq.).
               A substance which 1) by overall dosage unit appearance, including shape, color,
               size, markings or lack thereof, taste, consistency or any other identifying
               physical characteristic of the substance would lead a reasonable person to
               believe that the substance is cannabis or a synthetic cannabinoid; or 2) is
               expressly or impliedly represented to be cannabis or a synthetic cannabinoid, or
               distributed under circumstances which would lead a reasonable person to believe
               that the substance is cannabis or a synthetic cannabinoid. For the purpose of
LOOK-ALIKE     determining whether the representations made or the circumstances of the
SUBSTANCE or   distribution would lead a reasonable person to believe the substance to be
CANNABIS LOOK- cannabis or a synthetic cannabinoid under this clause 2, the court or other
ALIKE          authority may consider the following factors in addition to any other factor that
SUBSTANCE:     may be relevant: a) statements made by the owner or person in control of the
               substance concerning its nature, use or effect; b) statements made to the buyer
               or recipient that the substance may be resold for profit; c) whether the
               substance is packaged in the manner normally used for the illegal distribution of
               controlled substances; d) whether the distribution or attempted distribution
               included an exchange of or demand for money or other property as consideration
               and whether the amount of the consideration was substantially greater than the
               reasonable retail market value of the substance.
MEDICAL        The Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act (410 ILCS 130/1 et seq.).
CANNABIS ACT:
               Any place where a person could reasonably be expected to be observed by others.
               "Public place" includes all parts of buildings owned in whole or in part, or
               leased, by the State of Illinois, the City of Marquette Heights, or any other
               unit of local government. "Public place" includes all areas in a park, recreation
PUBLIC PLACE:  area, wildlife area, or playground owned in whole or in part, leased, or managed
               by the State, the City of Marquette Heights, or other unit of local government.
               "Public place" does not include a private residence unless the private residence
               is used to provide licensed child care, foster care, or other similar social
               service care on the premises.
               Any laboratory-created or otherwise man-made compound that functions similar to
               or mimics the effect of the active ingredient in marijuana, tetrahydrocannabinol
SYNTHETIC      (THC), including, but not limited to, any quantity of a natural or synthetic
CANNABINOID:   material, compound, mixture, preparation, substance and their analog (including
               isomers, esters, ethers, salts, and salts of isomers) containing a cannabinoid
               receptor agonist.
 
   B.   Possession and Use of Cannabis Prohibited:
      1.   In General. It is unlawful for any person who is twenty one (21)
years of age or older to possess cannabis, in any combination, in excess of the
following limits:
         a.   For residents of the State of Illinois:
            (1)   Thirty (30) grams of the cannabis flower;
            (2)   Five hundred (500) milligrams of THC contained in a cannabis-
infused product;
            (3)   Five (5) grams of cannabis concentrate.
         b.   For individuals who are not residents of the State of Illinois:
            (1)   Fifteen (15) grams of cannabis flower;
            (2)   Two hundred fifty (250) milligrams of THC contained in a
cannabis-infused product;
            (3)   Two and one-half (2.5) grams of cannabis concentrate.
      2.   Persons under twenty one (21):
         a.   Possession: It is unlawful for any person under the age of twenty
one (21) to possess or consume cannabis.
         b.   Sales to minors: No cannabis business, or any officer, associate,
member, representative, agent, or employee thereof shall sell, give, or deliver
cannabis to any person under the age of twenty one (21). No person, after
purchasing or otherwise obtaining cannabis shall sell, give, or deliver such
cannabis to any person under the age of twenty one (21).
         c.   Furnishing or using false or fraudulent ID: Any person under the
age of twenty one (21) who presents or offers to any cannabis business, or any
officer, associate, member, representative, agent, or employee thereof, any
evidence of age and identity which is false, fraudulent, modified, or not their
own for the purpose of ordering, purchasing, procuring, or attempting to order,
purchase, or procure cannabis, or who has in their possession any false,
fraudulent, or modified evidence of age or identity is guilty of a violation of
this Section
10-2-33.
      3.   Medical use of cannabis: Notwithstanding anything in this Section to
the contrary, it shall not be unlawful for any individual who is a registered
qualifying patient or a registered designated caregiver, as those terms are
defined in the Medical Cannabis Act, to engage in the medical use of cannabis,
or to possess cannabis for the purpose of engaging or assisting in the medical
use of cannabis in accordance with the provisions of the Medical Cannabis Act.
An individual is presumed to be acting lawfully and in compliance with this
Section and the terms of the Medical Cannabis Act where such individual is in
possession of (i) a valid registry identification card issued pursuant to the
Act, and (ii) no more than 2.5 ounces of cannabis (or such other amount as
authorized by the Medical Cannabis Act or the CRTA).
      4.   Cultivation of cannabis: It shall be unlawful for any individual to
cultivate cannabis for personal use; provided, however, that a registered
qualifying patient under the Act may cultivate up to five (5) cannabis plants,
with a cumulative limit of five (5) plants per household.
      5.   Possession and use prohibited: Notwithstanding the foregoing, it
shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any of the following:
         a.   Possession or use of cannabis on a school bus, unless permitted
for a qualifying patient or caregiver pursuant to the Medical Cannabis Act;
         b.   Possession or use of cannabis on the grounds of any preschool,
primary school, or secondary school, unless permitted for a qualifying patient
or caregiver pursuant to the Medical Cannabis Act;
         c.   Possession or use of cannabis in any correctional facility;
         d.   Possession of cannabis in a vehicle, unless the cannabis is in a
reasonably secured, sealed container and reasonably inaccessible while the
vehicle is moving;
         e.   Use of cannabis in a motor vehicle;
         f.   Possession or use of cannabis in a private residence that is used
at any time to provide licensed child care or similar social service care on
the premises;
         g.   Use of cannabis in any public place within the City;
         h.   Use of cannabis knowingly in close physical proximity to anyone
under twenty one (21) years of age who is not a registered medical cannabis
patient under the Medical Cannabis Act;
         i.   Smoking cannabis in any place where smoking is prohibited under
the Smoke Free Illinois Act (410 ILCS 82/1 et seq.);
         j.   Operating, navigating, or being in actual physical control of any
motor vehicle, aircraft, or motorboat while using or under the influence of
cannabis in violation of Section 11-501 or 11-502.1 of the Illinois Vehicle
Code;
         k.   Facilitating the use of cannabis by any person who is not allowed
to use cannabis under this Section 10-2-33;
         l.   Transferring cannabis to any person contrary to this Section 10-
2-33, the Medical Cannabis Act, or the CRTA;
         m.   The use of cannabis by a person who has a school bus permit or a
commercial driver's license while on duty.
         n.   Possession of a synthetic cannabinoid, or a cannabis look-alike
substance, to the extent that such synthetic cannabinoid, or cannabis look-
alike substance, is not made lawful under the Medical Cannabis Act or the CRTA.
   C.   Possession of Drug Paraphernalia Prohibited:
      1.   In General: It is unlawful for any person to possess drug
paraphernalia to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture,
compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack,
store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce into the
human body a controlled substance or a look-alike substance.
      2.   Persons under twenty one (21): It is unlawful for any person under
the age of twenty one (21) to possess cannabis paraphernalia.
      3.   Manufacture or Delivery of Drug Paraphernalia: It is unlawful for
any person to deliver, possess with intent to deliver, or manufacture with
intent to deliver, drug paraphernalia, knowing, or under circumstances where
one reasonably should know, that it will be used to plant, propagate,
cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process,
prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest,
inhale or otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled substance or a
look-alike substance.
      4.   Sale of Drug Paraphernalia: It shall be unlawful and it is hereby
declared to be a nuisance for any store, place or premises to keep for sale,
offer for sale, sell, or deliver for any commercial consideration any item of
drug paraphernalia or cannabis paraphernalia.
   D.   Exemptions:
      1.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, it shall not be unlawful under this
Section if the accused had authority to possess, keep for sale, offer for sale,
sell, or deliver any item or substance prohibited in this Section pursuant to
the Illinois Controlled Substances Act (720 ILCS 570/101, et seq.), or that the
accused is legally authorized to possess hypodermic syringes or needles under
the Hypodermic Syringes and Needles Act (720 ILCS 635/0.01, et seq.).
      2.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, it shall not be unlawful for any
individual who is a registered qualifying patient or a registered designated
caregiver, as those terms are defined in the Medical Cannabis Act, to possess
cannabis or cannabis paraphernalia for the purpose of engaging or assisting a
qualifying patient in the medical use of cannabis, or to engage in the medical
use of cannabis in accordance with the provisions of the Medical Cannabis Act.
      3.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, it shall not be unlawful for any
individual to possess any item of cannabis paraphernalia used or reasonably
intended for use in the lawful consumption of cannabis pursuant to the Medical
Cannabis Act or the CRTA.
      4.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, it shall not be unlawful for any
employee or authorized agent of an establishment which is duly licensed
pursuant to the Medical Cannabis Act or the CRTA to sell cannabis paraphernalia
consistent with the terms of the establishment's license. Nor shall it be
unlawful to advertise the lawful sale of cannabis paraphernalia at an
establishment duly licensed pursuant to the Act or the CRTA to sell or provide
such products.
   E.   Penalty: Any person found to be in violation of any provision of this
Section
10-2-33 shall be subject to a fine of not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) and not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord. 644,
8-12-2002; amd. Ord. 905, 12-23-2019)
10-2-34: BRIBERY; OFFERING OR ACCEPTING:
It shall be unlawful for any person:
   A.   To offer, promise or give to any official, police officer or employee
of the city any money, reward, service, privilege or thing of value which he
may not lawfully accept, with intent to influence the performance or
nonperformance of any official act, function, duty or employment.
   B.   To agree to accept, to receive or retain any money, reward, service,
privilege or thing of value which he may not lawfully accept, knowing or with
reason to know such benefit was offered, promised or given with intent to
influence him in the performance or nonperformance of an official act,
function, duty or employment. (Ord. 153, 8-21-1972)
10-2-35: SOLICITATION AND CONSPIRACY TO COMMIT OFFENSE:
   A.   Solicitation To Commit Offense: A person commits solicitation when,
with intent that an offense be committed, he commands, encourages or requests
another to commit that offense.
   B.   Conspiracy To Commit Offense: A person commits conspiracy when, with
intent that an offense be committed, he agrees with another to the commission
of that offense. No person may be convicted of conspiracy to commit an offense
unless an act in furtherance of such agreement is alleged and proved to have
been committed by him or by a coconspirator.
   C.   Affirmative Defense: It shall be a defense to a charge of solicitation
or conspiracy that if the criminal objectives were achieved, the accused would
not be guilty of the offense. (Ord. 153, 8-21-1972)
10-2-36: TELEPHONE CALLS; OBSCENE, ANONYMOUS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to make, or permit another to make, any
obscene, anonymous or falsely represented telephone calls to another person for
the purpose or reason of nuisance or harassment. (Ord. 153, 8-21-1972)
10-2-37: FALSE ALARMS:
It shall be unlawful to intentionally make, turn in or give a false alarm of
fire, or of need of police or ambulance assistance, or aid or abet in the
commission of such act. (Ord. 153, 8-21-1972)
10-2-38: INTIMIDATION; THREATS COMMUNICATED:
A person commits intimidation when, with intent to cause another to perform or
to omit the performance of any act, he communicated to another without lawful
authority, a threat to perform any of the following acts:
   A.   Inflict physical harm on the person threatened or any other person or
property.
   B.   Subject any person to physical confinement or restraint.
   C.   Commit any criminal offense.
   D.   Accuse any person of an offense.
   E.   Expose any person to hatred, contempt or ridicule.
   F.   Take action as a public official against anyone or anything, or
withhold official action, or to cause such action or withholding.
   G.   To bring about or continue or strike, boycott or other collective (mob)
action 1 . (Ord. 153, 8-21-1972)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  10-2-14 of this chapter.
10-2-39: RETAIL SALE OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR PROHIBITED:
   A.   The sale at retail of alcoholic liquor in the city shall be prohibited.
   B.   No license permitting the sale of alcoholic liquors shall be issued by
the city.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell alcoholic liquor at retail
in the city. (Ord. 22, 5-21-1957)
10-2-40: THEFT OF PROPERTY VALUED AT LESS THAN ONE HUNDRED FIFTY DOLLARS:
It shall be unlawful for any person who, otherwise than by force and violence
or by putting fear into another, to do the following without the consent of the
owner of the property taken and with the intent to deprive the owner thereof
permanently of the use or possession of the property taken:
   A.   Attempt to take property of another having a value which is less than
one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00), or
   B.   Take property of another having a value which is less than one hundred
fifty dollars ($150.00). (Ord. 250, 11-12-1979)
10-2-41: PRESENCE ON PREMISES WHERE MINORS ARE ILLEGALLY POSSESSING OR
CONSUMING ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR:
It shall be unlawful for any person to enter or remain in any house, building,
yard or other premises under circumstances where such person knows or
reasonably should know that persons under the age of twenty one (21) years are
illegally possessing or consuming alcoholic liquor on or within such premises.
Any person convicted of violating this section shall be punished by a fine of
not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00), nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each offense. (Ord. 522, 11-10-1997)
CHAPTER 3
MINORS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Curfew
10-3-2: Alcoholic Liquor, Prohibited Acts
10-3-3: Sale Of Firearms, Weapons To Minors
10-3-1: CURFEW:
   A.   Definitions: Whenever used in this section:
CURFEW HOURS: 1. Eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday, or Thursday until six o'clock (6:00) A.M. of the following day; and
      2.   Twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight until six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on any
Saturday or Sunday.
EMERGENCY: An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent bodily injury or loss of life.
ESTABLISHMENT: Any privately owned place of business operated for a profit to
which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place of
amusement or entertainment.
GUARDIAN: 1. A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of
a minor; or
      2.   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court.
MINOR: Any person under seventeen (17) years of age.
OPERATOR: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or corporation
operating, managing, or conducting any establishment. The term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation.
PARENT: A person who is:
      1.   A natural parent, adoptive parent, legal guardian or stepparent of
another person; or
      2.   At least eighteen (18) years of age and authorized by a parent or
guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, and shops.
   B.   Offenses:
      1.   A minor commits an offense if he is present in any public place or
on the premises of any establishment within the city during curfew hours.
      2.   A parent or guardian of a minor commits an offense if he knowingly
permits, or by insufficient control allows, the minor to be present in any
public place or on the premises of any establishment within the city during
curfew hours.
      3.   The owner, operator, or any employee of an establishment commits an
offense if he knowingly allows a minor to remain upon the premises of the
establishment during curfew hours.
   C.   Exceptions:
      1.   A minor does not commit an offense under subsection B1 of this
section if the minor was:
         a.   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian or other
responsible companion at least eighteen (18) years of age approved by the
parent or guardian;
         b.   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
         c.   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
         d.   Involved in an emergency;
         e.   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
         f.   Exercising first amendment rights protected by the United States
constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
         g.   Married or had been married or is an emancipated minor under the
emancipation of mature minors act, as amended.
      2.   A parent or guardian of a minor does not commit an offense under
subsection B2 of this section if any exception in subsection C1 of this section
applies.
      3.   An owner, operator, or employee of an establishment does not commit
an offense under subsection B3 of this section if he promptly notified the
police department that a minor was present on the premises of the establishment
during curfew hours and refused to leave or if any exception in subsection C1
of this section applies.
   D.   Enforcement: Before taking any enforcement action under this section, a
police officer shall ask the apparent offender's age and reason for being in
the public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest
under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has
occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances, no exception
in subsection C of this section applies.
   E.   Penalties: A person who violates a provision of this section is guilty
of a separate offense for each day during which the violation is committed,
continued, or permitted. Each offense, upon conviction, is punishable by a fine
not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 675, 6-14-2004)
10-3-2: ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR, PROHIBITED ACTS 1 :
   A.   Sale Prohibited:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, after purchasing or otherwise
obtaining alcoholic liquor, to sell, give or deliver such alcoholic liquor to
another person under the age of twenty one (21) years except in the performance
of a religious ceremony or service.
      2.   A violation of this subsection shall be punishable by a fine of not
less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00).
   B.   Possession By Minor:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to whom the sale, gift or
delivery of alcoholic liquor is prohibited by this section to purchase or
accept a gift of alcoholic liquor or to have alcoholic liquor in his
possession. (Ord. 153, 8-21-1972)
      2.   The presence in a vehicle other than a public omnibus of any
alcoholic liquor shall be prima facie evidence that it is in the possession of,
and is being carried by all persons occupying such vehicle at the time at which
such alcoholic liquor is found, except under the following circumstances:
         a.   If such liquor is found on the person of one of the occupants
therein; or
         b.   If such vehicle contains at least one occupant over twenty one
(21) years of age.
   C.   Consumption: It shall be unlawful for any person under twenty one (21)
years of age to consume alcoholic liquor. (Ord. 153, 8-21-1972; amd. Ord. 436,
11-23-1992)
   D.   Exceptions; Minors Consuming Liquors: Nothing in this section shall be
deemed to prohibit the possession, dispensing or consumption by a minor of
alcoholic liquor in the performance of a religious service or ceremony, or the
consumption by a minor under the direct supervision and approval of the parent
or legal guardian of such minor in the privacy of a home.
   E.   Use Of Forged Identification Card To Obtain Liquor:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to display an identification
card that:
         a.   Is altered or defaced in any manner; or
         b.   Is false or forged; or
         c.   Is the identification card of another; or
         d.   Was obtained by means of false information to induce another to
sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to the bearer.
      2.   For purpose of this subsection an "identification card" is defined
as any document issued by a public officer in the performance of his official
duties which on its face purports to identify the name and age of the bearer.
      3.   A violation of this subsection shall be punishable by a fine of not
less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00). (Ord. 153, 8-21-1972)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 10-2-39 of this title.
10-3-3: SALE OF FIREARMS, WEAPONS TO MINORS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell any firearm, bludgeon,
blackjack, slingshot, sandclub, sandbag, metal knuckles, dagger, dirk, billy,
dangerous knife, stiletto or any knife commonly referred to as a switchblade
which has a blade which opens automatically by hand pressure applied to a
button, spring or other device in the handle of the knife to a minor.
   B.   It shall be an affirmative defense for any person having sold such
weapon that:
      1.   The minor procured the sale by use of false or forged identification
cards; and
      2.   He did not know, and could not reasonably have known of the falsity
or forgery; and
      3.   He exercised reasonable diligence to determine the veracity of the
information (representation). (Ord. 153, 8-21-1972)
CHAPTER 4
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
10-4-1: General Provisions
10-4-1-1: Cruelty
10-4-1-2: Dangerous Animals
10-4-1-3: Strays
10-4-1-4: Killing Dangerous Animals
10-4-1-5: Housing
10-4-1-6: General Definitions
10-4-1-7: Animal Nuisance
10-4-1-8: Dead Animals
10-4-2: Dogs
10-4-2-1: Inoculation Of Dogs
10-4-2-2: Duration Of Inoculation
10-4-2-3: Exhibition Of Certificate On Request
10-4-2-4: Restraint Of Dogs
10-4-2-5: Dog Registration Required
10-4-2-6: Tag Affixed To Collar
10-4-2-7: Disposition Of Dogs Deemed Nuisance
10-4-2-8: Confinement Of Female Dogs In Heat
10-4-2-9: Dog Bites
10-4-3: Cats
10-4-3-1: Inoculation Of Cats
10-4-3-2: Duration Of Inoculation
10-4-3-3: Exhibition Of Certificate On Request
10-4-3-4: Restraint Of Cats
10-4-3-5: Cat Registration Required
10-4-3-6: Tag Affixed To Collar
10-4-3-7: Disposition Of Cats Deemed Nuisances
10-4-3-8: Confinement Of Female Cat In Heat
10-4-3-9: Cat Bites
10-4-3-10: Running At Large
10-4-4: Impoundment
10-4-4-1: Impoundment, Citation
10-4-4-2: Notice
10-4-4-3: Redemption
10-4-4-4: Impoundment Of Animals Biting Persons
10-4-4-5: Animal Nuisance Penalty
10-4-5: Chickens; Keeping Of Hens And Outdoor Hen Shelters On Residential Lots
10-4-5-1: Definitions
10-4-5-2: License And Permit Required
10-4-5-3: License And Permit Application Process
10-4-5-4: Regulations For The Keeping Of Hens And Hen Shelter
10-4-5-5: Suspension, Revocation And Nonrenewal Of Licenses
10-4-5-6: Summary Suspension
10-4-5-7: Injunction
10-4-5-8: Removal Of Structures
10-4-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to promote harmonious
relationships in the interaction between man and animal by:
      1.   Protecting animals from improper use, abuse, neglect, exploitation,
inhumane treatment and health hazards;
      2.   Delineating the animal owner's or harborer's responsibility for the
acts and behavior of his animal at all times;
      3.   Providing security to residents from annoyance, intimidation, injury
and health hazards by animals;
      4.   Encouraging responsible pet ownership; and
      5.   Providing standards for any and all persons and agencies, public or
private, engaged in confinement, buying, selling, harboring, or dealing in
animals in any manner whatsoever. (Ord. 328, 1-13-1986)
10-4-1-1: CRUELTY:
No person shall cruelly treat any animal in the city in any way. Any person who
inhumanely beats, underfeeds, overloads or abandons any animal shall be deemed
guilty of a violation of this section. (Ord. 328, 1-13-1986)
10-4-1-2: DANGEROUS ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful to permit any dangerous or vicious animal of any kind to
run at large within the city; exhibitions or parades of animals which are ferae
naturae in the eyes of the law may be conducted only upon securing a permit
from the chief of police. (Ord. 328, 1-13-1986)
10-4-1-3: STRAYS:
It shall be unlawful to permit any cattle, sheep, horses, swine, goats or
poultry to run at large in the city. Any such animal running at large in any
public place in the city shall be impounded in the manner provided in section
10-4-4 of this chapter. It shall further be unlawful to picket or tie any such
animal in any of the streets, parks or any public place in the city for the
purposes of grazing or feeding. (Ord. 328, 1-13-1986)
10-4-1-4: KILLING DANGEROUS ANIMALS:
The members of the police department are authorized to kill any dangerous
animal of any kind when it is necessary for the protection of any person or
property. (Ord. 328, 1-13-1986)
10-4-1-5: HOUSING:
No person shall cause or allow any stable, place or premises where any animal
is or may be kept to become unclean or unwholesome, and it shall be unlawful to
keep any live swine, horses, cattle, goats or fowl, except chickens, anywhere
in the city, except in those areas of the city zoned agricultural. (Ord. 328,
1-13-1986; amd. Ord. 910, 7-13-2020)
10-4-1-6: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
ANIMAL: Any mammal, domestic or wild, other than man, which may be affected by
rabies.
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: That person educated in the seizure, custody and
confinement of animals, or his agent, as appointed by the city council.
ANIMAL NUISANCE: Created when an animal:
   A.   Runs uncontrolled on any property in the city, other than of the owner
or harborer;
   B.   Molests or disturbs persons or vehicles by chasing, barking or biting;
   C.   Attacks other animals;
   D.   Damages property other than that of the owner or harborer;
   E.   Barks, meows, whines, howls, honks, brays, cries or makes other noises
excessively;
   F.   Creates noxious or offensive odors;
   G.   Defecates upon any public place or upon premises not owned or
controlled by the owner or harborer unless promptly removed by the animal owner
or harborer.
AT LARGE: An animal shall be deemed to be at large when he is off the property
of his owner and not under the control of a responsible person.
CAT: Whenever used in this section this term shall include a female as well as
a male cat, four (4) months or more of age.
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE: The department of agriculture of the state of
Illinois.
DOG: Whenever used in this section this term shall include a female as well as
a male dog, four (4) months or more of age.
INOCULATION AGAINST RABIES: The injection subcutaneously or otherwise, as
approved by the department of agriculture of the state of Illinois, of canine
and antirabic vaccine for dogs and of feline and antirabic vaccine for cats.
OWNER: A person having a right of property in an animal or who keeps or harbors
an animal or who has an animal in his care or who acts as its custodian, or who
knowingly permits an animal to remain on or about any premises occupied by him.
RESTRAINT: An animal is under restraint within the meaning of this section if
he is controlled by a leash, at "heel" beside a responsible person or obedient
to that person's command, within a vehicle being driven or parked on the
street, or within the property limits of his owner or keeper. (Ord. 328, 1-13-
1986)
10-4-1-7: ANIMAL NUISANCE:
It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or harborer of any dog, cat or other
animal to allow or permit said dog, cat or other animal, to become to be or
create an animal nuisance in the city. (Ord. 328, 1-13-1986)
10-4-1-8: DEAD ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to leave or cause to be left unburied at
any place within the city, any dead dog, cat or other animal or fowl. (Ord.
436, 11-23-1992)
10-4-2: DOGS:
10-4-2-1: INOCULATION OF DOGS:
   A.   Each calendar year, or at such intervals as may hereafter be
promulgated by the department of agriculture of the state of Illinois, every
owner, keeper or harborer of a dog, four (4) months or more of age shall cause
such dog to be inoculated against rabies.
   B.   The inoculation of dogs required by this section shall be performed by
a veterinarian duly licensed to practice his profession in this state. Upon
performing such inoculation, such veterinarian shall issue to the owner,
keeper, or harborer a certificate showing such fact. (Ord. 328, 1-13-1986)
10-4-2-2: DURATION OF INOCULATION:
The inoculation performed under the provisions of section
10-4-2-1 of this chapter shall be effective until the expiration of the
calendar year in which the vaccination was performed or the expiration of such
period of time as may be promulgated by the department of agriculture of the
state of Illinois. (Ord. 328, 1-13-1986)
10-4-2-3: EXHIBITION OF CERTIFICATE ON REQUEST:
At any reasonable time upon request of any member of the police department or
an animal control officer, the owner, keeper or harborer of any dog shall
exhibit his certificate, issued under the provisions of section
10-4-2-1 of this chapter, showing the inoculation against rabies of any dog
owned or controlled by him. (Ord. 328, 1-13-1986)
10-4-2-4: RESTRAINT OF DOGS:
The owner, keeper or harborer of a dog shall keep the dog under restraint at
all times and shall not permit such dog to be at large, off the premises of the
property of the owner or keeper, unless the dog is under "restraint" as defined
in section
10-4-1-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 328, 1-13-1986)
10-4-2-5: DOG REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to own, keep or harbor any dog within the city without
first registering each such dog with the Tazewell County animal control
administrator, in the manner provided in the appropriate ordinance or
regulation of Tazewell County, Illinois. (Ord. 328, 1-13-1986)
10-4-2-6: TAG AFFIXED TO COLLAR:
   A.   The proper registration tag issued under the provisions of section
10-4-2-5 of this chapter shall be securely fastened to a collar or harness made
of leather, metal or other substantial material which said owner, keeper or
harborer shall require dog to wear at all times.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to permit any dog to be on any public street,
sidewalk, alley, park or other public place unless such dog is under restraint
and has a collar or harness firmly attached around its neck with a current
county registration tag attached to such collar. (Ord. 328, 1-13-1986)
10-4-2-7: DISPOSITION OF DOGS DEEMED NUISANCE:
Any dog which is, becomes or creates an "animal nuisance", as defined in
section
10-4-1-6 of this chapter, may be taken up and impounded and may be redeemed or
disposed of in the manner provided in section
10-4-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 328, 1-13-1986)
10-4-2-8: CONFINEMENT OF FEMALE DOGS IN HEAT:
The owner, keeper or harborer of any female dog in heat, shall keep said dog
confined in a building or other secure enclosure. (Ord. 328, 1-13-1986)
10-4-2-9: DOG BITES:
It shall be the duty of the owner or person having custody of any dog which
bites any human being, to keep such dog confined for a period of ten (10) days
following the time the dog has bitten a person. Dogs which have not been
inoculated for rabies shall be impounded by a licensed veterinarian and shall
be examined by a licensed veterinarian at the commencement and termination of
the ten (10) day period. If such dog, during this period, shall die or show
definite signs of illness, it shall be the duty of such owner or person having
custody of the dog to turn the dog over to the city officer on duty or animal
control officer, so that it can be determined whether or not the dog has
rabies. (Ord. 328, 1-13-1986)
10-4-3: CATS:
10-4-3-1: INOCULATION OF CATS:
   A.   Each calendar year, or at such intervals as may hereafter be
promulgated by the department of agriculture of the state of Illinois, every
owner, keeper or harborer of a cat, four (4) months or more of age shall cause
such cat to be inoculated against rabies.
   B.   The inoculation of cats required by this section hereof shall be
performed by a veterinarian duly licensed to practice his profession in this
state. Upon performing such inoculation, such veterinarian shall issue to the
owner, keeper or harborer a certificate showing such fact. (Ord. 328, 1-13-
1986)
10-4-3-2: DURATION OF INOCULATION:
The inoculation performed under the provisions of section
10-4-3-1 of this chapter shall be effective until the expiration of the
calendar year in which the vaccination was performed or the expiration of such
period of time as may be promulgated by the department of agriculture of the
state of Illinois. (Ord. 328, 1-13-1986)
10-4-3-3: EXHIBITION OF CERTIFICATE ON REQUEST:
At any reasonable time upon request of any member of the police department or
animal control officer, the owner, keeper or harborer of any cat shall exhibit
his certificate, issued under the provisions of section
10-4-3-1 of this chapter, showing the inoculation against rabies of any cat
owned or controlled by him. (Ord. 328, 1-13-1986)
10-4-3-4: RESTRAINT OF CATS:
The owner or keeper of a cat shall keep the cat under restraint at all times
and shall not permit such cat to be at large, off the premises of the property
of the owner or keeper, unless the cat is under "restraint" as defined in
section
10-4-1-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 328, 1-13-1986)
10-4-3-5: CAT REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to own, keep or harbor any cat within the city without
first registering each such cat with the Tazewell County animal control
administrator. (Ord. 328, 1-13-1986)
10-4-3-6: TAG AFFIXED TO COLLAR:
   A.   A current name and address of owner tag shall be securely fastened to a
collar or harness made of leather, metal or other substantial material which
said owner, keeper or harborer shall require the cat to wear at all times.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to permit any cat to be on any public street,
sidewalk, alley, park or other public place unless such cat is under restraint
and has a collar or harness firmly attached around its neck with a current name
and address of owner tag attached to such collar. (Ord. 328, 1-13-1986)
10-4-3-7: DISPOSITION OF CATS DEEMED NUISANCES:
Any cat which may in any manner continually disturb the quiet of any persons or
neighborhoods or shall destroy or in any manner injure any animal, plant, shrub
or other property not on the premises of its owner or keeper is hereby declared
to be a nuisance and such cat shall be taken up and impounded and may be
redeemed or disposed of in the manner provided for under section
10-4-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 328, 1-13-1986)
10-4-3-8: CONFINEMENT OF FEMALE CAT IN HEAT:
The owner, keeper or harborer of any female cat in heat shall keep said cat
confined in a building or other secure enclosure. (Ord. 328, 1-13-1986)
10-4-3-9: CAT BITES:
It shall be the duty of the owner or person having custody of any cat which
bites any human being to keep such cat confined for a period of ten (10) days
following the time the cat has bitten a person. Cats which have not been
inoculated for rabies shall be impounded by a licensed veterinarian and shall
be examined by a licensed veterinarian at the commencement and termination of
the ten (10) day period. If such cat, during this period, shall die or show
definite signs of illness, it shall be the duty of such owner or person having
custody of the cat to turn the cat over to the city officer on duty, or animal
control officer, so that it can be determined whether or not the cat has
rabies. (Ord. 328, 1-13-1986)
10-4-3-10: RUNNING AT LARGE:
It shall be unlawful to permit any cat to run at large within the municipality.
Any cat found upon any public street, sidewalk, alley, park or other public
place shall be deemed running at large unless such cat is restrained as defined
in section
10-4-1-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 328, 1-13-1986)
10-4-4: IMPOUNDMENT:
10-4-4-1: IMPOUNDMENT, CITATION:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the employees and officers of the police
department or other authorized personnel to take up and impound, in such place
as may be designated and set apart for that purpose, any animal found running
at large or unlicensed in the city, contrary to any provisions of this chapter
or other ordinances of the city.
   B.   When animals are found running at large or unlicensed and their
ownership is known to the designated employees, officers or other authorized
personnel, such animals may be impounded at the discretion of the employees,
officers or authorized person, but a citation to the owner of such animal shall
be issued to answer the charges of violating the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 328, 1-13-1986)
10-4-4-2: NOTICE:
In case of impounding and where the owner, keeper or harborer of such animal is
disclosed by any license or name tag worn by it, or is otherwise known to the
officer or person impounding same, the police department shall at once give
notice by mail to such owner, keeper or harborer, informing him of the
impounding of his animal and shall cite the owner, keeper or harborer of such
animal to answer charges of violation of this chapter. (Ord. 328, 1-13-1986)
10-4-4-3: REDEMPTION:
When tagged, any animal impounded under the provisions of this chapter, except
such as may have bitten any person, as specified in section
10-4-4-4 of this chapter shall, unless sooner redeemed, be held for the
specified time after notice has been given pursuant to Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/10, in order to afford opportunity to the owner, keeper or harborer
thereof to redeem the same. Any such owner, keeper or harborer desiring to
redeem his impounded animal shall pay to the city, collectable by either the
city clerk or the Tazewell County animal control administrator, in addition to
the costs of keeping such animal while impounded, an impounding fee, as
follows:
   A.   Fifty dollars ($50.00) for the first time an animal is so impounded;
   B.   Seventy five dollars ($75.00) for the second time an animal is so
impounded;
   C.   One hundred dollars ($100.00) for the third and each subsequent time
thereafter an animal is so impounded.
In addition, in those cases where the animal impounded is required to be
licensed and/or inoculated against rabies, the owner of such animal must
display proof that such animal is properly licensed and/or inoculated. In the
absence of such proof, no such animal shall be released from the shelter until
the proper license and inoculation have been obtained and the costs thereof
paid.
Any tagged animal which has been impounded and not redeemed with the statutory
requirements shall be humanely destroyed or otherwise disposed of by the
poundkeeper.
Any untagged animal shall be kept four (4) working days and if not redeemed
shall be humanely destroyed or otherwise disposed of by the poundkeeper. (Ord.
413, 1-14-1990; amd. Ord. 942, 12-11-2023)
10-4-4-4: IMPOUNDMENT OF ANIMALS BITING PERSONS:
   A.   Any animal which shall have bitten or otherwise injured any person so
as to cause an abrasion of the skin shall be immediately impounded and kept
separated from other animals for ten (10) days. If during that period such
animal develops symptoms of illness, a veterinarian shall be called to diagnose
its condition. If the symptoms disclosed are such as to indicate the presence
of rabies, such animal shall be destroyed in such a manner as to preserve,
intact, the head, which shall thereupon be detached and immediately sent to the
diagnostic laboratory of the department of agriculture of the state of
Illinois. In case such animal cannot be safely taken up and impounded, it may
be shot, care being taken to preserve the head, intact, which thereupon shall
be immediately detached and be delivered to the diagnostic laboratory of the
department of agriculture of the state of Illinois.
   B.   After having been notified that his animal has bitten or otherwise
injured any person, the owner, keeper or harborer shall not, under any
circumstances, allow or permit such animal, while under "restraint" as defined
in section
10-4-1-6 of this chapter to be on any public street, sidewalk, alley, park or
other public place unless such animal is securely muzzled.
   C.   If, at the expiration of the period of ten (10) days, no symptoms of
rabies have been developed in such animal so impounded, the same may be
redeemed by the owner upon payment of the redemption fees and charges specified
in this code. (Ord. 328, 1-13-1986)
10-4-4-5: ANIMAL NUISANCE PENALTY:
Any person found guilty of permitting an "animal nuisance" to exist as defined
in section
10-4-1-6 and/or
10-4-2-7 of this chapter shall be fined:
   A.   Not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for the first offense.
   B.   Not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for the second offense, within a consecutive twelve (12)
month period.
   C.   Not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for the third or subsequent offense, within a consecutive
twelve (12) month period. (Ord. 436, 11-23-1992)
10-4-5: CHICKENS; KEEPING OF HENS AND OUTDOOR HEN SHELTERS ON RESIDENTIAL LOTS:
10-4-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
Definitions: The following items are defined as follows:
 
COOP: A structure housing hens consisting of a covered inside enclosure.
HENS: The female of the species chicken.
      An enclosure connected to a coop for the purpose of allowing hens to
RUN:  leave the coop while remaining in an enclosed, predator safe environment.
      (Ord. 910, 7-13- 2021)
 
10-4-5-2: LICENSE AND PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall keep hens within the City without first obtaining a
license issued by the City (Chicken License). The licenses will be limited to
ten (10). Chicken licenses shall be issued on a first come, first serve basis
and no more than one licenses shall be allowed per residential lot. If the City
receives valid chicken applications that exceed the maximum number available
licenses, all exceeding applications will be placed on a waiting list in the
order they were received, waiting list will be maintained by the Mayor's
designee. Chicken licenses are valid for one calendar year (January to
December). An annual license fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) will be
required prior to the City's issuance of the chicken license and the
applicant's purchasing of the hens. A building inspection and the City's
approval of the construction and installation of any run, coop or other
enclosure used for housing of hens is required prior to obtaining a chicken
license. A chicken license for keeping hens shall not be transferable.
   B.   Building permit required. Any coop, run and other enclosure used for
housing hens may be erected only after obtaining a building permit.
   C.   Renewal License. A renewal chicken license will be required each year
after the issuance of the initial chicken license, with no additional building
inspection required unless complaint driven. An administrative fee of twenty-
five dollars ($25.00) will be required for each renewal license. (Ord. 910, 7-
13-2021)
10-4-5-3: LICENSE AND PERMIT APPLICATION PROCESS:
   A.   A completed application form provided by the City.
   B.   A completed building permit application, including a plat of survey
accurately depicting the potential location of a coop, run or other enclosure
used for the housing of hens on the applicant's property.
   C.   The required license fee for a license to keep hens in the amount of
twenty-five dollars ($25.00) and the required building permit fee, if any, for
the coop, run and/or enclosure used for the hens. The building permit fee for a
coop, run and/or other enclosure used for housing hens shall be the same fee as
a shed fifty dollars ($50.00).
   D.   Once the construction and installation of the coop, run and/or other
enclosure is complete, the City will inspect the site for construction and
installation approval.
   E.   After the applicant has complied with and completed items A. - D.
within the timeframes determined by the (Department of Public Works and/or
Building Inspector) the City will issue the applicant the chicken license. Only
after the chicken license has been issued by the City may the licensee obtain
hens for location on the licensed premises.
   F.   A license for keeping hens shall be granted on an annual basis. The
renewal license application requires the completion of an updated license
application and submission of the administrative fee.
   G.   Chicken licenses may be obtained for coops located only on homeowners
occupied property. (Ord. 910, 7-13-2021)
10-4-5-4: REGULATIONS FOR THE KEEPING OF HENS AND HEN SHELTER:
   A.   The following regulations shall apply to any person licensed to keep
hens and to maintain any outdoor hen shelter on a residential lot within the
City:
      1.   The keeping or harboring of any rooster and crowing hens are
prohibited
      2.   No person shall keep or harbor more than six (6) hens on any
licensed premise.
      3.   Hens are not to be maintained for financial gain or for any business
purpose, but raised for egg consumption only.
      4.   Hens shall not be permitted to run at-large in the City. Hens must
be kept within a coop with an attached run to protect the hens from predators
and to prevent hens from encroaching onto neighboring properties.
      5.   The slaughtering of hens on any residential lot is prohibited
   B.   The following regulations shall apply to all hen shelters maintained in
the City.
      1.   A coop or other covered enclosure shall be provided for housing
hens. The coops are required to have at least four (4) square feet of coop
floor space per chicken. Enclosures must have at least eight (8) square feet of
outdoor run space per chicken .
      2.   A coop, run or other structure used for housing hens shall be
located a minimum of ten (10) feet from any lot lines of the licensee's
property, and shall not be located within ten (10) feet of licensee's residence
and shall not be within twenty-five (25) feet from any neighboring residence.
      3.   All hens and coop, runs and other structures are prohibited in any
front yard or street-facing yards.
      4.   Coops or other covered enclosures for housing hens shall be
constructed of durable building materials. The enclosure shall be constructed
to a minimum height of five (5) feet. No heat lamps shall be permitted in any
coop or other structure used for housing hens.
      5.   Access door(s) to any coop must be latched and secured with chickens
inside during the hours between nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00)
A.M.
      6.   Electric service to enclosures shall not be provided by an extension
cord.
      7.   All area where hens are kept shall be clean and well-maintained with
little to no accumulation of waste. All properties where hens are kept shall
not produce or cause odors that are detectable on adjacent properties. Any
odors shall be declared a nuisance and it shall be unlawful for any licensee to
allow such nuisance to exist beyond the boundaries of the licensed property.
      8.   Deceased chickens shall be properly disposed of.
      9.   All hen feed shall be kept in rodent proof containers until utilized
for consumption by the permitted hens.
      10.   No licensee shall allow hens to make noise loud enough to annoy or
disturb the comfort, health, peace or repose of reasonable persons of ordinary
sensibilities and it is hereby declared a nuisance and it shall be unlawful for
any licensee to allow such nuisance to exist. (Ord. 910, 7-13-2021)
10-4-5-5: SUSPENSION, REVOCATION AND NONRENEWAL OF LICENSES:
   A.   Whenever a licensee violates or fails to act in conformity with the
provisions of this ordinance, any license for keeping hens may be suspended or
revoked, or the City may refuse to renew the license, following notice and a
hearing before the City (Council or Mayor or Building Inspector)
   B.   If a license is revoked for any cause, no license shall be granted to
the same licensee for keeping hens for a period of one year from the date of
the revocation. (Ord. 910, 7-13-2021)
10-4-5-6: SUMMARY SUSPENSION:
Upon the presence of sufficient evidence demonstrating probable cause to
believe that the licensee has violated provisions of this ordinance or has
violated State or Federal law, and that said violation possess an immediate
threat to the public health, safety or welfare, the City may, upon the issuance
of a written order stating the reason for such conclusion, and without prior
notice or hearing, order the licensed structure for the keeping of hens closed
and the license issued pursuant to this ordinance to be summarily suspended,
pending a hearing and a determination regarding suspension or revocation. The
licensee shall be provided a copy of the order and a notice of violation. A
hearing shall be commenced not more than ten (10) days following the entry of
such order, unless the licensee shall agree to a longer period of time. (Ord.
910, 7-13-2021)
10-4-5-7: INJUNCTION:
Any violation of Sections
10-4-5-1 through
10-4-5-8 is hereby declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance. Upon request
by the City, an action by the City Attorney for injunctive relief may be
commenced for the abatement and removal thereof in the manner provided by law.
(Ord. 910, 7-13-2021)
10-4-5-8: REMOVAL OF STRUCTURES:
Runs, coops and other enclosures used for the housing of hens shall be removed
within thirty (30) days of a licensee no longer keeping hens, upon licensee no
longer occupying the property for which a license for keeping hens was issued,
or upon a license for keeping of hens having expired or been revoked. All hens
shall be removed within five (5) days of a final determination regarding the
suspension or revocation of license. (Ord. 910, 7-13-2021)
CHAPTER 5
MULTIPLE PETS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Definitions
10-5-2: License Required
10-5-3: Regulations
10-5-4: Inspection And Enforcement
10-5-5: Compliance
10-5-6: Penalties
10-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter the following words shall have the following
meanings unless the context clearly requires otherwise:
ANIMAL RUN: Any confined area without a roof not a regular part of any other
structure on the same premises (but which may be attached thereto), designed,
maintained or used for the confinement of dogs, cats or other domesticated pets
or animals.
MULTIPLE PET OWNER: Any person or persons who individually or in association
with any other person or persons, for any reason, harbors more than four (4)
dogs or four (4) cats or any combination thereof over the age of four (4)
months within or upon any dwelling unit, structure, single lot or other parcel
of property or within the curtilage of any dwelling or structure.
MULTIPLE PET PREMISES: Any dwelling unit, structure, single lot or other parcel
of property or the curtilage of any dwelling unit or structure wherein or
whereon more than four (4) dogs or four (4) cats or any combination thereof
over the age of four (4) months are kept or harbored. (Ord. 527, 3-9-1998)
10-5-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   Multiple pet owners shall obtain an annual license from the office of
the city clerk upon payment of a fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00), plus ten
dollars ($10.00) for each animal over five (5). Such license shall be obtained
no later than thirty (30) days after assuming ownership of a fifth animal and
must be renewed annually by January 1. The annual renewal fee shall be ten
dollars ($10.00), plus ten dollars ($10.00) for each animal over five (5), if
the owner receives an inspection rating of excellent. Payment by a multiple pet
owner shall not exempt such licensee from payment of county registration fees
for each dog or cat owned by him. (Ord. 629, 4-8-2002)
   B.   Each application for a multiple pet license shall identify the owner or
owners of the animals in question, the number of animals (cats and dogs) owned
or kept by the applicant and any other owner thereof, and the premises wherein
or whereon such animals will be kept. Each applicant shall be given a copy of
the ordinance codified herein and each application shall include a statement to
the effect that the applicant agrees to abide by each of the regulations set
forth in section
10-5-3 of this chapter. Each application shall be signed by the applicant
before a license is issued. (Ord. 527, 3-9-1998)
10-5-3: REGULATIONS:
All multiple pet owners shall at all times abide by the following regulations
with respect to the care and keeping of such animals:
   A.   An applicant for a multiple pet license shall consent to the inspection
of the premises where his animals are kept or maintained. Such inspection shall
be performed before issuance of the license or upon receipt of a complaint.
Annual inspections may be required for multiple pet owners with marginally
acceptable standards. Such inspection may be performed by the animal shelter
director, designee or police department personnel. Failure to comply with a
request for inspection is a violation of this chapter. Holders of multiple pet
owner licenses shall conform to the following requirements:
      1.   All dogs and/or cats over four (4) months of age must be inoculated
against rabies and registered pursuant to this chapter.
      2.   All dogs and/or cats must be provided with a continuous supply of
fresh water, sufficient food to maintain acceptable body weight, proper
shelter, protection from weather and sufficient veterinary care to prevent
suffering.
      3.   If dogs and/or cats are kept or maintained within a structure or
building, such building shall:
         a.   Meet county and city health standards.
         b.   Be kept clean, free of feces, and urine.
         c.   Not constitute a nuisance or danger to the health and welfare of
its inhabitants nor surrounding residents.
      4.   If the dogs and/or cats are maintained outside a building during a
substantial portion of the day and/or night:
         a.   A shelter of sufficient height and width to permit such animal to
stand up and turn around inside when fully grown shall be provided.
         b.   The shelter provided shall provide shade from the sun.
         c.   No animal run shall be allowed in front or side yards of any lot
or other parcel of land and the perimeter of the fences shall be no closer than
five feet (5') from the property line of adjoining properties. Said animal runs
shall have an area of not more than one hundred (100) square feet and shall be
not more than six feet (6') in height.
      5.   The dogs and/or cats shall be prevented from running at large.
      6.   The dogs and/or cats shall be prevented from causing a nuisance
pursuant to section
10-4-1-6 and/or
10-4-2-7 of this title.
      7.   The owner's property shall be kept free of all feces and urine to
prevent its accumulation from constituting a health hazard or an odorous
nuisance.
   B.   No animal shall be permitted to stray or be taken anywhere outside any
building or structures on any multiple pet premises unless such animal is
restrained. Within any building, structure or animal run on any multiple pet
premises, animals shall be confined in such a manner as to protect one animal
from another and to protect persons lawfully upon such property from the danger
of biting, scratching or other injury from such animals.
   C.   All dogs in heat (estrus) shall be confined in a building or secure
enclosure and attended in such a manner that such female dog cannot come into
contact with a male of the same species except for planned breeding. (Ord. 527,
3-9-1998)
10-5-4: INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   By taking out a license as required in section
10-5-2 of this chapter, each such license holder consents to the inspection of
the premises where their animals are kept or maintained as stated in the
license. Such inspection shall be performed upon receipt of a complaint or upon
the existence of probable cause of a violation of this chapter, upon written
notice to the owner or occupant of the premises to be inspected, and such
inspection shall be conducted by the animal shelter director, designee or
police department personnel during reasonable hours. Failure to comply with a
request for inspection by police department personnel is a violation of this
chapter.
   B.   Failure to permit an inspection as provided in this section shall
result in the revocation of the license by the mayor upon report thereof to him
by the chief of police. Such license revocation shall take effect forty eight
(48) hours after the service of notice thereof upon licensee, unless the
licensee petitions for a hearing as provided in this section.
   C.   Upon receipt of a notice of revocation of license, the licensee or
licensees may file with the office of the city clerk, a written request for
hearing before the health and recreation committee of the city council. Such
hearing shall be conducted within fourteen (14) days after the receipt of the
request for hearing. Such hearing shall be conducted by the chairman of the
health and recreation committee in accordance with procedure generally followed
in administrative proceedings. In such hearing, the health and recreation
committee shall consider all competent and relevant evidence offered and
determine by a majority vote, supported by written findings of fact, whether or
not a violation of this chapter has occurred. Upon a finding that a violation
of this chapter has occurred, the health and recreation committee may order the
license revoked or may order such other remedial action as it deems appropriate
under the circumstances. All orders of the health and recreation committee
shall become final upon the issuance thereof. The health and recreation
committee shall have no authority to levy a fine or other monetary penalty.
No license revocation ordered by the mayor pursuant to subsection B of this
section shall be effective if the licensee or licensees file a timely petition
for a hearing pursuant to this subsection. The final action of the health and
recreation committee shall then be the determination of the matter.
   D.   Upon conviction of a second violation of the requirements pursuant to
this chapter, the animal shelter director, designee or police department
personnel shall revoke the multiple pet license for a period of not less than
three (3) months nor more than two (2) years, the length of such revocation
period to be determined by the number and severity of the violations. After
expiration of the revocation period, the license shall not automatically be
reinstated. The former licensee must reapply for the license and show an
ability to conform to the existing ordinances before he may be issued a
multiple pet license.
   E.   During the revocation period, the owner shall either relinquish
ownership of his animals to the animal shelter or place his animals in the care
of another person after that person's facility for such animals has been
inspected and approved by the animal shelter director, designee or police
department personnel.
   F.   The animal shelter director, designee or police department personnel
are further authorized to conduct such other investigations of violations of
this chapter and perform all necessary inspections in any reasonable manner as
may be permitted by law so as to ensure compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   G.   The animal shelter director, designee or police department personnel
may impound the dogs and cats of any multiple pet owner if such owner does not
hold a multiple pet license.
   H.   Such animals shall be redeemed by the owner upon payment to the animal
shelter director or designee the lawful fees accrued pursuant to this chapter
and after application and approval for a multiple pet owner license. (Ord. 527,
3-9-1998)
10-5-5: COMPLIANCE:
All multiple pet owners at the time of the passage of this chapter shall have
thirty (30) days from the date of passage to comply with the requirements of
this chapter. (Ord. 527, 3-9-1998)
10-5-6: PENALTIES:
   A.   Multiple pet ownership by a person or persons without obtaining a
license shall be a violation of this chapter for which, upon conviction
thereof, such person or persons shall be subject to a fine of not less than
fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each
such offense.
   B.   Any person convicted of any other violation of this chapter shall be
subject to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00), nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00).
   C.   Each day a violation of this chapter is found to exist shall be deemed
to constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 527, 3-9-1998)
CHAPTER 6
VEHICLE, JUNK STORAGE
SECTION:
10-6-1: Junk And Vehicle Storage
10-6-1: JUNK AND VEHICLE STORAGE:
No person shall suffer or permit the storage or placing of junk; lumber;
building materials; machinery; salvage; wrecked, disabled or inoperable motor
vehicles 1  on private property in the residential area of the city.
For the purposes of this section, an "inoperable motor vehicle" shall be as
defined in section
11-1-2 of this code. (Ord. 253, 4-28-1980; amd. Ord. 325, 10-14-1985)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  11-3-10 of this code.
CHAPTER 7
DANGEROUS AND VICIOUS ANIMALS
SECTION:
10-7-1: Declaration Of Purpose
10-7-2: Legislative Intent
10-7-3: Definitions
10-7-4: Identification Of Vicious Or Dangerous Animals
10-7-5: Cruelty To Animals
10-7-6: Keeping Of Vicious Animals Prohibited And Standards
10-7-7: Keeping Of Dangerous Animals Prohibited And Standards
10-7-8: Duration And Renewal Of Vicious Animal License
10-7-9: Duration And Renewal Of Dangerous Animal License
10-7-10: Fighting Prohibited
10-7-11: Impoundment And Redemption
10-7-12: Revocation Of License
10-7-13: Exceptions
10-7-14: Penalties
10-7-15: Failure To Comply
10-7-16: Appeal
10-7-1: DECLARATION OF PURPOSE:
Findings of the city council set forth in the preamble of ordinance 371 are
incorporated herein as if fully set forth. (Ord. 680, 8-9-2004)
10-7-2: LEGISLATIVE INTENT:
This chapter is adopted pursuant to the powers granted to municipalities in 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1-1, 5/11-5-6, and 5/11-20-9, as amended. (Ord.
680, 8-9-2004)
10-7-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter the following terms and phrases shall have the
meanings set forth below:
BITE: To seize or cut with the teeth.
CITY: The city of Marquette Heights, Illinois.
CONFINEMENT STRUCTURE: A securely locked pen, kennel or structure of at least
six feet (6') in height designed and constructed for the keeping of a vicious
animal and designed, constructed and maintained in accordance with the
standards set forth herein. Such pen, kennel or structure must have secure
sides and a secure top attached to the sides as well as be suitable to prevent
the entry of young children and exiting of the contained animal. All structures
used to confine vicious animals must be locked with a key or combination lock
when such animals are within the structure and left unattended. Such structure
must have a secure bottom or floor attached to the sides of the pen or the
sides of the pen must be embedded in the ground not less than two feet (2').
All structures must be adequately lighted, ventilated and kept in a clean and
sanitary condition.
CRUELTY TO ANIMALS: Shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, the
following:
   A.   Overloading, overdriving, overworking, beating, torturing, abusing,
tormenting, knowingly poisoning, knowingly attempting to poison, mutilating or
killing any domesticated animal, or causing or knowingly permitting the same to
be done.
   B.   Working any old, lame, infirm, sick or disabled animal, or causing or
knowingly permitting the same to be done.
   C.   Unnecessarily failing to provide a domestic animal in one's custody
with proper food, drink and proper sanitary shelter.
   D.   Abandoning any animal by leaving such animal on any highway or public
way or in any other place where it may suffer injury, hunger, exposure or
become a public charge.
DANGEROUS ANIMAL: A. Any individual domestic animal that, without provocation,
bites or causes the death of another domestic animal either on public property
or private property.
   B.   Any individual domestic animal which has a known propensity, tendency
or disposition to attack without provocation, to cause injury, or to otherwise
endanger the safety of other domestic animals.
   C.   No animal shall be deemed "dangerous" if the animal bites, attacks or
menaces:
1. Another domestic animal on the property of its owner, or
2. Any domestic animal that is assaulting its owner, or
3. Any nondomestic animal, or
4. Is a K-9 patrol dog or a police dog.
DOG: Any and all animals of the canine family.
DOMESTIC ANIMAL: Any animal that lives, either by design or circumstance, under
the intentional care and feeding of people.
FIGHT: Prearranged conflict between two (2) or more animals but does not
include a conflict that is unintentional or accidental.
HEARING COMMITTEE: The hearing committee shall consist of the police committee
of the city council of the city of Marquette Heights. In the event that a
member of the police committee cannot serve and removes himself or herself; the
mayor shall appoint another member of the city council to serve on the hearing
committee for the duration of the removal.
K-9 PATROL DOG OR POLICE DOG: A professionally trained dog used by law
enforcement officers for law enforcement purposes and activities.
LEASH: A cord, chain, rope, strap, or other such physical restraint having a
tensile strength of not less than three hundred (300) pounds.
MUZZLE: A device constructed of strong, soft material or a metal muzzle. The
muzzle must be made in a manner which will not cause injury to the animal or
interfere with its vision or respiration, but must prevent it from biting any
person or animal.
NIP: To pinch or squeeze with teeth with no breaking of skin or tissue.
OWNER: Any person, persons, firm, corporation or other entity who keeps or
harbors a domestic animal or who acts as its custodian or who permits a
domestic animal to remain on or about any premises occupied by such person(s).
In the event that the owner, harborer, or keeper of any such animal is a minor,
the parent or guardian of such minor shall be responsible to ensure that all
provisions of this chapter are complied with and it shall be illegal for such
parent or guardian to fail to prohibit any violation of this chapter by a
minor.
PROVOCATION: Any act or conduct on the part of the animal or person who is the
subject of a bite or an attack which:
   A.   Immediately precedes the bite or attack; and
   B.   Is an act or conduct of such a nature as is likely to arouse or excite
a domestic animal of ordinary temperament into biting or attacking the animal
or person committing such act or conduct; and
   C.   Is directed towards the animal which has bitten or attacked.
RUNNING AT LARGE: Being off the premises of the owner and not under restraint
or not under physical control of the owner or an authorized person by leash.
Control known as command or voice control is not physical control when off the
premises or private property.
VICIOUS ANIMAL: A. Any individual domestic animal that, without provocation,
bites or attacks a human being either on public property or private property.
   B.   Any individual domestic animal which:
1. Has a known propensity, tendency or disposition to attack without
provocation, to cause injury, or to otherwise endanger the safety of human
beings; or
2. Is owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose of animal fighting
or is trained for animal fighting; or
3. Has demonstrated repeated aggressive behavior towards other domestic animals
that have resulted in the death or great bodily harm to those animals.
   C.   No animal shall be deemed "vicious" if the animal:
1. Bites, attacks or menaces a trespasser on the property of its owner, or
2. Bites, attacks or menaces anyone assaulting its owner, or
3. Bites, attacks or menaces anyone who has tormented or abused it, or
4. Is a K-9 patrol dog or a police dog. (Ord. 680, 8-9-2004)
10-7-4: IDENTIFICATION OF VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS ANIMALS:
   A.   Any law enforcement officer or animal control officer employed by or
under contract with the city who suspects that a domestic animal may be vicious
or dangerous within the meaning of this chapter may conduct an investigation to
determine whether or not the animal has committed any act or displays any
characteristics which qualify it as either a vicious animal or a dangerous
animal. If upon the completion of such investigation the officer concludes that
the animal is a vicious animal or a dangerous animal, such officer shall issue
a written notice of determination which includes at least the following:
      1.   A description of the domestic animal;
      2.   Information available concerning the ownership of the domestic
animal;
      3.   A statement or conclusion that the domestic animal is a dangerous
animal or a vicious animal within the meaning of this chapter;
      4.   A description of the acts or characteristics which led the officer
to conclude that the domestic animal is a vicious animal or a dangerous animal;
      5.   Notice to the owner that the vicious animal or dangerous animal must
be licensed and housed in accordance with the requirements of this chapter;
      6.   Notice that the owner may appeal the determination of the officer to
the city clerk of the city of Marquette Heights within seven (7) working days
after the determination is served upon the owner.
The officer shall serve the notice of determination on the owner by certified
mail or hand deliver to the last known address of the owner.
   B.   The owner may appeal any determination that the owner's domestic animal
is a vicious or dangerous animal. An appeal must be directed to the mayor and
must be filed by the owner in the office of the city clerk within seven (7)
working days after receipt of the notice of determination which identifies the
domestic animal as a vicious animal or dangerous animal. Should the owner fail
to appeal the determination within seven (7) working days, the determination of
the investigating officer that the domestic animal is a vicious animal or a
dangerous animal shall become final. Upon receipt of an appeal, the hearing
committee shall convene a hearing for the purpose of determining whether the
animal in question is either a vicious animal or a dangerous animal.
   C.   The hearing shall be held within no less than five (5) nor more than
fourteen (14) working days after the hearing committee serves a notice of the
time, date and location of the hearing upon the owner of the allegedly vicious
or dangerous animal. At the hearing, the owner shall have the opportunity to
present evidence to explain why the animal should not be declared a vicious
animal or a dangerous animal. The owner shall have the right to be represented
by legal counsel at the owner's expense. The officer who made the initial
determination that the domestic animal is a vicious animal or a dangerous
animal, and any other persons having knowledge of the facts and circumstances,
may be heard by the hearing committee and shall be subject to cross examination
by the owner or the owner's attorney. The hearing committee shall decide all
issues for or against the owner of the domestic animal regardless of whether
the owner appears at the hearing.
   D.   The hearing committee may, after careful consideration of all evidence
presented, enter a finding that the animal is either vicious or dangerous based
on the facts regardless of the original determination by the officer.
   E.   Within five (5) working days after the conclusion of the hearing, the
hearing committee shall determine whether or not the domestic animal is a
vicious animal or a dangerous animal within the meaning of this chapter. The
hearing committee shall notify the owner in writing of its determination. The
decision of the hearing committee shall be final.
   F.   If any officer of the city determines that the public safety requires
the immediate impoundment of any animal as authorized by this chapter, the
officer shall within a reasonable time notify the owner of the facts and
circumstances relating to the impoundment. Upon receipt of such notification,
the owner may appeal the determination of the officer to the hearing committee
in accordance with the procedures established hereinabove for the
identification of vicious or dangerous animals. (Ord. 680, 8-9-2004)
10-7-5: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any act constituting cruelty to
animals. (Ord. 680, 8-9-2004)
10-7-6: KEEPING OF VICIOUS ANIMALS PROHIBITED AND STANDARDS:
It shall be unlawful to keep, harbor, own or in any way possess within the
corporate limits of the city any vicious animal, except and subject to the
standards and requirements herein set forth.
   A.   Sale Or Transfer Of Ownership Prohibited: No person shall sell, barter
or in any other way dispose of a vicious animal registered within the city to
any other person within the city unless the recipient person resides
permanently in the same household and on the same premises as the registered
owner of such vicious animal; provided that the registered owner of a vicious
animal may sell or otherwise dispose of a vicious animal to persons who do not
reside within the city. At any time that a vicious animal is located within the
confines of the city the standards and requirements of this section will apply.
   B.   Licensing Of Vicious Animals:
      1.   No person shall possess any vicious animal within the city for a
period of more than forty eight (48) hours without having first applied for
license therefor from the city.
      2.   An application for a license to possess a vicious animal shall be
filed with the city clerk on a form prescribed and provided by the city clerk
and shall be accompanied by all of the following:
         a.   Verification of the identity of the owner and current address by
providing a photostatic copy of the owner's driver's license, or other
acceptable identification.
         b.   Acknowledgment of ownership of the vicious animal.
         c.   A copy of any current immunization, county license and health
record of the vicious animal prepared by a veterinarian licensed to practice in
the state.
         d.   A certificate of insurance evidencing coverage in an amount not
less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) providing coverage for any
injury, damage or loss caused by the vicious animal.
         e.   Identification of the vicious animal by species and breed along
with any identifying markings.
         f.   Two (2) photographs of the vicious animal to be licensed taken
not more than one month before the date of the application.
            (1)   One photograph shall provide a front view of the vicious
animal and shall clearly show the face of the animal.
            (2)   One photograph shall show a side view of the vicious animal.
            (3)   The police department shall review the photographs and if
positive identification cannot be made with those submitted additional
photographs shall be required. The police department shall notify the owner of
the vicious animal and that owner will have ten (10) working days to provide
the photographs required by the police department.
         g.   A license fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00).
         h.   A grant of permission by the applicant authorizing the police
department to go upon the premises whereat the vicious animal is to be kept,
for the purpose of performing the inspection required by subsection C of this
section.
         i.   Such other information as may be required by the city clerk.
   C.   Inspection: Upon receipt of an application, the city clerk shall
forward such application to the police department which shall cause an
inspection of the premises on which the vicious animal shall be kept to
determine that all provisions of this chapter relating to confinement and
posting of a sign have been complied with by the applicant. Upon completion of
the inspection, the police department shall notify the city clerk in writing
whether or not the premises comply with the requirements of this chapter.
   D.   Approval Or Denial Of License: Upon receipt of the results of the
police department inspection, the city clerk shall notify the applicant of the
approval or denial of the license. In the event that the license is denied, the
notification shall be provided in writing and the reasons for such denial shall
be stated. Upon approval, the city clerk shall issue a license to the
applicant.
   E.   Confinement Of Vicious Animal: It shall be unlawful for any person to
possess a vicious animal unless the vicious animal is confined in accordance
with this section.
      1.   Confinement Indoors: No vicious animal may be kept on a porch, patio
or in any part of a house or structure that would allow the vicious animal to
exit the structure on its own volition. No vicious animal shall be kept in a
house or structure when the windows are open or when screen windows or screen
doors are the only obstacle preventing the vicious animal from exiting the
structure.
      2.   Confinement In An Exterior Yard: No person shall permit a vicious
animal to be in an exterior area unless such vicious animal is confined in a
confinement structure constructed and maintained in accordance with this
chapter, except that a vicious animal may be confined outside of a confinement
structure in a manner set forth in the next following subsection.
      3.   Confinement On Leash: No person shall permit a vicious animal to go
outside a confinement structure, house or other structure unless the vicious
animal is securely restrained with a leash no longer than four feet (4') in
length and fitted with a muzzle. No person shall permit a vicious animal to be
kept on a leash unless a person is in physical control of the leash. No leash
restraining any vicious animal shall be attached to any inanimate object
including, but not limited to, trees, posts, stakes and buildings.
   F.   Sign Required: Any person possessing a vicious animal which has been
licensed as required herein shall at all times keep posted on the premises
whereat said animal is kept, a sign which is readable from the midpoint of the
street closest to said premises, or in the case of a corner lot from the
midpoint of the street on which any house or other structure thereon faces,
which said sign shall provide adequate warning that a vicious animal is kept on
the premises.
   G.   Reporting Requirements Of Licensee: Any person holding a license
pursuant to this chapter shall report the occurrence of any of the following
events to the police department:
      1.   The sale, barter, exchange, gift or death of any vicious animal
shall be reported within forty eight (48) hours.
      2.   The escape from confinement of any vicious animal shall be reported
upon discovery of the escape.
      3.   The biting or nipping of any person or animal by a vicious animal
shall be reported upon occurrence.
      4.   The permanent removal of any vicious animal from the territorial
limits of the city shall be reported within forty eight (48) hours of such
removal by surrender of the license of the owner to the city clerk. (Ord. 680,
8-9-2004)
10-7-7: KEEPING OF DANGEROUS ANIMALS PROHIBITED AND STANDARDS:
It shall be unlawful to keep, harbor, own or in any way possess within the
corporate limits of the city any dangerous animal, except and subject to the
standards and requirements herein set forth.
   A.   Licensing Of Dangerous Animals:
      1.   No person shall possess any dangerous animal within the city for a
period of more than forty eight (48) hours without having first applied for
license therefor from the city.
      2.   An application for a license to possess a dangerous animal shall be
filed with the city clerk on a form prescribed and provided by the city clerk
and shall be accompanied by all of the following:
         a.   Verification of the identity of the owner and current address by
providing a photostatic copy of the owner's driver's license, or other
acceptable identification.
         b.   Acknowledgment of ownership of the dangerous animal.
         c.   A copy of any current immunization, county license and health
record of the dangerous animal prepared by a veterinarian licensed to practice
in the state.
         d.   Identification of the dangerous animal by species and breed along
with any identifying markings.
         e.   Two (2) photographs of the dangerous animal to be licensed taken
not more than one month before the date of the application.
            (1)   One photograph shall provide a front view of the dangerous
animal and shall clearly show the face of the animal.
            (2)   One photograph shall show a side view of the dangerous
animal.
            (3)   The police department shall review the photographs and if
positive identification cannot be made with those submitted additional
photographs shall be required. The police department shall notify the owner of
the dangerous animal and that owner will have ten (10) working days to provide
the photographs required by the police department.
         f.   A license fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00).
         g.   Such other information as may be required by the city clerk.
   B.   Confinement Of Dangerous Animal: It shall be unlawful for any person to
possess a dangerous animal unless the dangerous animal is confined in
accordance with this section.
      1.   Confinement On Leash: No person shall permit a dangerous animal
outside a confinement structure, house or other structure unless the dangerous
animal is securely restrained with a leash. No person shall permit a dangerous
animal to be kept on a leash unless a person is in physical control of the
leash. No leash restraining any dangerous animal shall be attached to any
inanimate object including, but not limited to, trees, posts, stakes and
buildings.
   C.   Reporting Requirements Of Dangerous Animal Licensee: Any person holding
a license pursuant to this chapter shall report the occurrence of any of the
following events to the police department:
      1.   The sale, barter, exchange, gift or death of any dangerous animal
shall be reported within forty eight (48) hours.
      2.   The escape from confinement of any dangerous animal shall be
reported upon discovery of the escape.
      3.   The biting or nipping of any person or animal by a dangerous animal
shall be reported upon occurrence.
      4.   The permanent removal of any dangerous animal from the territorial
limits of the city shall be reported within forty eight (48) hours of such
removal by surrender of the license of the owner to the city clerk. (Ord. 680,
8-9-2004)
10-7-8: DURATION AND RENEWAL OF VICIOUS ANIMAL LICENSE:
   A.   Every vicious animal license granted under this chapter shall be valid
for a period of twelve (12) months from the date thereof and must thereafter be
renewed annually.
   B.   An application for renewal of a license to possess a vicious animal
shall be filed with the city clerk on a form prescribed and provided by the
city clerk and shall be accompanied by all of the following:
      1.   Statement of the owner of the licensed vicious animal that all the
information contained in the original license application is still current,
valid and accurate; or
      2.   Statement of the owner as to any changes in the information
contained in the original license application.
      3.   A certificate of insurance evidencing coverage in an amount not less
than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) providing coverage for any injury,
damage or loss caused by the vicious animal.
      4.   Evidence that the required insurance coverage was maintained in
effect throughout the entire preceding year that the license sought to be
renewed was in effect. Failure to provide such evidence of insurance for the
preceding license year shall be automatic grounds for the nonrenewal of the
license and said license shall not under any circumstances be renewed.
      5.   A license fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00).
      6.   Such other information as may be required by the city clerk.
   C.   Upon receipt of a license renewal application, the city clerk shall
forward such application to the police department which shall cause an
inspection of the premises on which the vicious animal shall be kept to
determine that all provisions of this chapter relating to confinement and
posting of a sign have been complied with by the applicant. Upon completion of
the inspection, the police department shall notify the city clerk in writing
whether or not the premises comply with the requirements of this chapter.
   D.   Upon receipt of the results of the police department inspection, the
city clerk shall notify the applicant of the approval or denial of the license
renewal. In the event that the license is denied, the notification shall be
provided in writing and the reasons for such denial shall be stated. Upon
approval, the city clerk shall issue a license to the applicant, which shall be
valid for a period of twelve (12) months from the date thereof. (Ord. 680, 8-9-
2004)
10-7-9: DURATION AND RENEWAL OF DANGEROUS ANIMAL LICENSE:
   A.   Every dangerous animal license granted under this chapter shall be
valid for a period of twelve (12) months from the date thereof and must
thereafter be renewed annually.
   B.   An application for renewal of a license to possess a dangerous animal
shall be filed with the city clerk on a form prescribed and provided by the
city clerk and shall be accompanied by all of the following:
      1.   Statement of the owner of the licensed dangerous animal that all the
information contained in the original license application is still current,
valid and accurate; or
      2.   Statement of the owner as to any changes in the information
contained in the original license application.
      3.   A license fee of ten dollars ($10.00).
      4.   Such other information as may be required by the city clerk. (Ord.
680, 8-9-2004)
10-7-10: FIGHTING PROHIBITED:
No person shall fight or bait, conspire to fight or bait, or keep, train, or
transport for the purpose of fighting or baiting, any animal in the city of
Marquette Heights. (Ord. 680, 8-9-2004)
10-7-11: IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION:
   A.   Any vicious or dangerous animal as defined herein suspected of biting
or nipping any person or animal shall be subject to immediate impoundment by
the police department in a humane facility for the keeping of such animals. If
the incident giving rise to the impoundment has resulted in an injury to a
person, and the vicious or dangerous animal is a dog, upon impoundment by the
police department, the chief of police or his designee shall notify the rabies
control administrator of Tazewell County pursuant to the animal control act, as
amended and shall transfer control of the vicious or dangerous animal to the
administrator in accordance with the animal control act.
   B.   Any vicious or dangerous animal found to be running at large by any
member of the police department of the city shall be subject to impoundment by
the police department in a humane facility for the keeping of such animals.
   C.   An owner of a vicious or dangerous animal holding a license pursuant to
this chapter may redeem an impounded vicious or dangerous animal if:
      1.   The vicious or dangerous animal has been impounded pursuant to
subsection B of this section, or
      2.   The vicious or dangerous animal has not caused an injury to a person
subject to the following conditions:
         a.   Proof of valid license issued by the city under this chapter.
         b.   Payment of the cost of keeping the vicious or dangerous animal
during the period of impoundment.
   D.   An owner of a vicious or dangerous animal which has caused an injury to
a person resulting in the impoundment of the vicious or dangerous animal shall
be entitled to redeem the vicious or dangerous animal in accordance with the
animal control act, as amended. (Ord. 680, 8-9-2004)
10-7-12: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
A license granted pursuant to this chapter may be revoked by the hearing
committee upon any violation by the licensee of any provision of this chapter.
In the event of a revocation of the license, the license fee shall be retained
by the city. (Ord. 680, 8-9-2004)
10-7-13: EXCEPTIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to any K-9 patrol dogs or police dogs as defined
herein. (Ord. 680, 8-9-2004)
10-7-14: PENALTIES:
   A.   Upon a conviction of a violation of any section of this chapter the
court shall assess a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
   B.   Upon a finding by the court of a violation of subsection 10-7-6B1 of
this chapter, the court may:
      1.   Order the animal in question to be impounded; and/or
      2.   Order the animal in question destroyed; and/or
      3.   Enter a mandatory injunction directing the owner(s) or keeper(s) of
such animal to comply with all requirements of this chapter within seven (7)
days or to permanently remove the animal from the city, forthwith.
   C.   Upon finding of a violation of any part of this section which involves
a vicious animal which was duly licensed pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter, the court, in addition to any other penalty imposed, shall enter an
order revoking such license and shall enter a mandatory injunction ordering
that:
      1.   Said animal be permanently removed from the city within forty eight
(48) hours; and/or
      2.   That said animal be impounded and destroyed.
   D.   Each day a violation of this chapter is found to exist shall be deemed
to be a separate offense. (Ord. 680, 8-9-2004)
10-7-15: FAILURE TO COMPLY:
It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or harborer of a vicious animal
registered with the city to fail to comply with the requirements and conditions
set forth in this chapter. Any vicious animal found to be the subject of a
violation of this chapter shall be subject to immediate seizure and
impoundment. In addition, failure to comply will result in the removal of the
animal from the city. (Ord. 680, 8-9-2004)
10-7-16: APPEAL:
Any person that owns or possesses any animal that has been determined vicious,
by the city of Marquette Heights, under any ordinance prior to September 1,
2004, may appeal that determination solely for the purpose of requesting that
the animal be identified as dangerous within the meaning of this chapter rather
than vicious. An appeal must be directed to the mayor and must be filed by the
owner in the office of the city clerk. Should an owner fail to appeal that
determination before March 1, 2005, the original determination that the animal
is vicious shall not thereafter be appealable.
Upon receipt of an appeal, the hearing committee shall convene an appeal
hearing for the purpose of determining whether the animal in question is either
a "vicious animal" or a "dangerous animal" as defined herein. The hearing shall
be held within no less than five (5) nor more than fourteen (14) working days
after the hearing committee serves a notice of the time, date and location of
the hearing upon the owner of the allegedly vicious or dangerous animal. At the
hearing, the owner shall have the opportunity to present a written statement of
appeal outlining all arguments and evidence they wish the hearing committee to
consider. The hearing committee will review the minutes, police reports and all
other evidence from the original hearing, along with the written statement from
the owner. The hearing committee will not hear new testimony.
Within five (5) working days after the conclusion of the appeal hearing, the
hearing committee shall determine whether or not the domestic animal is a
vicious animal or a dangerous animal within the meaning of this chapter. The
hearing committee shall notify the owner in writing of its determination. The
decision of the hearing committee shall be final. (Ord. 680, 8-9-2004)
TITLE 11
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Title
11-1-2: Definitions
11-1-3: Unlawful Moving Of Vehicles
11-1-4: Placing Injurious Materials On Roadway Prohibited
11-1-5: Accidents, Requirements
11-1-6: Permits For Parades Or Processions
11-1-7: Funeral Processions, Drivers
11-1-8: Picking Up Hitchhikers
11-1-9: Riding On Motorcycles, Motor Driven Cycles, Motor Scooters
11-1-10: Opening Vehicle Doors
11-1-11: Boarding, Alighting From Moving Vehicles
11-1-12: Obstruction To Driver's View Or Driving Mechanism
11-1-13: Riding In House Trailers
11-1-14: Enforcement And Obedience To Traffic Regulations
11-1-14-1: Obedience Required
11-1-14-2: Obedience By Public Employees
11-1-14-3: Obedience To Police Officers
11-1-14-4: Fleeing Or Attempting To Elude Police Officer
11-1-14-5: Privileges Of Authorized Emergency Vehicles
11-1-14-6: Regulations Applicable To Pushcarts, Animals
11-1-14-7: Coasters, Roller Skates, Toy Vehicles
11-1-14-8: Electronic Communication Devices
11-1-15: Traffic Control Devices
11-1-15-1: Signs And Signals
11-1-15-2: Unauthorized Signs
11-1-15-3: Interference With Signs Or Signals
11-1-15-4: Placement Deemed Notice Of Regulations
11-1-16: Parties In Violation Of Traffic Regulations
11-1-17: Enforcement
11-1-1: TITLE:
This title may be cited as and referred to as the TRAFFIC CODE OF THE CITY OF
MARQUETTE HEIGHTS, ILLINOIS. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever in this title the following words and phrases are used, they shall
have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section:
ABANDONED VEHICLE: Any vehicle which is left at any place for such time and
under such circumstances as to cause such vehicle reasonably to appear to have
been abandoned.
AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES: Emergency vehicles of Municipal departments or
public service corporations as are designated or authorized by proper local
authorities, police vehicles, vehicles of the Fire Department and ambulances.
BICYCLE: Every device propelled by human power upon which a human may ride,
having two (2) tandem wheels of which one is more than sixteen inches (16") in
diameter.
BUSINESS DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including a roadway when
within any six hundred feet (600') along such roadway there are buildings in
use for business or industrial purposes including, but not limited to, hotels,
banks or office buildings, railroad stations and public buildings which occupy
at least three hundred feet (300') of frontage on one side or three hundred
feet (300') collectively on both sides of such roadway.
CROSSING GUARD: An adult civilian officially authorized to supervise and
expedite the crossing of schoolchildren or other pedestrians at hazardous or
congested traffic points.
CROSSWALKS: That portion of a roadway ordinarily included within the
prolongation or connection of sidewalk lines at intersections, or any other
portion of a roadway clearly indicated for pedestrian crossing by markings.
DRIVER: Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
DRIVEWAY: A strip of land improved for the purpose of providing access from
private property to the main traveled portion of a public way.
FUNERAL PROCESSION: A procession consisting of motor vehicles which are
designed and used for the carrying of not more than seven (7) passengers, a
funeral hearse and floral cars, or combination thereof with any of the
following added: foot units and equestrian units, proceeding to a place of
burial.
HOLIDAYS: When used in this title or on official signs erected by authority of
this title, shall mean New Year's Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor
Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day.
INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle which cannot be operated on the
public streets or highways of the state of Illinois due to one or more of the
following conditions:
   A.   The vehicle is incapable of being driven under its own motor power.
   B.   The vehicle condition fails to comply with the safety requirements of
chapter 12 of the Illinois vehicle code 1 .
   C.   The vehicle registration is not in compliance with 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/3-701 and 5/3-702, as amended.
INTERSECTION: A. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two (2) highways which join one another at, or approximately at
right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different
roadways joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
   B.   Where a roadway includes two (2) roadways forty feet (40') or more
apart, then every crossing of each roadway if such is divided by an
intersecting roadway shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
MERGING TRAFFIC: A maneuver executed by the drivers of vehicles on converging
roadways to permit simultaneous or alternative entry into the junction thereof,
wherein the driver of each vehicle involved is required to adjust his vehicular
speed and lateral position so as to avoid collision with any other vehicle.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every motor vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle
which is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but
not operated upon rails, except for vehicles moved solely by human power and
motorized wheelchairs. For the purpose of this title, motor vehicles are
divided into two (2) divisions:
   A.   First Division: Those motor vehicles which are designed for the
carrying of not more than twelve (12) persons.
   B.   Second Division: Those vehicles which are designed for carrying more
than twelve (12) persons, those motor vehicles designed or used for living
quarters, those motor vehicles which are designed for pulling or carrying
freight, cargo or implements of husbandry, and those motor vehicles of the
first division remodeled for use and used as motor vehicles of the second
division.
MOTORCYCLES: Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with
the ground, but excluding a tractor.
OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD: Whenever certain hours are named, they shall mean
standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use in the city.
OPERATOR: Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
PARK: When prohibited means the standing of a vehicle whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading and unloading.
PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot.
PLAY STREET: Street or part of street devoted to recreational purposes for
children.
POLICE OFFICER: Every officer of the municipal police department or any officer
authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for violation of
traffic regulations.
PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY: Every way or place in private ownership and used for
vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied permission
from the owner, but not by other persons.
PROPERTY: Any real property within the city which is not a street or roadway.
PROPERTY LINE: The boundary line between any public way and the private
property abutting thereto.
PUBLIC BUILDINGS: A building used by any government agency.
PUBLIC PASSENGER VEHICLE: A motor vehicle, as defined in the motor vehicle law
of the state of Illinois 2 , which is used for the transportation of passengers
for hire, excepting those devoted exclusively for funeral use or in operation
of a metropolitan transit authority or public utility under the laws of the
state of Illinois.
PUBLIC WAY: Any sidewalk, roadway, alley or other public thoroughfare open to
the use of the public, as a matter of right, for purpose of travel, excepting
bridle paths.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: Every camping trailer, motor home, mini- motor home,
travel trailer, truck camper or van camper used primarily for recreational
purposes and not used commercially nor owned by a commercial business.
RESIDENCE DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including a roadway not
comprising a business district when the property on such roadway for a distance
of three hundred feet (300') or more is in the main improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
RIGHT OF WAY: The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful
manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such
circumstances of direction, speed and proximity as to give rise to danger of
collision unless one grants precedence to the other.
ROAD TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used for drawing other vehicles
and not so constructed as to carry any load thereon either independently or any
part of the weight of a vehicle or load so drawn.
ROADWAY: That portion of a public way between the regularly established curb
lines or that part improved and intended to be used for vehicular travel.
SAFETY ZONE: The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone.
SCHOOL BUS: Every motor vehicle of the school division operated by or for a
public or governmental agency or by or for a private or religious organization
that is used to transport children to or from school or in connection with any
school activity, but not including buses operated by common carriers in urban
transportation of schoolchildren.
SEMITRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying persons
or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that some
part of its weight and that of its load rests upon or is carried by another
vehicle.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a public way between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
STOP: When required means complete cessation from movement.
STOP, STOPPING OR STANDING: When prohibited, means any stopping or standing of
a vehicle, whether occupied or not except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic control sign or signal.
STREET OR ROADWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
TAXICAB STAND: A designated area in the trafficway alongside and parallel to
the curb set aside for taxicabs to stand or wait for passengers.
THROUGH ROADWAY: Every roadway or portion thereof on which vehicular traffic is
given preferential right of way, and at the entrances to which vehicular
traffic from intersecting roadways is required by law to yield the right of way
to vehicles on such through roadway in obedience to either a stop sign or a
yield sign, when signs are erected as provided in this title.
TRAFFIC: Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other conveyances
either singly or together while using any public way for purposes of travel.
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES: All signs, signals, markings and devices placed or
erected under due authority for the purpose of regulating, warning or guiding
traffic.
TRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying persons or
property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that no part
of its weight rests upon the towing vehicle.
TRUCK: Every motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
TRUCK LOADING ZONE: A designated space adjacent to a curb for the use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of freight.
URBAN DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to, and including, any street which is
built up with structures devoted to business, industry or dwelling houses
situated at intervals of less than one hundred feet (100') for a distance of
one-fourth (1/4) mile or more.
VEHICLE: A machine propelled by power other than human power designed to travel
along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners or slides and transport
persons or property or pull machinery and shall include, without limitation,
automobile, truck, trailer, motorcycle, tractor, buggy and wagon.
YIELD RIGHT OF WAY: When required by an official sign means the act of granting
the privilege of the immediate use of the intersecting roadway to traffic
within the intersection and to vehicles approaching from the right or left, but
when the roadway is clear may proceed into the intersection. (Ord. 119, 1-20-
1969; amd. Ord. 253, 4-28-1980; Ord. 653, 11-25-2002)
Whenever any words and phrases used in this title are not defined in this
section, but are defined in the state vehicle laws, such definitions shall be
deemed to apply to such words and phrases used herein.
Whenever any words and phrases used in this title are not defined in this
section and are not defined in the state vehicle laws, such words shall be
given their usual customary meaning. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
 
Notes
1 1. 25 ILCS.
2 1. 625 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.
11-1-3: UNLAWFUL MOVING OF VEHICLES:
No person, other than a police officer, shall move a vehicle not lawfully under
his control, into any area where stopping, standing or parking is prohibited or
away from a curb or edge of roadway such distance as is unlawful, or start or
cause to be started the motor of any motor vehicle or shift, change or move the
levers, brake, starting device, gears or other mechanism, of a parked motor
vehicle to a position other than that in which it was left by the owner or
driver thereof, or attempt to do so. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-1-4: PLACING INJURIOUS MATERIALS ON ROADWAY PROHIBITED 1 :
   A.   No person shall throw or deposit upon any highway any glass bottles,
glass, nails, tacks, wire, cans or any other substance likely to injure any
person, animal or vehicle upon such roadway.
   B.   Any person who drops or permits to be dropped or thrown upon any
roadway any destructive or injurious material shall immediately remove the same
or cause it to be removed.
   C.   Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a roadway shall
remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the roadway from
such vehicle. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 8-1-6 of this code.
11-1-5: ACCIDENTS, REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Accident Reports Required: The operator of a vehicle involved in an
accident resulting in injury or death of any person or property damage to the
property of another, if such operator is physically capable of doing so, shall
immediately report such accident to the police department.
   B.   Duty On Striking Unattended Vehicle: The driver of any vehicle which
collides with any vehicle which is unattended shall immediately stop and shall
then and there either locate and notify the operator or owner of such vehicle
of the name and address of the driver and owner of the vehicle striking the
unattended vehicle or shall leave in a conspicuous place on the vehicle struck
a written notice giving name and address of the driver and of the owner of the
vehicle doing the striking and a statement of the circumstances thereof.
   C.   Duty On Striking Fixtures Or Other Property: The driver of any vehicle
involved in an accident resulting only in damage to fixtures or other property
legally upon or adjacent to a public way shall take reasonable steps to locate
and notify the owner or persons in charge of such property of such fact and of
his name and address and of the registration number of the vehicle he is
driving and shall upon request, and if available, exhibit his state driver's
license. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-1-6: PERMITS FOR PARADES OR PROCESSIONS:
No procession or parade containing fifty (50) or more persons or ten (10) or
more vehicles, excepting the forces of the United States army or navy, the
military forces of this state, the forces of the police and fire departments
and any funeral processions, shall occupy, march or proceed along any street
except in accordance with a permit issued by the city council and such other
regulations that are set forth in this title which may apply. (Ord. 119, 1-20-
1969)
11-1-7: FUNERAL PROCESSIONS, DRIVERS 1 :
   A.   Designation And Right Of Way Of Funeral Processions:
      1.   All motor vehicles participating in a funeral procession, when
proceeding to any place of burial, shall display illuminated headlamps thereon
and shall carry on the right hand side of the windshield thereof a printed sign
or card on which is imprinted the word "funeral".
      2.   It shall be the duty of the undertaker having charge of a funeral
procession to provide a card or sign as described herein.
      3.   All motor vehicles so designated shall have the right of way over
all other vehicles, except fire apparatus, ambulances and police vehicles, at
any roadway intersection within the city and may proceed through stop street or
signalized intersections with proper caution and safety.
   B.   Duties Of Drivers In Funeral Processions: Each driver in a funeral
procession shall drive as near to the right hand edge of the roadway as
practicable and safe. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 11-2-28A of this title.
11-1-8: PICKING UP HITCHHIKERS:
No person operating a private vehicle shall pick up any person standing in a
roadway for the purpose of soliciting a ride. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-1-9: RIDING ON MOTORCYCLES, MOTOR DRIVEN CYCLES, MOTOR SCOOTERS:
   A.   Riding Motorcycles: The operator of a motorcycle shall ride only
astride the permanent and regular seat or saddle attached thereto, and the
operator shall not permit more than one other person to ride thereon nor shall
such other person ride on the motorcycle unless it is designed to carry two (2)
people, in which event the passenger shall also ride astride the permanent and
regular seat or saddle if it is designed for two (2) persons, or astride
another seat or saddle firmly attached to the rear of the operator; however,
any seat or saddle designed for a passenger must be equipped with permanent
handgrips and, in addition, the motorcycle must be equipped with footrests
adjusted to fit such passenger. A sidecar may be attached to a motorcycle in
which additional persons may ride. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
   B.   Special Equipment For Persons Riding Motorcycles: (Rep. by Ord. 777, 7-
12-2010)
   C.   Glasses, Shield: In addition, the operator of a motorcycle and every
passenger thereon shall be protected by glasses, goggles or a transparent
shield.
   D.   Handlebars On Motorcycles: No motorcycle may be operated with
handlebars rising more than fifteen inches (15") in height above the level of
the seat or saddle.
   E.   Riding Motor Scooters: No person other than the driver thereof shall
ride upon a motor scooter. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-1-10: OPENING VEHICLE DOORS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any occupant of a motor vehicle stopped on any
public street within the city to open any door of such vehicle in such a manner
as to create a hazard to approaching traffic or any person.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to allow any door of
such vehicle to remain open in such a manner as to create a hazard to
approaching traffic or any person. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-1-11: BOARDING, ALIGHTING FROM MOVING VEHICLES:
No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-1-12: OBSTRUCTION TO DRIVER'S VIEW OR DRIVING MECHANISM:
   A.   No person may drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there are
in the front seat such number of persons, as to obstruct the view of the driver
to the front or sides of the vehicle or as to interfere with the driver's
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   B.   No passenger in a vehicle may ride in such position as to interfere
with the driver's view ahead or to the sides, or to interfere with his control
over the driving mechanism of the vehicle. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-1-13: RIDING IN HOUSE TRAILERS:
No person shall occupy a house trailer while it is being moved upon a public
roadway or street within the corporate limits of the city. (Ord. 119, 1-20-
1969)
11-1-14: ENFORCEMENT AND OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
11-1-14-1: OBEDIENCE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to perform
any act required in this title. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-1-14-2: OBEDIENCE BY PUBLIC EMPLOYEES:
The provisions of this title shall apply to the driver of any vehicle owned by
or used in the services of the United States, the state or any political
subdivision thereof, and it shall be unlawful for any said driver to violate
any of the provisions of this title, except as otherwise permitted in these
provisions or by state statute with reference to authorized emergency vehicles
1 . (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/11-205.
11-1-14-3: OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICERS:
No person shall wilfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of a police officer invested by law with authority to direct, control
or regulate traffic. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-1-14-4: FLEEING OR ATTEMPTING TO ELUDE POLICE OFFICER:
It shall be unlawful for any driver or operator of a motor vehicle who, having
been given a visual or audible signal by a peace officer directing such driver
or operator to bring his vehicle to a stop, to wilfully fail or refuse to obey
such direction, to increase his speed, to extinguish his lights, or to
otherwise flee or attempt to elude the officer. The signal given by the peace
officer may be by hand, voice, siren, red or blue light. Provided, the officer
giving such signal shall be in police uniform, and, if driving a vehicle, such
vehicle shall be marked showing it to be an official police vehicle. (Ord. 119,
1-20-1969)
11-1-14-5: PRIVILEGES OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   A.   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law
or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may exercise
the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the conditions herein
stated.
   B.   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      1.   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this title.
      2.   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation.
      3.   Exceed the speed limits.
      4.   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions.
   C.   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle apply
if such vehicle while in motion sounds audible signal by bell, siren or exhaust
whistle as may be reasonably necessary, and when the vehicle is equipped with
at least one lighted lamp displaying an oscillating, rotating or flashing red
beam visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of five
hundred feet (500') to the front of such vehicle, except that an authorized
emergency vehicle operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped with or
display a red light visible from in front of the vehicle, nor need the driver
of a police vehicle while in motion sound an audible signal by bell, siren or
exhaust whistle if such police vehicle is displaying an oscillating, rotating
or flashing red beam described heretofore.
   D.   The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the consequences of
his reckless disregard for the safety of others. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-1-14-6: REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO PUSHCARTS, ANIMALS:
Every person propelling any pushcart or riding an animal upon a roadway, and
every person driving any animal drawn vehicle, shall be subject to the
provisions of this title applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this title which by their very nature can have no application.
(Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-1-14-7: COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES, TOY VEHICLES:
No person upon roller skates, or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy
vehicle or similar device shall go upon any roadway except while crossing a
street on a crosswalk, and when so crossing such person shall be granted all
the rights and shall be subject to the duties applicable to pedestrians 1 .
(This section shall not apply upon any street set aside as a play street as
authorized by subsection 11-2-28B of this title.) (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 5 of this title.
11-1-14-8: ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION DEVICES:
   A.   As used in this section "electronic communication device" means an
electronic device, including, but not limited to, a hand-held wireless
telephone, hand-held personal digital assistant, or a portable or mobile
computer, but does not include a global positioning system or navigation system
or a device that is physically or electronically integrated into the motor
vehicle.
   B.   A person may not operate a motor vehicle on a roadway while using an
electronic communication device.
   C.   This section does not apply to:
      1.   A law enforcement officer or operator of an emergency vehicle while
performing his or her official duties;
      2.   A driver using an electronic communication device for the sole
purpose of reporting an emergency situation and continued communication with
emergency personnel during the emergency situation;
      3.   A driver using an electronic communication device in hands- free or
voice-operated mode, which may include the use of a headset;
      4.   A driver of a commercial motor vehicle reading a message displayed
on a permanently installed communication device designed for a commercial motor
vehicle with a screen that does not exceed ten inches (10") tall by ten inches
(10") wide in size;
      5.   A driver using an electronic communication device while parked on
the shoulder of a roadway;
      6.   A driver using an electronic communication device when the vehicle
is stopped due to normal traffic being obstructed and the driver has the motor
vehicle transmission in neutral or park;
      7.   A driver using two-way or citizens band radio services;
      8.   A driver using two-way mobile radio transmitters or receivers for
licensees of the Federal Communications Commission in the amateur radio
service;
      9.   A driver using an electronic communication device by pressing a
single button to initiate or terminate a voice communication; or
      10.   A driver using an electronic communication device capable of
performing multiple functions, other than a hand-held wireless telephone or
hand-held personal digital assistant (for example, a fleet management system,
dispatching device, citizens band radio, or music player) for a purpose that is
not otherwise prohibited by this section. (Ord. 876, 4-23-2018)
11-1-15: TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
11-1-15-1: SIGNS AND SIGNALS:
It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the instructions
of any traffic sign or signal placed in view by authority of the Corporate
Authorities or in accordance with the laws of the State of Illinois 1 ,
excepting on direction of a police officer.
All signs and signals established by the direction of the Governing Body shall
conform to the Illinois State Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices for
Streets and Highways. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/11-301 et seq.
11-1-15-2: UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS:
   A.   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be or
is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic control device or railroad
sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, nor shall
any person place, maintain or display upon or in view of any street any other
sign which hides from view or interferes with the movement of traffic or
effectiveness of any traffic control device or any sign or signal, and no
person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority permit upon any
roadway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any commercial advertising.
   B.   Any such unauthorized device is hereby declared to be a nuisance, and
may be removed by any policeman. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-1-15-3: INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNS OR SIGNALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, injure, move or interfere with
any official traffic sign or signal. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-1-15-4: PLACEMENT DEEMED NOTICE OF REGULATIONS:
All signs, signals, devices and markings installed or placed upon any street by
direction of the City Council or any officer of the State having authority to
do so shall be taken and deemed to be notice to all persons using such streets
of the regulations applicable thereto and failure to conform to such regulation
shall be deemed to be a violation of this title. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-1-16: PARTIES IN VIOLATION OF TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
   A.   Parties To Commission Of Violation: Every person who commits, attempts
to commit, conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the commission of any act
declared in this title to be unlawful or which is prohibited by this title,
whether individually or in connection with one or more other persons or as
principal, agent or accessory, shall be guilty of such offense, and every
person who falsely, fraudulently, forcibly or wilfully induces, causes,
coerces, requires, permits or directs another to violate any provision of this
title is likewise guilty of such offense.
   B.   Offenses By Persons Owning Or Controlling Vehicles: It shall be
unlawful for the owner or any other person employing or otherwise directing the
driver of any vehicle to require or knowingly permit the operation of such
vehicle upon the streets and highways of the City in any manner contrary to the
provisions of this title. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-1-17: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Arrests:
      1.   The Police Department shall patrol the public roadways and streets
of this City and make arrests for violations of this title.
      2.   The City Attorney, or any attorney at law duly appointed by the City
Council to assist him, shall prosecute the violators of this title. (Ord. 119,
1-20-1969)
CHAPTER 2
VEHICLE OPERATIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: State Driver's License Required (Rep. by Ord. 327, 11-11-1985)
11-2-2: Drivers To Exercise Care For Pedestrians
11-2-3: Driving On The Right Side Of Roadway
11-2-4: Overtaking Vehicle On The Left
11-2-5: Overtaking Vehicle On The Right
11-2-6: Overtaking At Intersections
11-2-7: Approaching And Overtaking School Buses
11-2-8: Obedience To Stop Signs And Signal Lights
11-2-9: Authorized Stop Signs And Signal Lights
11-2-10: Avoiding Traffic At Stop Signs
11-2-11: Right Of Way At Unmarked Intersections
11-2-12: Vehicles Entering Through Street Or Intersection
11-2-13: Obedience To Yield Right Of Way Signs
11-2-14: Authorized Yield Right Of Way Signs
11-2-15: Emerging From Driveway Or Building
11-2-16: Stop Required When Traffic Obstructed
11-2-17: Right Of Way Of Pedestrians
11-2-18: Traffic Signals And Devices
11-2-19: Use Of Horn And Signal Devices
11-2-20: Required Position And Method For Turning At Intersections
11-2-21: U-Turns
11-2-22: Authorized No Turn Signs
11-2-23: Speed Restrictions
11-2-24: Coasting
11-2-25: Following Too Closely
11-2-26: Use Of Headlamps
11-2-27: Starting Vehicle; Unnecessary Noise Prohibited
11-2-28: Driving Prohibited, Certain Areas
11-2-29: Limitations On Backing
11-2-30: Operation Of Vehicles On Approach Of Authorized Emergency Vehicles
11-2-31: Fire Department Vehicles; Fires
11-2-32: Towing Or Pushing Vehicles
11-2-33: Vehicle Weight And Load Limits
11-2-34: Reckless Driving
11-2-35: Drag Racing
11-2-36: Driving While Under The Influence Of Alcohol, Other Drug Or
Combination Thereof
11-2-37: Transportation Of Alcoholic Liquors
11-2-38: Damage Public Property While Driving
11-2-39: Cruising Of Public Passenger Vehicles
11-2-1: STATE DRIVER'S LICENSE REQUIRED:
(Rep. by Ord. 327, 11-11-1985)
11-2-2: DRIVERS TO EXERCISE CARE FOR PEDESTRIANS:
Every driver of a vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any
pedestrian upon any roadway and shall give warning by sounding a horn when
necessary and shall exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any
confused or incapacitated person upon a roadway. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-2-3: DRIVING ON THE RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY:
Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon the right
half of the roadway, except as follows:
   A.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement.
   B.   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair.
   C.   On a one-way street.
   D.   Upon all roadways any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal speed
of traffic at the time and the place and under the conditions then existing
shall be driven in the right hand lane available for traffic, or as close as
practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-2-4: OVERTAKING VEHICLE ON THE LEFT:
   A.   Rules: The following rules shall govern the overtaking and passing of
vehicles proceeding in the same direction, subject to those limitations,
exceptions and special rules hereinafter stated:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall not
again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle.
      2.   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his
vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
   B.   Limitations:
      1.   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing
to be completely made without interfering with the safe operation of any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction of any vehicle overtaken. In
every event the overtaking vehicle must return to the right hand side of the
roadway before coming within one hundred feet (100') of any vehicle approaching
from the opposite direction.
      2.   No vehicle shall, in overtaking and passing another vehicle or at
any other time, be driven to the left side of the roadway under the following
conditions:
         a.   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway where the driver's view is obstructed within such distance as to create
a hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite
direction.
         b.   When approaching within one hundred feet (100') of or traversing
any intersection.
         c.   The limitations in subsections B2a and B2b of this section shall
not apply upon a one-way roadway or upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement
of sufficient width for two (2) or more lanes of moving traffic in each
direction when such movement can be made with safety. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-2-5: OVERTAKING VEHICLE ON THE RIGHT:
   A.   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of another
vehicle which is making or about to make a left turn, providing there is
sufficient safe clearance distance between the turning vehicle and the right
edge of the roadway.
   B.   No person shall drive off the pavement or roadway in overtaking or
passing on the right. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-2-6: OVERTAKING AT INTERSECTIONS:
Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any unmarked
crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the roadway, the
driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not overtake or
pass such stopped vehicle until the pedestrian has cleared such overtaking
driver's traffic lane. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-2-7: APPROACHING AND OVERTAKING SCHOOL BUSES:
   A.   The driver of a vehicle, upon a street or highway within the city, upon
meeting or overtaking, from either direction, any school bus which has stopped
for the purpose of receiving or discharging schoolchildren, shall stop the
vehicle before reaching the school bus where there is in operation on the
school bus a visual signal, and said driver shall not proceed until the school
bus resumes motion or is signalled by the school bus driver to proceed, or the
visual signals are no longer actuated.
   B.   Every bus used for the transportation of schoolchildren shall bear upon
the front and rear thereof plainly visible signs containing the words "school
bus" in letters not less than eight inches (8") in height, and in addition
shall be equipped with visual signals meeting the requirements of the state law
1  which shall be actuated by the driver of said school bus whenever the brakes
are applied.
   C.   The driver of a vehicle upon a street or roadway of which the roadways
for traffic moving in opposite directions are separated by a strip of ground
which is not surfaced or suitable for vehicular traffic need not stop his
vehicle upon meeting or passing a school bus which is on the opposite roadway;
and need not stop his vehicle when driving upon a controlled access highway
when a school bus is stopped in a loading zone adjacent to the surfaced or
improved part of the controlled access highway where pedestrians are not
permitted to cross such controlled access highway. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/11-1414.
11-2-8: OBEDIENCE TO STOP SIGNS AND SIGNAL LIGHTS:
When stop signs or signal lights are erected as herein provided at or near the
entrance to any intersection, every operator of a vehicle shall stop such
vehicle at such stop sign or stop signal light or at a clearly marked stop line
before entering the intersection except when directed to proceed by a police
officer. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-2-9: AUTHORIZED STOP SIGNS AND SIGNAL LIGHTS:
   A.   Compliance Required: In accordance with the provisions of this chapter
and when signs and signals are erected giving notice thereof, all vehicular
traffic shall come to a stop on the streets described in this title.
   B.   One-Way Stop Streets:
On Algonquin at Craig.
On Beloit at Sangamon.
On Berry at Algonquin.
On Berry at Decatur.
On Cahokia at Grant.
On Cahokia at Lincoln.
On Calumet at Douglas.
On Calumet at Hamilton.
On Cavelier Road at LaSalle Boulevard.
On Craig at Decatur.
On Decatur at Algonquin.
On Decatur at Lincoln.
On Dillon at Beloit.
On Douglas at Lincoln.
On Frontenac at Joliet.
On Fulton at Grant.
On Grant at LaSalle Boulevard.
On Grant at Lincoln.
On Hamilton at Douglas.
On Hamilton at Joliet.
On Hennepin at Kaskaskia.
On Hennepin at LaSalle Boulevard.
On Joliet (100 block) at LaSalle Boulevard.
On Joliet (700 block) at LaSalle Boulevard.
On Kaskaskia at LaSalle Boulevard.
On LaSalle Boulevard at State Highway (Route 29).
On Lewis at LaSalle Boulevard.
On Logan at Lincoln.
On Pontiac at Frontenac.
On Pontiac at Lincoln.
On Radisson at Lincoln.
On Rogers at Lincoln.
On Sangamon at LaSalle Boulevard.
On Sangamon at Lincoln.
On St. Clair at LaSalle Boulevard.
On St. Clair at North Main.
On Tonti Court at Radisson Road.
On Yates at Sangamon.
On shopping center at (100) Joliet.
On parking lot, in Independence Park (600 block of LaSalle Boulevard).
On parking lot, in Independence Park (700 block of LaSalle Boulevard).
   C.   Two-Way Stop Streets:
On Joliet (600 block) at Lincoln.
On Kaskaskia at Lincoln.
On Radisson at Hennepin.
On Rogers at Lincoln.
On Sangamon at Grant.
   D.   Three-Way Stop Streets:
On Douglas at Pontiac.
On Sangamon at Dillon.
On Yates at McArthur.
   E.   Four-Way Stop Streets:
On Joliet at Douglas.
On Joliet at Lincoln (900 block).
On Sangamon at Beloit (200 block). (Ord. 816, 5-28-2013)
11-2-10: AVOIDING TRAFFIC AT STOP SIGNS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a motor vehicle upon or across any
private drive for the purpose of evading the provisions of this title in regard
to stop signs erected along through streets. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-2-11: RIGHT OF WAY AT UNMARKED INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the
right of way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection from a different
roadway.
   B.   When two (2) vehicles enter an intersection from different streets at
approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield
the right of way to the vehicle on the right.
   C.   The right of way rules declared in subsections A and B of this section
are modified at through streets as provided elsewhere in this title. (Ord. 119,
1-20-1969)
11-2-12: VEHICLES ENTERING THROUGH STREET OR INTERSECTION:
   A.   After the operator of a vehicle has stopped at the entrance to a
through street, such operator shall yield the right of way to other vehicles
which have entered the intersection from said through street or which are
approaching so closely on said through street as to constitute an immediate
hazard, but said operator having so yielded, may proceed and the operators of
all other vehicles approaching the intersection on said through street shall
yield the right of way to the vehicle so proceeding into or across the through
street.
   B.   After the operator of a vehicle has stopped in obedience to a stop
sign, at an intersection where a stop sign is erected at one or more entrances
thereto although not a part of a through street, such operator shall proceed
cautiously, yielding to vehicles not so obliged to stop which are within the
intersection or approaching so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard,
but may then proceed. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-2-13: OBEDIENCE TO YIELD RIGHT OF WAY SIGNS:
Where preference is given to traffic through any intersection on any roadway
and specified entrances to said intersections are designated as yield right of
way entrances by the erection of yield right of way signs:
   A.   The driver of a vehicle in obedience to a yield right of way sign shall
slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions or shall stop if
necessary and shall yield the right of way to other vehicles which have entered
the intersecting roadway either from the right or left or which are approaching
so closely on said intersecting roadway as to constitute an immediate hazard;
but said driver having so yielded may proceed at such time as a safe interval
occurs.
   B.   If a driver is involved in a collision at an intersection, or
interferes with the movement of other vehicles after driving past a yield right
of way sign, such collision or interference shall be deemed prima facie
evidence of the driver's failure to yield right of way. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-2-14: AUTHORIZED YIELD RIGHT OF WAY SIGNS:
   A.   Compliance Required: In accordance with the provisions of this chapter
and when "Yield Right-Of-Way" signs are erected giving notice thereof, all
vehicles traveling on the streets described in this title shall yield right of
way at the designated intersections.
   B.   Authorized Yield Right Of Way Streets:
On Clark Court at Rogers.
On Fulton Court at Decatur.
On Illinois Court at Kaskaskia.
On Kaskaskia at Joliet.
On Ottawa Court at Pontiac.
On Partridge at Pontiac (200 block).
On Partridge at Pontiac (500 block).
On Radisson at Kaskaskia.
On Rogers at Fulton.
On St. Clair (200 block). (Ord. 817, 5-28-2013)
11-2-15: EMERGING FROM DRIVEWAY OR BUILDING:
The driver of a vehicle emerging from a driveway or building shall stop such
vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area,
yielding the right of way to any pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid
collision, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the right of way to all
vehicles approaching on said roadway. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-2-16: STOP REQUIRED WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED:
No operator of a vehicle shall enter an intersection or crosswalk unless there
is sufficient space beyond such intersection or crosswalk in the direction in
which such vehicle is proceeding to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicular traffic or pedestrians. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-2-17: RIGHT OF WAY OF PEDESTRIANS:
   A.   Stop Intersections: Where stop signs are in place at an intersection or
at a plainly marked crosswalk between intersections, drivers of vehicles shall
stop before entering the nearest crosswalk and pedestrians within or entering
the crosswalk at either edge of the roadway shall have the right of way over
vehicles so stopped. Drivers of vehicles having so yielded the right of way to
pedestrians entering or within the nearest crosswalk at an intersection shall
also yield the right of way to pedestrians within any other crosswalk at the
intersection.
   B.   Crosswalks: When the movement of traffic is not controlled by official
traffic sign or a police officer, the driver of a vehicle shall yield the right
of way, slowing down or stopping if need be to so yield, to a pedestrian
crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is upon the half of
the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling, or when the pedestrian is
approaching so closely from the opposite half of the roadway as to be in
danger. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-2-18: TRAFFIC SIGNALS AND DEVICES:
   A.   When Signal Required:
      1.   No person may turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the vehicle
is in proper position upon the roadway as required in section
11-2-20 of this chapter, or turn a vehicle to enter a private road or driveway,
or otherwise turn a vehicle from a direct course or move right or left upon a
roadway unless and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. No
person may so turn any vehicle without giving an appropriate signal in the
manner hereinafter provided.
      2.   A signal of intention to turn right or left when required must be
given continuously during not less than the last one hundred feet (100')
traveled by the vehicle before turning within a business or residence district
and such signal must be given continuously during not less than the last two
hundred feet (200') traveled by the vehicle before turning outside a business
or residence district.
      3.   No person may stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided in this title
to the driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity
to give such a signal.
      4.   An electric turn signal device must be used to indicate an intention
to turn, change lanes or start from a parallel parked position but must not be
flashed on one side only on a parked or disabled vehicle or flashed as a
courtesy or "do pass" signal to operators of other vehicles approaching from
the rear.
   B.   Signal By Hand And Arm Or Signal Device: Any stop or turn signal when
required herein shall be given either by means of the hand and arm or by an
electric turn signal device.
   C.   Method Of Giving Hand And Arm Signals: All signals herein required
given by hand and arm shall be given from the left side of the vehicle in the
following manner and such signals shall indicate as follows:
      1.   Left turn: Hand and arm extended horizontally.
      2.   Right turn: Hand and arm extended upward.
      3.   Stop or decrease of speed: Hand arm extended downward. (Ord. 119, 1-
20-1969)
11-2-19: USE OF HORN AND SIGNAL DEVICES:
Every motor vehicle of the first and second division 1  when operated upon a
highway shall be equipped with a horn in good working order and capable of
emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a distance of not less than
two hundred feet (200'), but no horn or other warning device shall emit an
unreasonably loud or harsh sound or a whistle.
The driver of a motor vehicle shall, when reasonably necessary to ensure safe
operation, give audible warning with a horn but shall not otherwise use the
horn when upon the highway. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
 
Notes
1 1. See definition of "motor vehicle", section
  11-1-2 of this title.
11-2-20: REQUIRED POSITION AND METHOD FOR TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS:
The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows:
   A.   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as
close as practical to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   B.   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline where it
enters the intersection and after entering the intersection the left turn shall
be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the centerline of the
roadway being entered. Whenever practicable the left turn shall be made in that
portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the intersection.
   C.   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on one
or more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any
such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left hand lane
lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such vehicle
and after entering the intersection the left turn shall be made so as to leave
the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left hand lane lawfully
available to traffic moving in such direction upon the roadway being entered.
   D.   If the municipal highway authority has placed markers, buttons or signs
within or adjacent to intersections, thereby requiring and directing that a
different course from that specified in this section be traveled by vehicles
turning at an intersection, no driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an
intersection other than as directed and required by such markers, buttons or
signs.
   E.   The corporate authorities of the city may cause markers, buttons, signs
or signals to be placed within or adjacent to intersections and thereby require
and direct that a different course from that specified in this section be
traveled by vehicles at an intersection and when markers, buttons, signs or
signals are so placed no driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an
intersection other than as directed and required by such markers, buttons,
signs or signals. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-2-21: U-TURNS:
The driver of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in the
opposite direction:
   A.   Upon any street or part of any street where such turns are prohibited
by a traffic signal or sign so posted. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
      1.   100 block of Joliet Road in front of the school. (Ord. 272, 9-28-
1981)
   B.   At any point closer than one hundred feet (100') to any street
intersection.
   C.   Upon any curve.
   D.   Upon the approach to a grade or near the crest of a grade.
   E.   Where such vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of any other vehicle
approaching from either direction within five hundred feet (500').
   F.   When such turn cannot be made in safety and without interfering with
other traffic. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-2-22: AUTHORIZED NO TURN SIGNS:
In accordance with the provisions of subsection 11-2-20E and section
11-2-21 of this chapter and whenever authorized markers, buttons, signs or
signals are erected indicating that no right or left turn or turn in the
opposite direction is permitted, or indications that only a left turn or only a
right turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the direction of
any such marker, button, sign or signal at the places described in this title.
(Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-2-23: SPEED RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Speed Limits: The provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-601
et seq., shall be applicable on all streets within and under the jurisdiction
of the city. The absolute statutory urban speed limit shall be thirty (30)
miles per hour in streets and fifteen (15) miles per hour in alleys. The
absolute statutory nonurban speed limit shall be sixty five (65) miles per
hour. Where it has been determined on the basis of an engineering or traffic
investigation that the said speed limits are greater or less than is reasonable
or safe with respect to the conditions found to exist at any place or along any
part or zone of any street or highway, but not of any alley, the said urban
speed limits may be increased but not in excess of sixty five (65) miles per
hour and may be diminished but not to less than twenty (20) miles per hour and
said nonurban speed limits may be diminished but not to less than thirty five
(35) miles per hour, when such determination is approved by an ordinance of the
city council. Such city ordinances altering said speed limits shall be
enforceable when appropriate signs giving notice of the limits are erected at
the proper places or along the proper part or zone of the street or highway.
Such city ordinances shall be considered amendments to this subsection and the
alterations in speed limits resulting therefrom are set forth in appendix D of
the traffic code, which shall be on file in the office of the city clerk.
   B.   Due Regard For Traffic Conditions: No person shall drive any vehicle
upon any street in the city at a speed which is more than is reasonable and
proper with regard to traffic conditions and the use of the street which
endangers the safety of any person or property, or is more than the applicable
maximum speed limit established by subsections A and C of this section. The
fact that the speed of a vehicle does not exceed the applicable maximum speed
limit does not relieve the driver from the duty to decrease speed when
approaching and crossing an intersection, when approaching and going around a
curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when traveling upon any narrow or winding
roadway, or when special hazards exist with respect to pedestrians or traffic
or by reason of weather or roadway conditions; and the driver of every vehicle
shall decrease his speed to such extent as may be necessary to avoid colliding
with any person or vehicle on or entering a street in compliance with the legal
requirements and the duty of all persons to use due care.
   C.   Speed Limits In School Zones:
      1.   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at a speed in excess of twenty
(20) miles per hour while passing a school zone or while traveling upon any
public thoroughfare on or across which children pass going to and from school
during school days when schoolchildren are present.
      2.   The city council shall have erected and posted appropriate signs
upon the streets and roadways giving proper due warning that a school zone is
being approached and shall indicate the school days when schoolchildren are
present.
   D.   Minimum Speed: No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow
speed as to impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic
except when reduced speed is necessary for safe operation of his vehicle or in
compliance with the law. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-2-24: COASTING:
   A.   The driver of any motor vehicle when traveling upon a downgrade shall
not coast with the gears of such vehicle in neutral.
   B.   The driver of a motor vehicle designed to carry either freight or more
than seven (7) passengers when traveling upon a downgrade shall not coast with
the clutch disengaged. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-2-25: FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY:
The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely
than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of such
vehicles and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway. (Ord. 119, 1-
20-1969)
11-2-26: USE OF HEADLAMPS 1 :
   A.   Whenever the driver of any vehicle equipped with an electric driving
headlamp or headlamps is within five hundred feet (500') of another vehicle
approaching from the opposite direction, the driver shall dim or drop such
headlamp or headlamps.
   B.   The driver of any vehicle equipped with an electric driving headlamp or
headlamps shall dim or drop such headlamp or headlamps when there is another
vehicle traveling in the same direction less than three hundred feet (300') to
the front of him. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 11-4-6B of this title.
11-2-27: STARTING VEHICLE; UNNECESSARY NOISE PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person shall move a vehicle which is stopped, standing or parked on
any trafficway unless and until such movement can be made with reasonable
safety. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
   B.   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle which is in
motion, moving and being driven, stopped, standing or parked to so quickly
accelerate such vehicle as to cause the tires of such vehicle to emit
screeching, squealing or otherwise offensive sounds due to the spin of
accelerated tires on the roadway. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969; amd. Ord. 123, 7-21-
1969)
11-2-28: DRIVING PROHIBITED, CERTAIN AREAS:
   A.   Driving Through Processions 1 : No operator of a vehicle shall drive
between the vehicles, persons or animals comprising a funeral or other
authorized procession except when otherwise directed by a police officer. This
provision shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles.
   B.   Driving On Play Streets 2 : Whenever authorized signs are erected
indicating any street or part thereof as a play street, no person shall drive a
vehicle upon such street or portion thereof except drivers of vehicles having
business or whose residences are within such closed areas, and then any such
driver shall exercise the greatest care in driving upon any such street or
portion thereof. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
   C.   Driving Through Safety Zone: No vehicle shall at any time be driven
through or within a safety zone 3 .
   D.   Driving On Or Across Median Dividers: Whenever any street or highway
has been divided into two (2) roadways by leaving an intervening space or by a
physical barrier or a clearly indicated dividing section so constructed as to
impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle shall be driven only upon the right
hand roadway and no vehicle shall be driven over, across or within any such
dividing space, barrier or section, except through an opening in such barrier,
dividing section or space, or at a crossover or intersection established by
public authority.
   E.   Driving On Wet Paint Markings: It shall be unlawful for the driver of
any vehicle to drive on or across any freshly painted roadway marking, when
such marking is clearly evidenced to still be wet by virtue of painting
equipment in operation upon or near said markings. The temporary placement of
rubber marking cones or similar devices along or upon any pavement marking
shall similarly give evidence that such markings are wet.
   F.   Driving From Or Onto Controlled Access Highway: No person shall drive a
vehicle onto or from the roadway of any controlled access highway except at
such entrances and exits as are established by public authority. (Ord. 119, 1-
20-1969; amd. Ord. 593, 9-9-2000)
 
Notes
1 2. See also section
  11-1-7 of this title.
2 3. See also section
  11-1-14-7 of this title.
3 1. See chapter 7 of this title.
11-2-29: LIMITATIONS ON BACKING:
   A.   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement
can be made with safety and without interfering with other traffic.
   B.   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same upon any controlled
access highway. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-2-30: OPERATION OF VEHICLES ON APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   A.   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making
use of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of this title or a
police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible or visual signal,
the driver of every other vehicle on the same roadway shall yield the right of
way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel to and as close as
possible to, the right hand edge or curb of the highway clear of any
intersection and shall stop if possible and remain in such position until the
authorized emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
police officer.
   B.   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the highway. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-2-31: FIRE DEPARTMENT VEHICLES; FIRES:
   A.   Duty Of Drivers: Upon the approach of a fire department vehicle,
drivers of vehicles shall comply with the provision of section
11-2-30 of this chapter relating to the approach of authorized emergency
vehicles.
   B.   Following Fire Apparatus: It shall be unlawful for the driver of any
vehicle, other than one on official business, to follow any fire apparatus in
response to a fire alarm closer than five hundred feet (500'), or to drive into
or park such vehicle within the block where fire vehicles have stopped in
answer to a fire alarm.
   C.   Crossing Fire Hose: No vehicle shall be driven over an unprotected hose
of the fire department when laid down on any street or private driveway to be
used at any fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the fire department
official in command. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-2-32: TOWING OR PUSHING VEHICLES:
   A.   When one vehicle is towing another, the drawbar or other connection
shall be of sufficient strength to pull all the weight towed thereby, and the
drawbar or other connection shall not exceed fifteen feet (15') from one
vehicle to the other, except for the connection between any two (2) vehicles
transporting poles, pipes, machinery or other objects of structural nature
which cannot readily be dismembered.
   B.   Outside a business, residential or suburban district or on any
controlled access highway, no vehicle other than a pole trailer or a
semitrailer which is being towed by a truck trailer and is connected by the
means of a fifth wheel shall be towed on a roadway except by a drawbar and such
vehicle so towed shall, in addition, be coupled with two (2) safety chains or
cables to the towing vehicle. Such chains or cables shall be of sufficient size
and strength to prevent the towed vehicle from parting from the drawing vehicle
in case the drawbar should break or become disengaged.
   C.   When one vehicle is towing another and the connection consists of a
chain, rope or cable, there shall be displayed upon such connection a yellow
flag or cloth not less than sixteen inches (16") square.
   D.   No person shall push a vehicle with another vehicle upon any public way
for a distance greater than six hundred feet (600').
   E.   Every disabled vehicle being pushed or towed on any public way between
the hour of sunset and the hour of sunrise shall display a red light plainly
visible from a distance of at least five hundred feet (500') to the sides and
rear thereof. Said red light shall be in addition to any other lights required
by any law or ordinance.
   F.   No person shall drive any vehicle pushing or towing a disabled vehicle
at a rate of speed greater than is reasonable and proper having regard to the
traffic and the use of the way or so as to endanger life or limb or injure the
property of any person. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-2-33: VEHICLE WEIGHT AND LOAD LIMITS:
   A.   Load Limits: It shall be unlawful to drive on any street, any motor
vehicle with projecting loads or of a width in excess of that permitted by the
State Traffic Law for driving on improved highways.
   B.   Weight Limitations: No vehicle or combination of vehicles equipped with
pneumatic tires shall be operated, unladen or with load, upon any City street
except streets designated as State highways when the gross weight of said
vehicle or combination of vehicles exceeds sixteen thousand (16,000) pounds.
The foregoing limitation shall not apply to trucks or vehicles going upon City
streets for the purpose of loading or unloading cargo or merchandise within the
City, or to any service or utility vehicles or vehicles used in garbage
collection. The weight limitation for trucks or vehicles going upon City
streets for the purpose of loading or unloading cargo or merchandise within the
City, or for any service or utility vehicle or vehicle used in garbage
collection, shall be the same weight limitations as those provided in the
Illinois Vehicle Code for trucks and vehicles operating on highways in the
State of Illinois.
   C.   Permanent Weight Limitations On Certain City Streets:
      1.   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, no vehicle or combination
of vehicles equipped with pneumatic tires shall be operated, unladed or with
load, upon any street as deemed necessary to prevent damage when the gross
weight of said vehicle or combination of vehicles exceeds eight thousand
(8,000) pounds.
      2.   The limitations set forth in subsection C1 of this section shall not
apply to the following:
         a.   All firefighting apparatus and equipment for snow and ice removal
operations owned or operated by any governmental body and all vehicles,
equipment and apparatus operating under the jurisdiction and/or direction of
the City of Marquette Heights, any law enforcement agency in the State and/or
County or the Tazewell County Emergency Services Department, shall be exempt
from these limitations; and all vehicles, equipment and apparatus operating to
restore gas, electric, water or sewer services in an emergency due to an
unplanned disruption of service shall be exempt from these limitations.
         b.   School buses shall be exempt from these limitations.
         c.   Vehicles used in garbage collection shall be exempt from these
limitations.
      3.   Upon application and good cause being shown, the City may issue a
special permit authorizing the applicant to operate a vehicle at gross weights
in excess of the limitations set forth in this subsection upon showing an undue
hardship on the operator of said vehicle or upon a showing that said vehicle
cannot reasonably be dismantled or disassembled in such a manner as to comply
with the weight limitations contained in this subsection. Authorizing agents
for the City shall include: Public Works Director, Street Foreman, Street
Chairman or Mayor. (Ord. 886, 5-28-2019)
Any person violating any provision of this section shall be fined not less than
seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for
each offense and each violation on any day shall be considered a separate
offense. (Ord. 772, 1-11-2010)
11-2-34: RECKLESS DRIVING:
   A.   Any person who drives any vehicle with a wilful or wanton disregard for
the safety of persons or property is guilty of reckless driving. (Ord. 119, 1-
20-1969)
   B.   Every person convicted of reckless driving shall be punished upon
conviction by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) 1 . (Ord. 235, 7-10-1978)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 7 of this title.
11-2-35: DRAG RACING:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, as an operator of a motor vehicle,
to participate in drag racing. For the purposes of this section, "drag racing"
means the act of two (2) or more individuals competing or racing on any street
or highway in the city in a situation in which one of the motor vehicles is
beside or to the rear of a motor vehicle operated by a competing driver and the
one driver attempts to prevent the competing driver from passing or overtaking
him, either by acceleration or maneuver, or one or more individuals competing
in a race against time on any street or highway within the city. (Ord. 119, 1-
20-1969)
   B.   Any person who, as an operator of a motor vehicle, is convicted of
being a participant in drag racing shall be punished by a fine of not less than
one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
(Ord. 235, 7-10-1978)
11-2-36: DRIVING WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL, OTHER DRUG OR
COMBINATION THEREOF:
There is hereby incorporated by reference and adopted as a part of this code,
the following sections of chapter 625 of the Illinois Compiled Statutes, in
haec verba, as follows:
   A.   Section 5/11-501, in its entirety;
   B.   All other sections of chapter 625 as are referenced in section 5/11-501
or are applicable thereto (excepting only the penalty provision thereof, which
shall be governed by this code); and
   C.   All in the form as same now exist or as same may from time to time
hereafter be amended. (Ord. 436, 11-23-1992)
11-2-37: TRANSPORTATION OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUORS:
No person shall transport, carry, possess or have any alcoholic liquor in or
upon or about any motor vehicle except in the original package and with the
seal unbroken. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-2-38: DAMAGE PUBLIC PROPERTY WHILE DRIVING:
No person shall damage or destroy any public property of the city while driving
or operating a vehicle within the city nor in any manner cause same to be done.
(Ord. 123, 7-21-1969; amd. Ord. 436, 11-23-1992)
11-2-39: CRUISING OF PUBLIC PASSENGER VEHICLES:
No operator of a public passenger vehicle shall solicit business in such manner
as to interfere with the lawful movement of traffic. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
CHAPTER 3
STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING
SECTION:
11-3-1: Signs Posted
11-3-2: Authorized City Parking Strip
11-3-3: Lamps On Parked Vehicles
11-3-4: Parking Prohibited In Specified Places; Other Restrictions
11-3-5: Parking Restrictions, Certain Streets (Rep. by Ord. 326, 11-11-1985)
11-3-6: Vehicles For Sale (Rep. by Ord. 592, 9-9-2000)
11-3-7: Obstructing Traffic (Rep. by Ord. 684, 12-15-2004)
11-3-8: Parking In Private Parking Lots
11-3-9: Authority To Prohibit Parking
11-3-10: Abandonment Of Vehicles
11-3-11: Reserved
11-3-12: Stopping, Standing, Parking Of Buses
11-3-13: Bus Stands
11-3-14: Parking Of Certain Vehicles On Public Streets
11-3-15: Emergency Authority To Move Vehicles
11-3-16: Snow Removal
11-3-17: Street Cleaning
11-3-18: Vehicle Registrant Presumed Responsible For Parking Violations
11-3-19: Notice On Illegally Parked Vehicles
11-3-20: Impounding Vehicles
11-3-21: Designated Parking For Handicapped Persons
11-3-22: Settlement Option For Alleged Violations
11-3-1: SIGNS POSTED:
Appropriate signs shall be posted in all areas where parking is limited or
prohibited, indicating such limitations or prohibitions. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-3-2: AUTHORIZED CITY PARKING STRIP:
   A.   A strip of land two hundred feet (200') long and eight feet (8') wide
on the north side of LaSalle Boulevard between St. Clair and Highway 29 shall
be a parking area, said strip of land being more particularly described as
follows:
A strip of land eight feet (8') wide on the north side of LaSalle Boulevard
commencing approximately three hundred seventy feet (370') east of the center
of Highway 29 in the city of Marquette Heights, Illinois.
   B.   Parking on said strip on the north side of LaSalle Boulevard shall be
parallel with LaSalle Boulevard.
   C.   No parking on said strip shall exceed twelve (12) hours for day or
night. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-3-3: LAMPS ON PARKED VEHICLES 1 :
   A.   Whenever a vehicle is lawfully parked at nighttime upon any lighted
street within a business or residence district, no lights need be displayed
upon such vehicle.
   B.   Whenever a vehicle is parked upon an unlighted street or highway during
the hours between sunset and sunrise, such vehicle shall be equipped with one
or more lamps which shall exhibit a white light on the roadway side visible
from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the front of the vehicle and a
red light visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the rear.
   C.   Any lighted headlamps upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or
dimmed. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 11-4-6 of this title.
11-3-4: PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES; OTHER RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Prohibited Areas: No person shall park a vehicle, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or traffic control device, in any of the following places:
      1.   In front of a public or private driveway.
      2.   Within an intersection.
      3.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
      4.   On a crosswalk.
      5.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at any intersection.
      6.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing beacon or
stop sign located at the side of the roadway.
      7.   Across any sidewalk, or in any way blocking any sidewalk.
      8.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station and on the side of the street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within seventy five feet (75') of said entrance when properly signposted.
      9.   Upon any parkway except in case of emergency.
      10.   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
      11.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
such parking would obstruct traffic.
      12.   On the roadway side of any vehicle parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
      13.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
      14.   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand, or park any
vehicle or to otherwise occupy or block any space designated by an official
sign as a fire lane. (Ord. 366, 6-27-1988)
   B.   Parking At Curb: No vehicle shall be parked with the left side of such
vehicle next to the curb, except on one-way streets, and it shall be unlawful
to stand or park any vehicle in a street or other than parallel with the curb
and with the front and rear wheels of the vehicle more than twelve inches (12")
from the regularly established curb line, excepting those streets that have
been marked for angle parking. Vehicles shall be parked at an angle to the curb
on streets marked for angle parking as indicated by such marks.
It shall be unlawful for any vehicle, whether parked parallel or on an angle to
the curb, to be parked with any of its wheels beyond the regularly established
curb line. (Ord. 177, 6-10-1974)
   C.   Unattended Vehicles: No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle
shall permit it to stand unattended without first stopping the engine, locking
the ignition and removing the key, or when standing upon any perceptible grade
without effectively setting the brake thereon and turning the front wheels to
the curb or side of the highway.
   D.   Vehicles Obstructing Traffic: The operator of a vehicle shall not
operate or allow the same to remain upon any street in such manner as to form
an unreasonable obstruction to the traffic thereon. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
   E.   Parking On Private Property: Parking or storage of any motor vehicle,
boat or trailer of any kind is prohibited between the street and the setback
line at any location other than on a properly paved driveway on all properties
located within either the A single-family dwelling district or the B single-
family larger homes district; provided, however, that a vehicle may be parked
between the sidewalk and the setback line of any such property under the
following circumstances:
      1.   While loading or unloading the vehicle.
      2.   While assisting a handicapped person entering or exiting the
vehicle.
      3.   During any period when the driveway serving the property is being
repaired provided that the period of repair does not exceed fifteen (15) days.
      4.   When parking on the street adjoining the property is prohibited
pursuant to section
11-3-16 of this chapter for purposes of snow removal.
      5.   During the period of any parking ban imposed by the police
department on the street adjoining the property. (Ord. 815, 2-25-2013)
11-3-5: PARKING RESTRICTIONS, CERTAIN STREETS:
(Rep. by Ord. 326, 11-11-1985)
11-3-6: VEHICLES FOR SALE:
(Rep. by Ord. 592, 9-9-2000)
11-3-7: OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC:
(Rep. by Ord. 684, 12-15-2004)
11-3-8: PARKING IN PRIVATE PARKING LOTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized or invited to do so to park
a vehicle on private property or in a private parking lot, which has been
established voluntarily or pursuant to the zoning title of this code, which
provides for off street parking facilities for tenants or employees of the
owner of said lot. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-3-9: AUTHORITY TO PROHIBIT PARKING:
   A.   On City Property: It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle
upon any property owned by the city and used for the transaction of public
business where such parking is prohibited by order of the custodian of said
property. This subsection shall not apply to city owned vehicles nor to other
vehicles whose operation is useful or essential to the proper functioning of
the department, board or commission occupying the property. The custodian of
the property shall post "No Parking" signs indicating the foregoing
prohibition.
   B.   Adjacent To Schools, Playgrounds:
      1.   The city council is hereby authorized to erect signs indicating no
parking upon that side of any street adjacent to any school property or
playground when such parking interferes with traffic or creates a hazardous
situation.
      2.   When official signs are erected indicating no parking upon that side
of a street adjacent to any school property or playground, no person shall park
a vehicle in any such designated place. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
   C.   Parking And Traffic Regulations At Grade Schools:
      1.   There shall be posted by the authority of the city council parking
and traffic control signs at the Rogers School in accordance with the
provisions of diagram A following this subsection; and there shall be posted by
the authority of the city council parking and traffic control signs at Middle
School in accordance with the provisions of diagram B following this
subsection; there shall posted by the authority of the city council, parking
and traffic control signs at the Marquette Grade School in accordance with the
provisions of diagram C following this subsection. (Ord. 281, 1-11-1982; amd.
Ord. 323, 8-12-1985)
      2.   The flow and parking of motor vehicles on the grounds of Rogers
School, Middle School and Marquette School in the city shall be in accordance
with the directives of the parking and traffic control signs posted pursuant to
the authority of subsection C1 of this section and it shall be unlawful for the
operator of any motor vehicle to drive or park a motor vehicle on the grounds
of Rogers School, Middle School or Marquette School contrary to the directives
of said parking and traffic control signs. (Ord. 323, 8-12-1985)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5870daa10810e46cc30f27bcce65b1982f021c1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1848.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5870daa10810e46cc30f27bcce65b1982f021c1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1850.gif]
(Ord. 281, 1-11-1982)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5870daa10810e46cc30f27bcce65b1982f021c1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1852.gif]
(Ord. 323, 8-12-1985)
11-3-10: ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES:
   A.   Abandonment Prohibited: No person shall abandon any vehicle within the
city and no person shall leave any vehicle at any place within the city for
such time and under such circumstances as to cause such vehicle reasonably to
appear to have been abandoned.
   B.   Leaving Of Wrecked, Nonoperating Vehicles On Street: No person shall
leave any partially dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked or junked vehicle on any
street or roadway in the city 1 .
   C.   Nuisance Declared: Inoperable motor vehicles, as defined herein,
whether on public or private property, are hereby declared to be a nuisance.
   D.   Notice To Remove: All persons are required to dispose of any inoperable
motor vehicles under their control upon written notice received from the police
department commanding such disposition of said inoperable motor vehicle. (Ord.
119, 1-20-1969)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  10-6-1 of this code.
11-3-11: RESERVED:
(Ord. 653, 11-25-2002)
11-3-12: STOPPING, STANDING, PARKING OF BUSES:
   A.   The driver of a bus shall not stand or park such vehicle upon any
street at any place other than at a designated bus stand or bus terminal.
   B.   The driver of a bus shall not stop such vehicle upon any street at any
place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers other than at a
designated bus stop, bus stand, passenger loading zone or bus terminal except
in case of an emergency.
   C.   The driver of a bus shall enter a bus zone or passenger loading zone on
a public street in such a manner that the bus, when stopped to load or unload
passengers, shall be in a position with the right front wheel of such bus not
further than eighteen inches (18") from the curb and the bus approximately
parallel to the curb so as not to unduly impede the movement of other vehicular
traffic. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-3-13: BUS STANDS:
No vehicle other than a bus shall be parked in a place so designated as a bus
loading zone. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-3-14: PARKING OF CERTAIN VEHICLES ON PUBLIC STREETS:
Unless otherwise specifically permitted in this section, no person shall park
or cause or permit any vehicle to stand on any street, roadway, public way or
parkway in the city except when such vehicle is actually delivering, unloading
or loading personal property to or from nearby premises and a qualified
operator is tending and in control of the vehicle.
   A.   The following motor vehicles are exempt from the provisions of this
section provided that any such vehicle when parked on a street or roadway does
not reduce the available road surface between the vehicle and the curb on the
side of the street opposite to the side on which the vehicle is parked to less
than sixteen feet (16') when measured perpendicular to the face of the curb on
the opposite side of the street to a point on the vehicle which is closest to
that curb, and provided further that any such vehicle contains no
modifications, accessories or loads which protrude from the exterior of the
vehicle in such a fashion as to impede, restrict or jeopardize the safety of
pedestrians:
      1.   Motor vehicle of the first division.
      2.   Motorcycles.
      3.   Trucks which carry a manufacturer's load rating of one ton or less.
      4.   Vehicles owned by the city of Marquette Heights, the state of
Illinois, or the United States.
   B.   Recreational vehicles shall be exempt from the provisions of this
section during the period of time each day which begins at seven o'clock (7:00)
A.M. and ends at sunset provided that any such vehicle when parked on a street
or roadway does not reduce the available road surface between the vehicle and
the curb on the side of the street opposite to the side on which the vehicle is
parked to less than sixteen feet (16') when measured perpendicular to the face
of the curb on the opposite side of the street to a point on the vehicle which
is closest to that curb and provided further that any such vehicle contains no
modifications, accessories or loads which protrude from the exterior of the
vehicle in such a fashion as to impede, restrict or jeopardize the safety of
pedestrians. (Ord. 653, 11-25-2002)
11-3-15: EMERGENCY AUTHORITY TO MOVE VEHICLES:
When any emergency arises necessitating the removal of any vehicle upon any
public way, members of the department of police are hereby authorized to remove
or have removed any such vehicle from one location to any other location. (Ord.
119, 1-20-1969)
11-3-16: SNOW REMOVAL:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any automobile or other
vehicle, or allow or permit same to be done on any street in the city, while
the city is operating a snowplow upon said streets for the purpose of removing
snow therefrom. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
   B.   It shall be the duty of the owner of any automobile or vehicle to
remove any automobile or vehicle from the street immediately after snow has
fallen and accumulated on said street to an amount of one inch (1"), which
accumulation of snow requires its removal by the city in order to allow traffic
thereon. (Ord. 158, 2-19-1973)
   C.   In the event that the owner of an automobile or vehicle shall refuse or
neglect to remove said automobile or vehicle as provided in subsection B of
this section, then in that event, the city, by its police officers or city
officials, shall have the right to have said automobile or vehicle removed from
the street by a private or public wrecker, truck or automobile at the expense
of the automobile or vehicle owner; and a violation of this section shall
constitute a separate offense for each day of such violation. (Ord. 669, 12-8-
2003)
11-3-17: STREET CLEANING:
It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on any public street or portion
thereof in the city at any time when such street is being cleaned. Signs
indicating that a street or portion thereof is being cleaned shall be posted
before the cleaning of the street, and shall be removed after the cleaning of
the street is finished. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-3-18: VEHICLE REGISTRANT PRESUMED RESPONSIBLE FOR PARKING VIOLATIONS:
Whenever any vehicle shall have been parked in violation of any provisions
prohibiting or restricting parking, the person in whose name such vehicle is
registered shall be prima facie responsible for such violation and subject to
the penalty therefor. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-3-19: NOTICE ON ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES:
   A.   Whenever any vehicle is parked in violation of the provisions of any
city ordinance prohibiting or restricting parking and there is no person in
attendance upon such parked vehicle to be arrested or served immediately with a
traffic violation notice to appear in court to answer the charge of such
violation, any police officer observing such violation may attach to the
vehicle used in such violation, a traffic violation notice requiring that the
person in whose name such vehicle is registered appear in court on a day
certain named in such notice and answer to the charge of such violation.
   B.   When any vehicle is parked in a private parking lot in violation of
section
11-3-8 of this chapter and there is no person in attendance upon such parked
vehicle to be arrested or in attendance upon such parked vehicle to be served
immediately with a traffic violation notice to appear in court to answer the
charge of such violation, any police officer upon a written complaint signed by
the owner or proprietor of the lot, or by his authorized agent, that the
vehicle is not entitled to the privileges of the parking lot may attach to the
vehicle a traffic violation notice as provided herein.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than the driver of the
vehicle to which said notice is attached, to remove the same from said vehicle.
(Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-3-20: IMPOUNDING VEHICLES:
The chief of police or any member of his department designated by him is hereby
authorized to remove or have removed any vehicle left at any place within the
city which reasonably appears to be in violation of this chapter or which
reasonably appears to be lost, stolen or unclaimed, or which is an inoperable
vehicle as defined herein 1 . Such vehicle shall be impounded until lawfully
claimed or disposed of in accordance with 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-
201 et seq. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969; amd. Ord. 436, 11-23-1992)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  11-1-2 of this title.
11-3-21: DESIGNATED PARKING FOR HANDICAPPED PERSONS:
   A.   Designation Of Certain Parking Areas For Handicapped Persons:
      1.   Whenever signs are posted in specific areas, public or private,
which designate such specific areas as parking for handicapped persons, no
person shall park a vehicle within such an area, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with directions of a police
officer or traffic control device.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person or operator, except physically
handicapped persons or those transporting physically handicapped persons, to
park a vehicle any time in any area designated for physically handicapped,
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with directions of a police officer or other traffic control device.
      3.   Physically handicapped persons and transporters of physically
handicapped persons who have been issued handicapped license plates, or other
such identifying sticker placed in an area of visibility on a vehicle, by a
governmental unit may park vehicles in designated handicapped areas for periods
not to exceed three (3) hours at any time.
      4.   Any vehicle parked in a handicapped parking space must display a
handicapped license plate, or other such identifying sticker placed in an area
of visibility on a vehicle, issued by a governmental unit thus indicating the
right to park in the handicapped area under this section.
   B.   Fine And Enforcement: Any person found guilty of violating any
provision of this section shall be fined two hundred dollars ($200.00). Such
person shall also pay all required court costs. Any person receiving a citation
for violating any provision of this section shall be allowed to pay said fine
for a period of fourteen (14) days at the city clerk's office, 715 Lincoln
Road, prior to the citation being filed for prosecution in circuit court. (Ord.
508, 10-28-1996)
11-3-22: SETTLEMENT OPTION FOR ALLEGED VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Prior to the commencement of any action in circuit court, law
enforcement officers of the city may in their discretion provide any person
alleged to have violated any regulation governing stopping, standing or parking
as set forth in this chapter with notice of such alleged violation through the
issuance of a parking citation. (Ord. 551, 4-26-1999)
   B.   A parking citation issued under authority of this section shall be in
writing in a format approved by the chief of police in consultation with the
city attorney. Such parking citation shall constitute an offer to settle an
alleged violation under the following conditions:
      1.   The alleged violation, with the exception of a parking citation
written for violation of section
11-3-16 of this chapter pertaining to snow removal, may be settled within seven
(7) days after the date on which the parking citation is issued by the payment
of fifteen dollars ($15.00). A parking citation written for violation of
section
11-3-16 of this chapter pertaining to snow removal may be settled within seven
(7) days after the date on which the parking citation is issued by the payment
of twenty five dollars ($25.00).
      2.   The alleged violation, with the exception of a parking citation
written for violation of section
11-3-16 of this chapter pertaining to snow removal, may be settled within
fourteen (14) days after the date on which the parking citation is issued by
the payment of twenty five dollars ($25.00). A parking citation written for
violation of section
11-3-16 of this chapter pertaining to snow removal may be settled within
fourteen (14) days after the date on which the parking citation is issued by
the payment of forty dollars ($40.00).
      3.   The alleged violation, with the exception of a parking citation
written for violation of section
11-3-16 of this chapter pertaining to snow removal, may be settled within
thirty (30) days after the date on which the parking citation is issued by the
payment of fifty dollars ($50.00). A parking citation written for violation of
section
11-3-16 of this chapter pertaining to snow removal may be settled within thirty
(30) days after the date on which the parking citation is issued by the payment
of seventy dollars ($70.00).
      4.   Anything in this chapter to the contrary notwithstanding, alleged
violations of section
11-3-21 of this chapter pertaining to designated parking for handicapped
persons may be settled only by the payment of two hundred dollars ($200.00).
(Ord. 738, 11-26-2007)
   C.   Any offer of settlement represented by the issuance of a parking
citation may be accepted within the time limits hereinabove set forth by
payment of the appropriate amount at the office of the city clerk at the city
hall.
   D.   Should any alleged offender fail to accept the offer of settlement
represented by the issuance of a parking citation within thirty (30) days after
the issuance of that citation, such offer of settlement shall automatically
expire. Upon expiration of such offer of settlement, any law enforcement
officer of the city may without further notice to the alleged offender file a
complaint in Tazewell County circuit court charging the alleged offender with
one or more violations of this chapter. Upon conviction, the general penalty
provisions of this code shall apply; provided, however, that persons convicted
of violating section
11-3-21 of this chapter pertaining to designated parking for handicapped
persons shall be subject to the special penalty set forth in that section.
(Ord. 551, 4-26-1999)
CHAPTER 4
VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND INSPECTION
SECTION:
11-4-1: Driving Unsafe Vehicles Prohibited
11-4-2: Mufflers
11-4-3: Gas And Smoke
11-4-4: Brakes
11-4-5: Horn
11-4-6: Lights
11-4-7: Signal Lamps And Signal Devices
11-4-8: Nonskid Devices
11-4-9: Width, Length And Height; Projecting Loads
11-4-10: Spilling Loads
11-4-11: Authority Of Police To Inspect Vehicles
11-4-1: DRIVING UNSAFE VEHICLES PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to drive or move or for the owner to cause to or
knowingly permit to be driven or moved on any highway any vehicle or
combination of vehicles which is in such unsafe condition as to endanger any
person or property, or which does not contain those parts or is not at all
times equipped with such lamps and other equipment in proper condition and
adjustment as required by this chapter, or which is equipped in any manner in
violation hereof. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-4-2: MUFFLERS:
   A.   Every motor vehicle driven or operated upon the streets and highways of
the city shall at all times be equipped with an adequate muffler or exhaust
system in constant operation and properly maintained to prevent any excessive
or unusual noise. No such muffler or exhaust system shall be equipped with a
cutoff, bypass or similar device. No person shall modify the exhaust system of
a motor vehicle in a manner which will amplify or increase the noise of such
vehicle above that emitted by the muffler originally installed on the vehicle,
and such original muffler shall comply with all the requirements of this
section.
   B.   As used in this section, "muffler" means a device consisting of a
series of chambers or baffle plates or other mechanical design for the purpose
of receiving exhaust gas from an internal combustion engine and effective in
reducing noise. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-4-3: GAS AND SMOKE:
It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle which emits dense smoke or such an
amount of smoke or fumes as to be dangerous to the health of persons or as to
endanger the drivers of other vehicles. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-4-4: BRAKES:
It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle upon a city street unless such
vehicle is equipped with brakes in good working condition, or to operate any
vehicle which is so loaded that the operator does not have ready access to the
mechanics operating the brakes of such vehicle. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-4-5: HORN:
   A.   Every motor vehicle of the first and second division 1  when operated
upon a highway shall be equipped with a horn in good working order and capable
of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a distance of not less
than two hundred feet (200'), but no horn or other warning device shall emit an
unreasonable loud or harsh sound or a whistle.
   B.   No vehicle shall be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a
vehicle any siren, whistle or bell, except as otherwise permitted by section
11-2-19 of this title and this section. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
 
Notes
1 1. See definition of "motor vehicle", section
  11-1-2 of this title.
11-4-6: LIGHTS:
   A.   Parked Vehicles: It shall be unlawful to operate or park on any street
any vehicle not equipped with adequate lights conforming to the requirements of
this title; provided, that vehicles may be parked at nighttime without lights
on any street or portion thereof, designated by city ordinance as a place where
vehicles may be so parked at nighttime.
   B.   Lights Required: During the period from sunset to sunrise, or at any
other time when visibility is so limited as to require the use of lights for
safety, every motorcycle operated on any street or other public place in the
city shall carry and exhibit one lighted lamp commonly known as a driving light
and every motor vehicle shall exhibit two (2) such lighted lamps showing white
lights, or lights of a yellow or amber tint, visible at least five hundred feet
(500') in the direction toward which each motorcycle or motor vehicle is
proceeding; and each motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer shall also exhibit
at least two (2) lighted lamps which shall be so situated as to throw a red
light visible for at least five hundred feet (500') in the reverse direction;
provided, that every trailer having a gross weight of three thousand (3,000)
pounds or less equipped with two (2) lighted lamps, one on each side of the
rear of such trailer which shall be so situated as to throw a red light visible
for at least five hundred feet (500') in the reverse direction.
   C.   Lamps On Vehicles Owned By Firemen: Any motor vehicle owned or fully
operated by any fireman may be equipped with not to exceed two (2) lamps which
shall emit a blue light without glare. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-4-7: SIGNAL LAMPS AND SIGNAL DEVICES:
Every motor vehicle and trailer having a gross weight of three thousand (3,000)
pounds and less, including the weight of the trailer and the maximum load,
shall be equipped with a signal lamp or signal device which is so constructed
and located on the vehicle as to give a signal of the intention to stop which
shall be red or yellow in color, and signals of intention to turn visible and
understandable in normal sunlight and at night from a distance of one hundred
feet (100') to the rear but shall not project a dazzling or glaring light;
except that a stop signal need be visible only from the rear.
Any trailer having a gross weight of three thousand (3,000) pounds or less,
including the weight of the trailer and maximum load, need not be equipped with
such turn signal device unless the distance from the steering wheel of the
swing vehicle to the left outside limits of such trailer body exceeds twenty
four inches (24").
All mechanical signal devices shall be self-illuminated during the period from
sunset to sunrise or when visibility is limited as to require the use of lights
for safety. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-4-8: NONSKID DEVICES:
It shall be unlawful to operate upon any city street any motor vehicle equipped
with any nonskid device so constructed that any rigid or nonflexible portion
thereof comes into contact with the pavement or roadway. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-4-9: WIDTH, LENGTH AND HEIGHT; PROJECTING LOADS:
No passenger type vehicle shall be operated on the streets of the city with a
load extending beyond the line of the fenders on the left side of the vehicle
nor extending beyond the line of the fenders on the right side thereof. (Ord.
119, 1-20-1969)
11-4-10: SPILLING LOADS:
   A.   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any city streets unless such
vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, shifting, leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand
may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water or other
substance may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining such
roadway.
   B.   No person shall operate on any city streets any vehicle with any load
unless said load and any covering thereon is securely fastened so as to prevent
said covering or load from becoming loose, detached or in any manner a hazard
to other users of the streets.
   C.   No person shall operate on any public street within the city any truck
or other vehicle when mud, sand or other like substance is likely to be thrown
off the tires or treads of such vehicle and deposited on the streets in
noticeable quantities. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-4-11: AUTHORITY OF POLICE TO INSPECT VEHICLES:
All police officers are hereby empowered at all times to inspect any vehicle to
determine its compliance with the equipment and other provisions of this title.
(Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
CHAPTER 5
PEDESTRIANS
SECTION:
11-5-1: Pedestrians Subject To Traffic Control Signals
11-5-2: Pedestrian's Right Of Way At Crossing
11-5-3: Crossing By Shortest Route, Suddenly Leaving Curb
11-5-4: Prohibited Crossings
11-5-5: Use Of Sidewalks
11-5-6: Blind Persons, Right Of Way
11-5-7: Soliciting Rides
11-5-8: Pedestrians To Exercise Due Care
11-5-1: PEDESTRIANS SUBJECT TO TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNALS:
Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic control signals at intersections as
provided by law but at all other places pedestrians shall be accorded the
privileges and shall be subject to the restrictions as stated in this chapter.
(Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-5-2: PEDESTRIAN'S RIGHT OF WAY AT CROSSING 1 :
   A.   Where traffic control signals are not in place or in operation the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way, slowing down or stopping if
need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within any marked
crosswalk, or within any unmarked crosswalk at an intersection, except as
otherwise provided in this chapter 2 .
   B.   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
   C.   Whenever stop signs are in place at an intersection or at a plainly
marked crosswalk between intersections, pedestrians shall have the right of way
over drivers of vehicles. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 11-2-17 of this title.
2 2. See also section
  11-2-2 of this title.
11-5-3: CROSSING BY SHORTEST ROUTE, SUDDENLY LEAVING CURB:
   A.   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway at any place other than by a route
at right angles to the curb or by the shortest route to the opposite curb
except in a marked crosswalk.
   B.   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and
walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close that it is impossible
for the driver to yield. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-5-4: PROHIBITED CROSSINGS:
No pedestrians shall cross a roadway other than in a crosswalk in any business
district. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-5-5: USE OF SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Where sidewalks are provided, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian
to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway except at a crosswalk.
   B.   Persons shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks and sidewalks. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-5-6: BLIND PERSONS, RIGHT OF WAY:
Any blind person who is carrying in a raised or extended position a cane or
walking stick which is white in color or white tipped with red, or who is being
guided by a dog, shall have the right of way in crossing any street or highway,
whether or not traffic on such street or highway is controlled by traffic
signals, anything in this chapter to the contrary notwithstanding. The driver
of every vehicle approaching the place where a blind person, so carrying such a
cane or walking stick or being so guided, is crossing a street or highway shall
bring his vehicle to a full stop and before proceeding shall take such
precautions as may be necessary to avoid injury to the blind person. The
provisions of this section shall not apply to a blind person who is not
carrying a white cane or walking stick or guided by a dog, but the other
provisions of this chapter relating to pedestrians shall then be applicable to
such person. However, the failure of a blind person to so use or carry such a
cane or walking stick or to be guided by a guide dog when walking on streets,
highways or sidewalks shall not be considered evidence of contributory
negligence. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-5-7: SOLICITING RIDES:
No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a ride from
the driver of any private vehicle. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-5-8: PEDESTRIANS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE:
Nothing in this chapter shall relieve a pedestrian from the duty of exercising
due care. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
CHAPTER 6
BICYCLES
SECTION:
11-6-1: Scope Of Regulations
11-6-2: Traffic Laws Apply To Riders
11-6-3: Mechanical Condition
11-6-4: Equipment Required
11-6-5: Rules Of Operation
11-6-1: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required in this chapter.
   B.   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the
provisions hereof.
   C.   The regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever any bicycle
is operated upon any highway or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use
of bicycles subject to those exceptions stated herein. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-6-2: TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY TO RIDERS:
Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be subject to the provisions
of the traffic and vehicle ordinances of the city, except as changed by special
regulations contained in this chapter and except as to those provisions of the
traffic ordinances which, by their nature, can have no application. (Ord. 119,
1-20-1969)
11-6-3: MECHANICAL CONDITION:
All police officers shall have authority to inspect all bicycles for mechanical
fitness. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-6-4: EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:
   A.   Brakes: Every bicycle when operated upon a highway shall be equipped
with a brake adequate to control the movement of and to stop such bicycle
whenever necessary.
   B.   Lamps And Reflectors: Every bicycle operated after sunset shall be
equipped with a lamp on the front exhibiting a white light visible from a
distance of at least three hundred feet (300') to the front and with a red
reflector on the rear. Every such reflector shall be so designed and maintained
as to be visible at night from all distances within two hundred feet (200') to
fifty feet (50') from such bicycle when directly in front of a motor vehicle
displaying lawfully lighted headlamps. A lamp exhibiting a red light visible
from a distance of two hundred feet (200') to the rear may be used in addition
to the rear reflector.
   C.   Audible Signal: No person shall ride a bicycle unless it is equipped
with a bell or other device capable of giving a signal audible for a distance
of at least one hundred feet (100'); except that no bicycle shall be equipped
with nor shall any person use upon a bicycle any siren or whistle. (Ord. 119,
1-20-1969)
11-6-5: RULES OF OPERATION:
   A.   Riding On Bicycles:
      1.   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than upon the
permanent and regular seat attached thereto, nor carry any other person upon
such bicycle other than upon a firmly attached and regular seat thereon, nor
shall any person ride upon a bicycle other than as above authorized.
      2.   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
   B.   Right Of Way On Sidewalks: When permitted or required by this chapter
to ride on sidewalks, bicycle riders shall use the right side of sidewalks
insofar as practicable. A person riding a bicycle on a sidewalk shall yield the
right of way to every pedestrian and when approaching a pedestrian from the
rear shall give audible warning signal when at least twenty five feet (25')
distant from the pedestrian.
   C.   Speed Of Bicycles: No person riding a bicycle shall ride faster than is
reasonable and proper in regard to the safety of the rider and others.
   D.   Clinging To Vehicles: No person riding upon any bicycle shall hold on
or cling to another vehicle powered by a motor.
   E.   Carrying Articles: No person riding a bicycle shall carry any package,
bundle or article which prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon
the handlebars.
   F.   Trick Riding: No rider of a bicycle shall remove both hands from the
handlebars, or feet from the pedals, or practice any acrobatic or fancy riding
on any street; nor shall any person operating a bicycle upon a public highway
participate in any race for speed or endurance contest with any other vehicle,
except under permit from and under the supervision of the police department.
   G.   Parking Bicycles: No person shall park a bicycle in such a manner as to
interfere with pedestrians or persons getting into or out of vehicles. (Ord.
119, 1-20-1969)
CHAPTER 7
TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS; BAIL PROCEDURE
SECTION:
11-7-1: Effect Of Provisions
11-7-2: Bail, Purpose Of
11-7-3: Bail Schedule, Traffic
11-7-4: Traffic Offenses, Court Appearance Required
11-7-5: Multiple Violations At One Time
11-7-6: Cash Bail
11-7-7: Appearance Date
11-7-8: Guilty Pleas; Hearings
11-7-9: Bail For Minors
11-7-10: Driver's License Or Bond Certificate
11-7-11: Copy Of Bond, Receipt For Cash Bail
11-7-12: Persons To Whom Bail Is Made
11-7-13: Schedule Of Bail
11-7-1: EFFECT OF PROVISIONS:
It is hereby declared by the city council that:
   A.   This chapter is intended to provide for in this title the applicable
rules of the Illinois supreme court as set forth in rules 501 through 556,
effective January 1, 1968, as said rules effect and pertain to bail and bail
procedure for traffic offenses charged under this title.
   B.   This chapter is intended, by its provisions, to require compliance with
said rules and to inform police officers and future offenders of the specific
application of said rules to offenses charged under this title.
   C.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as an attempt to enlarge,
change or limit the powers of any court or rights of the accused with regard to
bail or bail procedures as is now or might hereafter be provided by state law
or the rules of the Illinois supreme court. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-7-2: BAIL, PURPOSE OF:
The purpose of bail is only to assure the appearance of the defendant in court.
In a serious case where the arresting officer believes the preset amount of
bail is inadequate for that purpose, the offender shall be brought before a
judge without necessary delay. When it appears that bail is not necessary to
assure defendant's appearance, none should be required. The arresting officer
instead shall issue a notice to appear. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-7-3: BAIL SCHEDULE, TRAFFIC:
There is hereby incorporated by reference and adopted as a part of this code in
haec verba, Illinois supreme court rules 501 through 556 inclusive, as same now
exist and as same may from time to time hereafter be amended. (Ord. 436, 11-23-
1992)
11-7-4: TRAFFIC OFFENSES, COURT APPEARANCE REQUIRED:
A court appearance is required for the following offenses:
Code Section  Description
Code Section   Description
11-1-14-4     Fleeing or attempting to elude police officer.
11-2-8        Failure to stop; stop sign or signal at through highway or
               intersection.
11-2-23A,B    Speeding - only 21 mph or more over limit.
11-2-23C      Speeding in school zone.
11-2-28C      Driving through safety zone.
11-2-34       Reckless driving.
11-2-35       Drag racing.
11-2-36       Driving under influence of liquor or drugs.
11-2-37       Illegal transportation of alcoholic liquor.
 
Any other traffic offense which results in an accident causing injury to or the
death of any person shall require a court appearance. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-7-5: MULTIPLE VIOLATIONS AT ONE TIME:
When a person has been arrested at one time for more than one offense under
this code, he shall be released upon furnishing bail on the charge for which
the highest bail is required. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-7-6: CASH BAIL:
The arresting officer shall supply a stamped envelope addressed to the circuit
clerk of Tazewell County and will place the appropriate portion of the ticket
in the envelope and give a copy of the ticket to the defendant. The defendant
will place in the same envelope the required amount of bail in cash or his
driver's license or bond certificate as the case may be. If a court appearance
is not required, he shall include his signed statement consenting to the entry
of an ex parte judgment if he fails to appear. In the presence of the arresting
officer he shall mail same to the circuit clerk. If he does not appear on the
appearance date, a judgment may be entered against him for an amount not more
than the bail but probably equal to it.
If a court appearance is required, the consent to ex parte judgment shall not
be signed or mailed and, if the defendant fails to appear, the bail may be
forfeited and the court may order a complaint filed and a summons or arrest
warrant issued.
When a defendant is released upon posting bail by any of the methods described
above, the arresting officer will furnish him with a copy of the ticket on
which will be noted which form of bail was accepted. The arresting officer
shall transmit the appropriate portions of the ticket and the license or bond,
if any, to the circuit clerk of Tazewell County within forty eight (48) hours
of the time set for appearance, whichever is earlier. The defendant being
released by any of these methods may select which he will use. The arresting
officer shall not require the deposit of a bond certificate or driver's license
instead of cash. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-7-7: APPEARANCE DATE:
When a court appearance is required, the arresting officer shall fix an
appearance date on the defendant's ticket or notice to appear. This date shall
be not less than ten (10) days nor more than forty five (45) days from the date
of arrest unless it is not practicable for the arresting officer or the
defendant to appear within such period.
If the arresting officer fails to appear on the date and at the time fixed for
the defendant's appearance, the case will be dismissed for want of prosecution.
If the arresting officer shall be unable to appear on the date fixed, he shall
notify the proper prosecutor beforehand so that a new date may be set and the
defendant notified. In such case a new appearance date shall be set. All
appearances of a person charged with more than one offense arising out of the
same occurrence shall be set at the same time. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-7-8: GUILTY PLEAS; HEARINGS:
If a ticket does not require a court appearance, the defendant may elect
either: a) to appear for hearing on the date to be fixed by the arresting
officer for a trial, or b) if he does not wish to appear he may deliver or mail
his plea of guilty on the form supplied to him by the arresting officer, to the
clerk not earlier than five (5) days after his arrest or later than three (3)
days before his appearance date, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays. The
clerk shall apply the cash bail to the payment of the fine and costs and will
deliver or mail to the defendant the balance, if any. If the defendant has not
posted bail (in effect notice to appear) he shall enclose the total of the fine
and costs with his plea of guilty. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-7-9: BAIL FOR MINORS:
   A.   Individual Bond, Persons Under Eighteen: Persons under eighteen (18)
years of age may be released by giving individual bond (in the amount required
by this chapter) if a parent, or adult standing in the place of a parent,
executes the bond as surety.
   B.   Alternative Procedure, Persons Under Eighteen: In any case in which the
bail specified under this chapter does not exceed thirty five dollars ($35.00)
a defendant may place cash bail (in the amount required by such rule) in a
stamped envelope (to be provided by the arresting officer) addressed to the
clerk of the circuit court of Tazewell County and, in the presence of the
arresting officer, deposit that envelope in a United States government mailbox.
The defendant shall then be released from custody. The appropriate portion(s)
of the ticket shall be enclosed with the cash bail. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-7-10: DRIVER'S LICENSE OR BOND CERTIFICATE:
   A.   If a defendant deposits a driver's license with the arresting officer
in lieu of bail or in addition to bail, or deposits a bond certificate, the
arresting officer shall note that fact on the violator's copy of the ticket and
transmit the driver's license or bond certificate to the clerk within the time
provided in this chapter.
   B.   Not sooner than five (5) days after arrest (excluding Saturdays,
Sundays and holidays) and not later than three (3) days before the date set for
appearance in court (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays), the defendant
who has deposited his driver's license or a bond certificate in lieu of cash
bail may recover either by substituting cash bail in the appropriate amount
with the clerk of the circuit court of Tazewell County. The clerk may waive the
time limit specified by this section. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-7-11: COPY OF BOND, RECEIPT FOR CASH BAIL:
A carbon copy of the bond or an official receipt showing the amount of cash
bail posted, specifying the time and place of court appearance, shall be
furnished to the accused and shall constitute a receipt for bail. The bond or
cash bail, or both, shall be delivered to the office of the circuit clerk of
Tazewell County within forty eight (48) hours of receipt or within the time set
for the accused's appearance in court, whichever is earlier. (Ord. 119, 1-20-
1969)
11-7-12: PERSONS TO WHOM BAIL IS MADE:
Bail for any offense under this title may be taken by the circuit clerk, his
deputies, and also by certain law enforcement officers. A list of these
officers is available in the circuit clerk's office of Tazewell County. They
may take the bail at any police station, sheriff's office, jail, state highway
police headquarters building, or any other government office designated by the
chief judge of the tenth judicial circuit. (Ord. 119, 1-20-1969)
11-7-13: SCHEDULE OF BAIL:
There is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated into the city code,
article V of the rules of the supreme court of Illinois (rule 501 to 600
inclusive) as the same now exist or as may hereafter be amended, as section
11-7-13 of the city code with the full force and effect as if same were set
forth herein in full form and detail. (Ord. 278, 3-8-1982)
CHAPTER 8
MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSING
SECTION:
11-8-1: Definitions
11-8-2: Presumption Of Ownership
11-8-3: Imposition Of Fee
11-8-4: Exemptions
11-8-5: Use Of Funds
11-8-6: Penalties
11-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms as used in this chapter shall have the indicated meanings:
FEE: Is a license fee for the use of motor vehicles as authorized by 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-4.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Is automobiles and all other self-propelled vehicles defined as
a motor vehicle by the Illinois Vehicle Code.
PERSON: Is a natural person, firm, partnership or corporation.
SENIOR CITIZEN: Is a person defined as a senior citizen by section
9-6-1 of this Code.
SERVICE LOCATION: Is the location within the City where a utility customer
receives water and/or wastewater service from the City.
UTILITY CUSTOMER: Is any person who receives water or wastewater service from
the City at a location within the City. (Ord. 878, 6-25-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
11-8-2: PRESUMPTION OF OWNERSHIP:
There is a rebuttable presumption that each utility customer, a person residing
with the utility customer or a tenant of the utility customer has at least one
motor vehicle registered at the utility customer's service location. A utility
customer may rebut this presumption by filing a sworn affidavit with the City
Clerk asserting that there is no motor vehicle registered at the utility
customer's service location. Upon receipt of such an affidavit, the City Clerk
shall conduct such investigation as he or she deems appropriate. If upon
completion of such investigation the City Clerk determines that no motor
vehicle is registered at the utility customer's service location, then such
utility customer shall not be subject to the fee imposed by this chapter. (Ord.
878, 6-25-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
11-8-3: IMPOSITION OF FEE:
Each utility customer shall pay the fee imposed by this chapter in the
following amount which shall be added each month to the bill received by the
utility customer from the City for water and/or wastewater service:
   A.   Three dollars ($3.00) per month for all utility customers other than
utility customers who qualify as senior citizens; or
   B.   One dollar fifty cents ($1.50) per month for all utility customers who
qualify as senior citizens. (Ord. 878, 6-25-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
11-8-4: EXEMPTIONS:
The following motor vehicles are exempt from the provisions of this chapter:
   A.   Motor vehicles used as inventory and for sale at an established
automotive sales business located within a commercial zone within the City.
   B.   Motor vehicles of any kind owned by the City, any other governmental
unit, any church or charitable organization, or any other vehicle bearing an
"M" or "CV" license plate. (Ord. 878, 6-25-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
11-8-5: USE OF FUNDS:
Revenues derived from the fee shall be used for the purpose of improving,
paving, repairing and maintaining the streets, sidewalks, curbs, gutters, and
other public right-of-ways within the City, except for the cost of collecting
the fee. (Ord. 878, 6-25-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
11-8-6: PENALTIES:
Any fee not paid by the 20th day of the month following the receipt of the bill
for utility services shall be subject to a late charge of ten percent (10%) of
the amount of the fee which shall be added to the bill sent for the subsequent
month. (Ord. 878, 6-25-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
CHAPTER 9
GOLF CARTS ON PUBLIC STREETS
(Rep. by Ord. 911, 9-14-2020)
CHAPTER 10
GOLF CARTS/ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES ON PUBLIC STREETS
SECTION:
11-10-1: Definitions
11-10-2: Limitations On Operation
11-10-3: Safety Equipment
11-10-4: Regulations Specifically Applicable To Golf Cart Or All-Terrain
Vehicles
11-10-5: Permits
11-10-6: Penalties
11-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, “golf cart” means a vehicle specifically
designed and intended for the purpose of transporting one or more persons and
their golf clubs or maintenance equipment while engaged in the playing of golf,
supervising the play of golf or maintaining the conditions of the grounds of a
public or private golf course.
“All-terrain vehicle” means any motorized off highway device designed to travel
primarily off highway, traveling on four (4) or more low pressure tires,
designed with a non-saddle seat for operator use, and a steering wheel for
steering control, except equipment such as lawn mowers. (Ord. 604, 5-29-2001;
amd. Ord. 888, 6-24-2019; amd. Ord. 911, 9-14-2020; Ord. 926, 3-14-2022; Ord.
947, 8-14-2023)
11-10-2: LIMITATIONS ON OPERATION:
Subject to the limitations set forth in this chapter, any person with a valid
driver’s license may operate a golf cart or all-terrain vehicle in the City of
Marquette Heights. This section shall not be construed as granting permission
for any person operating a golf cart or all-terrain vehicle to drive upon or
across any street or highway under the jurisdiction of Groveland or Pekin
Township or Tazewell County, or to drive upon or across any street or highway
under the jurisdiction of the Illinois Department of Transportation including,
without limitation, Illinois Route 29. (Ord. 604, 5-29-2001; amd. Ord. 888, 6-
24-2019; Ord. 911, 9-14-2020)
11-10-3: SAFETY EQUIPMENT:
No all-terrain vehicle may be operated on a street or highway under the
jurisdiction of the City of Marquette Heights unless, at a minimum, it has the
following safety equipment:
   A.   Brakes;
   B.   Steering apparatus;
   C.   Tires;
   D.   Rearview mirror;
   E.   Seatbelts, if applicable.
   F.   Red reflectorized warning devices on the rear;
   G.   A slow moving emblem (as required of other vehicles in 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 12-709) on the rear of the golf cart.
   H.   A headlamp that emits a white light visible from a distance of at least
five hundred feet (500') to the front;
   I.   A tail lamp that emits a red light visible from a distance of at least
one hundred feet (100') from the rear;
   J.   Brake lights; and
   K.   Turn signals. (Ord. 888, 6-24-2019; amd. Ord. 911, 9-14-2020)
11-10-4: REGULATIONS SPECIFICALLY APPLICABLE TO GOLF CART OR ALL-TERRAIN
VEHICLES:
When on a street or highway under the jurisdiction of the City of Marquette
Heights, an all-terrain vehicle shall be operated in accordance with the
following regulations:
   A.   The golf cart or all-terrain vehicle shall have its headlights and tail
lamps lighted at all times.
   B.   Any person operating a golf cart or all-terrain vehicle as authorized
in this chapter shall travel on the street or highway in the same direction as
traffic.
   C.   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any person operating a
golf cart or all-terrain vehicle on streets or highways under the jurisdiction
of the City of Marquette Heights shall obey any and all traffic regulations set
forth either in this Code or the Illinois Vehicle Code.
   D.   The golf cart or all-terrain vehicle shall be covered with either
automobile insurance to the extent required by State law. Insurance card must
be available upon request
   E.   When operating on the streets or highways under the jurisdiction of the
City of Marquette Heights, the operator of the golf cart or all-terrain vehicle
shall be limited to those streets or highways with a speed limit of thirty five
(35) miles per hour or less.
   F.   Each golf cart or all-terrain vehicle may transport only as many
individuals as is the less of the number of seats or as its manufacturer
designates. No individual may ride on any other portion of the golf cart or
all-terrain vehicle.
   G.   Golf carts and all-terrain vehicles may only operate on City of
Marquette Heights streets from dawn to midnight.
   H.   No person shall possess alcoholic beverages on or in a golf cart or
all-terrain vehicle on City’s streets unless it is in the original container
with the seal unbroken.
   I.   Must display City of Marquette Heights decal on the front of the
vehicle. (Ord. 947, 8-14-2023)
11-10-5: PERMITS:
   A.   No person shall operate a qualified golf cart or all-terrain vehicle
without first obtaining a permit from the Chief of Police or his designee. A
copy of said permit shall be kept in the golf cart or off-highway vehicle
whenever used on City of Marquette Heights streets. Only an individual with a
valid permit shall be allowed to operate a golf cart or all-terrain vehicle on
the streets within the City of Marquette Heights and said individual shall only
be allowed to operate a golf cart or all-terrain vehicle that has been
inspected and approved for travel on City of Marquette Heights streets and
feature a City of Marquette Heights decal as detailed above.
   B.   Permits shall be granted for a period of one year for the date
designated on the permit. Permits will have a renewal date annually of April
1st regardless of when-the permit was granted.
   C.   The cost of the permit is Fifty Dollars ($50.00). All permit renewals
are Fifty Dollars ($50.00) regardless of the month issued.
   D.   Insurance coverage is to be verified to be in effect by the City of
Marquette Heights Police Department when obtaining and renewing a permit. The
applicant must provide evidence of
   E.   The applicant must provide evidence that they are a resident of North
Pekin or the City of Marquette Heights. (Ord. 947, 8-14-2023)
11-10-6: PENALTIES:
   A.   Operating a golf cart or-all-terrain vehicle on City of Marquette
Heights streets is a privilege and not a right, any person who has a permit to
operate a golf cart or all-terrain vehicle on City of Marquette Heights streets
and is found to have violated this chapter may have his or her permit suspended
or revoked by the Chief of Police. Decisions of the Chief of Police shall only
be reversed or modified by a majority vote of City of Marquette Heights
Council.
   B.   Anyone found to operate a golf cart or all-terrain vehicle on’ City of
Marquette Heights streets, within the City in an area where golf carts and all-
terrain vehicles are not allowed, or to operate a golf cart or all-terrain
vehicle that has not been inspected and approved by the City of Marquette
Heights for travel on City streets shall be subject to a One Hundred Fifty
Dollar ($150.00) fine for the first violation, a Three Hundred Dollar ($300.00)
fine for a second violation and a Five Hundred Dollar ($500.00) fine for a
third violation within a 365 day period. The City’s- Attorney shall have the
authority to bring a complaint against any individual violating this chapter to
recover the aforementioned fines and to seek an injunction against further
violations of this chapter.
   C.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, anyone found to operate a golf cart or
all-terrain vehicle on City of Marquette Heights streets in violation of any
other provision of this chapter shall be subject to a One Hundred Fifty Dollar
($150.00) fine for the first violation, a Three Hundred Dollar ($300.00) fine
for a second violation and a Five Hundred Dollar ($500.00) fine for a third
violation within a 365 day period. Any person committing three violations of
this chapter, regardless of whether it is within a 365 day period or not, shall
forever lose their permit to obtain and maintain an off-highway vehicle.
   The City of Marquette Heights Attorney shall have the authority to bring a
complaint against any individual violating this chapter to recover the
aforementioned fines and to seek an injunction against further violations of
this chapter.
   D.   Any-person in possession of or consuming alcoholic beverages on or in a
golf cart or all- terrain vehicle on City of Marquette Heights streets, in
addition to other penalties which may be available under the laws of the State
of Illinois or other parts of this chapter, shall be subject to revocation of
his or her permit to operate a golf cart or off-highway vehicle on City of
Marquette Heights streets. If a person driving or in control of a golf cart or
all-terrain vehicle on City of Marquette Heights streets refuses to submit to a
test or analysis of the person’s blood, urine, breath or other bodily substance
to test for an alcohol or drug concentration, in addition to other penalties
which may be available under the laws of the State of Illinois or other parts
of this chapter, shall have their permit to operate a golf cart or non-highway
vehicle on City streets permanently revoked.
   E.   Any person receiving a citation under this Article shall pay any
monetary fine provided in this section at the Police Department or City of
Marquette Heights Clerk’s office within twenty-one (21) days from the date of
the citation. If any monetary penalty is not paid within that twenty-one (21)
day period, the Police Department is authorized to file a complaint alleging
the violation of this chapter and issue a notice to appear requiring the
offender to appear in the Tazewell County Circuit Court to answer to the
charge. (Ord. 947, 8-14-2023)
 
CHAPTER 11
SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLES
SECTION:
11-11-1: Definitions
11-11-2: Vehicles Subject To Seizure And Impounding
11-11-3: Seizure And Impounding Of Vehicles
11-11-4: Exceptions
11-11-5: Posting Of Bond
11-11-6: Preliminary Hearing
11-11-7: Owner's Hearing
11-11-8: Unclaimed Vehicles
11-11-9: Liability Of Penalty And Costs
11-11-10: Hearing Officer
11-11-11: Decision Review
11-11-12: Vehicle Possession
11-11-13: Special Account For Funds
11-11-14: Partial Invalidity/Saving Clause
11-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever in this chapter the following words and phrases are used, they shall
have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section:
CANNABIS PARAPHERNALIA: Includes equipment, products, or materials intended to
be used for planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging,
repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, ingesting, or otherwise
introducing cannabis into the human body.
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE: Any substance as defined and included in the schedule
contained in article II of the Illinois Controlled Substance Act 1  and
cannabis as defined in the Cannabis Control Act 2 .
DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE: Any violation as defined in section 11-501 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code 3 .
DRIVING WHILE LICENSE, PERMIT OR PRIVILEGE TO OPERATE A MOTOR VEHICLE IS
SUSPENDED OR REVOKED: Any violation as defined in section 6-303 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code 4 .
HEARING OFFICER: A licensed attorney who is not an officer or employee of the
City.
OPERATION OF A MOTOR VEHICLE WITHOUT A VALID DRIVER'S LICENSE: Any violation of
section 6/101 of the Illinois Vehicle Code 5 , as amended from time to time.
OWNER OF RECORD: The record title holder to a motor vehicle as registered with
the Secretary of State, State of Illinois.
UNLAWFUL USE OF WEAPONS: Any violation of section 24-1 of the Criminal Code of
1961 1 . (Ord. 875, 4-23-2018; Ord. 904, 12-9-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 570/201.
2 2. 720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.
3 3. 625 ILCS 5/11-501.
4 4. 625 ILCS 5/6-303.
5 5. 625 ILCS 5/6-101.
1 1. 720 ILCS 5/24-1.
11-11-2: VEHICLES SUBJECT TO SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDING:
A motor vehicle, operated with the express or implied permission of the owner
of record, shall be subject to seizure and impoundment under this chapter when
an officer has probable cause to believe such vehicle is used in connection
with any of the following violations, or which may jeopardize the public's
safety and safe vehicular movement and in furtherance of public safety, or in
the exercise by the police department of its community caretaker functions.
Violations.
   A.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, a felony or in violation of the Cannabis Control Act.
   B.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of the Illinois Controlled
Substances Act.
   C.   Driving under the influence of alcohol, another drug or drugs,
intoxicating compound or compounds, or any combination thereof in violation of
625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-501(a).
   D.   Driving while license, permit, or privilege to operate a motor vehicle
is suspended, revoked, or expired, except that vehicle shall not be subjected
to seizure or impoundment if the suspension is for an unpaid citation (parking
or moving) or due to failure to comply with emission testing.
   E.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit an offense in violation of Section 24-1 (the unlawful use of
weapons); 24-1.5 (reckless discharge of a firearm); or 24-3.1 (unlawful
possession of firearms and firearm ammunition) in violation of the Illinois
Criminal Code of 2012 (720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.).
   F.   Operation or use of a vehicle in connection with the commission or
attempted commission of any other misdemeanor or felony offense defined under
chapter 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes.
   G.   Aggravated fleeing and eluding in violation of 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-204.1.
   H.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle by a person against whom a warrant
has been issued by a circuit court in Illinois for failing to answer charges
that the driver violated Section 6-101, 6-303, or 11-501 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code.
   I.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle with an expired valid driver's
license if the period of expiration is greater than one (1) year in violation
of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-101.
   J.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle without ever having been issued a
driver's license or permit, or operating a motor vehicle without ever having
been issued a driver's license or permit due to a person's age in violation of
625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-101.
   K.   Reckless driving while the vehicle is part of a funeral procession or
in a manner that interferes with a funeral procession.
   L.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle while soliciting, possessing or
attempting to solicit or possess cannabis or a controlled substance, provided
however, that no vehicle shall be subject to impound or forfeiture solely for
the possession of cannabis or cannabis paraphernalia by persons twenty one (21)
years of age or older in accordance with the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act
(410 ILCS 705/1-1 et seq.) or by a registered qualifying patient or registered
designated caregiver as authorized by the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis
Program Act (410 ILCS 130/1 et seq.).
   M.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission or attempted
commission of any offense for which a motor vehicle may be seized and forfeited
pursuant to the Illinois Criminal Code of 2012, 720 ILCS 5/36-1 et seq. (Ord.
875, 4-23-2018; Ord. 904, 12-9-2019)
11-11-3: SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLES:
Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a vehicle is
subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this chapter, the police officer
shall cause the motor vehicle to be towed to a facility controlled by the City
or its agents. When the vehicle is towed, the police officer shall notify any
person who is found to be in control of the vehicle at the time of the alleged
violation and/or the owner of the seizure and of the vehicle owner's right to
request a preliminary hearing as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 875, 4-23-
2018)
11-11-4: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply if at the time of the offense,
the vehicle was found to have been stolen, and the theft was reported to the
appropriate police authority within twenty four (24) hours after the theft was,
or reasonably should have been discovered. (Ord. 875, 4-23-2018)
11-11-5: POSTING OF BOND:
If a bond in the amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00) is posted with the
City, the impounded vehicle will be released to the owner of record, upon the
payment by the owner of record of the towing and storage costs. If a penalty is
imposed for a violation of this chapter, the bond will be forfeited to the
City; provided in the event that a violation of this chapter is not proven, the
bond will be returned to the person posting the bond. All bond money pursuant
to this chapter will be held by the City until the Hearing Officer issues a
decision, or, if there is a judicial review, until the court issues its final
decision. (Ord. 875, 4-23-2018)
11-11-6: PRELIMINARY HEARING:
Whenever a motor vehicle is seized under the provisions of this chapter, the
owner shall be notified of this provision (preliminary hearing). If the owner
of the motor vehicle seized under the provisions of this chapter requests a
preliminary hearing within twelve (12) hours after the seizure of the motor
vehicle, a Hearing Officer of the City must conduct a preliminary hearing
within seventy two (72) business hours after the request for preliminary
hearing is received by the City; not including Saturdays, Sundays, or legal
holidays. For the purposes of this section, the following shall apply:
   A.   All interested persons will be given a reasonable opportunity to be
heard at the preliminary hearing.
   B.   The formal rules of evidence will not apply at the hearing, and hearsay
testimony will be allowed and will be admissible.
   C.   If, after the conclusion of the hearing, the Hearing Officer determines
that there is probable cause to believe that the vehicle was used as
hereinabove provided in section
11-11-2 of this chapter, the Hearing Officer shall order the continued
impoundment of the vehicle unless the owner of the vehicle posts a cash bond
with the City in the amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00), plus the towing
and storage costs.
   D.   If the Hearing Officer determines that there is not probable cause to
believe that the vehicle was used as hereinabove provided in section
11-11-2 of this chapter, the motor vehicle will be returned to the owner of
record without any penalty or other costs, and the City will be responsible for
towing and storage fees. (Ord. 875, 4-23-2018)
11-11-7: OWNER'S HEARING:
Within ten (10) days of the vehicle's impoundment, the City shall notify the
owner of record (at the address of the owner as it appears on the record of the
Secretary of State of Illinois) by certified mail, return receipt requested,
and first class mail, postage prepaid, of his/her right to a full hearing
before the Hearing Officer to determine whether the subject vehicle is eligible
for impoundment; and that, in the event the owner of record would like a
hearing, he/she must file a request for such hearing in writing with the City
of Marquette Heights within fifteen (15) days of the posted date of the notice.
If a written request is not received within fifteen (15) days of the mailing
notice, then the owner is defaulted, and the impoundment fee will be kept by
the City or, if no fee is posted, then the vehicle may be sold as abandoned
thirty (30) days after the default. For purposes of this section, the following
shall apply to the owner's hearing:
   A.   Unless continued by order of the Hearing Officer, the hearing shall be
held within thirty (30) days after a request for hearing is received by the
City.
   B.   All interested persons will be given a reasonable opportunity to be
heard at the owner's hearing.
   C.   If, after the conclusion of the hearing, the Hearing Officer determines
by a preponderance of the evidence that the vehicle was used as hereinabove
provided in section
11-11-2 of this chapter, the Hearing Officer shall order the continued
impoundment of the vehicle until the owner of the vehicle pays to the City a
penalty in the amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00), plus the towing and
storage costs. The penalty shall be a debt due to the City.
   D.   If the Hearing Officer determines that the vehicle was not used as
hereinabove provided in section
11-11-2 of this chapter, the motor vehicle will be returned to the owner of
record without any penalty or other costs, and the City shall be responsible
for the cost of towing and storage. If a cash bond had previously been posted,
the cash bond shall be returned.
   E.   If the owner of record fails to appear at the hearing, the Hearing
Officer shall enter an order of default in favor of the City, which shall
require the payment to the City of an administrative penalty of five hundred
dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 875, 4-23-2018)
11-11-8: UNCLAIMED VEHICLES:
If the administrative penalty and applicable towing and storage fees are not
paid within thirty (30) days after the expiration of time in which the
administrative review of the Hearing Officer's determination may be sought, or
within thirty (30) days after an action seeking administrative review has been
resolved in favor of the City, whichever is applicable, the vehicle shall be
deemed unclaimed and shall be disposed of in the manner provided by law for the
disposition of unclaimed vehicles under the Illinois Vehicle Code. (Ord. 875,
4-23-2018)
11-11-9: LIABILITY OF PENALTY AND COSTS:
The owner of record of a motor vehicle that is seized or impounded shall be
liable to the City for a penalty of five hundred dollars ($500.00), in addition
to any fees for the towing and storage of the motor vehicle. Fees for towing
and storage are established by the towing company, and not by the City. The
penalty is to be paid to the City, and all towing and storage costs are paid to
the towing company. (Ord. 875, 4-23-2018)
11-11-10: HEARING OFFICER:
The Hearing Officer shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent
of the City Council. The Hearing Officer shall be an attorney licensed to
practice law in the State of Illinois for a minimum of three (3) years next
preceding the date of his appointment. (Ord. 875, 4-23-2018)
11-11-11: DECISION REVIEW:
Any party aggrieved by a final decision of the Hearing Officer may appeal that
decision pursuant to the provision of the Illinois Administrative Review Act 1
. (Ord. 875, 4-23-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.
11-11-12: VEHICLE POSSESSION:
Except as otherwise provided by law, no owner, lien holder or other person
shall be legally entitled to take possession of a vehicle impounded under this
chapter until the bond and towing and storage costs are paid or the
administrative penalty and fees applicable under this chapter have been paid.
Whenever a person with a lien of record against an impounded vehicle has
commenced proceedings to repossess the vehicle, possession of the vehicle shall
be given to that person if he/she agrees in writing to pay the City from the
proceedings of the sale of the vehicle the administrative fee, plus applicable
towing and storage costs. (Ord. 875, 4-23-2018)
11-11-13: SPECIAL ACCOUNT FOR FUNDS:
All bonds, fines, and fees associated with the seizure and impounding of
vehicles pursuant to this chapter shall be deposited into Police Department
account 01-00-1150 - seized assets. (Ord. 875, 4-23-2018)
11-11-14: PARTIAL INVALIDITY/SAVING CLAUSE:
The provisions of this chapter shall be deemed to be separable, and the
invalidity of any portion of this chapter shall not affect the validity of the
remainder. This chapter shall not be construed to repeal any former ordinance
or resolution of the City of Marquette Heights. (Ord. 875, 4-23-2018)
