CITY OF MARSEILLES, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2022 S-18 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 1825, passed 7-20-22
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO. 831
ENACTING AS AN ORDINANCE, A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF MARSEILLES,
ILLINOIS, REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, COMPILING AND RE-CODIFYING THE 1972
CODE OF MUNICIPAL ORDINANCES AND CERTAIN SUBSEQUENTLY ENACTED ORDINANCES
   WHEREAS, the Council of the City of Marseilles enacted a Code of Ordinances
or Municipal Code on June 2, 1975 (the 1972 Code); and
   WHEREAS, Subsequent to the enactment of said Municipal Code the City has
enacted numerous general ordinances, and the manner of arrangement,
classification and indexing thereof is insufficient to meet the present needs
of the City; and
   WHEREAS, the Council of the City of Marseilles is empowered and authorized
to revise, amend, restate, codify and to compile any existing ordinance or
ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or published and to
incorporate said ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, the Council of the City of Marseilles has authorized a general
compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the City of a
general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinances in book form.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Council of the City of Marseilles, as
follows:
   Section 1: The general ordinances of the City of Marseilles as herein
revised, amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the City of Marseilles."
   Section 2: Said Code as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the following
titles, to-wit:
   Title I       General Provisions
   Title III    Administrative
   Title V    Public Works
   Title VII    Traffic Code
   Title IX    General Regulations
   Title XI    Business Regulations
   Title XIII    General Offenses
   Title XV    Land Usage
   Tables of Special Ordinances
   Parallel References
   Index
   Section 3: All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in said
Code shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of said Code
except as they are included and reordained in whole or in part in said Code;
provided such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or penalty incurred
or any right established prior to the effective date of said Code, nor shall
such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating
money, annexing or detaching territory establishing franchises or granting
special rights to certain persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing
the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale
of real or personal property, granting or accepting easements, plat or
dedication of land to public use, naming or vacating or setting the boundaries
of streets, alleys or other public places, nor to any other ordinance of a
temporary or special nature or pertaining to subjects not contained therein.
   Section 4: Said Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its passage
and approval by the City Council and the Clerk of the City of Marseilles is
hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of said Code in the Office of the
City Clerk.
   Section 5: Said Code shall be in full force and effect ten (10) days from
the date of its publication and filing thereof in the Office of the Clerk, and
said Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
   Section 6: That this Ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and
after its passage, approval and publication in pamphlet form.
   PASSED AND APPROVED by the City Council of the City of Marseilles this 21st
day of December, 1994.
ROLL CALL VOTES:
AYES: Commissioners Frost, Penoyer, Reilly, Trager, Mayor Knudson
NAYS: None
ABSENT: None
   John C. Knudson /s/
   Mayor
Lucille Sergenti /s/
City Clerk
ATTEST:
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter
   
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.19   Jurisdiction
   
10.20   Copies of code to be kept on file
 
   
10.97   Accountability for conduct of another
   
10.98   Incarceration
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the City of Marseilles shall be
designated as the Code of Marseilles and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation, shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Marseilles,
Illinois.
   CITY CLERK. The City Clerk of the City of Marseilles; and similarly any
reference to any officer, board or commission means such officer, board or
commission of the City of Marseilles unless otherwise stated.
   CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as modified
by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
   COUNTY. LaSalle County, Illinois.
   ILCS. Illinois Compiled Statutes, 1992, as heretofore and hereafter amended.
   ILLINOIS MUNICIPAL CODE. The Illinois Municipal Code, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
   OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
   PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
   PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
   STATE. The State of Illinois.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
   WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
   YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed; equivalent to the words
YEAR OF OUR LORD.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this municipality shall be by the
following rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the City Council or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
such reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as
subsequently amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject
matter is changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
   (B)   Reference to a section of this Code shall be understood also to refer
to and include the penalty section relating thereto, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
('72 Code § 1.06(g))
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this municipality exercising the powers,
duties, or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary,
either by ordinance or by the Illinois Compiled Statutes or its successor.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this municipality for the transaction of all municipal
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   All general ordinances or parts thereof heretofore adopted by the City
Council and not included in this code are repealed, except the following which
are hereby continued in full force and effect:
      (1)   Ordinances authorizing contracts or the issue of municipal notes or
bonds;
      (2)   Ordinances levying taxes or making special assessments;
      (3)   Ordinances appropriating funds or establishing salaries;
      (4)   Ordinances granting franchises or rights to corporations;
      (5)   Ordinances relating to the establishment, dedication, opening,
grade, naming, improvement, altering, widening or vacating of any streets,
alleys, sidewalks, parks or public grounds;
      (6)   Ordinances respecting the boundaries of the city or the annexation
of territory to the city, or the conveyance or acceptance of real property or
easements in real property;
      (7)   Ordinances authorizing or relating to particular public
improvements;
      (8)   Any other special ordinances not in conflict with the provisions of
this code.
   (B)   The provisions of this code, so far as they are the same in substance
as those of heretofore existing ordinances are continuations of such ordinances
and not new enactments. Any act done, offense committed, or right accruing or
acquired, or liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred prior hereto
shall not be affected, but may be enjoyed, asserted, enforced, prosecuted or
inflicted as fully and to the same extent as if the repeal had not been
effected.
('72 Code, § 1.03)
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the City Council requiring publication shall take
effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise expressly
provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in anyway be effected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall by itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the 1972 Code section, the
specific number and passage date of the original ordinance, and the most recent
three amending ordinances, if any, are listed following the text of the code
section. Example: ('72 Code, § 1.01) (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15,
passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am. Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   An ILCS cite included in the history indicates that the text of
the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (ILCS Ch. 65,
Act 5, § 3.1-10-40) ('72 Code, § 1.01) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20,
passed 1-1-85).
      (2)   An ILCS cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
   § 38.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      The city shall make available to any person for inspection or copying all
public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of Information Act.
   ('72 Code, § 1.01) (Ord. 10, passed 1-1-80)
   Statutory reference:
      Freedom of information act, see ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, §§ 1 et seq.
§ 10.19 JURISDICTION.
   Unless otherwise provided in this code, this code applies to acts performed
within the corporate limits of the city. Provisions of this code also apply to
acts performed outside the corporate limits and up to the limits prescribed by
law where the law confers power on the city to regulate such particular acts
outside the corporate limits.
('72 Code, § 1.05)
§ 10.20 COPIES OF CODE TO BE KEPT ON FILE.
   Copies of this code shall be kept available at the City Clerk's office for
public inspection.
('72 Code, § 1.11)
§ 10.97 ACCOUNTABILITY FOR CONDUCT OF ANOTHER.
   Every person concerned in the commission of an act prohibited by this code,
whether he directly commits the act, or prosecutes, counsels, aids, or abets in
its commission, may be prosecuted and on conviction is punishable as if he had
directly committed such act.
('72 Code, § 1.08)
§ 10.98 INCARCERATION.
   (A)   Commitment. The person upon whom any fine or penalty is imposed for
violation of any provision of this code or any ordinance of the city, upon
order of the court before whom the conviction is had, may be committed to the
city or county jail as provided by law, or to any other place provided by
ordinance for the incarceration of offenders until the fine, penalty and costs
are fully paid. No imprisonment, however, shall exceed six months for any one
offense.
   (B)   Incarceration, bailable offense. Any person incarcerated on a charge
of violating a bailable provision of this code or any ordinance, who does not
supply bail and against whom a fine is levied upon conviction of such offense,
shall be allowed a credit of $2 for each day so incarcerated prior to
conviction, but such credit shall not exceed the amount of the fine levied.
('72 Code, § 1.06(b)(c)(d))
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)    Uniform fine schedule. Unless another penalty is specifically
provided by this code for violation of any particular provision, any person
violating any provision of this code, or any rules or regulation adopted or
issued in pursuance thereof, or any provision of any code adopted herein by
reference, shall upon conviction be subject to the following Uniform Fine
Schedule:
 
UNIFORM FINE SCHEDULE
In the case of a first violation of a   no less than $300 and no more than $750
particular provision, the defendant     plus court costs.
shall be fined
In the case of a second violation
committed within five years of the same no less than $600 and no more than $750
particular provision, the defendant     plus court costs.
shall be fined
In the case of a third or further
violation committed within five years   $750 plus court costs.
of the same particular provision, the
defendant shall be fined
Each act of violation and each day upon which a violation occurs constitutes a
separate offense.
 
   (B)   (1)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) above or of any
other section or provision of this code, the following penalty provision and
procedure shall apply to all violations of this code except as otherwise
indicated.
      (2)   A written notice of violation shall be issued to the individual or
person or entity who has been alleged to have violated any provision of the
code of ordinances. The notice of violation shall contain the name and address
of the violator; the section of the code alleged to be violated; the date, time
and location of the violation; the make, license number, and other relevant
information for any motor vehicle involved; the name and identification of the
complainant; a specific due date; together with a statement that the violation
may be resolved without a court appearance upon payment of a pre-filing penalty
paid on or before the due date. The pre-filing penalty shall be one-half of the
minimum fine indicated for such violation, or if there is no stated minimum
fine for such violation, then half the amount indicated in the Uniform Fine
Schedule.
   (C)   The penalty provided by this section applies to the amendment of any
section of this code or a code adopted herein by reference, whether or not such
penalty is reenacted in the amendatory ordinance.
('72 Code, § 1.06(a)(e)(f)) (Ord. 1001, passed 3-15-00; Am. Ord. 1214, passed
9-7-05; Am. Ord. 1326, passed 2-20-08; Am. Ord. 1685, passed 10-3-18)
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Corporate seal
§ 11.01 CORPORATE SEAL.
   (A)   The seal, circular in form, heretofore provided and used by the city,
with the inscription “City of Marseilles, LaSalle Co., Ills.,” around the
outside edge of said seal, and the words and figures “Incorporated April 21,
1891. SEAL” within the inner circle of said seal, shall be and is hereby
declared to be the corporate seal of the city. The seal shall be used in all
cases where it shall be required by the laws of the United States or of the
state or by this code and any applicable ordinances of the city.
   (B)   The corporate seal shall be and remain in the custody of the City
Clerk.
('72 Code, § 3.19)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
Chapter
   
30.   CITY COUNCIL
   
31.   CITY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
   
32.   EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS
   
33.   BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
   
34.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
   
35.   PERSONNEL REGULATIONS
   
36.   FINANCE AND REVENUE; PURCHASING
   
37.   TAXATION
   
38.   EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY
   
39.   CITY POLICIES
   
40.   ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION
CHAPTER 30: CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Governing body; election of Council; bond
   
30.02   Function and duties
   
30.03   Mayor; duties
   
30.04   Compensation
Meetings; Rules of Order
   
30.15   Meetings
   
30.16   Rules of procedure; order of business
   
30.17   Attendance at meetings; penalty
   
30.18   Members required to vote
   
30.19   Capacity of City Council meeting room
   
30.20   Public participation
   
30.21   Electronic attendance at meetings
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 GOVERNING BODY; ELECTION OF COUNCIL; BOND.
   (A)   Governing body. The city shall be governed by a Council consisting of
the Mayor and four Commissioners under the Commission Form of Municipal
Government under Article 4 of the Illinois Municipal Code.
   (B)   Election of Council. The Mayor and four Commissioners shall be elected
at-large at the municipal election in 1991 and every fourth year thereafter,
and shall hold office for four years. The term of office for the Mayor and four
Commissioners shall commence at the first regular meeting of the City Council
in May following their election.
   (C)   Bond. The Mayor and Commissioners shall each post a bond in the amount
of $3,000, conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of office and
the payment of all monies received by them, in accordance with the provisions
of the Illinois Municipal Code, Sec. 4-4-2.
('72 Code, § 2.01) (Ord. 963, passed 4-7-99)
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning bond of offices, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 4-4-2
§ 30.02 FUNCTION AND DUTIES.
   The powers, functions and duties of the City Council shall be as follows:
   (A)   The Council has and shall exercise all legislative powers, functions
and duties conferred upon the city or its officers. It shall make all orders
for the doing of work or the making or construction of any improvements,
bridges or buildings. It shall levy taxes, apportion and appropriate all funds
and audit and allow all bills, accounts, payrolls and claims and order payment.
   (B)   The Council shall make or authorize the making of all contracts, and
no contract shall bind or be obligatory upon the city unless either made by
ordinance or resolution adopted by the Council or reduced to writing and
approved by the Council or expressly authorized by ordinance or resolution
adopted by the Council. All contracts and all ordinances and resolutions making
contracts or authorizing the making of contracts shall be drawn by the City
Attorney, or approved by such officer, before the same is made or passed.
   (C)   All superintendents of departments and officers are agents of the
Council only, and all their acts shall be subject to review and approval or
revocation by the Council. Every superintendent or officer shall, from time to
time, as required by law, rules and regulations of state and federal agencies,
this code or any applicable ordinance of the city, or when required by the
Council, or whenever he shall deem necessary for the good of the public
service, report to the Council in writing respecting the business of his
department or office or matters connected therewith. The Council may, by
ordinance or resolution or written motion, assign to a superintendent, officer
or employee, duties in respect to the business of any other department, office
or employment, and such service shall be rendered without additional
compensation.
   (D)   The Council shall act as and perform the functions of the Local Board
of Health, and shall have general authority over the Health Department, the Law
Department, Department of Public Works, Police Department, and the appointment
of library trustees. The Council shall adopt rules governing its order of
business and prescribing the manner in which legislation shall be considered,
which rules shall not be inconsistent with the law, rules and regulations of
state and federal agencies, this code or any other ordinances of the city.
('72 Code, § 2.02)
§ 30.03 MAYOR; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Mayor shall appoint, by and with the advice and consent of the
City Council, all officers whose appointment is not otherwise provided for by
law, this code or any other ordinance of the city; and whenever a vacancy shall
occur in any office, which by law, this code or any other ordinance of the city
he is empowered and required to fill, he shall at the next regular meeting of
the Council occurring not less than five days after such vacancy, communicate
to the Council the name of his appointee to such office, and pending the
concurrence of the Council in such appointment, he may designate some suitable
person to discharge the functions of such office.
   (B)   The Mayor shall perform all such other and further duties pertaining
to his office as are or may be required of him by the laws of the state, this
code or any other ordinances of the city.
('72 Code, § 3.08)
§ 30.04 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The annual compensation of the Mayor shall be $9,000. An additional
sum of $1,000 shall be paid to the Mayor for his or her service as Liquor
Commissioner.
   (B)   The annual compensation of the City Commissioners shall be $5,000.
(Ord. 1260, passed 10-18-06; Am. Ord. 1635, passed 5-3-17)
MEETINGS; RULES OF ORDER
§ 30.15 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. Regular meetings of the City Council of Marseilles,
Illinois, shall be held in the Council Chambers of the City Hall at 209 Lincoln
Street, Marseilles, Illinois, at 6:00 p.m. on the first and third Wednesday of
each month; provided, that when the first or third Wednesday of any month is a
legal holiday, the regular meeting of the Council shall be held at the same
time and place on the following Wednesday.
   (B)   Special meetings. Special meetings may be called from time to time by
the Mayor or two Commissioners, upon giving not less than 24 hours notice to
all members of the Council. However, if all members of the Council are present
at such meeting, no notice of such meeting shall be necessary.
(‘72 Code, § 2.03) (Am. Ord. 567, passed 12-19-77; Am. Ord. 602, passed 2-4-80;
Am. Ord. 1504, passed 2-6-13)
§ 30.16 RULES OF PROCEDURE; ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   The following rules of procedure and order of business shall be adhered to
by the City Council unless the same be temporarily suspended by unanimous
consent:
   (A)   Rule 1. At the appointed hour for the meeting, the Mayor or, in his
absence, the Mayor pro tem, shall take the chair and call the Council to order.
The City Clerk or someone appointed to fill his place, shall proceed to call
the roll of members, marking the absentees, and announce whether a quorum be
present. Upon the appearance of a quorum the Council shall proceed to the
business before them, and the same shall be conducted in the following order:
      (1)   The reading of the minutes of the proceedings of the last meeting,
amendment and approval of the same.
      (2)   The presentation of petitions.
      (3)   Reports of city officers.
      (4)   Communications to the Council.
      (5)   Unfinished business of preceding meeting.
      (6)   Motions, resolutions and notices.
      (7)   New business not otherwise provided for.
   (B)   Rule 2. All questions relating to the priority of business shall be
decided without debate.
   (C)   Rule 3. The Mayor shall preserve order and decorum, and shall decide
all questions of order, subject to an appeal to the Council; and shall conduct
all business before the Council with fairness and impartiality, to a speedy and
proper result.
   (D)   Rule 4. Every member, previous to his speaking, shall rise from his
seat and address the Mayor, but shall not proceed with his remarks until
recognized and named by the chair.
   (E)   Rule 5. When two or more members rise at once, the Mayor shall name
the member that is first to speak.
   (F)   Rule 6. While a member is speaking, no member shall entertain any
private discourse or pass between him and the chair.
   (G)   Rule 7. No member shall speak more than twice to the same general
question, nor more than once to a “previous question” without leave of the
Council; nor more than once on any question, until every member choosing to
speak shall have spoken; nor longer than five minutes at any one time.
   (H)   Rule 8. A member called to order shall immediately sit down, unless
permitted to explain. If there be no appeal, the decision of the chair shall be
conclusive, but if a member appeal to the Council from the decision of the
chair, the Council shall decide the question without debate, and the question
to be put shall be: “Shall the decision of the chair be sustained?”
   (I)   Rule 9. Every member who is present when a question is stated by the
Mayor shall vote thereon, unless he be excused by the Council, or unless he be
directly interested in the question, in which case he shall not vote.
   (J)   Rule 10. While the Mayor is putting the question or deciding a point
of order, the members shall be seated; and no member shall leave the Council
chamber without permission from the Council.
   (K)   Rule 11. No motion shall be debated or put unless it be seconded, and
when a motion is seconded it shall be stated by the chair, or if it be in
writing it shall be read aloud by the Clerk before debate or vote thereon.
   (L)   Rule 12. If the question in debate contains several distinct
propositions, any member may have the same divided.
   (M)   Rule 13. When a question is under debate, no motion shall be received,
unless for the “previous question,” “to postpone indefinitely,” “to adjourn to
a certain day,” “to lay on the table,” “to amend,” or to adjourn the Council.
   (N)   Rule 14. A motion for the previous question, to lay the question on
the table or to commit it, until it is decided, shall preclude all amendments
and debate of the main question; and a motion to postpone a question
indefinitely or to adjourn to a certain day shall, until it is decided,
preclude all amendments to the main question.
   (O)   Rule 15. The “previous question” shall be as follows: “Shall the main
question be now put?” If it is carried its effect shall be to bring the Council
to an immediate vote, first upon the amendments, if any, upon the inverse order
of their age, then upon the main question. If the previous question shall not
be carried, the question may be resumed the same as if the previous question
had not been put.
   (P)   Rule 16. When a blank is to be filled and different sums or times are
proposed, the question shall be first upon the largest sum and the longest
time.
   (Q)   Rule 17. When amendments are offered to any question before the
Council, the vote shall first be taken on the amendment last proposed.
   (R)   Rule 18. The ayes and nays upon any question shall be taken and
entered upon the minutes.
   (S)   Rule 19. In all cases when a resolution or motion shall be entered on
the minutes of the Council, the name of the member moving the same shall be
entered upon the minutes.
   (T)   Rule 20. The election of any member of the Council to the chair,
during the temporary absence of the Mayor or acting Mayor, shall not deprive
such member of his vote, and no vote shall be deemed carried except by a
majority of the members present.
   (U)   Rule 21. All reports of committees shall be addressed to the “Mayor
and Council of the City of Marseilles.”
   (V)   Rule 22. Any Commissioner can request that an item be placed on the
agenda of an upcoming meeting. Such request shall be provided no later than 3:
00 p.m. on the Friday before the meeting.
   (W) Rule 23. “Roberts’ Rules of Order” shall govern the proceedings of the
Council, except when in conflict with the foregoing rules.
(‘72 Code, § 2.04) (Am. Ord. 1469, passed 3-21-12)
§ 30.17 ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS; PENALTY.
   (A)   In case there is no quorum at any meeting of the City Council, it
shall be the duty of the Mayor, if a majority of the members present so direct,
to order any police officer to immediately arrest and bring in all absent
members that can be found in the city, who are not unable through sickness, to
attend.
   (B)    Any member who purposely absents himself or herself from the city to
avoid attending any meeting of the Council or who, being in the city, conceals
himself or herself from such officer or refuses to be brought in when found,
shall be deemed guilty of disorderly conduct, and upon conviction thereof shall
be subject to a fine according to the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99, and the Council may, with the concurrence of two-thirds of all the
members elected, expel such member, in which event his or her seat shall be
deemed vacant and be filled by election.
('72 Code, § 2.05) (Ord. 1326, passed 2-20-08 )
§ 30.18 MEMBERS REQUIRED TO VOTE.
   Every member of the City Council shall vote on all questions in which he is
not directly and personally interested, which may be brought before the Council
for its action in such manner as to require a vote thereon, unless such member
be excused by a vote of two-thirds of all the other members present.
('72 Code, § 2.06)
§ 30.19 CAPACITY OF CITY COUNCIL MEETING ROOM.
   The maximum number of persons allowed to occupy the meeting room in which
the City Council regularly holds its meetings shall be set at 49. Said maximum
number shall be posted on the door to the meeting room and at one place inside
the meeting room.
(Ord. 1166, passed 9-1-04)
§ 30.20 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Compliance. It shall be unlawful for any person to address or attempt
to address any meeting of the City Council or other board or commission
(governing body) of the city except when in compliance with the limitations as
provided herein. Public participation shall be permitted as follows:
      (1)   Public comment at the end of a scheduled meeting.
      (2)   Agenda participation.
      (3)   Public hearing.
      (4)   Invited speakers.
   (B)   Requirements and limitations. The speaker shall identify themselves
before beginning their address. The speaker shall not direct threats or
personal attacks at public official, other speakers, or any other member of the
audience. The speaker should anticipate a time limitation on no more than five
minutes in total, unless extended for a specified period of time by a majority
vote of the governing body. The Mayor or person presiding over the meeting or a
majority of the majority of officials present may impose reasonable limitations
on citizen participation such as barring repetitious, irrelevant, immaterial,
or inappropriate comments or they may suspend public participation to a later
time or date.
   (C)   Agenda request to speak. Persons wishing to speak as an agenda item at
a meeting shall make such request in writing to the City Clerk at least five
days prior to the meeting providing their name, address, and topic for
discussion. All speakers shall comply with these rules and any limitations
imposed by the Mayor or majority of officials present.
   (D)   Representative speakers. Groups of residents should, when possible,
consolidate their comments and avoid repetition through the use of a
representative speaker.
   (E)   Invited speakers. Any person may address the governing body by
invitation of the Mayor or person presiding or other public official. Speakers
invited to participate shall be subject to such limitations as the Mayor or
person presiding over the meeting or a majority of officials present shall
prescribe.
(Ord. 1470, passed 3-21-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 30.21 ELECTRONIC ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS.
   (A)   Pre-arrangements. Any member of the City Council desiring to attend a
City Council meeting by means other than physical presence shall contact the
City Clerk sufficiently in advance of the meeting to allow the Mayor (or other
presiding officer) to know of the request and the cause for the request and to
allow for set up and testing of needed electronic equipment.
   (B)   Authorized reasons. A member of the City Council may attend a City
Council meeting by means other than physical presence only for causes
authorized by the Open Meeting Act which currently include because of (1)
personal illness or disability; (2) employment purposes or for business of the
pubic body, or (3) family or other emergency.
   (C)   Meeting procedures. 
      (1)   At the start of the meeting, a quorum of the City Council members
must be physically present. Following the roll call, the City Clerk shall
advise the City Council members physically present of the request of a member
to attend by electronic means and the cause for the request. The City Council
members physically present may approve the request only if they find:
         (a)   There is an authorized reason to allow the member to attend
electronically; and
         (b)   The audio and/or video conference equipment is sufficiently
effective to allow the member of the City Council not physically present to
hear and effectively communicate with all other City Council Members, and
others physically present at the meeting; and
         (c)   The contemplated business of the meeting can be effectively
communicated by audio or video conference.
      (2)   The City Council may terminate the attendance of a member attending
by electronic means in the event that the electronic equipment in use
substantially fails or in the event that the business of the meeting cannot be
effectively communicated by the electronic means in use.
   (D)   Minutes. The minutes shall reflect the findings of the City Council
physically present that authorized a member to attend electronically. Any
council member attending electronically shall be considered an off-site
attendee and counted as present but with a notation made in the minutes that
their attendance was by electronic means.
(Ord. 1653, passed 1-17-18)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Failure to perform duties
   
31.02   Indemnification for Council, officers and employees
   
31.03   State Officials and Employees Ethics Act
   
31.04   Electronic communications
   
31.05   Travel expense controls
   
31.06   Expense reimbursement policy and provisions
Elected Officials
   
31.10   City Clerk
Nonelected Officials
   
31.15   Deputy City Clerk
   
31.16   City Treasurer
   
31.17   City Attorney
   
31.18   Street Supervisor
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 FAILURE TO PERFORM DUTIES.
   The failure of an officer or employee of the city to perform an official
duty imposed by this code shall not subject such officer or employee to the
penalty imposed for violation of this code, unless a penalty is specifically
provided in the section creating the duty.
('72 Code, § 1.06(h))
§ 31.02 INDEMNIFICATION FOR COUNCIL, OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The city shall indemnify, hold harmless and defend or to incur the
cost of defense of the members of the City Council, as such members or
individually, and the officers and employees of the city from the payment of
any sum or sums of money to any persons whomsoever on account of all claims,
actions or suits growing out of injuries to persons or property from any act or
omission of a member of the Council, a city official or city employee occurring
within the scope of the individual's employment or official capacity.
   (B)   The indemnification offered by division (A) above, shall be applicable
only to the extent that the liability insurance of the city does not provide
coverage, and where any such claim or action is in excess of such liability
coverage.
   (C)   No present or former members of the Council, officer or employee shall
be required to pay any deductible or retention amount required by the liability
insurance of the city.
   (D)   If any claim or action is instituted against any member of the Council
or former member of the Council or any officer or former officer of the city or
any employee or former employee of the city based on injury allegedly arising
out of an act or omission occurring within the scope of his authority or
employment as a Council member, officer or employee, the city shall do the
following:
      (1)   Appear and defend against the claim or action;
      (2)   Indemnify him for his court costs incurred in the defense of such
claim or action;
      (3)   Pay, or indemnify him for a judgment based on such claim or action;
or
      (4)   Pay or indemnify him for, a compromise or settlement of such a
claim or action.
(Ord. 695, passed 12-30-85)
§ 31.03 STATE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT.
   (A)   The Illinois General Assembly has enacted the State Officials and
Employees Ethics Act, ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, §§ 1-1 et seq. which is a
comprehensive revision of the state statutes regulating ethical conduct,
political activities and the solicitation and acceptance of gifts by state
officials and employees.
   (B)   Pursuant to ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430 § 70-5, all units of local government
and school districts are required to adopt an ordinance or resolution
regulating the political activities of, and the solicitation and acceptance of
gifts by, their respective officers and employees, "in a manner no less
restrictive" than the provisions of the Act.
   (C)   The city hereby adopts the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act.
(Ord. 1163, passed 5-5-04)
§ 31.04 ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS.
   Any electronic communications pertaining to the public business of the city
by a Commissioner, whether generated from a publically owned or privately owned
electronic device, in addition to any other party, shall be communicated to the
City Clerk as the city’s Freedom of Information Officer.
(Ord. 1487, passed 6-20-12)
§ 31.05 TRAVEL EXPENSE CONTROLS.
   (A)   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
      ENTERTAINMENT. Includes, but is not limited to, shows, amusements,
theaters, circuses, sporting events, or any other place of public or private
entertainment or amusement, unless ancillary to the purpose of the program or
event.
      PUBLIC BUSINESS. Expenses incurred in the performance of a public purpose
which is required or useful for the benefit of the city to carry out the
responsibilities of city business.
      TRAVEL. Any expenditure directly incident to official travel by employees
and officers of the city involving reimbursement to travelers or direct payment
to private agencies providing transportation or related services.
   (B)   Travel expense subject to reimbursement.
      (1)   An elected or appointed official of the city may be entitled to
reimbursement for travel, including meals or lodging, related to official
business including, without limitation, education conferences related to public
business and site visits to other municipalities or potential vendors of the
city. Elected or appointed officials should seek advance approval of
anticipated travel expenses through the Commissioner of Accounts and Finances
or the Mayor.
      (2)   Employees of the city may be entitled to reimbursement for travel,
including meals or lodging, related to official business including, without
limitation, education conferences related to city employment, and site visits
to other municipalities, and travel identified in any applicable collective
bargaining agreement. Employees should seek advance approval of anticipated
travel expenses through their department head or relevant City Commissioner.
   (C)   Maximum allowable reimbursement for expenses. Unless otherwise
approved in advance by the appropriate authorizing party, the maximum allowable
reimbursement shall be those rates set by the Federal Travel Regulations
maintained by the United States General Services Administration for mileage,
travel per diem, meals, and incidental expense in effect at the time the
expense was incurred.
   (D)   Expenses not ordinarily subject to reimbursement. Officials, officers,
and employees are expected to show good judgment and common regard for economy.
Any person seeking reimbursement should, to the extent reasonably possible,
seek pre-approval of anticipated expenses. Absent pre-approval for good cause,
reimbursement is not allowed for any of the following:
      (1)   Entertainment including, but not limited to, shows, amusements,
theaters, circuses, sporting events, or any other place of public or private
entertainment or amusement, unless ancillary to the purpose of the program or
event.
      (2)   Alcoholic beverages.
      (3)   Lodging for travel to an all day event less than 70 miles away
unless pre-approved.
      (4)   Expenses of family or friends.
      (5)   Expenses of a personal nature that could, with reasonable care,
been avoided.
      (6)   Parking tickets, traffic citations or other penalties or violations
of ordinance or statute.
      (7)   Expenses included at an event or otherwise reimbursed.
      (8)   Other non-public business related expenses.
      (9)   Expenses which when combined with prior expenses exceed the city's
appropriation ordinance.
   (E)   Documentation of expenses. Expense reports should be promptly
completed and turned in to the department head or City Clerk so that expenses
may be considered by the City Council at their meeting following the date when
expenses were incurred. Department heads may require employees to use
department customized expense report forms. Absent the availability of a
customized Department Expense report, a written expense report should be signed
by the party seeking reimbursement and identify their title or position with
the city. Expenses shall be grouped by day with the date identified and
sufficiently described so that reviewing parties may understand the nature of
the requested expense, where incurred and the amount. Expenses in an amount
greater than $20 should normally be documented with a receipt. Vehicle use
miles should be documented by an internet map report identifying travel miles.
Any misrepresentation on an expense reimbursement request shall be grounds for
disciplinary and/or legal action. Expense reimbursement requests are considered
public documents and subject to production in any Freedom of Information Act.
   (F)   Approval of denial of expenses.
      (1)   Expense of an elected or appointed official of the city shall be
reviewed by the Commissioner of Accounts and Finances or the Mayor and approved
or denied by the City Council as part of the usual and customary bill paying
procedures.
      (2)   Expenses of employee shall be reviewed by the department head or
relevant City Commissioner and approved or denied by the City Council as part
of the usual and customary bill paying procedures.
(Ord. 1623, passed 12-21-16)
§ 31.06 EXPENSE REIMBURSEMENT POLICY AND PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Policy. It is a policy of the City of Marseilles to reimburse
employees for all necessary expenditures or losses incurred by the employee
within the employee's scope of employment and directly related to services
performed for the city. The city is not responsible for losses due to an
employee's own negligence, losses due to normal wear or losses due to theft
unless the theft was a result of city's negligence. This policy was drafted
using the Illinois Wage Payment and Collection Act (ILCS Ch. 820, Act 115, §
9.5), effective January 1, 2019.
   (B)   Definitions. The following terms shall apply to this chapter as
written unless context indicates or requires a different meaning:
      EMPLOYEE. An employee, officer or official of the City of Marseilles.
Municipal officers and officials may be subject to additional conditions or
restrictions for reimbursement of expenses related to their specific offices
and other state statutes or local ordinances.
      NECESSARY EXPENDITURES. Subject to reimbursement means all reasonable
expenditures or losses required of the employee in the discharge of employment
duties and that inure to the primary benefit of the City of Marseilles, subject
to the provisions of this policy.
   (C)   Guidelines for necessary expenditures. Authorized expenditures subject
to reimbursement include those identified in any relevant collective bargaining
agreement, those identified in § 31.05, Travel Expense Controls, and those
expenses authorized by a Department Head or supervising City Commissioner.
Expenditures not necessary for employment purposes or not pre-approved by a
Department Head or supervising City Commissioner should not be considered
authorized for reimbursement.
   (D)   Pre-approval for authorized expenditures. An employee whenever
possible shall submit a written request to purchase any of the above authorized
expenditures at least three business days in advance of incurring the expense
using an approve “Expense Reimbursement Form.” Following approval of the
expense, the employee will be reimbursed as provided in the following section.
If the expense is not approved following a written request, the employee will
not be entitled to reimbursement. In the event that an expense is not pre-
approved, reimbursement will be subject to the discretion by a Department Head
or supervising City Commissioner.
   (E)   Reimbursement procedure for authorized expenditures. An employee
should promptly complete and turned in to the Department Head or if not
available to the City Clerk an expense reimbursement form along with
appropriate supporting documentation so that the expense may be considered by
the City Council at their meeting following the date when expenses were
incurred. Where supporting documentation is nonexistent, missing or lost, the
employee shall submit a signed statement regarding any such receipts. An
employee may not be entitled to reimbursement if the employee has failed to
comply with this expense reimbursement policy.
   (F)   Expense reimbursement form. Unless a Department Head or supervising
City Commissioner requires use of a different form, the following form may be
used:
      EXPENSE REIMBURSEMENT FORM
   At least three business days in advance of incurring an expense for an
authorized expenditure, the following minimum documentation must be submitted,
in writing, to your Department Head or supervising City Commissioner:
   Employee name:
                                                                        
   Description of Expense:
                                                              
                                                                                                     
                                                                                                     
   Expected Date of Expenditure:
                                                       
   Estimated Expense Amount:
                                                        
   (Employee should submit this form to their Department Head or supervising
City Commissioner at least three business days in advance)
   ************************************************************
   Supervisor of City Commissioner Action
   _____ Approved _____ Denied                                        
                                          Signature
   *************************************************************
   Request for Reimbursement
   Actual Amount:            Dated
___________                                                     
                                        Employee Signature
   (Employee should promptly return this form with appropriate supporting
documentation to their Department Head or if not available to the City Clerk so
that the expense may be considered by the City Council at their meeting
following the date when expenses were incurred)
(Ord. 1706, passed 4-17-19)
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.10 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   Creation of office. There is hereby created and established the office
of City Clerk.
   (B)   Election. The Clerk shall be elected at the first regular meeting of
the City Council in May of each year or as near thereafter as may be
practicable.
   (C)   Bond. The Clerk, before entering upon the duties of his office shall
execute a bond to the city, in the penal sum of $6,000, with such surety as the
Council may approve, conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of
his office as Clerk and ex-officio City Collector, and the payment of all
moneys that may be received by him according to law, the provisions of this
code and any applicable ordinances of the city.
   (D)   Clerk as City Collector. 
      (1)   The Clerk shall be ex-officio City Collector and shall perform all
duties of the Collector as fixed by law, the provisions of this code or any
applicable ordinances of the city, in addition to his duties as Clerk.
      (2)   As Collector, the Clerk shall preserve all warrants which are
returned to his hands; he shall keep separate books and accounts showing
accurately all money received by him and from whom and on what account received
and when turned over to the City Treasurer. Such warrants, books and papers
pertaining to his office shall, at all times, be open to inspection of and
subject to the examination of the Mayor or any Commissioner.
      (3)   As Collector, the Clerk shall, from time to time, as required by
the Commissioner of Accounts and Finances, submit to the Council a statement of
moneys collected by him, the particular warrant, special assessment or account
on which collected, and balance of moneys uncollected on all warrants in his
hands and the amounts turned over by him each week to the Treasurer.
   (E)   Duties. The Clerk shall perform all the duties imposed by statute and
shall in addition thereto, perform the following duties:
      (1)    The Clerk shall keep in a suitable book to be styled “Records of
the Council” a full and faithful record of all proceedings of the Council,
which records of such proceedings shall be typewritten. To aid in the
preparation of minutes for any regular or special meeting, open to the public,
the Clerk in his or her discretion may take and keep tape-recordings of the
meetings despite the fact that such tapes may be subject to distortion, gaps
and other imperfections. Such tapes, if made, shall be maintained until the
minutes of such meeting open to the public are approved. After such meeting
minutes are approved, such tapes may be destroyed by the Clerk. The foregoing
shall not limit the ability of a member of the public to record open
proceedings by tape, film or other means as generally authorized by § 2.05 of
the Open Meetings Act. The Clerk shall keep a verbatim record of all closed
meetings in the form of an audio or video recording in compliance with § 2.06
of the Open Meetings Act and shall keep such recordings until approved by
destruction in compliance with said § 2.06.
      (2)   The Clerk shall issue notices to the members of the Council when
directed by that body, to the several Commissioners and members of any
committee created by the Council and to all persons whose attendance is
required before the Council or Commissioners, when directed by any Commissioner
and shall issue notices of special meetings.
      (3)   The Clerk shall attest all licenses granted by the Mayor or Council
under this code or any applicable ordinances of the city.
      (4)   The Clerk shall, without delay, deliver to the Mayor, Commissioners
or other officers of the city, all resolutions and communications referred to
such Mayor, Commissioners or other officers.
      (5)   The Clerk shall perform such other duties usually incident to the
office of Clerk as may from time to time be required of him by the Council,
Mayor or Commissioners.
('72 Code, § 3.09) (Am. Ord. 1357, passed 11-5-08)
NONELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.15 DEPUTY CITY CLERK.
   The City Clerk may appoint an assistant, who, in the absence of the Clerk,
in case of sickness or other cause, shall be empowered to perform all the
duties of the Clerk. The Clerk shall be held responsible for the fidelity of
the assistant.
('72 Code, § 3.09)
§ 31.16 CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   Creation of office. There is hereby created the office of City
Treasurer.
   (B)   Bond. The Treasurer, before entering upon the duties of his office,
shall execute a bond to the city, in the penal sum of $25,000, with surety to
be approved by the Council, conditioned as required by law, and shall take the
oath prescribed for other officers.
   (C)   Monthly statements. The Treasurer shall receive all moneys belonging
to the city, and shall render at the end of each month, and oftener if
required, a statement under oath to the Commissioner of Accounts and Finances,
showing the state of the treasury at the date of such account, and the balance
of the money in the treasury. Such statement shall set forth all the moneys
received by him, and from whom, and on what account they shall have been
received; also, all moneys paid out by him and on what account they shall have
been paid.
   (D)   Books of account. The Treasurer shall cause to be kept books of
account in such manner as to show with entire accuracy all moneys received by
him, and from whom, and on what account they shall have been received; and all
moneys paid out by him and on what account they shall have been paid; and in
such manner that such books may be readily understood and investigated. Such
books and all papers and files of his office shall be at all times open to the
examination of the Mayor or any commissioner.
   (E)   Deposit of funds. The Treasurer shall deposit the funds of the city in
such bank or banks as may be designated according to law, and shall make to the
Commissioner of Accounts and Finances a monthly report under oath for each
calendar month of all interest on moneys received by or credited to the
Treasurer or to the city, by any such bank in which is deposited any moneys of
the city, including trust funds and special assessments.
   (F)   Additional duties. The Treasurer shall perform such other duties
usually incident to the office of Treasurer as may from time to time be
required by the Mayor or any commissioner.
   (G)   Electronic pay. The Treasurer is authorized to participate in the
Electronic Payment Services Program offered by the Office of the State
Treasurer subject to rules as time to time adopted by the City Council.
   (H)   Investment policy.
      (1)   Purpose. This investment policy is adopted for the purposes of
guarding funds, equitably distributing the investments and maximizing income
for of public funds under the jurisdiction of the City of Marseilles.
Investment requirements under The Illinois Compiled Statutes will take
precedence except where this policy is more restrictive wherein this policy
will take precedence.
      (2)   Scope. This investment policy applies to the investment activities
of all funds under the control of the Treasurer as well as funds held by other
entities under the control and jurisdiction of the City of Marseilles. This
investment policy will also apply to any new funds or temporary funds placed
under the jurisdiction of the City of Marseilles.
      (3)   Objectives. The specific objectives of this investment policy in
order of priority are as follows:
         (a)   Safety. The security of monies, whether on hand or invested
shall be the primary concern of the City of Marseilles in selecting
depositories or investments.
         (b)   Liquidity. The investment portfolio shall remain sufficiently
liquid to meet all operating requirements which might be reasonably
anticipated.
         (c)   Return. The City of Marseilles shall seek to attain a market
average or better rate of return throughout budgetary and economic cycles,
taking into account risk, constraints, cash flow, and legal restrictions on
investment.
         (d)   Local considerations. The City of Marseilles shall have
preference to depositories located within the city provided that the afore-
described objectives are met, and such investments would be in compliance with
all other conditions and limitations of this investment policy; however, the
City of Marseilles may approve qualified depositories regardless of location.
      (4)   Guidelines. To assist in attaining the stated objectives, the
following guidelines shall be observed:
         (a)   Investments shall be undertaken in a manner that seeks to insure
preservation of capital in the overall portfolio. To avoid unreasonable risks
diversification of investments is required.
         (b)   The portfolio should remain sufficiently liquid to meet
operating requirements, which may be reasonably anticipated. Cash flows shall
be reviewed quarterly.
         (c)   To maximize earnings, all funds shall be deposited/invested
within two working days at prevailing rates or better.
         (d)   All investments shall be selected on the basis of competitive
bids.
      (5)   Diversification. To avoid unreasonable risks diversification of the
investment portfolio shall be consistent with the objectives in the investment
policy. Commercial paper shall not exceed 10% of the investment portfolio.
      (6)   Investment vehicles. The City of Marseilles will use investments
approved for governmental units as set forth in the most current issue of the
Illinois Compiled Statutes. A summary of allowable securities follows:
         (a)   Notes, bonds, certificates of indebtedness, treasury bills, or
other securities, which are guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the
United States of America.
         (b)   Bonds, notes, debentures, or other similar obligations of the
United States of America or its agencies.
         (c)   Interest bearing accounts, certificates of deposit or interest
bearing time deposits or any other investment constituting direct obligations
of any bank as defined by the Illinois Banking Act.
         (d)   In money market mutual funds registered under the Investment
Company Act of 1940.
         (e)   Short term obligations of United States Corporations are
allowable with certain restrictions. It is currently the policy of the City to
not use this investment option.
      (7)   Responsibility. All investment of funds under the control of the
City of Marseilles is the direct responsibility of the Treasurer of the City of
Marseilles. The Treasurer shall be responsible for all transactions and shall
establish a system of controls of the activities of all subordinates who are
directly involved in the assistance of such investment activities. The
Treasurer shall report directly to and perform under the supervision of the
Commissioner of Accounts and Finances.
      (8)   Performance measures (bench mark). The use of U.S. Treasury bills,
average Fed Fund rate, Illinois Funds, or other stable markets can be used to
determine whether market yields are being achieved.
      (9)   Periodic review. The Treasurer should establish annual independent
review for internal control, which assures compliance within the investment
policy. This will be accomplished with external auditors.
      (10)   Accounting. All investment transactions shall be recorded by the
Treasurer or the Treasurer's staff. A report will be generated, at least
monthly, listing all active investments. Information regarding securities in
portfolio by class or type, book value, interest earned and market value as of
report date. This report shall be made available to the City Council.
      (11)   Financial institutions. The City Council will have the sole
responsibility to select from time to time which financial institutions will be
depositories for the City of Marseilles. The City of Marseilles will take into
consideration security, size, location, condition, service fees and the
community relations involvement of the financial institution when choosing a
financial institution. At no time will the City of Marseilles investments
exceed 65% of the financial institutions capital and surplus. All financial
institutions having any type of financial relationships: deposits, investments,
loans, etc. are required to provide a complete and current “call report”
required by their appropriate regulatory authority each calendar quarter within
30 days of the “call” request date.
      (12)   Collateral. 
         (a)   At all times the City of Marseilles will require that deposits
in excess of 35 % of the capital and surplus of a financial institution will be
collateralized. The City of Marseilles may request collateral for any part of
deposits in financial institutions when the city determines it to be in the
best interest of safeguarding the funds on deposit. All funds or deposit in
excess of FDIC insured limits must be secured by some form of collateral. When
collateral is required, 110% of the deposit will be required. Only the
following collateral will be accepted:
            1.   U.S. Government direct securities;
            2.   Obligations of Federal Agencies;
            3.   Obligations of Federal Instrumentality's;
            4.   Obligations of the State of Illinois;
            5.   Obligations of the City of Marseilles; and,
            6.   Acceptable collateral as identified in the Illinois Compiled
Statutes for use by the Treasurer of the State of Illinois.
         (b)   Third party safekeeping is required for all collateral. To
accomplish this the securities will be held at a safekeeping depository as
approved from time to time by the City of Marseilles. Safekeeping will be
documented by an approved written agreement. Substitution, exchange or release
of securities held in safekeeping may be done upon two days prior written
notice to the City of Marseilles. When collateral is extended, the City of
Marseilles should receive a copy of the financial institutions board minutes,
indicating the Board of Director's approval.
      (13)   Safekeeping of securities. Securities, unless held physically by
the City of Marseilles, require third party safekeeping. The City of Marseilles
will have the sole responsibility for selecting safekeeping agents. Safekeeping
will be documented by an approved written agreement.
      (14)   Indemnification. 
         (a)   Investments shall be made with judgment and care, under
circumstances then prevailing, which person of prudence, discretion and
intelligence exercise in the management of their own affairs, not for
speculation, but for investment, considering the probable safety of their
capital as well as the possible income to be derived.
         (b)   The above standard is established as the standard for
professional responsibility and shall be applied in the context of managing the
city's portfolio. Pursuant to the Public Funds Investment Act at ILCS Ch. 30,
Act 235, § 2.5 and other provisions included in that Act, along with all other
Statutes and Constitutional provisions regarding conflicts of interest and
ethical considerations. The City of Marseilles and employees of the city acting
in accordance with this investment policy and procedures as have been or may be
established and exercising due diligence shall be relieved of personal
liability for an individual security's credit risk or market changes.
      (15)   Security controls. Only the City of Marseilles Treasurer together
with the Commissioner of Accounts and Finances should be authorized to
establish financial accounts for the City of Marseilles. At all times either
the City Treasurer, singly or signatories as designated by the city should be
authorized to sign on financial accounts of the City of Marseilles.
      (16)   Amendment. This policy may be reviewed from time to time and
revised upon approval of the Council of the City of Marseilles.
(‘72 Code, § 3.10) (Am. Ord. 1439, passed 4-20-11; Am. Ord. 1684, passed 10-3-
18)
§ 31.17 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   Creation of office. There is hereby created and established the office
of City Attorney.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Attorney shall be a duly licensed attorney of the
state.
   (C)   Records to be kept. The Attorney shall conduct all law business of the
city, and shall keep or cause to be kept in proper books provided for that
purpose, a register of all actions in court prosecuted or defended by his
office and all proceedings had therein. Such books shall at all times be open
to inspection of the Mayor or any commissioner.
   (D)   Duties. The Attorney shall draft such ordinances or resolutions as may
be required of him by the Council, the Mayor or any Commissioner. He shall draw
any deeds, leases, contracts or other papers required by the business of the
city when requested so to do by the Mayor or any commissioner. He shall, when
requested so to do, furnish written opinions upon subjects submitted to him by
the Mayor, Council or any commissioner. He shall attend all meetings of the
Council and shall advise the Mayor or any commissioner upon any legal question
arising at any time, when requested to do so. The City Attorney shall perform
such other duties usually incidental to his office as may be required by the
Mayor or any commissioner.
('72 Code, § 3.11) (Am. Ord. 521, passed 5-6-74)
§ 31.18 STREET SUPERVISOR.
   (A)   Creation of office. There is hereby created and established the office
of Street Supervisor.
   (B)   Property inventory. The Street Supervisor immediately upon entering
upon the duties of his office shall make an inventory of all city property
turned over to him by his predecessor, which inventory shall be filed with the
City Clerk and made a part of the records of the city. On or before the last
meeting in April of each year, a new inventory of all property in his care
shall be made by him and filed with the Clerk. The Street Supervisor shall also
make an inventory of such city property at any other time, when so directed by
the Council or the Commissioner of Streets and Public Improvements.
   (C)   Duties. The Street Supervisor shall be under the direction and
supervision of the Commissioner of the Department of Streets and Public
Improvements, and shall perform such duties and superintend such work as the
Commissioner may direct.
('72 Code, § 3.12)
CHAPTER 32: EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Enumeration of departments
   
32.02   Commissioners to make and enforce rules and regulations
Department of Public Affairs
   
32.10   Mayor; powers and duties
   
32.11   Assignment of officers and offices to Department
Department of Accounts and Finances
   
32.20   Commissioner of Department; powers and duties
   
32.21   Assignment of certain officials and departments to Department of
Accounts and Finances
   
32.22   Commissioner of Department to be Mayor Pro Tem
   
32.23   Commissioner of Department to be liaison officer
Department of Public Health and Safety
   
32.35   Assignment of members of Police Department to Department of Public
Health and Safety
   
32.36   Commissioner of Department; duties
Department of Streets and Public Improvements
   
32.45   Commissioner of Department; authority
Department of Public Property
   
32.55   Commissioner of Department; authority
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 ENUMERATION OF DEPARTMENTS.
   The executive and administrative powers, authority and duties in the city
are distributed into and among the following departments and the powers and
duties to be performed are determined and assigned to the appropriate
departments and officers, as hereinafter set forth:
   (A)   Department of Public Affairs;
   (B)   Department of Accounts and Finances;
   (C)   Department of Public Health and Safety;
   (D)   Department of Streets and Public Improvements; and
   (E)   Department of Public Property.
('72 Code, § 3.01)
§ 32.02 COMMISSIONERS TO MAKE AND ENFORCE RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The commissioner of each department shall make and enforce such rules and
regulations, not inconsistent with the law, this code or any ordinances of the
city, as may be necessary to secure efficient conduct of the service of his
department and of the business thereof.
('72 Code, § 3.07)
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
§ 32.10 MAYOR; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Mayor's powers. The Mayor shall have and exercise all the powers and
perform all the duties provided or prescribed by law or the ordinances of the
city, not in conflict with the provisions of this code.
   (B)   Mayor to be Superintendent. The Mayor shall be Superintendent of the
Department of Public Affairs, and, as such, shall have general supervision and
oversight over all departments and officers of the city government.
   (C)   Chief executive officer. The Mayor shall be the chief executive
officer and representative of the city, and shall preside at the meetings of
the City Council. The Mayor shall sign all contracts on behalf of the city and
shall have charge of and cause to be prepared and published all statements and
reports required by law or ordinance or resolution of the Council. The Mayor
shall grant all licenses and permits, and in the absence or inability of any of
the commissioners to act, he shall exercise temporary supervision over the
department assigned to said commissioner.
   (D)   Franchises. The Mayor shall have supervision over all public service
utilities and all persons or corporations rendering service in the city under
any franchise, contract or grant made or granted by the city or state and shall
report to the Council or other proper officer any failure of such person or
corporation to render service or to perform the requirements or conditions of
the franchise, contract or grant under which such public service utility is to
be operated.
('72 Code, § 3.02(a) - (d))
§ 32.11 ASSIGNMENT OF OFFICERS AND OFFICES TO DEPARTMENT.
   All other officers and offices not by law, this code or ordinance
apportioned or assigned to some other department are hereby assigned to the
Department of Public Affairs.
('72 Code, § 3.02(e))
DEPARTMENT OF ACCOUNTS AND FINANCES
§ 32.20 COMMISSIONER OF DEPARTMENT; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Duties. The Commissioner of the Department of Accounts and Finances
shall have charge of and supervision over all accounts and records of the city,
and all officers, boards or departments required to keep, or make accounts,
records or reports. He shall inspect or cause to be inspected all records or
accounts required to be kept in any of the offices or departments of the city
and shall cause proper accounts and records to be kept and proper reports to be
made.
   (B)   Audits. The Commissioner shall audit or cause to be audited at
frequent intervals, the accounts of every officer or employee who does or may
receive or disburse money.
   (C)   Purchases. The Commissioner shall have charge of the purchase, care
and distribution of all supplies and other articles not otherwise provided by
law, this code or any ordinance of the city.
   (D)   Claims. The Commissioner shall examine or cause to be examined, and
report to the City Council upon all bills, accounts, payrolls and claims before
they are acted upon or allowed, unless otherwise provided by law.
   (E)   Collection of fees. The Commissioner shall collect or cause to be
collected, all license fees, franchise taxes, rentals or other moneys, which
may be due or become due to the city. He shall report to the Council any
failure to make reports or to pay moneys due to the city, with such
recommendation in relation thereto as he may deem proper. He shall, whenever
the city has authority so to do, cause to be examined the accounts and records
of any person or corporation operating a public service utility in the city,
and shall report to the Council any refusal to permit such examination.
('72 Code, § 3.03(a) - (e))
§ 32.21 ASSIGNMENT OF CERTAIN OFFICIALS AND DEPARTMENTS TO DEPARTMENT OF
ACCOUNTS AND FINANCES.
   The City Auditor, City Treasurer, City Clerk and their respective offices or
departments and all employees therein and all bookkeepers and accountants are
apportioned and assigned to the Department of Accounts and Finances, and shall
be under the direction and supervision of the Commissioner of the Department.
He shall have charge of and supervision over all printing by or for the city
unless otherwise provided. He shall order all stationery, blank books and job
printing on requisition signed by the heads of the departments.
('72 Code, § 3.03(f))
§ 32.22 COMMISSIONER OF DEPARTMENT TO BE MAYOR PRO TEM.
   The Commissioner of the Department of Accounts and Finances shall also be
Mayor Pro Tem, and in the absence of the Mayor, or his inability to act, shall
preside over the Council and perform all the usual duties of the Mayor and head
of the Department of Public Affairs.
('72 Code, § 3.03(g))
§ 32.23 COMMISSIONER OF DEPARTMENT TO BE LIAISON OFFICER.
   The Commissioner of the Department of Accounts and Finances shall be the
liaison officer between the City Council and the Zoning Commission and shall
attend Appeal Board and Plan Commission meetings, be available to confer with
the City Clerk and Zoning Officer, and recommend needed changes, including
proper fees for permits, in the zoning laws or procedures.
(Am. Ord. 537, passed 6-16-75)
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
§ 32.35 ASSIGNMENT OF MEMBERS OF POLICE DEPARTMENT TO DEPARTMENT OF
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY.
   The Chief of Police, Assistant Chief of Police, the Police Department and
all police officers and employees therein, and the police station, jail
property and apparatus used in the Police Department, are all assigned to the
Department of Public Health and Safety.
('72 Code, § 3.04(a))
§ 32.36 COMMISSIONER OF DEPARTMENT; DUTIES.
   The Commissioner of Public Health and Safety shall have charge of the
purchase of apparatus and supplies of the Police Department, or the offices and
departments assigned thereto. He shall have supervision over the construction
and repair of all buildings assigned to said Department and may, on
application, receive assistance therein from other officers and departments of
the city. He shall have cognizance of all bills for the Police Department, and
approve same as just and correct. He shall have charge of the enforcement of
all ordinances and resolutions relating to the protection of traffic on the
streets of the city.
('72 Code, § 3.04(b))
DEPARTMENT OF STREETS AND PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
§ 32.45 COMMISSIONER OF DEPARTMENT; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Commissioner of the Department of Streets and Public Improvements
shall have authority over and charge of:
      (1)   All public work;
      (2)   The cleaning, sprinkling and repairing of streets, alleys and
bridges, and, except as otherwise provided by law, the erection, making and
reconstruction of all street improvements, paving, curbing, sidewalks, sewers,
bridges and all public improvements and the repair thereof;
      (3)   All bridges; and
      (4)   Enforcing the provisions of this code and any ordinances relating
to obstructions, encroachments, billboards, signs, trees and other shrubs upon
the streets, alleys, bridges and sidewalks.
   (B)   In all cases where excavations in or obstructions of streets are
provided for by ordinance and a permit is necessary in regard thereto,
application for such permits shall be made to and such permits issued by the
Commissioner.
   (C)   The engineer in charge and all persons who may be employed upon the
streets, alleys, bridges, sidewalks, and all public works, are apportioned and
assigned to the Department and shall be under the direction and supervision of
the Commissioner.
('72 Code, § 3.05)
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC PROPERTY
§ 32.55 COMMISSIONER OF DEPARTMENT; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Commissioner of the Department of Public Property shall have
charge of and supervision over the Sewer and Water Departments, lighting,
railroads, public buildings and grounds, and public parks, playgrounds and
pleasure grounds belonging to the city and all plants, trees and shrubbery
contained therein, and all offices and employees employed in or about the parks
and pleasure grounds or kept or used in connection therewith.
   (B)   The Commissioner shall have charge of and supervision over the city
hall and all other city property not otherwise assigned by law or ordinance. He
shall have charge of and supervision over all boulevards and street parkings
and parkways, the improvement, maintenance, lighting and care thereof, and all
parks, pleasure grounds therein or thereon and of the enforcing of the law,
this code and any ordinances of the city relating to the improvement and care
of street parkings and the planting and trimming of trees therein.
   (C)   The Commissioner shall have charge of the purchase of tools, equipment
and the supplies of the Department.
   (D)   The Commissioner shall have such assistance from the City Engineer as
may be necessary in surveying and laying out improvements and otherwise
improving the parks and parkways and pleasure grounds, and may, on application,
receive assistance from other officers and departments of the city.
('72 Code, § 3.06)
CHAPTER 33: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Board of Local Improvements
   
33.01   Creation; duties and functions
   
33.02   Designation of members
Band Commission
   
33.10   Creation; appointment of members, term
   
33.11   Charge and supervision of moneys
   
33.12   Charge of appointment of band members
   
33.13   Levy of tax
Playground and Recreation Board
   
33.25   Establishment; powers and responsibilities
   
33.26   Powers of Board to establish and maintain recreation system
   
33.27   Composition of the Recreation Board
Board of Health
   
33.35   Establishment
   
33.36   Chairperson of Board
   
33.37   Meetings
   
33.38   Duties
   
33.39   Health Officer; creation of office; duties; bond
Water and Sewer Billing Review Board
   
33.40   Creation
   
33.41   Members
   
33.42   Responsibilities and powers
   
33.43   Complaint process
Combined Plan Commission and Zoning Board of Appeals
   
33.50   Purpose
   
33.51   Membership
   
33.52   Term of office; vacancies
   
33.53   Procedure of Commission following appointment
   
33.54   Powers and duties
   
33.55   Copies of ordinances, plans and data relative to public improvements to
be furnished to Commission
   
33.56   Expenditures
   
33.57   Land subdivision or resubdivision and the official map
   
33.58   Meetings and hearing proceedings
Emergency Telephone System Board
   
33.70   Definitions
   
33.71   Creation of an Emergency Telephone System Board for the city
   
33.72   Board membership; general
   
33.73   Powers of the Board
   
33.74   Emergency Telephone System Fund; expenditures
   
33.75   Investment of funds
   
33.76   Powers conferred as additional and supplemental; limitations imposed;
effect
   
33.77   Pecuniary interest of members or employees of the Board; prohibition;
disclosure
Board of Police Commissioners
   
33.80   Creation; purpose
   
33.81   Chief, Captain, Lieutenant, and part time officers
   
33.82   Qualifications and affidavit
   
33.83   Appointment and term of office; removal of member
   
33.84   Compensation
   
33.85   Officers of Board
   
33.86   Rules, powers and duties of Board
   
33.87   Minor discipline
   
33.88   Attorney for Board
   
33.89   Annual report; City Council responsibilities toward Board
Middle East Tribute Board
   
33.90   Creation
   
33.91   Members
   
33.92   Responsibilities and powers
   
33.93   Finances
BOARD OF LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS
§ 33.01 CREATION; DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS.
   There is hereby created a Board of Local Improvements in and for the city to
do and perform all the duties and functions incumbent upon and exercise all the
rights of a Board of Local Improvements, all as provided in and by an Act of
the General Assembly of the state entitled, “An Act Concerning Local
Improvements,” approved June 14, 1897, and all acts amendatory thereof or
supplemental thereto.
(Ord. 553, passed 4-19-76)
§ 33.02 DESIGNATION OF MEMBERS.
   The four members of the City Council and the Mayor are hereby designated and
appointed members of the Board of Local Improvements of the city. The Council
members along with the Mayor shall constitute the Board with the Mayor serving
as President of the Board.
('72 Code, § 3.13) (Am. Ord. 554, passed 4-19-76)
BAND COMMISSION
§ 33.10 CREATION; APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS, TERM.
   There is hereby created a Band Commission for the city which shall consist
of five members. The members of the Commission shall be appointed by the Mayor
by and with the advice and consent of the City Council. Their term of office
shall be for one year or until their successor is duly appointed.
('72 Code, § 3.14(a))
§ 33.11 CHARGE AND SUPERVISION OF MONEYS.
   The Band Commission shall have charge and supervision of all money therefor,
provided that no such money shall be spent without the approval of the City
Council.
('72 Code, § 3.14(b))
§ 33.12 CHARGE OF APPOINTMENT OF BAND MEMBERS.
   The Band Commission shall have charge of the appointment of a band master
and shall select and appoint the members of the band.
('72 Code, § 3.14(c))
§ 33.13 LEVY OF TAX.
   The special tax provided for by the act in relation to the employment or
maintaining of musical bands by municipalities shall be levied and collected
for the uses therein specified, but no such money shall be paid out of the Band
Fund except on order of the Band Commission.
('72 Code, § 3.14(d))
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning petition for referendum for tax levy, see ILCS Ch.
65, Act 5, § 11-45-1
PLAYGROUND AND RECREATION BOARD
§ 33.25 ESTABLISHMENT; POWERS AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   There is hereby established a Playground and Recreation Board, which Board
shall possess all of the powers and be subject to all of the responsibilities
under the provisions of Article 11, Division 95 of the Illinois Municipal Code.
('72 Code, § 3.15(b))
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning recreation systems, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-
95-1 et seq.
§ 33.26 POWERS OF BOARD TO ESTABLISH AND MAINTAIN RECREATION SYSTEM.
   It is determined that the power to establish, conduct and maintain a
recreation system shall be exercised by a Playground and Recreation Board.
('72 Code, § 3.15(a))
Cross-reference:
   Parks and Recreation, see
Chapter 96
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning authorization and terms of agreement in joint
ownership of property with park districts, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-96-1
§ 33.27 COMPOSITION OF THE RECREATION BOARD.
   The Recreation Board shall be composed of seven members, to be appointed by
the Mayor with the consent of the corporate authorities.
(Ord. 1810, passed 12-15-21)
BOARD OF HEALTH
§ 33.35 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a Department of the Municipal Government of the
city which shall be known as the Board of Health and which Board shall embrace
all the members of the City Council.
('72 Code, § 11.01(a))
§ 33.36 CHAIRPERSON OF BOARD.
   The Chairperson of the Board of Health shall be the Commissioner of Public
Health and Safety, and the Chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the
Board. In his absence, the Mayor shall act as such Chairperson.
('72 Code, § 11.01(b))
§ 33.37 MEETINGS.
   The Board of Health shall meet at the call of the Chairperson, or in his
absence or disability to act, at the call of the majority of the members of the
Board.
('72 Code, § 11.01(c))
§ 33.38 DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board of Health shall have the general supervision of the interest
of the public health of the city. The Board shall have authority to make such
rules and regulations and such sanitary investigation as they may from time to
time deem necessary for the preservation and improvement of the public health,
and they are empowered to make such regulations, not inconsistent with the laws
of the state, as may be necessary to at all times prevent the spread of any
contagious or pestilential disease. It shall be the duty of all officers,
police officers and other employees of the city to enforce the rules and
regulations that may be adopted by the Board.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Board to investigate into the cause of
dangerously contagious or infectious disease, especially when existing in
epidemic form and take means to restrict and suppress the same, and whenever
any dangerously contagious or infectious disease shall become, or threaten to
become, epidemic in the city, the Board shall immediately take all necessary
steps provided for by law to suppress the same.
('72 Code, § 11.01(d))
§ 33.39 HEALTH OFFICER; CREATION OF OFFICE; DUTIES; BOND.
   (A)   Creation of office. There is hereby created and established the office
of Health Officer.
   (B)   Duties. The Health Officer shall be under the direction and
supervision of the Commissioner of Public Health and Safety, and shall perform
such duties and superintend such work as the Commissioner may direct. He shall
be a regular practicing physician, and shall give the Board of Health and other
city authorities such professional advice and information as they may require
with a view to the preservation of the public health.
   (C)   Bond. The Health Officer shall, before entering upon the duties of his
office, execute a bond to the city in the penal sum of $500, with such sureties
as the City Council shall approve, conditioned for the faithful performance of
the duties of his office, and shall also take and subscribe the oath prescribed
by law for city officers.
('72 Code, § 11.02)
WATER AND SEWER BILLING REVIEW BOARD
§ 33.40 CREATION.
   There is hereby established a Water and Sewer Billing Review Board for the
purpose of hearing complaints as to water and sewer billings. The Board shall
appoint a chairperson and a secretary and such other officers as they desire.
(Ord. 1737, passed 2-5-20)
§ 33.41 MEMBERS.
   The members of the Water and Sewer Billing Review Board shall consist of the
Commissioner of Public Property, the City Clerk, the City Treasurer, the
Superintendent of the Waste Water Treatment Plant and the City Engineer or
their designee.
(Ord. 1737, passed 2-5-20)
§ 33.42 RESPONSIBILITIES AND POWERS.
   The Water and Sewer Billing Review Board shall meet the first and third
Wednesdays at 1:00 p.m. with the duty to seek resolution of disputes over water
and sewer billings. Upon the concurrence of three or more members, the Board
may:
   (A)   Grant relief to any dispute over water and sewer billings not
involving a loss of potential revenue to the city of more than $50. Any dispute
resolution involving a loss of potential revenue to the city of more than $50
shall be approved only by the concurrence of a majority of the members of the
City Council.
   (B)   The Board may approve a bill payment agreement. A bill payment
agreement shall require payment of all delinquencies within 18 months. A bill
payment agreement may require that a lien be recorded as to delinquencies to
date. A bill payment agreement may direct that water or sewer service be
restored. The Board may not agree to the bill payment agreement within 12
months from the date of default of any prior bill payment agreement.
   (C)   For good cause, the Board may request the testing of a meter and the
replacement of an apparently malfunctioning meter (see § 52.52 TESTING OF
METERS; FILING OF COMPLAINT AFTER INVESTIGATION of the Code of Marseilles).
   (D)   The Board may request one or more additional meter readings and may
request the attendance of a meter reader at a meeting.
   (E)   The Board may make recommendations to the City Council for
improvements to the meter reading and billing systems.
(Ord. 1737, passed 2-5-20)
§ 33.43 COMPLAINT PROCESS.
   (A)   A city water or sewer user or their power of attorney or their
attorney shall initiate a complaint in writing stating the nature of the
dispute or problem and the relief requested. Where the complaining party is not
the property owner, the property owner must join in the complaint. Where a
complaint is initiated by a power of attorney, the Board may require that the
power of attorney document be produced. Complaints shall be filed at City Hall.
The filing of a complaint shall not act a stay of a scheduled water or sewer
shutoff.
   (B)   The Chairperson shall use diligent effort to call a meeting with the
complaining party and a quorum of the members of the Water and Sewer Billing
Review Board within seven days. Absent good cause shown by the complaining
party, all meetings shall be held at the City Hall. The complaining party may
attend the hearing by telephone. The Chairperson of the Board may continue a
meeting as reasonably required. The complaining party may for good cause
request one continued hearing, The Secretary shall maintain meeting minutes and
the Chairperson may maintain recordings of hearings. The Chairperson may
require that testimony be presented under oath. The Chairperson may recess or
adjourn a meeting when the Chairperson has concern that a police officer needs
to be in attendance to maintain order.
(Ord. 1737, passed 2-5-20)
COMBINED PLAN COMMISSION AND ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 33.50 PURPOSE.
   In order that adequate provisions be made for the preparation of a
comprehensive city plan for the guidance, direction and control of the growth
and development of the city, a combined Plan Commission and Zoning Board of
Appeals, which shall be a department of the city government, is hereby created
under authority of the Illinois Municipal Code.
(‘72 Code, § 21.01(a)) (Am. Ord. 1799, passed 7-7-21)
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning plan commissions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-
12-4 et seq.
§ 33.51 MEMBERSHIP.
   The combined Plan Commission and Zoning Board of Appeals shall consist of
seven Zoning Board of Appeals members also serving as Planning Commission
members. The Zoning Board of Appeals members shall reside within the city. The
remaining members of the Plan Commission shall reside within the municipality
or within territory contiguous to the municipality and not more than one and
one-half miles beyond the municipality’s corporate limits. One or more Plan
Commission members not members of the Zoning Board of Appeals may be appointed
as alternate members of the Zoning Board of Appeals to fill in for an absent
Zoning Board of Appeals member.
(‘72 Code, § 21.01(b)) (Am. Ord. 1384, passed 8-5-09; Am. Ord. 1799, passed 7-
7-21)
§ 33.52 TERM OF OFFICE; VACANCIES.
   The seven members of the combined Plan Commission and Zoning Board of
Appeals serving as Plan Commission members shall serve terms of office as
established by Section 11-13-3 of the Illinois Municipal Code. Plan Commission
members not members of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall serve four-year terms
appointed following City Council elections. The City Council by proper
resolution shall fill all vacancies as they occur.
(‘72 Code, § 21.01(c)) (Am. Ord. 1799, passed 7-7-21)
§ 33.53 PROCEDURE OF COMMISSION FOLLOWING APPOINTMENT.
   Immediately following their appointment, the members of the combined Plan
Commission and Zoning Board of Appeals shall meet, organize and elect such
officers as it may deem necessary, and adopt and later change or alter rules
and regulations of organization and procedure consistent with this code, any
applicable ordinances of the city, and state laws. The combined Commission and
Board shall keep written records of its proceedings, which shall be open at all
times to public inspection. The combined Commission and Board shall also file
an annual report with the Mayor and City Council, setting forth its
transactions and recommendations.
(‘72 Code, § 21.01(d)) (Am. Ord. 1799, passed 7-7-21)
§ 33.54 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The combined Plan Commission and Zoning Board of Appeals shall have
the following powers and duties with respect to actions as a Plan Commission:
      (1)   To prepare and recommend to the City Council a comprehensive plan
of public improvements, looking to the present and future developments and
growth of the city. Such a plan after its adoption by the Council shall be
known as the official plan of the city.
      (2)   To prepare and recommend to the Council from time to time, such
changes in the plan or any part thereof as may be deemed necessary by the
Council or the combined Commission and Board.
      (3)   To prepare and recommend to the Council from time to time, plans
and/or recommendations for specific improvements in pursuance to the official
plan.
      (4)   To give aid to officials of the city charged with the direction of
projects for improvements embraced within the official plan, to further the
making of such improvements, and generally to promote the realization of the
official plan.
      (5)   To arrange and conduct any form of publicity relative to its
activities from the general purpose of public understanding.
      (6)   To cooperate with municipal and regional planning commissions and
other agencies or groups to further the local planning program and to assure
harmonious and integrated planning for the area.
      (7)   To exercise such other powers germane to the powers granted under
authority of the Illinois Municipal Code as may be conferred by the Council.
      (8)   To designate land suitable for annexation to the city and the
recommended zoning classification for such land upon annexation.
   (B)   The combined Planning Commission and Zoning Board of Appeals shall
have powers and duties as a Zoning Board of Appeals as established by the
Marseilles Zoning Ordinance and Division 13 Zoning in Article 11 Corporate
Powers and Functions of the Illinois Municipal Code.
(‘72 Code, § 21.02) (Am. Ord. 1799, passed 7-7-21)
§ 33.55 COPIES OF ORDINANCES, PLANS AND DATA RELATIVE TO PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS TO
BE FURNISHED TO COMMISSION.
   The City Clerk shall furnish the combined Plan Commission and Zoning Board
of Appeals for its consideration a copy of all ordinances, plans and data
relative to public improvements of any nature. The combined Commission and
Board may report in relation thereto if it deems a report necessary or
advisable, for the consideration of the City Council.
(‘72 Code, § 21.03) (Am. Ord. 1799, passed 7-7-21)
§ 33.56 EXPENDITURES.
   The combined Plan Commission and Zoning Board of Appeals may, at the
discretion of the City Council, employ necessary help whose salaries, wages and
other necessary expenses shall be provided for by adequate appropriation made
by the Council from public funds. If the combined Commission and Board shall
deem it advisable to secure technical advice or services, it may be done upon
authority from the Council and appropriations by the Council therefor.
(‘72 Code, § 21.04) (Am. Ord. 1799, passed 7-7-21)
§ 33.57 LAND SUBDIVISION OR RESUBDIVISION AND THE OFFICIAL MAP.
   (A)   At any time before or after the formal adoption of the official
comprehensive plan by the corporate authorities, an official map may be
designated by ordinance, which map may consist of the whole area included
within the official comprehensive plan, or one or more separate geographical or
functional parts, and may include all or any part of the contiguous
unincorporated area within one and one-half miles from the corporate limits of
the city. All requirements for public hearing, filing of notice of adoption
with the County Recorder of Deeds, and filing of said plan and ordinances,
including the official map, with the City Clerk shall be complied with as
provided for by law.
   (B)   No map or plat of any subdivision or resubdivision presented for
record affecting land within the corporate limits of the city or within
contiguous territory which is not more than one and one-half miles beyond the
corporate limits shall be entitled to record or shall be valid unless the
subdivision shown thereon provides for standards of design, and standards
governing streets, alleys, public ways, ways for public service facilities,
street lights, public grounds, size of lots to be used for residential
purposes, storm and flood water run-off channels and basins, water supply and
distribution, sanitary sewers, and sewage collection and treatment in
conformity with all applicable requirements of the this code and any other
ordinances of the city, including the official map.
('72 Code, § 21.05)
§ 33.58 MEETINGS AND HEARING PROCEEDINGS.
   All meetings of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be held at the call of the
Chairman and at such times and places within the city as the Zoning Board of
Appeals may determine. All testimony by witnesses at any hearing provided for
in the zoning ordinance shall be given under oath. The Chairman, or in his or
her absence, the acting Chairman, may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be
open to the public. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall keep minutes of its
proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon every question, or if absent
or failing to vote, indicating such fact and shall also keep records of its
examinations and other official actions. The concurring vote of four members of
the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be necessary to reverse any order,
requirement, decision, or determination of the Zoning Officer or to decide in
favor of the applicant on any matter which is authorized by this ordinance to
render a decision. Every rule, regulation, every amendment or repeal thereof,
and every order, requirement, decision or determination of the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall immediately be filed in the Office of the Zoning Board of Appeals
and shall be a public record. In the performance of its duties, the Zoning
Board of Appeals may incur such expenditures as shall be authorized by the City
Council. Any member who misses three consecutive meetings will be replaced
after being notified in writing by the Mayor.
(Ord. 1799, passed 7-7-21)
EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM BOARD
§ 33.70 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, the terms defined in ILCS Ch. 50, Act 750, § 2
et seq. have the meanings ascribed to them in those paragraphs.
(Ord. 838, passed 4-19-95)
§ 33.71 CREATION OF AN EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM BOARD FOR THE CITY.
   There is hereby created a body politic and corporate to be known as the
Emergency Telephone System Board of the City of Marseilles. The Board is
constituted a public instrumentality of the city and the exercise by the Board
of the powers conferred by this subchapter shall be deemed and held to be the
performance of an essential public function.
(Ord. 838, passed 4-19-95)
§ 33.72 BOARD MEMBERSHIP; GENERAL.
   (A)   The Mayor, with the approval of the City Council, shall appoint the
members of the Emergency Telephone System Board, whose terms of office shall
commence from the date of appointment.
   (B)   The Board shall consist of seven members.
   (C)   On creation of the Board, initial appointments to the Board shall be
as follows: two members for two year terms; two members for three year terms;
one member for a four year term. Thereafter, whenever a vacancy occurs by
reason of the expiration of the term of any member, the Mayor, with the
approval of the City Council, shall appoint a member to the Board for a term of
three years.
   (D)   Members of the Board shall hold office until their successors are
appointed and may serve more than one successive term.
   (E)   Whenever a vacancy on the Board shall occur as a result of
resignation, death, or any other reason other than expiration of the term of a
member, the Mayor, with the approval of the City Council, shall appoint a
member to complete the term of vacancy.
   (F)   Members of the Board shall receive no compensation for their services
but shall be reimbursed for their actual and necessary expenses.
   (G)   Removal from the Board by the Mayor shall be for cause and only with
the concurrence of the City Council.
   (H)   The Board shall determine by-laws consistent with the purposes of this
section subject to approval of the City Council.
(Ord. 838, passed 4-19-95; Am. Ord. 1025, passed 11-15-00)
§ 33.73 POWERS OF THE BOARD.
   The Emergency Telephone System Board may exercise the following powers under
this section provided, however, that in no event shall the Board encumber city
funds or incur city debt or liability except as provided herein:
   (A)   Planning a 9-1-1 system.
   (B)   Coordinating and supervising the implementation, up-grading or
maintenance of the system, including the establishment of equipment
specifications and coding systems.
   (C)   Receiving monies from the surcharge imposed under Ordinance No. 832,
and from any other source, for deposit into the Emergency Telephone System
Fund.
   (D)   Authorizing all disbursements from the fund, subject to ratification
and approval by the City Council.
   (E)   Hiring, on a temporary basis, any staff necessary for the
implementation or upgrade of the system; provided, however, all legal services,
whether on a temporary basis or otherwise, shall be provided and rendered
solely and exclusively by the City Attorney.
(Ord. 838, passed 4-19-95; Am. Ord. 965, passed 4-7-99)
§ 33.74 EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM FUND; EXPENDITURES.
   All monies received by the Emergency Telephone System Board pursuant to the
surcharge imposed under Ordinance No. 832 shall be deposited into an Emergency
Telephone System Fund. The City Treasurer shall be custodian of the fund. All
interest accruing on the fund shall remain in the fund. No expenditures may be
made from such fund except upon the direction of the Board by resolution passed
by a majority of all members of the Board. Expenditures may be made only to pay
for the costs associated with the following:
   (A)   The design of the Emergency Telephone System.
   (B)   The coding of an initial Master Street Address Guide data base, and
update and maintenance thereof.
   (C)   The repayment of any monies advanced for the implementation of the
system.
   (D)   The charges for Automatic Number Identification and Automatic Location
Identification equipment, and maintenance, replacement and update thereof.
   (E)   The non-recurring charges related to installation of the Emergency
Telephone System and the ongoing network charges.
   (F)   Other products and services necessary for the implementation, upgrade
and maintenance of the system, including costs attributable directly to the
construction, leasing or maintenance of any building, or facility or the cost
of personnel attributable directly to the operation of the system; however, the
cost attributable directly to the operation of the Emergency Telephone System
shall not include the cost of public safety agency personnel who are and
equipment that is dispatched in response to emergency calls.
(Ord. 838, passed 4-19-95; Am. Ord. 965, passed 4-7-99)
§ 33.75 INVESTMENT OF FUNDS.
   The Emergency Telephone System Board, without further City Council approval,
may invest any funds held by it pursuant to this section in:
   (A)   Any obligations which as to principal and interest constitute direct
obligations of or are unconditionally guaranteed by the government;
   (B)   Obligations of the Federal National Mortgage Association;
   (C)   Obligations of the Federal Intermediate Credit Banks;
   (D)   Obligations of Federal Banks for Cooperatives;
   (E)   Obligations of Federal Land Banks;
   (F)   Obligations of Federal Home Loan Banks;
   (G)   Obligations of the Federal Financing Bank;
   (H)   Time certificates of deposit authorized under state or federal law;
   (I)   Any other investments to the extent then permitted by Illinois law.
Any such securities may be purchased at the offering or market price thereof at
the time of such purchase.
(Ord. 838, passed 4-19-95)
§ 33.76 POWERS CONFERRED AS ADDITIONAL AND SUPPLEMENTAL; LIMITATIONS IMPOSED;
EFFECT.
   The powers conferred by this section are in addition and supplemental to,
and the limitations imposed by this section shall not affect the powers
conferred by law or any other ordinance.
(Ord. 838, passed 4-19-95)
§ 33.77 PECUNIARY INTEREST OF MEMBERS OR EMPLOYEES OF THE BOARD; PROHIBITION;
DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   Any member of the Emergency Telephone System Board who owns or
controls any interest direct or indirect in any property included in the "911
system" or under this section shall disclose the same in writing to the Board
and such disclosure shall be entered upon the minute book of the Board.
   (B)   No member of the Board shall vote or act on any project in which said
member holds an interest.
   (C)   If the City Council determines that any Board member has acquired an
interest that is adverse to the best interests of the city, the City Council
may require said member to divest himself of said property or interest, or take
what other steps are necessary to assure compliance with this section.
(Ord. 838, passed 4-19-95)
BOARD OF POLICE COMMISSIONERS
§ 33.80 CREATION; PURPOSE.
   There is hereby created a Board of Police Commissioners as contemplated
under Article 10 Division 2.1 of the Illinois Municipal Code (ILCS Ch. 65, Act
5, §§ 10-2.1-1 et seq.). The Board of Police Commissioners is hereby created to
provide for the hiring, promotion and discipline of city police officers.
(Ord. 1437, passed 7-6-11)
§ 33.81 CHIEF, CAPTAIN, LIEUTENANT, AND PART TIME OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall be appointed and subject to discipline by
the City Council. The Captain shall be appointed by the Chief of Police subject
to the approval of the Commissioner of Public Health and Safety. The Captain is
subject to discipline and removal by the Chief subject to the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Health and Safety. The position of Lieutenant shall be
appointed by the Chief and Commissioner of Public Health and Safety from the
top three candidates identified from a list provided by the Board of Police
Commissioners. Up to two Lieutenants may be appointed. The Lieutenant shall be
subject to discipline by the Board of Police Commissioners. The position of
Sergeant shall be appointed by Chief and Commissioner of Public Health and
Safety, from the top three candidates identified from a list provided by the
Board of Police Commissioners. Up to two Sergeants may be appointed. The
Sergeant shall be subject to discipline by the Board of Police Commissioners
unless they are members of a collective bargaining unit with an agreement that
states otherwise. A Sergeant may be a member of a collective bargaining unit
due to the lack of supervisory duties held by the more superior officers
identified above. If an active member of the Police Department is appointed
Chief of Police, Captain or Lieutenant prior to being eligible to retire on
pension and thereafter loses the appointment as Chief of Police, Captain or
Lieutenant, such person shall be considered as on furlough from the rank they
held immediately prior to appointment as Chief and their position shall revert
to and be established in such prior rank and thereafter be entitled to all the
benefits and emoluments of such prior rank without regard as to whether a
vacancy then exists in such rank.
   (B)   Part time officers employed by the city shall not be subject to Police
Commission rules.
(Ord. 1437, passed 7-6-11; Am. Ord. 1479, passed 6-6-12)
§ 33.82 QUALIFICATIONS AND AFFIDAVIT.
   Each potential application for appointment as a Police Commission Board
Member shall execute an affidavit under oath indicating they satisfy the
following qualifications:
   (A)   Affiant does not hold an office with the City of Marseilles and is not
related either by blood or marriage up to the degree of first cousin to any
elected official of city;
   (B)   Affiant has not been convicted of a felony under the laws of this
state or any comparable laws of any other state or the United States;
   (C)   Affiant is a registered voter of the city with a disclosed party
affiliation as defined in ILCS Ch. 10, Act 5, §§ 10-2.1-1 et seq., or of any
state or national political party. No more than two members of the Board of
Police Commissioners shall belong to the same political party existing in the
municipality at the time of the appointment;
   (D)   Affiant may not be employed by, or hold an appointed or elected office
of the city while serving as a member of the Board of Fire and Police
Commissioners;
   (F)   Affiant is not interested directly or indirectly, in any contract,
work or business of the municipality or sale of any article of goods, services,
or contract of any kind to or with the city; and
   (G)   Affiant is not a purchaser or seller of any real property to the
municipality or involved in the purchase or sale of real estate for delinquent
real estate taxes within the city.
(Ord. 1437, passed 7-6-11)
§ 33.83 APPOINTMENT AND TERM OF OFFICE; REMOVAL OF MEMBER.
   (A)   Appointment and term of office. The Mayor, with the consent of the
City Council, shall appoint three members to the Board of Police Commissioners.
For the first appointed Board, one of the members shall be appointed to serve
until the end of the then current municipal year, another to serve until the
end of the municipal year next ensuing, and the third to serve until the end of
the municipal year second next ensuing. After the initial appointments, terms
of office shall be for three years. Notwithstanding the above, every member
shall serve until their successor is appointed and has qualified. Vacancies on
the Board of Police Commissioners shall be filled by the Mayor with the consent
of the City Council. Upon appointment, members shall take an oath of office.
   (B)   Removal of member. Members shall not be subject to removal, except for
cause upon written charges, and after an opportunity to be heard within 30 days
in his or her own defense, before a regular meeting of the City Council. A
majority vote of the City Council shall be required to remove any such member
from office.
(Ord. 1437, passed 7-6-11)
§ 33.84 COMPENSATION.
   Absent further action by the City Council, member of the Board shall serve
without compensation.
(Ord. 1437, passed 7-6-11)
§ 33.85 OFFICERS OF BOARD.
   The Board Members shall elect from their membership a chairman and secretary
to serve during the municipal fiscal year. The Secretary of the Board shall
have all the powers and authority and shall perform such duties as are provided
and set forth in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 10-2.1-1 et seq. including:
   (A)   Keep the minutes of the Board’s proceedings;
   (B)   Be the custodian of all records pertaining to the business of the
Board;
   (C)   Keep a record of all examinations held;
   (D)   Perform all other duties the Board prescribes; and
   (E)   The Board may, upon approval of the Mayor, utilize the staff and
facilities at City Hall.
(Ord. 1437, passed 7-6-11)
§ 33.86 RULES, POWERS AND DUTIES OF BOARD.
   A majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the conduct of all
business. The Board shall have all the powers and authority, and shall perform
such duties as are provided and set forth in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 10-2.1-1 et
seq.. The Board shall make rules to carry out their duties under ILCS Ch. 65,
Act 5, §§ 10-2.1-1 et seq.. A copy of any rules adopted by the Board shall be
provided the City Clerk. No such rule shall be made by the Board to govern the
operation of the Police Department or the conduct of its members.
(Ord. 1437, passed 7-6-11)
§ 33.87 MINOR DISCIPLINE.
   No rule of the Board of Police Commissioners shall prevent the Chief of the
Police Department from suspending without pay a member of his or her department
for a period of not more than five calendar days, but he or she shall notify
the Board in writing of such suspension. Any officer so suspended may appeal to
the Board of Police Commissioners for a review of the suspension within five
calendar days after such suspension, and upon such appeal, the Board may
sustain the action of the Chief of the Department, may reverse it with
instructions that the officer receive his or her pay for the period involved,
or may suspend the officer for an additional period of not more than 30 days or
discharge him or her, depending upon the facts presented.
(Ord. 1437, passed 7-6-11)
§ 33.88 ATTORNEY FOR BOARD.
   Unless otherwise determined by the City Council, the City Attorney shall
represent the Board. The Board shall make a request to the City Council for an
additional attorney should any proceeding before the Board reasonably require
such.
(Ord. 1437, passed 7-6-11)
§ 33.89 ANNUAL REPORT; CITY COUNCIL RESPONSIBILITIES TOWARD BOARD.
   (A)   Annual report. Annually, at any time the City Council is working on
their budget, the Board shall submit to the City Council a report of its
activities and an annual budget request.
   (B)   City Council responsibilities toward Board. The City Council shall
provide a suitable room at the City Hall, or larger facility if required, for
the Board of Police Commissioners meetings and examinations and shall provide
adequate funds in the annual appropriation ordinance for the operation of the
Board.
(Ord. 1437, passed 7-6-11)
MIDDLE EAST TRIBUTE BOARD
§ 33.90 CREATION.
   There is hereby created a Middle East Tribute Board.
(Ord. 1328, passed 2-6-08)
§ 33.91 MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Mayor, with the approval of the City Council, shall appoint the
members of the Middle East Tribute Board.
   (B)   The Middle East Tribute Board shall consist of seven members.
   (C)   At the initial meeting of the Middle East Tribute Board, the Board
shall assign initial terms of office for board members as follows: one member
for a one-year term, two members for two-year terms; two members for three-year
terms; two members for four-year terms.
   (D)   After the expiration of the above mentioned initial terms of office,
Board members shall hold office for four-year terms. A Board member may serve
more than one successive term.
   (E)   Appointment of members to the Middle East Tribute Board, whether
arising from expiration of term of office, resignation, death, or any other
reason, shall be made by the Mayor, with the approval of the City Council from
a list of persons nominated by the remaining members of the Middle East Tribute
Board.
   (F)   The majority of the Middle East Tribute Board may remove any member
from their board.
   (G)   Members of the Board shall receive no compensation for their services
but shall be reimbursed for their actual and necessary expenses.
(Ord. 1328, passed 2-6-08)
§ 33.92 RESPONSIBILITIES AND POWERS.
   The Middle East Tribute Board shall:
   (A)   Have charge of the property and assume the duties and responsibilities
of the City of Marseilles as a tenant to the property commonly known as the
Middle East Wall Memorial.
   (B)   As to any events proposed to take place at or about the Middle East
Wall Memorial, act as a liaison between the event organizer, City of
Marseilles, owners of property in the area of the Middle East Wall Memorial,
and other interested parties.
   (C)   Recommend for adoption such ordinances or resolutions to the City
Council as reasonably required by the Middle East Tribute Board to fulfill
their duties and responsibilities.
   (D)   Timely make requests of the appropriate City Commissioner for the
services of city employees and use of city equipment.
   (E)   Report to and work with the City Council on any major events such as
the annual freedom run, and request the services of other representatives of
the city as reasonably required.
   (F)   Establish by-laws.
   (G)   Comply with the Open Meetings Act, Freedom of Information Act and
other general governmental mandates.
(Ord. 1328, passed 2-6-08)
§ 33.93 FINANCES.
   (A)   Annual financial process: The Middle East Tribute Board shall annually
submit a budget contemporaneous in time to the city's budget and appropriation
process. The Board shall submit a financial report to the City Council at least
annually and participate in the annual city audit.
   (B)   The Middle East Tribute Board shall maintain their own financial
accounts and establish financial safeguards as reasonably required by the Mayor
or auditor.
   (C)   The Middle East Tribute Board may solicit donations and collect
receipts from events and use such funds to carry out their responsibilities.
   (D)   In the event the Middle East Tribute Board is dissolved, donated funds
shall be transferred to a not-for-profit corporation having exempt purposes
within the meaning of § 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code similar to that
before assumed by the Middle East Tribute Board.
(Ord. 1328, passed 2-6-08)
CHAPTER 34: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Creation of Department; composition
   
34.02   Appointment of police officers; bond; residency
   
34.03   Commissioner of Public Health and Safety; authority; duties
   
34.04   Duties of police officers
   
34.05   Records to be kept
   
34.06   Monthly report to be made
   
34.07   Care and custody of Department property; surrender of property
   
34.08   Uniforms
   
34.09   Part-time police officers
Policy Manual Regulations
   
34.20   Purpose
   
34.21   Philosophy of Department
   
34.22   Organizational chart
   
34.23   Duties of officers
   
34.24   Conduct of officers
   
34.25   Appearance
   
34.26   Courtesy of officers
   
34.27   Alcohol and drug consumption
   
34.28   Dissemination of information, copies of police reports and finger
printing
   
34.29   Neglect of duty
   
34.30   Driving private vehicles
   
34.31   Care of Department property
   
34.32   Absences and tardiness
   
34.33   Outside employment
   
34.34   Responding to calls outside the city limits
   
34.35   Authorized equipment
   
34.36   Authorized accessories
   
34.37   Access to Department
   
34.38   Callouts within city
   
34.39   Use of weapons
   
34.40   Officer to follow command of supervisor
   
34.41   In-service training
   
34.42   Disciplinary action
   
34.43   Use of police powers
   
34.44   Towing policy and procedure
Police Pension Fund
   
34.55   Definitions
   
34.56   Creation of Pension Board; composition; term of office
   
34.57   Duties and powers of Board
   
34.58   Rooms for offices and meetings
   
34.59   Meetings
   
34.60   Levy of tax
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 CREATION OF DEPARTMENT; COMPOSITION.
    There is hereby created and established in the city a Police Department
which shall embrace the Commissioner of Public Health and Safety, a Police
Chief, a Captain of the Department, two Lieutenants of the Department, an
administrative assistant and such other number of police officers as the
Council may from time to time determine to be necessary.
(‘72 Code, § 4.01) (Am. Ord. 849, passed 7-26-95; Am. Ord. 985, passed 10-20-
99; Am. Ord. 1353, passed 9-17-08; Am. Ord. 1445, passed 6-15-11; Am. Ord.
1679, passed 7-18-18)
§ 34.02 APPOINTMENT OF POLICE OFFICERS; BOND; RESIDENCY.
   (A)   The Police Chief shall be appointed by the City Council and shall hold
their office at the pleasure of the Council and before entering upon the duties
of their office, shall take the oath prescribed for other city offices and
enter into a bond in the penal sum of $1,000, with good and sufficient sureties
to be approved by the Council, conditioned for the faithful discharge of the
duties of their office, and the payment of all moneys that may be received by
them according to law, this code and any ordinances of the city. The Captain
shall be appointed by the Police Chief with the approval of the Council. All
other officers shall be appointed by the Commissioner of Public Health and
Safety except for such officers who need to be appointed by a Police Commission
that is in effect. All officers on appointment shall execute a bond similar to
that required of the Police Chief.
   (B)   All members of the Police Force must reside within a 50 mile distance
of the city limits of the city.
(‘72 Code, § 4.02) (Am. Ord. 546, passed 9-2-75; Am. Ord. 1445, passed 6-15-11;
Am. Ord. 1679, passed 7-18-18)
§ 34.03 COMMISSIONER OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY; AUTHORITY; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Commissioner of Public Health and Safety shall be the commanding
officer of the entire police force of the city. He shall assign to all police
officers under him their different beats or districts and their respective
hours of service, and shall see that they are on duty during the whole time of
their watch. A police officer shall in no case absent himself from the city
without notifying the Commissioner of his intended absence where the same is
practicable.
('72 Code, § 4.03)
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Commissioner to promptly report to the
City Council any member of the Police Department who may be guilty of
drunkenness, neglect of duty, disobedience of order or violation of the rules
and regulations of the Police Department. During the pendency of formal charges
against any police officer, the Commissioner may, with the consent of the
Council, suspend such police officer from duty until such charge can be
investigated.
('72 Code, § 4.05)
§ 34.04 DUTIES OF POLICE OFFICERS.
   The police officers shall devote the necessary time to the discharge of the
duties of their office and shall be charged with the preservation of the peace,
order, safety and cleanliness of the city and with the duty of protecting the
right of persons and property and enforcing the provisions of this code, any
other ordinances of the city and orders of the City Council.
('72 Code, § 4.04)
§ 34.05 RECORDS TO BE KEPT.
   Members of the Police Department shall keep, or cause to be kept, books of
record of the Department, and of all persons arrested by the police, showing
the time and place of each arrest, the offense for which same was made, the
magistrate or court before whom such person was tried and the disposition of
each case.
('72 Code, § 4.06)
§ 34.06 MONTHLY REPORT TO BE MADE.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department within the first ten days of
each month to make a written report to the City Council showing the number of
arrests made by the police force during the preceding month, the name of each
person arrested, the police officer making the arrest, the offense charged, the
court before whom tried, the disposition of the case, the amount of fine
imposed, if any, and the amount of such fine collected.
('72 Code, § 4.07)
§ 34.07 CARE AND CUSTODY OF DEPARTMENT PROPERTY; SURRENDER OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Commissioner of Public Health and Safety shall have the care,
custody and control of all books, records, equipment and other property
belonging to the Police Department, and of all stolen goods seized and retained
by police authority. Upon the expiration of his term of office, or the
resignation of any police officer or removal therefrom, he shall, on demand,
surrender to his successor in office, all books, records, equipment and
property in his possession belonging to the city or pertaining to the office.
('72 Code, § 4.08)
   (B)   Each police officer shall, upon his appointment, be supplied with a
badge and any basic equipment necessary to perform his responsibilities as a
peace officer as determined by the department. The officer shall use his
clothing allowance to obtain other equipment. Upon the expiration of the term
of office of any police officer, or his resignation or removal from office, he
shall immediately deliver to the Commissioner, for the use of the city, his
badge and all papers and effects in his possession belonging to the city or
appertaining to his office.
('72 Code, § 4.11)
§ 34.08 UNIFORMS.
   Members of the Police Department shall wear such uniforms as may be
prescribed by the rules and regulations of the Police Department. Uniforms
shall be furnished by each member of the force at his own expense.
('72 Code, § 4.10)
§ 34.09 PART-TIME POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Employment. The city may employ part-time police officers from time to
time as they deem necessary. Part-time police officers are exempt from hiring
procedures of the City Board of Police Commissioners. Part-time officers shall
be appointed by the Commissioner of Public Health and Safety from a list of
candidates prepared by the Chief of Police. To qualify for the list, the person
must be currently certified as a law enforcement officer by a Illinois Law
Enforcement Training and Standards Board or enrolled in the part-time basic
training course to become certified as a law enforcement officer by the
Illinois Law Enforcement Training and Standards Board. Part-time police
officers shall be considered members of the regular Police Department subject
to all Department rules except for hiring, pension and termination.
   (B)   Duties. A part-time police officer shall have all the responsibilities
of a full-time police officer and the specific duties as delineated in the
general orders of the Police Department, but the number of hours a part-time
officer may work within a calendar year is restricted. Part-time police
officers shall not be assigned to supervise or direct full-time police
officers. Part-time police officers shall not be assigned, under any
circumstances, as a permanent replacement for any permanent full- time police
officer. Part-time police officers shall be trained in accordance with the
Illinois Police Training Act (ILCS Ch. 50, Act 705, § 1 et seq.) and the rules
and requirements of the Illinois Law Enforcement Training and Standards Board.
   (C)   Hiring standards. Any person employed as a part-time police officer
must meet the following standards:
      (1)   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health,
and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties.
      (2)   Be at least 21 years of age.
      (3)   Pass a medical examination.
      (4)   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate.
      (5)   Possess a valid State of Illinois driver’s license.
      (6)   Possess no prior felony convictions.
      (7)   Any individual who has served in the U.S. military must have been
honorably discharged.
   (D)   Discipline. Part-time officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the Chief of Police. Part-time police officers serve at the
discretion of the city authorities, shall not have any property rights in their
employment, and may be removed by the city authorities at any time. Part- time
police officers shall comply with all applicable rules and general orders
issued by the Police Department. Any suspension of a part-time officer shall be
approved by the Commissioner of Public Health and Safety. Any termination of a
part-time officer shall be by action of the City Council upon the
recommendation of the Commissioner of Public Health and Safety.
(Ord. 1477, passed 6-6-12)
POLICY MANUAL REGULATIONS
§ 34.20 PURPOSE.
   This manual is provided to guide the personnel of the Marseilles Police
Department. Included are guidelines, rules and the Department philosophy.
(Ord. 652, passed 1-5-83; Am. Ord. 717, passed 9-16-87)
§ 34.21 PHILOSOPHY OF DEPARTMENT.
   The philosophy of the Police Department is to preserve public peace and
order, to protect persons and property, to apprehend offenders, to provide
services to citizens and to remain as professional as possible.
(Ord. 652, passed 1-5-83; Am. Ord. 717, passed 9-16-87)
§ 34.22 ORGANIZATIONAL CHART.
   The organizational and command chart of the Police Department and kept on
file in the office of the City Clerk is hereby adopted by reference as if fully
set forth herein.
(Ord. 652, passed 1-5-83; Am. Ord. 683, passed 2-20-85; Am. Ord. 717, passed 9-
16-87; Am. Ord. 849, passed 7-26-95)
§ 34.23 DUTIES OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   First and foremost, each officer will be a servant of the public. Most
citizens are unaware of the range of responsibilities and the limits imposed on
an officer. If a call is received that an officer cannot respond to, it is the
officer's responsibility to direct the caller to the appropriate agency and
assist as much as possible. The officers must remember that much of the public
contact is in a negative or emotional situation. It is the Police Department's
goal and the officer's responsibility to help the public through the emotional
contacts and to minimize the negative contacts.
   (B)   All police officers are police officers first, and special police
officers second. While special training in investigation, juvenile law,
evidence, and the like, is commendable, and adds to the professionalism of the
Department, it is each officer's primary responsibility to carry out his
regularly assigned duties as a police officer. Special designations and
responsibilities shall not conflict with regular assignments.
   (C)   The Chief is appointed by the Commissioner of Public Health and Safety
with the advise and consent of the City Council. The Chief is subject to
discipline and removal by City Council. The Chief shall be the manager of the
Department and shall possess all managerial authority in the daily operations
of the Department, subordinate only to the Commissioner of Public Health and
Safety and the City Council. Duties of the Chief shall include but are not
limited to:
      (1)   Liaison to the Council;
      (2)   Planning, organizing, coordination, administration and control of
the Department;
      (3)   Review of personnel recommendations made by the Captain or
Lieutenants;
      (4)   Issue emergency suspensions until the next business day when it
appears that such action is in the best interests of the Department;
   (D)   The position of Captain shall be appointed by the Chief of Police. The
Captain is subject to removal by the Chief with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Health and Safety. The position of Police Captain is a
senior command level employee skilled in problem solving and personnel
management who is responsible for the efficient and orderly operation of the
assigned section or division. A Police Captain will supervise work performed in
connection with the prevention, reporting, investigation, prosecution and
analysis of crime. The duties of this job will include the supervision and
enforcement of all rules, regulations, general orders, and policies and
procedures of the police department and the City. The Police Captain will be
responsible for assisting in the maintenance of the records associated with the
assigned section or division. The Police Captain will provide information
orally and in writing to superiors and subordinates as requested or as needed.
In the absence of higher ranking officials, the Police Captain will assume the
command and control of police operations, including duties as department
spokesperson when required. The employee will be responsible through the chain
of command to the Police Chief. Duties of the Captain shall include but are not
limited to:
      (1)   Assume management responsibility of an assigned division within the
Police Department; recommend and administer policies and procedures; serve as
acting Police Chief in the absence of same;
      (2)   Initiate disciplinary measures including issuance of oral and
written reprimands to subordinate officers and issuance of emergency
suspensions to later be reviewed by the Chief;
      (3)   Make recommendations to the Chief for disciplinary investigations;
      (4)   Manage and participate in the development and implementation of
goals, objectives, policies and priorities for assigned programs; recommend and
administer policies and procedures;
      (5)   Monitor and evaluate the efficiency and effectiveness of service
delivery methods and procedures; recommend, within Departmental policy,
appropriate service and staffing levels;
      (6)   Plan, direct, coordinate and review the work plan for special event
operations and police control needs; assign work activities, projects and
programs; review and evaluate work products, methods and procedures; meet with
staff to identify and resolve problems;
      (7)   Review crime and accident reports for accuracy and completeness;
monitor major investigations or accidents; analyze crime patterns, frequency,
traffic accident patterns and other information;
      (8)   Oversee and coordinate a variety of operations and services
functions;
      (9)   Oversee the most serious and complicated criminal investigations
within the department; conduct complex investigations;
      (10)   Coordinate department activities with those of other departments,
agencies and city officials; assist with planning special operations and task
forces;
      (11)   Review and approve requests for special assignments, transfers and
training;
      (12)   Review and supervise the investigation of citizen complaints
against sworn and non-sworn officers; recommend appropriate actions to be
taken;
      (13)   Train, motivate and evaluate department personnel; provide or
coordinate staff training; work with employees to correct deficiencies;
implement discipline and recommend termination procedures as appropriate;
      (14)   Participate in the development and administration of the
department budget; approve the forecast of funds needed for staffing,
equipment, materials and supplies; approve expenditures and implement budgetary
adjustments as appropriate and necessary;
      (15)   Explain, justify and defend department programs, policies and
activities; negotiate and resolve sensitive and controversial issues;
      (16)   Represent the Police Department to other departments, elected
officials, media and outside agencies; coordinate assigned activities with
those of other departments and outside agencies and organizations;
      (17)   Provide staff assistance to the Chief of Police; participate on a
variety of boards, commissions and committees; prepare and present staff
reports and other necessary correspondence;
      (18)   Respond to and resolve difficult and sensitive citizen inquiries
and complaints; and
      (19)   Perform related duties as required.
   (E)   The position of Lieutenant shall be appointed by the Board of Police
Commissioners upon the request of the Chief. There shall be no more than two
persons serving as a lieutenant. The Lieutenant is a supervisor to subordinate
police ranks. A lieutenant may not be a member of any non-officer collective
bargaining unit due his supervisory duties. The position of Police Lieutenant
is a command level employee responsible for the efficient and orderly operation
of the assigned unit, shift or section. A Police Lieutenant will supervise the
work performed in the prevention, reporting, investigation, and prosecution of
crime. The duties of this job will include the supervision and enforcement of
all rules, regulations, general orders, and policies and procedures of the
Police Department and the city. The Police Lieutenant will be responsible for
assisting in the maintenance of the records associated with the assigned unit,
shift or section. The Police Lieutenant will periodically brief the immediate
supervisor of happenings in the unit, shift or section and supply other
information as requested or as needed. The Police Lieutenant will take charge
and be responsible for police related matters in the absence of higher ranking
official. The employee will be responsible through the chain of command to the
Police Chief. Duties of a lieutenant shall include but are not limited to:
      (1)   Performs a variety of routine and complex public safety work in the
administration of the police department. Supervises police patrol,
investigation, traffic regulation, and related law enforcement activities;
      (2)   Works under the general supervision of the Captain;
      (3)   Exercises general supervision over police sergeants and subordinate
officers and support staff;
      (4)   Initiate disciplinary measures including issuance of oral and
written reprimands to subordinate officers and issuance of emergency
suspensions which emergency suspensions would later be reviewed by the Chief or
Captain;
      (5)   Make recommendations to the Chief or Captain for disciplinary
investigations;
      (6)   Supervises police sergeant, police officers and support staff in
their assigned duties;
      (7)   Oversees and may personally participate in investigating criminal
law violations occurring within the jurisdiction of the department, obtaining
evidences and compiling information regarding these crimes, preparing cases for
filing of charges, testifying in court, and related activities;
      (8)   Supervises the scheduling and coordination of shift activities;
      (9)   Reviews a variety of police related reports prepared by subordinate
officers or others;
      (10)   Evaluates officers’ arrests based on circumstances and evidence;
      (11)   Makes day-to-day police assignments as required by the needs of
the service;
      (12)   Makes plans about individual tactical matters such as equipment to
be used for particular operations or the detailed plans needed for an
investigation. Develops new approaches to investigate problems;
      (13)   Determines how to deploy personnel during emergency;
      (14)   Maintains contact with police supervisory personnel to coordinate
investigation activities, provide mutual assistance during emergency situations
and provide general information about Department activities;
      (15)   Maintains contact with general public, court officials, and other
city officials in the performance of police activities;
      (16)   Conducts periodic performance evaluations and planning sessions
for assigned personnel. Counsels assigned personnel on job performance and
disciplinary matters;
      (17)   Maintains normal availability by radio, pager or telephone for
consultation on major emergencies or precedent; and
      (18)   Carries out duties in conformance with federal, state, county, and
city laws and ordinances.
   (F)   The position of Sergeant shall be appointed by the Board of Police
Commissioners upon the request of the Chief. There shall be no more than two
persons serving as a sergeant. A sergeant may be a member of a non-officer
collective bargaining unit due to the lack of supervisory duties held by the
superior officers identified above. The Board of Police Commissioners is
responsible for hiring of Sergeants. Discipline of Sergeants is to be handled
through the Collective Bargaining Agreement. Duties of a Sergeant shall include
but are not limited to:
      (1)   Operate radio transmitter;
      (2)   Dispatch patrolmen;
      (3)   Book persons arrested;
      (4)   Handle walk-in reports and inquiries;
      (5)   Review patrolmen’s reports;
      (6)   Perform managerial tasks such as keeping logs and completing daily
activity sheets at the direction of a superior officer; and
      (7)   Supervise and provide direction as to compliance with department
policies and procedures to subordinate officers when necessary.
(Ord. 652, passed 1-5-83; Am. Ord. 683, passed 2-20-85; Am. Ord. 717, passed 9-
16-87; Am. Ord. 849, passed 7-26-95; Am. Ord. 985, passed 10-20-99; Am. Ord.
1353, passed 9-17-08; Am. Ord. 1467, passed 1-18-12)
§ 34.24 CONDUCT OF OFFICERS.
   The conduct of officers shall be as follows:
   (A)   An officer shall be quiet, civil and orderly. In the performance of
his duty, he must maintain command of his temper and patience. He shall not use
coarse, boisterous, profane or insolent language.
   (B)   An officer shall not engage in any activity which discredits the
integrity of the Police Department, its employees or which impairs the
operation of the Department.
   (C)   An officer shall conduct himself, both on and off duty, in such a
manner as to reflect favorably on the Department.
   (D)   A level of conduct shall be maintained in all personal and business
affairs which is in keeping with the highest standards of the law enforcement
profession. Officers shall not participate in any activity involving moral
turpitude which impairs his ability to perform as a law enforcement officer.
   (E)   An officer shall never visit, enter or frequent any establishment
wherein prostitution, gambling or any other activity which violates any state
or federal statute may take place, unless acting under proper and specific
orders from a superior officer.
(Ord. 652, passed 1-5-83; Am. Ord. 717, passed 9-16-87)
§ 34.25 APPEARANCE.
   The officer shall always be neat and clean in person and dress. His clothing
shall be clean and pressed and his equipment in serviceable condition at all
times.
(Ord. 652, passed 1-5-83; Am. Ord. 717, passed 9-16-87)
§ 34.26 COURTESY OF OFFICERS.
   Courtesy to citizens and between officers is indispensable to discipline.
Officers shall be civil and respectful to each other and all other persons at
all times.
(Ord. 652, passed 1-5-83; Am. Ord. 717, passed 9-16-87)
§ 34.27 ALCOHOL AND DRUG CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   Alcohol and drugs shall not be consumed while on duty or off duty to
the extent that such consumption renders the officer unfit for duty. No alcohol
shall be consumed while in uniform and no officer shall respond to an
assistance call after consuming alcohol. The odor of alcohol on the breath
shall be sufficient evidence of being unfit for duty. The prohibition of drug
consumption shall include prescription drugs which incapacitate the officer or
render him unfit for duty.
   (B)   Due to the image police officers must project to the public, officers
consuming alcoholic beverages or drugs shall maintain a level of behavior which
is exemplary and does not tarnish the reputation of the Police Department or
fellow law enforcement officers.
   (C)   Any violation of the rules listed in this section or §§
34.24 through
34.26 will be deemed conduct unbecoming an officer and will be dealt with
accordingly.
(Ord. 652, passed 1-5-83; Am. Ord. 717, passed 9-16-87)
§ 34.28 DISSEMINATION OF INFORMATION, COPIES OF POLICE REPORTS AND FINGER
PRINTING.
   (A)   No officer shall disseminate information to the public regarding
official business of the Police Department, unless given direct authority to do
so from the Chief of Police. This shall include, but not be limited to, press
releases, requests for police record checks, and the like. Announcements of
upcoming programs sponsored by this Department are excluded from this
prohibition.
   (B)   Any citizen may request a copy of a police report. Reports shall be
available Monday through Friday (excluding holidays) between the hours of 9:00
a.m. and 3:00 p.m. The requester shall be charged a fee of $.25 per page. All
fees collected shall be delivered to the City Treasurer. No report shall be
released concerning criminal offenses, ongoing investigations, the names or
identities in any form of juveniles, the criminal histories of any person, or
any other matter protected from disclosure under Illinois law. The fee may be
waived for requests made by other law enforcement agencies, pursuant to
subpoena or by order of a court.
   (C)   Any private citizen who wishes to have their finger prints taken by
the Marseilles Police Department may do so. Fingerprinting shall be made
available Monday through Friday (excluding holidays) between the hours of 9:00
a.m. and 3:00 p.m. The requester will provide the applicable fingerprint(s) and
will be charged a fee of $5 per card. All fees collected shall be delivered to
the City Treasurer.
(Ord. 652, passed 1-5-83; Am. Ord. 717, passed 9-16-87; Am. Ord. 871, passed 7-
3-96)
§ 34.29 NEGLECT OF DUTY.
   Failure to act, failure to report or an inappropriate act, in case of any
offense, disorder or condition requiring police action, shall be regarded as
neglect of duty.
(Ord. 652, passed 1-5-83; Am. Ord. 717, passed 9-16-87)
§ 34.30 DRIVING PRIVATE VEHICLES.
   Officers shall take no privileges other than those allowed the general
public on the highway, except in emergency situations when red lights are
authorized.
(Ord. 652, passed 1-5-83; Am. Ord. 717, passed 9-16-87)
§ 34.31 CARE OF DEPARTMENT PROPERTY.
   Officers are responsible for the care and safekeeping of Department
property. Any loss, damage or unserviceable equipment shall be reported to the
first line supervisor or to the Chief of Police. Each officer's desk and work
are shall be kept clean and neat at all times.
(Ord. 652, passed 1-5-83; Am. Ord. 717, passed 9-16-87)
§ 34.32 ABSENCES AND TARDINESS.
   Any officer that is absent or tardy shall report for duty as soon as
possible. An absence that exceeds three days shall require a doctor's release.
Excessive tardiness will not be tolerated.
(Ord. 652, passed 1-5-83; Am. Ord. 717, passed 9-16-87)
§ 34.33 OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT.
   Any full-time officer seeking outside employment shall inform the Chief of
Police prior to accepting a position and shall receive approval from both the
Chief and the Commissioner of Public Health and Safety. Officer shall
understand that his responsibility to the Police Department shall take
precedence over any such employment.
(Ord. 652, passed 1-5-83; Am. Ord. 717, passed 9-16-87)
§ 34.34 RESPONDING TO CALLS OUTSIDE THE CITY LIMITS.
   No officer shall respond to calls outside the corporate limits of the city
unless it is a life- threatening situation or unless assistance is requested by
another law enforcement agency. “Ispern” messages or the “Hit-Tone” shall be
acceptable as requests.
(Ord. 652, passed 1-5-83; Am. Ord. 717, passed 9-16-87)
§ 34.35 AUTHORIZED EQUIPMENT.
   Authorized equipment of the Police Department shall be as follows:
   (A)   Authorized headgear only.
   (B)   Authorized shirts, pants, ties and jackets.
   (C)   Black shoes, boots and overshoes.
   (D)   Black or blue gloves.
   (E)   Black socks only, if visible.
(Ord. 652, passed 1-5-83; Am. Ord. 717, passed 9-16-87)
§ 34.36 AUTHORIZED ACCESSORIES.
   Authorized accessories of the Police Department shall be as follows:
   (A)   Hat badge.
   (B)   Badge.
   (C)   Name plate.
   (D)   Tie clasp, to be worn even with bottom of pocket flap.
   (E)   Collar insignias.
   (F)   Stun guns.
   (G)   Awards issued by Department.
(Ord. 652, passed 1-5-83; Am. Ord. 717, passed 9-16-87)
§ 34.37 ACCESS TO DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Only authorized personnel shall be permitted within the police
station. Authorized personnel shall be defined to include the following:
      (1)   Law enforcement officers on duty.
      (2)   City officials.
      (3)   Individuals having official business with the Police Department.
   (B)   All other persons entering the Department will sign the visitor's log.
(Ord. 652, passed 1-5-83; Am. Ord. 717, passed 9-16-87)
§ 34.38 CALLOUTS WITHIN CITY.
   (A)   When a callout is requested, the officer making the request will
complete a validity report specifying the basis for the callout, as well as the
basis for the number of officers requested.
   (B)   Only police officers shall respond to a callout unless assistance is
requested from another law enforcement agency.
(Ord. 652, passed 1-5-83; Am. Ord. 717, passed 9-16-87)
§ 34.39 USE OF WEAPONS.
   (A)   All officers on duty shall be armed with an approved and authorized
weapon.
   (B)   An officer may carry a weapon on his person while off-duty, together
with proper identification identifying the officer as a police officer so long
as said weapon is concealed. No officer shall ever identify himself as a police
officer, display a weapon or display his identification, except in the
performance of official duties.
   (C)   Except for training, qualification, and target shooting purposes,
officers will not discharge any department approved weapon, either on duty or
off duty, except when provided by under the Illinois Compiled Statutes.
   (D)   In the event of the discharge of a Department-approved weapon, either
the officer's or the Department's, the officer shall immediately contact the
Chief of Police, or Sergeant in the Chief's absence, and immediately prepare a
written report of the incident.
   (E)   No officer shall modify his service weapon or any weapon owned by the
Department. If the officer feels that a modification of a weapon is necessary,
he shall present the Chief with his hypothesis. The Chief will then decide
whether or not his modification is warranted. If, indeed, it is, a licensed
gunsmith will be contracted to perform the modification.
   (F)   All officers shall keep their service weapon in a clean and safe
operating condition at all times.
(Ord. 652, passed 1-5-83; Am. Ord. 683, passed 2-20-85; Am. Ord. 717, passed 9-
16-87)
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning peace officer's use of force in making arrest, see
ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 7-5
§ 34.40 OFFICER TO FOLLOW COMMAND OF SUPERVISOR.
   All officers shall follow the oral and written command of his supervisor,
including the Commissioner of Public Health and Safety. All written directives
shall be deemed to be a part of this manual.
(Ord. 652, passed 1-5-83; Am. Ord. 717, passed 9-16-87)
§ 34.41 IN-SERVICE TRAINING.
   (A)   Weapons.
      (1)   Each officer will qualify with service weapon semi-annually.
      (2)   Each officer will qualify with department shotgun annually.
      (3)   Each officer will qualify with off-duty weapon annually.
   (B)   First aid.
      (1)   Completion of a first-aid course is required of each officer every
three years. Courses such as Red Cross, EMT, First Responder, and the like, are
acceptable.
      (2)   Certification in CPR will be required annually.
(Ord. 652, passed 1-5-83; Am. Ord. 717, passed 9-16-87)
§ 34.42 DISCIPLINARY ACTION.
   (A)   Disciplinary action will be taken for a violation of any rule or
regulation of the Police Department, or for a violation of any directive given
by the Chief of Police or the sergeant, if the Chief is absent, or the
Commissioner of Public Health and Safety, and for conviction of a criminal
offense.
   (B)   Any officer who is charged with an administrative offense may submit
his version of the case, in writing, to the Chief.
   (C)   Punctual attendance, prompt obedience to orders, and conformity to the
rules of the Department shall be enforced.
   (D)   Offenses for which charges may be preferred shall be as follows:
      (1)   Any member of the Department alleged to have violated a rule,
regulation or directive, or who is convicted of a criminal offense will be
subject to reprimand, suspension, dismissal, or other penalty as approved by
the Chief and the Commissioner, or City Council.
      (2)   Illustrative examples of conduct which shall be considered for
administrative discipline within the Department shall include, but not be
limited to, the following:
         (a)   Cowardliness.
         (b)   Willful disobedience of rules and the like, and directives of
supervisor.
         (c)   Intoxication.
         (d)   Mistreatment of prisoners or other persons.
         (e)   Insubordination.
         (f)   Disrespect to a superior.
         (g)   Neglect of duty.
         (h)   Incompetence.
         (i)   Sleeping on duty.
         (j)   Absent from duty without permission.
         (k)   Leaving post without relief.
         (l)   Using coarse, profane or insolent language to a supervisor,
another officer or a citizen.
         (m)   Making a false statement or report.
         (n)   Accepting a bribe or item of value.
         (o)   Publicly criticizing a superior or another officer.
         (p)   Immorality.
         (q)   Neglect to turn in property found or seized.
         (r)   Abuse of equipment.
(Ord. 652, passed 1-5-83; Am. Ord. 683, passed 2-20-85; Am. Ord. 717, passed 9-
16-87)
§ 34.43 USE OF POLICE POWERS.
   (A)   Police officers are endowed with certain powers, including the right
to take a life. It is the individual officer's responsibility to know the
current laws and court opinions with respect to the use of force.
   (B)   Because of the tremendous impact the use of these powers can have on
the officer, the Police Department, the suspect, the suspect's family and the
community, great care must be taken in the use of these powers. The following
are references to the use of police powers:
      (1)   Deadly force — ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 7-8, as amended.
      (2)   Making arrest — ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 7-5, as amended.
      (3)   Defense of dwelling — ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 7-2, as amended.
      (4)   Defense of person — ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 7-1, as amended.
      (5)   Preventing escape — ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 7-9, as amended.
   (C)   All officers shall remain knowledgeable of all changes made by the
legislature or the courts, and officers shall be held accountable for their
individual actions.
(Ord. 652, passed 1-5-83; Am. Ord. 717, passed 9-16-87)
§ 34.44 TOWING POLICY AND PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this procedure is to establish policy and
procedure when department personnel have cause to tow a vehicle.
   (B)   Policy. There are many occasions which may cause an officer to request
a tow truck to respond to a scene and remove a vehicle. These requests can be
classified into two categories: nonpolice tows and police tows.
   (C)   Procedure.  
      (1)   Nonpolice tows. A vehicle tow report is not required for a
nonpolice tow. Dispatch will record the vehicle information, including tow
service contacted, on the dispatch card. At no time will an officer solicit or
suggest a certain tow company be used.
         (a)   Motorist assist (driver requests service/tow).
            1.   It should be determined from the driver if he/she has a
preference as to which tow company is called (example: an auto club). The
officer shall then notify dispatch of the name of the company and that it is a
“preference tow.”
            2.   If the driver has no preference for a wrecker service, the
officer shall notify the dispatcher it is a “nonpreference tow”, and to send
the next available tow on the tow list.
         (b)   Traffic accident (when owner/driver is aware).
            1.   If the driver has a preference, the officer will ask dispatch
to contact the requested company. The dispatcher will attempt to obtain an
estimated time of arrival (ETA) from the tow service, and relate that
information to the officer. The officer will determine if that time frame is
reasonable for removal of the vehicle, considering all circumstances,
including, but not limited to, tie of day, traffic conditions, weather
conditions, and road hazard conditions.
            2.   If the driver has no preference, or is unable to contact a
wrecker able to respond in a reasonable amount of time, the officer will advise
dispatch to send the next available tow on the list.
      (2)   Police tows. Police officers are authorized to cause the removal of
a vehicle in the following circumstances:
         (a)   Incident to arrest.  
            1.   It shall be the policy o the Police Department to impound any
vehicle subsequent to a traffic stop resulting in the custodial arrest of the
driver, except in cases where a passenger or other party is given permission by
the owner or driver, to take custody of the vehicle.
            2.   The custodian must possess a valid drivers license and display
the ability to operate the motor vehicle in a safe manner.
            3.   In cases where a vehicle is released to another person at an
arrest scene, officers should obtain full identifiers for recipient, and after
verifying license validity, indicate to dispatch the vehicle is being released
to that person. A vehicle tow report is not required in this instance, however,
the vehicle recipient's name, address and phone number should also be included
on the incident report.
            4.   By the owner's request, and at the officer's discretion, a
vehicle may be left parked at an arrest scene if it can be left locked and
secured in a legal parking space. however, no vehicle involved in a DUI should
be left at an arrest scene. Additionally, state statute allows for a six- hour
hold on a vehicle if the officer reasonably, believes a subsequent violation of
DUI may occur, (see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-203(e)).
         (b)   Traffic obstruction/hazard.
            1.   If a vehicle is parked on the roadway in such a manner as to
cause an obstruction or hazard for other motorists, the officer will respond to
the scene to protect same, and to determine vehicle ownership.
            2.   If the vehicle is unattended the officer shall request
dispatch to attempt to contact the vehicle owner to arrange for its immediate
removal. If the dispatcher is unable to make contact with the owner, or
arrangements cannot be made for its removal within a reasonable length of time,
the officer shall request a police tow of the vehicle. A parking ticket, city
ordinance complaint, or traffic citation should be issued to the vehicle
driver/owner.
         (c)   Evidence.  
            1.   Recovered stolen vehicles and other vehicles that need to be
held and/or processed as evidence, shall be impounded and a supervisor
contacted. The supervisor will advise whether the vehicle will be processed at
the scene or taken to another location (such as, police garage) for storage.
            2.   When a vehicle is taken as evidence, an evidence report must
be filled out in addition to a vehicle tow report.
         (d)   Accident (driver/owner not aware).
            1.   When the driver of a vehicle involved in an accident is
unconscious, incapacitated and/or otherwise unable to authorize the removal of
his vehicle, the officer will request a police tow to take possession of the
vehicle for safekeeping.
            2.   The vehicle will be searched and inventoried prior to being
towed, and any items of high value should be removed from the vehicle and
submitted to the Department Property Custodian. All items taken will be noted
on the vehicle tow report, a copy of which will be attached to the drivers/
owners copy of the accident report.
         (e)   Abandoned vehicle.
            1.   Roadway.
               a.   If a vehicle is reported or found unattended and abandoned
along a highway or street in the city, the officer will respond to the scene.
The registered owner should be determined through dispatch.
               b.   If the vehicle is located in such a manner as to not
constitute an immediate hazard, the officer shall place a 24-hour warning
sticker on the window of the vehicle. The sticker should state the time and
date the vehicle was checked, and the officer should write on the sticker,
“Vehicle will be towed in 24 hours”.
               c.   The dispatcher shall then attempt to contact the registered
owner of the vehicle by phone and advise him/her of this fact. At the officer's
discretion, the vehicle may be towed after a waiting period of 24 hours. A case
number need not be pulled until the vehicle is towed.
            2.   Private property.
               a.   Upon receiving a complaint of an abandoned vehicle on
private property, the officer shall respond to the scene to speak with the
property owner/agent. The officer shall run the vehicle's registration through
dispatch to determine the owner, and then attempt to contact him/her by phone
(or in person if appropriate) to arrange for the removal of the vehicle.
               b.   If arrangements for immediate removal cannot be made, the
officer shall place an orange warning sticker on the window of the vehicle. The
officer shall write on the sticker, “Vehicle will be towed in seven (7) days.”
               c.   A case number should be pulled and report filed at the time
of the complaint. The officer shall obtain the property owner/agent's written
signature on the vehicle tow report at the time of the original complaint. All
attempts to contact the owner should be documented in the narrative of the
report.
               d.   After seven days the investigating officer will return to
the scene. If the vehicle had not yet been removed, a tow truck will be
summoned to take possession of the vehicle. If the vehicle is removed from the
property before seven days have elapsed, or other arrangements have been made
between the property owner and the vehicle owner, the officer should file a
supplementary report indicating such and close the case.
               e.   Exceptions.
                  State law provides for the immediate removal of a vehicle
trespassing on private property, when the property is obviously part of a
single-family residence (such as, driveway of a house), or when notice is
personally given to the driver of the vehicle that he/she is not authorized to
park at that location and the vehicle is subject to removal at the owner's
expense.
                  The property owner is not liable for the cost of removal or
storage of such vehicles. (Note: this exemption may also be accomplished by
property owners by posting the appropriate signs. See I.V.C. § 4-203(f) for
details.)
                  In such cases (unauthorized vehicles parked in private
residence driveways or oral notice given to drivers by property owners),
officers should follow the procedure for private property tows, but may have
vehicle removed immediately after obtaining the complainant's signature. A
citation for trespassing on private property may be utilized as an enforcement
action, with both the officer and the complainant signing the citation.
                  Officers should not confuse an abandoned vehicle that is
trespassing on private property with an inoperative motor vehicle left on the
property by the property owner.
            3.   City property. Complaints of abandoned vehicle on city
property" (except public streets) will be handled in the same manner as private
property tows (attempts to contact owner, tagging, seven-day wait). No vehicle
will be towed off city property without supervisory approval.
         (f)   LEADS entry. Towed/impounded vehicles will not be entered into
LEADS as such, except at supervisory direction.
         (g)   Report form. Vehicle tow reports are required for all police
tows. The vehicle tow report form cannot be used as the cover sheet for traffic
obstruction and abandoned vehicle reports. Therefore, it will be necessary to
initiate an incident report form, in addition to the tow report, in these
cases.
         (h)   Follow up.
            1.   The officer who has the case will follow up on towed vehicles.
The officer will check with the tow company at least weekly to determine if the
vehicle has been claimed.
            2.   Unclaimed vehicles shall be disposed of after proper
notification and pursuant to state statute (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 4-203, et
al.)
         (i)   Payment for tow service.
            1.   No vehicle impounded at the police station will be released
until the owner can show proof of payment for the tow by providing a receipt
from the tow company showing payment for the vehicle(s). A copy of the receipt
will be attached to the incident and tow report by the officer receiving the
receipt. No officer will accept money for towing companies.
            2.   It shall be the tow operator's responsibility to obtain
payment for vehicles stored at their place of business.
         (j)   Towing companies. All towing companies used by the Police
Department for no preference tows must meet the provisions established in the
Illinois Vehicle Code, Chapter 95½, Section 606, and provide to the Police
Department proof of insurance and copies of safety inspections to the Police
Department before they can be placed on the no preference tow list. The tow
vehicles must also receive a Certificate of Safety issued by the State Police.
(Ord. 792, passed 5-19-93)
POLICE PENSION FUND
§ 34.55 DEFINITIONS.
   The words and phrases used herein shall have the meaning ascribed to them by
ILCS Ch. 40, Act 5, § 3-101, et seq., as amended.
(Ord. 661, passed 7-20-83)
§ 34.56 CREATION OF PENSION BOARD; COMPOSITION; TERM OF OFFICE.
   There is hereby created a Police Pension Board for the city consisting of
five members. Of these members, two shall be appointed by the Mayor, pursuant
ILCS Ch. 40, Act 5, § 3-128 to serve a term of two years each; two shall be
elected from the regular police force of the city by the active members
thereof, and one shall be elected from the beneficiaries of the pension. The
initial terms of the members of the Board shall be in the manner provided by
law. The Board shall be known as the “Board of Trustees of the Police Pension
Fund” of the city.
(Ord. 661, passed 7-20-83)
Cross-reference:
   Mandatory participation in Police Pension Fund by employees, see §
35.21
§ 34.57 DUTIES AND POWERS OF BOARD.
   (A)   It shall be the duties of the members of the Board of Trustees of the
Police Pension Fund to manage, invest and control the Fund and all monies
pertaining thereto in the manner provided by statute and to pay beneficiaries
as provided by law.
   (B)   The members of the Board shall have the following additional duties
and powers:
      (1)   To designate the beneficiaries of the Fund;
      (2)   To receive donations;
      (3)   To maintain the actuarial soundness of the Fund, including the
minimum reserves as required by law;
      (4)   To hear and determine applications and order payments;
      (5)   To periodically examine disability pension claimants or recipients;
      (6)   To make rules;
      (7)   To keep records;
      (8)   To pay expenses;
      (9)   To receive funds;
      (10)   To report annually to the City Council on the condition of the
funds, specifying the assets on hand and estimated receipts and expenditures;
      (11)   To serve without compensation;
      (12)   To annually, at the close of the municipality's fiscal year,
submit to the Council a list of persons entitled to payments from the Fund;
      (13)   To subpoena witnesses;
      (14)   To appoint a clerk;
      (15)   To exercise such other powers and perform such other duties as
required or imposed by law.
(Ord. 661, passed 7-20-83)
§ 34.58 ROOMS FOR OFFICES AND MEETINGS.
   Suitable rooms for offices and meetings of the Board of Trustees shall be
assigned by the City Council.
(Ord. 661, passed 7-20-83)
§ 34.59 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall hold regular quarterly meetings on the
second Tuesday of July, October, January and April annually, and special
meetings as called by the President.
   (B)   At the regular July meeting, the Board shall select from its members a
president, vice president, secretary and assistant secretary to serve for the
period of one year and until his respective successor is elected and qualified.
      (1)   The Vice-President of the Board shall perform the duties of the
President during any vacancies in that office, or during such time as the
President is absent from the municipality, or for any other reason is
disqualified or by reason of illness or other cause is unable to perform his
duties.
      (2)   The assistant secretary shall act for the secretary whenever
necessary to discharge the functions of such office.
(Ord. 661, passed 7-20-83)
§ 34.60 LEVY OF TAX.
   The City Council shall annually levy a tax upon all of the taxable property
of the municipality at the rate on the dollar which will produce an amount
which will, when added to the deductions from the salaries or wages of police
officers and receipts available from all other sources, equal a sum sufficient
to meet the annual requirements of the Pension Fund. The annual requirements to
be provided by such tax levy shall be equal to the reserve prescribed by
Section 3-127 of the Pension Code (ILCS Ch. 40, Act 5, § 3-127, as amended).
(Ord. 661, passed 7-20-83)
CHAPTER 35: PERSONNEL REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Policy of city
   
35.02   Salaries
   
35.03   Wages of laborers, mechanics and other workers employed in public works
   
35.04   Equal employment policy
   
35.05   Pre-employment physical
   
35.06   Initial six month probationary period
General Benefits
   
35.15   Vacations
   
35.16   Sick leave
   
35.17   Reserved
   
35.18   Personal leave time
   
35.19   Funeral leave time
   
35.20   Holidays
   
35.21   Jury duty
   
35.22   Pension plan
   
35.23   Medical coverage
   
35.24   Disability leave policy and pay
   
35.25   Notice of injury; failure to report
   
35.26   Personal leave; without pay
   
35.27   Conduct of employees
   
35.28   Discipline policy
   
35.29   Clothing allowances
Full Time City Offices Staff
   
35.44   Illinois Municipal League Certification Program
   
35.45   Salaries
   
35.46   Compensation for meetings
   
35.47   Overtime
   
35.48   Work hours
   
35.49   Part time help
Police Department
   
35.55   Overtime
   
35.56   Schools
   
35.57   Other officers
Street and Water Department Employees
   
35.65   Overtime
   
35.66   Callout and pager duty
   
35.67   Experience increments (steps)
   
35.68   Prior experience and other credits for experience increments
   
35.69   Mechanic tool allowance
   
35.70   Lunch breaks
   
35.71   Part time help
   
35.72   Other departments
   
35.73   Meter readers
   
35.74   Schools
Wastewater Treatment Plant Employees
   
35.80   Compensation for operator in charge of plant maintenance
   
35.81   Overtime
   
35.82   Callout and pager duty
   
35.83   Schools
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 POLICY OF CITY.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to provide its permanent, full-time
employees and officers except those employees covered under a separate
collective bargaining agreement with the following benefits in recognition of
their service to the city. These benefits are effective on the first day of May
and shall end on the 30th day of April of the following year, unless extended
beyond that time by the city.
   (B)   Additional and/or modified benefits may apply to the various
departments of the city and are contained in the benefits of those specific
departments.
(Ord. 1254, passed 7-19-06)
§ 35.02 SALARIES.
   Salaries for employees of the city shall be as set forth by ordinance from
time to time.
(Am. Ord. 1410, passed 6-2-10)
§ 35.03 WAGES OF LABORERS, MECHANICS AND OTHER WORKERS EMPLOYED IN PUBLIC
WORKS.
   (A)   To the extent as required by “An Act Regulating Wages of Laborers,
Mechanics and Other Workers Employed in any Public Works by the State, County,
City or any Public Body or any Political Subdivision or by Any One Under
Contract for Public Work,” approved June 26, 1941, as amended, the general
prevailing rate of wages in this locality for laborers, mechanics and other
workers engaged in the construction of public works coming under the
jurisdiction of the city is hereby ascertained to be the same as the prevailing
rate of wages or construction work in the LaSalle County area as determined by
the Department of Labor of the state as of June, 1988, a copy of that
determination being attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference. The
definition of any terms appearing in this section which are also used in the
aforesaid Act shall be the same as in said Act.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to apply said general
prevailing rate of wages as herein ascertained to any work or employment except
public works construction of the city to the extent required by the aforesaid
Act.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall publicly post or keep available for inspection by
any interested party in the main office of the city this determination of such
prevailing rate of wage.
   (D)   The Clerk shall mail a copy of this determination to any employer and
to any association of employers and to any person or association of employees
who have filed their names and addresses, requesting copies of any
determination stating the particular rates and the particular class of workers
whose wages will be affected by such rates.
(Ord. 733, passed 10-5-88)
§ 35.04 EQUAL EMPLOYMENT POLICY.
   For the purpose of this section, the term MINORITY will refer to American
Indians, Asians, Blacks, or Hispanics, or to such protected classes as youth,
elderly, women or developmentally disabled/handicapped individuals.
   (A)   The city hereby declares to uphold, defend, enforce and advocate for
all laws related to equal employment opportunity including, but not limited to,
the following:
      (1)   Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 which prohibits
discrimination in the participation in or benefits of programs or activities
receiving federal financial assistance on the basis of race, color or national
origin.
      (2)   Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 which prohibits
discrimination because of race, color, religion, sex or national origin in all
employment practices including hiring, firing, promotions, compensation and
other terms, privileges and conditions of employment.
      (3)   Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 which prohibits
discrimination in federally assisted education programs.
      (4)   The Equal Pay Act of 1963 which covers all employees who are
covered by the Fair Labor Standards Act. The Act forbids pay differentials on
the basis of sex.
      (5)   The Age Discrimination Act of 1967 which prohibits discrimination
because of age against anyone between the ages of 40 and 65.
      (6)   Federal Executive Order 11246 which requires every contract with
federal financial assistance to contain a clause against discrimination because
of race, color, religion, sex or national origin.
      (7)   Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and DOL Implementing
Regulations at 29 CFR 32 which prohibits any discrimination based on handicap.
      (8)   Section 167 of JTPA and the U.S. DOL Regulations at 29 CFR Parts 31
and 32 which provides that no person in the United States shall be excluded
from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to
discrimination on the basis of race, color or national origin, under any
program or activity receiving federal financial assistance from the Department
of Labor.
      (9)   Chapter 68, Article I, Section 17-19 of the Illinois Constitution
which prohibits discrimination based on race, color, creed, national ancestry,
handicap and sex in the hiring and promotion practices of any employer.
   (B)   The city will assure nondiscriminatory employment practices in
recruitment, recruitment advertising, employment, placement, layoff or
termination, promotion, demotion or transfer, rate of pay or other forms of
compensation and use of facilities.
   (C)   The city will not contract with other agencies, banks, businesses,
vendors, and the like, who practice or establish a pattern of discrimination
based on sex, color, race, religion, age, developmentally disabled/handicap,
national origin, political affiliation or belief.
      (1)   The city will incorporate into any contract for construction work,
or modification thereof, subject to the relevant rules, regulations and orders
of the Secretary of Labor or of any prior authority that remain in effect,
which is paid for in whole or in part with the aid of such financial
assistance, the following “Equal Opportunity Clause”:
         (a)   The contractor will not discriminate against any employee or
applicant for employment because of race, color, religion, sex or national
origin. The contractor will take affirmative action to ensure that applicants
are employed, and the employees are treated during employment, without regard
to their race, color, religion, sex, national origin or developmentally
disability/handicap. Such action shall include, but not be limited, to the
following: employment, upgrading, demotion or transfer; recruitment or
recruitment advertising; layoff or termination; rates of pay or other forms of
compensation; and selection for training, including apprenticeship. The
contractor agrees to post in conspicuous places, available to employees and
applicants for employment, notices setting forth the provisions of this
nondiscrimination clause.
         (b)   The contractor will, in all solicitations or advertisements for
employees placed by or on behalf of the contractor, state that all qualified
applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race,
color, religion, sex, national origin or developmentally disability/handicap.
         (c)   In the event of the contractor's noncompliance with the Equal
Opportunity clause or with any of the said rules, regulations and orders, this
contract may be cancelled, terminated or suspended in whole or in part and the
contractor may be declared ineligible for further government contracts or
federally assisted construction contracts.
         (d)   The contractor will include the provisions of this Equal
Opportunity clause in every subcontract or purchase order, unless exempted by
the rules, regulations or orders of the Secretary of Labor so that such
provisions will be binding upon each such subcontractor or vendor.
   (D)   The city assures that it will actively provide nondiscriminatory
outreach, selection and service to all individuals.
   (E)   Efforts will be made to hire minority individuals for all job
categories so that minority employment in all categories of the work force will
represent a proportionate share of minority populations in the city as well as
surrounding areas.
   (F)   The city will provide accommodations to the best of its ability for
developmentally disabled/handicapped employees contingent on budget and
structural limitations.
   (G)   All city employees are expected to adhere to the above policy and to
work actively for its implementation both internally and in carrying out city
program activities.
   (H)   The city designates the Mayor and City Council to carry out the EEO/AA
plan.
(Ord. 769, passed 3-4-92)
§ 35.05 PRE-EMPLOYMENT PHYSICAL.
   Each and every applicant for employment with the city shall be subject to a
physical examination, at the city's expense. Said examination shall be at the
city's discretion and shall be performed prior to making any decision regarding
whether to employ the subject individual.
(Ord. 1262, passed 11-15-06)
§ 35.06 INITIAL SIX MONTH PROBATIONARY PERIOD.
   Every new employee to the city for the first six months of employment shall
be considered to be employed on a six month probationary period. The six month
probationary period provides the city an opportunity to observe and evaluate
the capacity of the employee, which includes the employee’s ability to
satisfactorily perform the essential functions of their job and to observe and
evaluate the employee’s work habits and conduct, including attendance and the
employee’s relationship with coworkers and superiors. During this probationary
period, the city may terminate employment immediately, without cause and with
or without notice. Likewise, the employee may also terminate their employment
with the city at any time, with or without notice and without cause. If
employment is terminated by employer or employee during the six month
probationary period, city personnel records will indicate that employment ended
during the six month probationary period. If employment continues following the
first six months, the six month probationary period, such lapse of time shall
not be considered to have altered the employment relationship resulting after
the six month probationary period. Absent contrary language in a collective
bargaining agreement, employment will remain at will employment. The six month
probationary period may be modified for some employees covered by a collective
bargaining agreement containing express terms about probationary employment.
(Ord. 1598, passed 4-6-16; Am. Ord. 1643, passed 9-6-17)
GENERAL BENEFITS
§ 35.15 VACATIONS.
   (A)   Application. The provisions of this vacation policy shall apply to all
full-time employees and all full-time appointed officers of the city. These
policies will not apply to elected officials, part-time employees, to any
officer of the city who is not a full-time employee or to any employee who is
covered under a separate collective bargaining agreement with the city.
   (B)   Definition.
      (1)   For bookkeeping purposes, employees will be credited a certain
number of hours of vacation time each year multiplied by the number of days of
vacation they have earned each year. Any reference to days or parts of days
will mean hours as described in division (B)(2) of this section.
      (2)   Employees that work a normal eight hour shift during the work week
will be credited with eight hours of vacation time multiplied by the number of
days of vacation earned at their last service date.
      (3)   The workweek is from 12:01 a.m. Saturday to 12 midnight the
following Friday night, seven days later.
   (C)   Determination of vacation time available. Vacation eligibility shall
be determined by the employee's full-time hire date, which is defined as the
employee's service date. The employee's service date shall be used for the
purpose of calculating the amount of vacation time to which the employee is
entitled each year. Vacation time will be earned as follows.
      (1)   On the first anniversary of the employee's service date, the
employee shall be eligible for one week, consisting of five days vacation time.
      (2)   On the second anniversary of the employee's service date, the
employee shall be eligible for two weeks, consisting of ten days vacation time.
      (3)   On the fifth anniversary of the employee's service date, the
employee shall be eligible for three weeks, consisting of 15 days vacation
time.
      (4)   On the tenth anniversary of the employee's service date, the
employee shall be eligible for one additional day of vacation time, and on
every anniversary thereafter of the employees service date, the employee shall
be eligible for one additional day of vacation time, up to a maximum of 25 days
of vacation time.
   (D)   Time of taking vacation.
      (1)   Employees shall schedule all vacation time and obtain the approval
of their respective department head before any vacation is taken. All vacation
time shall be used within 12 months after the service date on which it was
earned unless the employee has prior written approval of the department head
and the Commissioner of that particular department. With prior approval, the
employee may carry over up to 20% of their annual earned vacation time for an
additional three months. All carry-over vacation time must be taken within 15
months of the service date at which it was earned or it will be considered
forfeited.
      (2)   Approval is required as far in advance as practically as possible
and not later than shown below except in extenuating circumstances.
         (a)   One day vacation — prior to the end of the previous workday.
         (b)   One full week — two weeks advance notice.
         (c)   Two full weeks or more — one-month advance notice.
   (E)   Payment in lieu of vacation prohibited. Under no circumstances may an
employee or officer be paid an additional consideration in order to forego a
vacation. The purpose of a vacation is to benefit both the municipality and the
employee by giving the employee a period away from the employee's duties.
   (F)   Payment upon termination or retirement.  
      (1)   Upon termination or retirement from employment, the city shall pay
to the employee all earned but unused and accrued vacation time. The
calculation of accrued vacation time in the year of termination or retirement
shall be made on a pro rata basis as follows:
         (a)   For retirement or termination during the first three months
inclusive after the employees last anniversary date, the employee will be paid
for 25% of the vacation time that will have been earned at the employees next
service date.
         (b)   For retirement or termination during the second three months
inclusive after the employees last anniversary date, the employee will be paid
50% of the vacation time that will have been earned at the employees next
service date.
         (c)   For retirement or termination during the third three months
inclusive after the employees last anniversary date, the employee will be paid
75% of the vacation time that will have been earned at the employee next
service date.
         (d)   For retirement or termination during the last three months
inclusive after the employees last anniversary date, the employee will be paid
100% of the vacation time that will have been earned at the employees next
service date.
      (2)   The amount to be paid for the unused and accrued vacation time
shall be determined by multiplying the employee's current hourly rate times the
number of unused and accrued vacation hours.
   (G)   Restriction on days. Vacation time may not be taken in units of less
than one-half day, which consist of four or six hours depending on the
employees regular work schedule. No more than ten one day vacations, eight or
12 hours each depending on the employees regular work schedule may be taken in
any fiscal year.
   (H)   Condition for vacation.
      (1)   This vacation policy is available only to full-time employees and
full-time officers of the city. However, employees who are on disability leave
shall remain eligible to earn vacation time as herein above provided. Employees
who are on personal leave without pay shall not be eligible to earn vacation
time during such period of absence.
      (2)   A pro-rata vacation time deduction shall be made for any period
during which an employee is on personal leave without pay or suspended without
pay according to §
35.25. For example, an employee who is on normal eight hour work schedule and
is on personal leave or suspended without pay for five working days shall have
deducted 1/52 of his or her otherwise earned vacation time for that particular
year and such deduction shall not be less than one-half day or shift of
vacation time as defined in divisions (B) and (G) of this section.
      (3)   An employee who is on a 12 hour schedule and is on a personal leave
without pay, or suspended without pay for three working days shall have
deducted 1/60 hours of vacation time for that particular year.
(Ord. 1254, passed 7-19-06; Am. Ord. 1358, passed 12-3-08; Am. Ord. 1410,
passed 6-2-10; Am. Ord. 1456, passed 10-19-11; Am. Ord. 1465, passed 1-18-12)
§ 35.16 SICK LEAVE.
   (A)   Each employee shall be granted one day of sick leave time at the
beginning of each month. Employees hired during the first half of any month
will be granted one sick day for that month. Employees hired during the last
half of the month will be granted one-half sick day that month. Any reference
to days or parts of days in this section shall be converted to hours in the
same manner as described in §
35.15(B).
   (B)   For bookkeeping purposes employees will be credited with a certain
number of hours of sick leave each year multiplied by the number of days of
sick leave they earn each year.
   (C)   For those employees that work a normal eight-hour shift, they will be
credited with eight hours of sick leave times 12 days or 96 hours annually.
   (D)   For those employees that work a 12-hour shift during the workweek will
be credited with 12 hours of sick leave times 12 days or 144 hours annually.
   (E)   Sick leave can be used only for sickness or non-work related injury
and no other reason. The minimum increment of time that can be used for sick
leave is one-half day.
   (F)   The City Clerk shall keep all records of sick leave time, and these
records will be the official records of the city. In the case of disputes
arising over number of sick leave time used or accumulated, the City Clerk's
records shall be final. Each employee shall be responsible for keeping his or
her own personal records of sick leave time.
   (G)   Any employee who fails to report sick leave time or falsely reports
him or herself ill or injured, will be subject to discipline, including
dismissal, by his or her supervisor, the Commissioner in charge of his or her
department, or the City Council. Any employee, who is using sick leave time,
must report his or her absence to his or her immediate supervisor, or the
Commissioner in charge of his or her department.
   (H)   Any employee who retires and has unused accumulated sick leave may use
this sick leave for additional IMRF service credit. One month of service is
credited for every 20 days or fraction thereof of unpaid unused sick leave not
to exceed 120 days (one-half year). The effective date of the pension must be
within 60 days of termination (retirement). Converted sick leave cannot be used
to meet the minimum of eight years service for a pension or 35 years for a non-
discounted pension under age 60.
   (I)   Since the city accumulates sick leave time in hours, the accumulated
hours will be divided by eight for those employees that normally work an eight
hour shift and by 12 for those employees that work a 12 hour shift during the
work week. The product will be reported to IMRF in days and fraction days. IMRF
credits one month of service for each 20 days or fraction thereof of unused,
unpaid sick leave.
   (J)   An employee who retires and has unused accumulated sick leave time and
is not covered under a pension plan or is covered under a pension plan that
does not allow for unused and unpaid sick leave to be used for additional
service credit will be paid $5 per hour for each accumulated and unused hour of
sick leave time.
   (K)   An employee that leaves the employment of the city for any reason
other than retirement will not be paid for any accumulated and unused sick
leave time.
   (L)    An employee may be required to use sick leave in conjunction with or
in addition to disability pay (see §
35.24). The minimum increment of time may be reduced when disability pay
applies.
   (M)   Each employee may accumulate a maximum of 180 sick days.
   (N)   An employee may take four days sick leave per fiscal year without a
doctor's excuse. No more than two days sick leave may be taken consecutively
without returning to work with a doctor's excuse.
(Ord. 1254, passed 7-19-06; Am. Ord. 1348, passed 8-20-08; Am. Ord. 1358,
passed 12-3-08; Am. Ord. 1410, passed 6-2-10; Am. Ord. 1456, passed 10-19-11;
Am. Ord. 1465, passed 1-18-12)
§ 35.17 RESERVED.
§ 35.18 PERSONAL LEAVE TIME.
   (A)   Each employee will be granted six days or 48 hours of personal leave
time each fiscal year for personal business and the time shall be credited at
the beginning of each fiscal year. Personal leave time will be accounted for
each year in hours. Personal leave time may not be accumulated from year to
year, and there shall be no compensation paid to any employee for unused
personal leave time.
   (B)   The minimum increment of time that can be used for personal leave time
is one-half day or four hours and six hours.
   (C)   Employees hired during the period May 1 through July 31 shall receive
two and one-half days of personal leave time. Employees hired during the period
August 1 through October 31 will be granted three days of personal leave time.
Employees hired during the period November 1 through January 31, will be
granted two days of personal leave time, and employees hired during the period
February 1 through April 30 will receive one day of personal leave time.
   (D)   Each employee shall notify their supervisor that they are requesting
the use of a personal day. Enough notice should be given so that the respective
department may schedule alternate work assignments.
   (E)   Personal time off cannot be used for time off required as the result
of criminal activity or illegal acts, including, but not limited to, traffic
violations.
(Ord. 1254, passed 7-19-06; Am. Ord. 1358, passed 12-3-08; Am. Ord. 1410,
passed 6-2-10; Am. Ord. 1456, passed 10-19-11; Am. Ord. 1465, passed 1-18-12)
§ 35.19 FUNERAL LEAVE TIME.
   (A)    In case of death in the immediate family, employees will be allowed a
maximum of three days, of leave with pay, for bereavement. Members of the
immediate family are considered to be spouse, children, father, mother,
brothers, sisters, father-in-law, mother-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law,
brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandparent, grandparent-in-law, a person who is
legally acting in one of the above capacities, or another relative living in
the employee's residence.
   (B)   An employee will not be eligible to receive paid bereavement time off
benefits while scheduled off or absent from work because of vacation, holidays,
sickness or other reason.
   (C)   The days described herein shall mean the employee's normal work shift.
The Council may grant such additional time off as necessary for extenuating
circumstances, but only with the approval of a majority vote of the City
Council.
(Ord. 1254, passed 7-19-06; Am. Ord. 1358, passed 12-3-08; Am. Ord. 1410,
passed 6-2-10; Am. Ord. 1456, passed 10-19-11; Am. Ord. 1465, passed 1-18-12)
§ 35.20 HOLIDAYS.
   (A)   The city recognizes and observes nine paid holidays per year. The
regular paid holidays are:
      (1)   New Year’s Day
      (2)   Memorial Day
      (3)   Independence Day
      (4)   Labor Day
      (5)   Veteran’s Day   
      (6)   Thanksgiving Day
      (7)   Day After Thanksgiving
      (8)   Christmas Eve Day
      (9)   Christmas Day
   (B)   The holiday is defined as the actual day the city observes the holiday
and shall be from 12:00 a.m. on the observed day until the following midnight.
   (C)   Any employee eligible for holiday pay that is scheduled off on a
holiday will be credited for eight hours of holiday pay. Any employee that
actually works on a city-observed holiday will receive the eight hours of
holiday pay and will also receive hour for hour compensation at one and one-
half times the employee’s hourly rate of pay for the time actually worked. The
time actually worked will also be used for the calculation of overtime pay as
described elsewhere in this chapter. Holiday pay will be paid at the employee’s
regular straight time hourly rate.
(Ord. 1254, passed 7-19-06; Am. Ord. 1358, passed 12-3-08; Am. Ord. 1410,
passed 6-2-10; Am. Ord. 1456, passed 10-19-11; Am. Ord. 1465, passed 1-18-12)
§ 35.21 JURY DUTY.
   (A)   Any employee of the city required to be absent from their regularly
scheduled employment for jury service will be paid his or her regular salary
for each day of absence as a result of jury service, providing that the
employee submits to the City Clerk's Office a certificate from the Clerk of the
Court in which jury service is rendered, certifying each day, or part thereof,
the employee was required for jury service.
   (B)   An employee on jury duty will be expected to work as much of his or
her regularly scheduled shift as his or her jury duty schedule permits, to the
extent that combined time on jury duty and at work does not exceed his or her
normal shift hours on a given day.
   (C)   The employee shall be entitled to keep any remuneration received for
such jury service.
(Ord. 1254, passed 7-19-06; Am. Ord. 1358, passed 12-3-08; Am. Ord. 1410,
passed 6-2-10; Am. Ord. 1456, passed 10-19-11; Am. Ord. 1465, passed 1-18-12)
§ 35.22 PENSION PLAN.
   The Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund (IMRF) shall be the official pension
plan of the city, except for members of the Police Department covered under the
Police Pension Fund of the city. Eligibility shall be as prescribed by law and
IMRF rules. The city shall use the IMRF "Pickup Plan" prescribed by IMRF rules.
The deduction for the employee's portion of the IMRF contribution will be made
from the employee's paycheck before state and federal withholding taxes are
calculated.
(Ord. 1254, passed 7-19-06; Am. Ord. 1358, passed 12-3-08; Am. Ord. 1410,
passed 6-2-10; Am. Ord. 1456, passed 10-19-11; Am. Ord. 1465, passed 1-18-12)
Cross-references:
   Police Pension Fund, see §§
34.55 through
34.60
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning the Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund, see ILCS
Ch. 40, Act 5, §§ 7-101 et seq.
§ 35.23 MEDICAL COVERAGE.
   (A)    The city will provide a Group Health Insurance, Dental and Vision
Plans for the employees and their eligible dependents and the city will pay for
80% of the cost of the plan. Individual and dependent coverage is optional at
the discretion of the employee and a deduction will be made each payday from
the employee's paycheck for the 20% cost of the coverage selected by the
employee. The deduction each payday, depending on the coverage selected will be
according to the following chart:
   (B)   The deductions will be made under an IRS Section 125 plan and will be
taken prior to the calculation of federal and state income taxes.
   (C)   Employees may choose to take major medical, dental and vision policies
or any combination thereof. Term life insurance is only provided with the
dental coverage. Employees are required to notify the City Clerk of the
coverage types and dependent coverage's desired. Employees and dependents may
be required to medically qualify for any or all of the coverage type desired
and be accepted by the group carrier.
   (D)   Medical coverage will begin on the first day of the month following
the date of hire. Medical coverage will terminate on the last day of the month
after the resignation or termination date of the employee from the city, except
as hereinafter provided to the contrary, and except as provided in state and
federal law.
   (E)   Medical coverage for the employees and their eligible dependents will
continue after retirement of the employee for the city in accordance with
Public Act 86-1444. The eligibility of employees for medical coverage after
retirement may be restricted and limited to the terms and conditions contained
in the Group Policies of Insurance maintained by the city in the Office of the
City Clerk.
   (F)   Depending on the length of continuous employment with the city prior
to retirement, the city will pay a percentage of the actual cost of the
employee's medical coverage until the employee is eligible for Medicare or
Medicaid benefits. Eligibility of this benefit is restricted to employees
retiring at age 60 or older, with not less than ten years continuous service.
The actual percentage of premium cost for said medical coverage, which will be
paid by the city for eligible retired employees, will be according to the
following chart:
Years of Continuous Service Prior to Retirement Percentage of Cost Paid by City
Years of Continuous Service Prior to Retirement Percentage of Cost Paid by City
20                                              80
19                                              77
18                                              74
17                                              71
16                                              68
15                                              65
14                                              62
13                                              59
12                                              56
11                                              53
10                                              50
Less than 10                                    0
 
EXAMPLE: An employee retires at age 60 with 15 years of service with the city.
At the time of retirement the city is paying 65% of the cost of the insurance.
   (G)    Notwithstanding any of the foregoing to the contrary, any employee
with not less than 20 years of service electing IMRF early retirement at age
55, and any police officer except those officers covered under a separate
bargaining agreement with the city electing early retirement under the terms of
the Police Pension Plan, shall receive medical coverage at the same rates or
percentages paid by all other city employees. Upon any person qualifying for
and receiving employee insurance benefits from the city becoming eligible for
medicare benefits will cease when such person becomes eligible for Medicare.
Upon any person qualifying for employee insurance benefits, but for the fact
that such person becomes eligible for Medicare, such person upon appropriately
registering for Medicare may request Medicare Supplemental Insurance as offered
by the city through the city’s current group insurance carrier and shall pay
the costs of such Medicare Supplemental Insurance.
   (H)   If an employee retires at 60 years of age with at least ten years of
continuous service or at 55 under the IMRF early retirement system with at
least 20 years of service, the city will provide spousal coverage according to
what the current group carrier allows. If the spouse is at least 55 years of
age but not yet 60 years of age, the city will pay 70% of the spousal coverage
the retired employee paying 30%. If the spouse is 60 years of age the city will
pay 80% of the spousal coverage with the retired employee paying 20% of the
cost. All spousal coverage will cease when the spouse becomes eligible for
Medicare.
   (I)   The city shall provide a paid life insurance policy in the amount of
$30,000 for each employee
(Ord. 1254, passed 7-19-06; Am. Ord. 1358, passed 12-3-08; Am. Ord. 1410,
passed 6-2-10; Am. Ord. 1456, passed 10-19-11; Am. Ord. 1465, passed 1-18-12)
§ 35.24 DISABILITY LEAVE POLICY AND PAY.
   (A)   For the purposes of interpreting and construing the disability leave
policy, the following definitions and rules of construction shall be used.
      DISABILITY. Physical or mental disability of eligible full-time employees
or appointed officers to perform the duties of his or her position or any other
position within the city due to injury or occupational disease incurred in the
course of employment by the city.
      TEMPORARY DISABILITY BENEFITS. The disability indemnity payable as wages
to an eligible employee or appointed officer under the provisions of the
Workmen’s Compensation Act, IMRF, or Police Pension Insurance.
   (B)   Eligible employees and appointed officers shall be granted disability
leave for a period not to exceed 26 weeks for an occupational injury or
occupational disease. Disability pay shall be paid during disability leave.
Disability pay shall be the difference between the amounts paid under workmen’s
compensation, IMRF and/or Police Pension disability, and short term disability
insurance provided by the city’s insurance plan provided to the employee and
the amount of the employee’s full gross salary or wages. No employee will be
allowed to collect more than 100% of his or her normal gross pay.
   (C)   For the city’s share of disability pay, the employee shall be required
to first use his or her sick days to make up the difference between workmen’s
compensation, IMRF and/or Police Pension disability, and the short term
disability plan provided by the city’s insurance program.
   (D)   Disability shall be paid from the first day of disability provided
that disability shall be paid only if the following conditions are met.
      (1)   A claim for temporary disability has been allowed without a penalty
for failure to use a safety device, failure to follow a safety rule, and the
employee was not injured due to the employee’s own intoxication.
      (2)   The disability continues for three calendar days.
   (E)   If the disability extends to the date of mandatory retirement of an
eligible employee or appointed officer, such date shall terminate the
disability leave with pay.
   (F)   Present eligible employees or appointed officers, who, as of the
effective date of this subchapter, are receiving temporary disability benefits,
shall be eligible for disability leave beginning on the effective date of this
subchapter, provided that temporary disability benefits shall be deposited to
the credit of the city.
   (G)   Notwithstanding any of the foregoing to the contrary, this disability
leave policy shall in no way alter, amend or change any definition, rule or
regulation under the Illinois Worker’s Compensation Act, IMRF or Police Pension
Insurance.
(Ord. 1254, passed 7-19-06; Am. Ord. 1348, passed 8-20-08; Am. Ord. 1358,
passed 12-3-08; Am. Ord. 1410, passed 6-12-10; Am. Ord. 1456, passed 10-19-11;
Am. Ord. 1465, passed 1-18-12)
§ 35.25 NOTICE OF INJURY; FAILURE TO REPORT.
   Each employee who sustains an injury shall notify his or her supervisor of
the injury within 24 hours of its occurrence unless the employee shall be
physically or mentally unable to do so, or unless his or her supervisor,
superintendent or other person in charge shall have had actual notice of the
injury. If the employee shall fail to report the injury, he or she shall lose
one day’s disability leave for each day’s failure to so report. If anyone shall
report the accident for the injured employee within the time above specified
then the injured employee shall be relieved from reporting the accident.
(Ord. 1254, passed 7-19-06; Am. Ord. 1358, passed 12-3-08; Am. Ord. 1410,
passed 6-2-10; Am. Ord. 1456, passed 10-19-11; Am. Ord. 1465, passed 1-18-12)
§ 35.26 PERSONAL LEAVE; WITHOUT PAY.
   This City Council may, under unusual circumstances, grant to any city
employee or officer, a personal leave without pay for a period of time not to
exceed 30 working days or shifts. Additional time over the 30 days may be
approved by the City Council.
   (A)   Standards. Personal leave without pay shall be granted only if no
substantial hardship to the municipality will result from the absence of the
employee applying for the leave of absence. Leave of absence without pay shall
be granted to avoid serious hardship to the employee in cases where the
required time is for personal reasons, health reason, non-occupational disease
or injury, or for the purposes of obtaining additional education. Non-
occupational disease or injury shall mean a disease, condition or injury not
incurred in the course of employment with the city.
   (B)   Education relating to the employee’s work. It is the policy of the
city to encourage and assist employees to obtain education that will improve
the employee’s performance in his or her work for the city. Every effort will
be made to arrange an employee’s work schedule so that such education and
training may be obtained without the necessity of the employee taking a leave
of absence.
   (C)   Continuation of benefits.
      (1)   During the period of leave of absence the employee shall not
continue to accumulate and be eligible for other benefits of employment
including vacation, sick days, personal days, funeral leave and holiday time.
      (2)   In the event an employee has been granted a leave without pay as a
result of non-occupational diseases or injury, the employee shall return to
work if the city makes modification or adjustments to the work environment, or
to the manner or circumstances under which the position held or desired is
customarily performed that enables a qualified individual with a disability to
perform the essential function of that position.
   (D)   Military leave of absence. Any member of the Illinois National Guard
or any member of any branch of any armed forces reserve who is placed on active
duty status, including annual training, shall be afforded a leave of absence
without pay in accordance with the Public Employee Armed Services Rights Act
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 330, §§ 1 et seq.). An employee may utilize accrued vacation
consistent with the procedures established in §
35.15.
(Ord. 1254, passed 7-19-06; Am. Ord. 1358, passed 12-3-08; Am. Ord. 1410,
passed 6-2-10; Am. Ord. 1456, passed 10-19-11; Am. Ord. 1465, passed 1-18-12)
§ 35.27 CONDUCT OF EMPLOYEES.
   The city expects a proper conduct and assigns certain responsibilities to
each employee. This conduct and responsibilities are established in the best
interest of the city, its residents and employees. Proper conduct and
responsibilities shall include, but are not necessarily limited to the
following.
   (A)   Gifts, gratuities, bribes or rewards. No employee shall solicit or
accept from any person, business or organization any gift in violation of the
State Officials and Employees Ethics Act incorporated into the Code of
Marseilles at §
31.03.
   (B)   Prohibited political activity. Employees will not be asked to perform
nor perform during work hours prohibited political activities nor otherwise
violate the State Officials and Employees Act incorporated into the Code of
Marseilles at §
31.03.
   (C)   Abuse of position.
      (1)   Employees shall not use their official position, official
identification cards or badges:
         (a)   For personal or financial gain for themselves or others.
         (b)   For obtaining privileges not otherwise available to them except
in the performance of duty.
         (c)   For avoiding consequences of illegal acts.
      (2)   Employees shall not lend to another person their identification
cards or badges or permit them to be photographed or reproduced without the
approval of the Commissioner.
      (3)   Employees shall not authorize the use of their names, photographs
or official title that identifies them as employees in connection with
testimonials or advertisements of any commodity or commercial enterprise
without the approval of their Commissioner.
   (D)   Endorsements and referrals. Employees shall not recommend or suggest
in any manner, except in the transaction of personal business, the employment
or procurement of a particular product, professional service or commercial
service (such as an attorney, towing service, contractor, etc.).
   (E)   Courtesy. Employees shall be courteous to the public. Employees shall
be tactful in the performance of their duties, shall control their tempers, and
exercise the utmost patience and discretion and shall not engage in
argumentative discussions even in the face of extreme provocation. In the
performance of their duties, they shall not use coarse, violent, profane or
insolent language or gestures and shall not express any prejudice concerning
race, religion, politics, national origin, sex, lifestyle or similar personal
characteristics.
   (F)   Dress and appearance. Employees should avoid extremes in dress and
appearance and avoid sexually suggestive clothing. Employees’ clothing should
be reasonable neat, clean and orderly as work conditions allow.
   (G)   Unbecoming conduct.
      (1)   Employees shall conduct themselves on and off duty in such a manner
as to reflect favorably on the city.
      (2)   Employees will not engage in conduct which discredits the integrity
of the city or its employees or which impairs the operations of the city. Such
actions shall constitute conduct unbecoming an employee.
   (H)   Associations. Except as necessary to the performance of official
duties or where unavoidable because of other family relationships of the
employee, employees shall avoid regular or continuous associations or dealings
with persons whom they know, or should know, are persons under criminal
investigation or indictment or who have a reputation in the community or
present or past involvement in felonious or criminal behavior.
   (I)   Public statements and appearances.
      (1)   Employees shall not publicly criticize or ridicule the city, its
policies or other employees by speech, writing or other expression, where such
speech, writing or other expression is defamatory, obscene, unlawful,
undermines the effectiveness of the city, interferes with the maintenance of
discipline or is made with reckless disregard for truth.
      (2)   Employee shall not address public gatherings, appear on radio or
television, prepare any articles for publication, act as correspondents to a
newspaper or a periodical, release or divulge information or any other matters
of the city while holding themselves out as representing the city in such
matters without proper authority.
      (3)   Employees will not accept compensation, honoraria or permit their
expenses to be paid by sources other than the city for speaking or writing
assignments performed as part of their official duties unless specifically
authorized by the city.
   (J)   Social media policy.
      (1)   Social media as define herein refers to social networking websites
which focus on building online communities of people who share interests and
activities and/or exploring the interests and activities of others. Examples of
social networking websites include: Facebook, MySpace, Friendster, Linked In,
Twitter, and sites that allow users to post personal blogs. The absence of, or
lack of explicit reference to, a specific site does not limit the extent of the
application of this policy.
      (2)   The City of Marseilles has a duty to protect the reputation of the
city and its employees, as well as guard against liability and potential legal
risk. Therefore, the city reserves the right to monitor these websites, and
employees are advised that they should exercise caution and good judgment when
social networking online.
      (3)   Where the poster can be identified as an employee of the city, any
postings involving offensive or unethical content are not permitted. Employees
shall not represent that they are speaking or acting on behalf of the city, or
that they are representing or presenting the interests of the city. Employees
are prohibited from using social networking sites to harass or attack others,
including those who work for the city.
      (4)   Employees should be aware that the content of these social
networking sites can be subject of subpoena and be used in criminal and civil
litigation and have impact on the testimony of an employee involved in city
litigation.
      (5)   Failures to comply with the following may result in discipline, up
to and including discharge.
   (K)   Outside employment. The work of the city shall have precedence over
all other occupational interests of employees. No employee may perform any
outside work which is or can be interpreted to be inconsistent with their city
work or is detrimental to the best interests of the city.
   (L)   Unsatisfactory performance. Employees shall maintain sufficient
competency to efficiently and properly perform their duties and assume the
responsibilities of their positions.
   (M)   Use of city equipment. Employees shall utilize city equipment only for
its intended purposes, for city purposes, in accordance with established city
procedures, and shall not abuse or damage city equipment. Employees will use
reasonable care to avoid loss of city equipment. All city equipment issued to
employees shall be maintained in proper order. As a fringe benefit available to
city employees, an employee’s immediate supervisor may approve limited personal
use of city equipment normally used by the employee in their employment with
the city. Such occasional use shall be limited to use personally by the city
employee and the city employee shall be personally responsible for costs
associated with their incidental use of city equipment.
   (N)   Drug policy. Employees shall comply with the city’s Drug and Alcohol
Abuse Policy incorporated into the Code of Marseilles at §§
39.20 through
39.29.
   (O)   Electronic device usage.
      (1)   Use of a city computer, cell phone or other electronic device
(hereinafter computer) for purposes other than for the performance of an
employee’s job is prohibited. Occasional personal use may be approved in
writing by the employee’s immediate supervisor. The city reserves the right to
monitor the use of all computers and computer systems. Employees have no
reasonable expectation of privacy with respect to any computer including,
without limitation, electronic mail, text messages, telephone conversations,
and computer hard drives and memory whether or not the employees have private
access or entry codes.
      (2)   Without limitation to the above general restrictions on computer
usage, the following are expressly prohibited:
         (a)   Unauthorized attempts to access another’s e-mail or any password
protected data;
         (b)   To unlawfully download any programs or audio or visual
materials;
         (c)   To alter any networks or modify or add any passwords;
         (d)   To copy, deconstruct, or damage any computer programs;
         (e)   Transmitting messages that could reasonably be construed to be
obscene or harassing sexually or based on race, national origin, sex, sexual
orientation, age, disability or religious or political beliefs;
         (f)   To access or distribute indecent or obscene material, child
pornography, inappropriate text or graphic files; or files dangerous to the
integrity of the network; or
         (g)   To use computer for solicitation of funds, profit or commercial
or political use.
      (3)   In addition to disciplinary action, an employee may be liable for
any expense, including personal costs, incurred by the city in eliminating
unauthorized programming or downloads, correcting damaged programs, or other
work reasonably required as a result of wrongful computer use.
   (P)   Driver’s license required. Duties of all employees require periodic
driving of a vehicle and all employees must maintain a valid Illinois Driver’s
license. City garage employees must maintain a valid commercial driver’s
license (CDL). Loss or suspension of any driving licenses shall be reported to
the department supervisor immediately and is grounds for discipline, including
termination.
   (Q)   Operating city vehicles.
      (1)   Employees shall operate city vehicles in a careful and prudent
manner and shall obey all laws and all city orders pertaining to such
operation. An employee shall immediately report any vehicle accident or damage
to their supervisor. Any personal use of a city vehicle must be approved in
writing by the employee’s immediate supervisor. No passenger other than a city
employee shall be in a city vehicle unless approved in writing by the
employee’s immediate supervisor.
      (2)   A supervisor who becomes aware of employee misconduct shall
promptly commence a thorough investigation of the incident, and this must
include asking the employee for an explanation of his or her actions.
      (3)   Employees who are furnished a city vehicle may upon written
approval of their supervisor use the city vehicle for commuting to and from
work during normal work hours and during on call work hours. In such
circumstances, such employee shall not use the city vehicle as a replacement
for their personal vehicle and shall limit the use of the city vehicle for
personal use to exceptional circumstances. The city employee shall be
personally responsible for costs associated with their personal incidental use
of the city vehicle and such personal use may become subject to required city
tax reporting.
   (R)   Sexual harassment policy. It is unlawful to harass a person because of
that person’s sex. The courts have determined that sexual harassment is a form
of discrimination under Title VII of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of 1964, as
amended in 1991. All persons have a right to work in an environment free from
sexual harassment. Sexual harassment is unacceptable misconduct which affects
individuals of all genders and sexual orientations. It is a policy of the City
of Marseilles to prohibit harassment of any person by any municipal official,
municipal agent, municipal employee or municipal agency or office, on the basis
of sex or gender. All municipal officials, municipal agents, municipal
employees and municipal agencies or offices are prohibited from sexually
harassing any person, regardless of any employment relationship or lack
thereof.
      (1)   (a)   This policy adopts the definition of sexual harassment as
stated in the Illinois Human Rights Act, which currently defines sexual
harassment as any unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual favors or
any conduct of a sexual nature when:
            1.   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or
implicitly a term or condition of an individual’s employment;
            2.   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is
used as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual; or
            3.   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially
interfering with an individual’s work performance or creating an intimidating,
hostile or offensive working environment.
         (b)   Conduct which may constitute sexual harassment includes:
            1.   Verbal: sexual innuendos, suggestive comments, insults, humor,
and jokes about sex, anatomy or gender-specific traits, sexual propositions,
threats, repeated requests for dates, or statements about other employees, even
outside of their presence, of a sexual nature.
            2.   Non-verbal: suggestive or insulting sounds (whistling),
leering, obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures, “catcalls”,
“smacking” or “kissing” noises.
            3.   Visual: posters, signs, pin-ups or slogans of a sexual nature,
viewing pornographic material or websites.
            4.   Physical: touching, unwelcome hugging or kissing, pinching,
brushing the body, any coerced sexual act or actual assault.
            5.   Textual/electronic: “sexting” (electronically sending messages
with sexual content, including pictures and video), the use of sexually
explicit language, harassment, cyber stalking and threats via all forms of
electronic communication (e-mail, text/picture/video messages, intranet/on-line
postings, blogs, instant messages and social network websites like Facebook and
Twitter).
         (c)   The most severe and overt forms of sexual harassment are easier
to determine. On the other end of the spectrum, some sexual harassment is more
subtle and depends, to some extent, on individual perception and
interpretation. The courts will assess sexual harassment by a standard of what
would offend a “reasonable person.”
      (2)   (a)   An employee who either observes sexual harassment or believes
herself/himself to be the object of sexual harassment should deal with the
incident(s) as directly and firmly as possible by clearly communicating her/his
position to the offending employee, and her/his immediate supervisor. It is not
necessary for sexual harassment to be directed at the person making the report.
         (b)   Any employee may report conduct which is believed to be sexual
harassment, including the following:
            1.   Electronic/direct communication. If there is sexual harassing
behavior in the workplace, the harassed employee should directly and clearly
express her/his objection that the conduct is unwelcome and request that the
offending behavior stop. The initial message may be verbal. If subsequent
messages are needed, they should be put in writing in a note or a memo.
            2.   Contact with supervisory personnel. At the same time direct
communication is undertaken, or in the event the employee feels threatened or
intimidated by the situation, the problem must be promptly reported to the
immediate supervisor of the person making the report, a department head, a
director of human resources, an ethics officer, the city manager or
administrator, or the chief executive officer of the municipality. The employee
experiencing what he or she believes to be sexual harassment must not assume
that the employer is aware of the conduct. If there are no witnesses and the
victim fails to notify a supervisor or other responsible officer, the
municipality will not be presumed to have knowledge of the harassment.
         (c)   Resolution outside municipality. The purpose of this policy is
to establish prompt, thorough and effective procedures for responding to every
report and incident so that problems can be identified and remedied by the
municipality. However, all municipal employees have the right to contact the
Illinois Department of Human Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC) for information regarding filing a formal complaint with
those entities. An IDHR complaint must be filed within 300 days of the alleged
incident(s) unless it is a continuing offense. A complaint with the EEOC must
be filed within 300 days.
         (d)   Documentation of any incident may be submitted with any report
(what was said or done, the date, the time and the place), including, but not
limited to, written records such as letters, notes, memos and telephone
messages.
         (e)   All allegations, including anonymous reports, will be accepted
and investigated regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the
municipality. However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment
charges and the difficulties associated with their investigation and the
questions of credibility involved, the claimant’s willing cooperation is a
vital component of an effective inquiry and an appropriate outcome.
      (3)   (a)   No municipal official, municipal agency, municipal employee
or municipal agency or office shall take any retaliatory action against any
municipal employee due to a municipal employee’s:
            1.   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this
policy;
            2.   The provision of information related to or testimony before
any public body conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any
violation of this policy; or
            3.   Assistance or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this policy.
         (b)   For the purposes of this policy, retaliatory action means the
reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer, or
change in the terms or conditions of employment of any municipal employee that
is taken in retaliation for a municipal employee’s involvement in protected
activity pursuant to this policy.
         (c)   No individual making a report will be retaliated against even if
a report made in good faith is not substantiated. In addition, any witness will
be protected from retaliation.
         (d)   Similar to the prohibition against retaliation contained herein,
the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 15-10)
provides whistleblower protection from retaliatory action such as reprimand,
discharge, suspension, demotion, or denial of promotion or transfer that occurs
in retaliation for an employee who does any of the following:
            1.   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a
public body an activity, policy, or practice of any officer, member, State
agency, or other State employee that the State employee reasonably believes is
in violation of a law, rule, or regulation;
            2.   Provides information to or testifies before any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry into any violation of a law,
rule, or regulation by any officer, member, state agency or other state
employee; or
            3.   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act.
         (e)   Pursuant to the Whistleblower Act (ILCS Ch. 740, Act 174, § 15
(a)), an employer may not retaliate against an employee who discloses
information in a court, an administrative hearing, or before a legislative
commission or committee, or in any other proceeding, where the employee has
reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a violation of a
state or federal law, rule, or regulation. In addition, an employer may not
retaliate against an employee for disclosing information to a government or law
enforcement agency, where the employee has reasonable cause to believe that the
information discloses a violation of a state or federal law, rule, or
regulation. (ILCS Ch. 740, Act 174, § 15(b)).
         (f)   According to the Illinois Human Rights Act (ILCS Ch. 775, Act 5,
§ 6-101), it is a civil rights violation for a person, or for two or more
people to conspire, to retaliate against a person because he/she has opposed
that which he/she reasonably and in good faith believes to be sexual harassment
in employment, because he/she has made a charge, filed a complaint, testified,
assisted, or participated in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing under the
Illinois Human Rights Act.
         (g)   An employee who is suddenly transferred to a lower paying job or
passed over for a promotion after filing a complaint with IDHR or EEOC, may
file a retaliation charge - either due within 300 days of the alleged
retaliation.
      (4)   In addition to any and all other discipline that may be applicable
pursuant to municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee
handbooks and/or collective bargaining agreement, any person who violates this
policy or the Prohibition on Sexual Harassment contained in ILCS Ch. 5, Act
430, § 5-65, may be subject to a fine of up to $5,000 per offense, applicable
discipline or discharge by the municipality and any applicable fines and
penalties established pursuant to local ordinance, state law or federal law.
Each violation may constitute a separate offense. Any discipline imposed by the
municipality shall be separate and distinct from any penalty imposed by an
ethics commission and any fines or penalties imposed by a court of law or a
state or federal agency.
      (5)   (a)   A false report is a report of sexual harassment made by an
accuser using the sexual harassment report to accomplish some end other than
stopping sexual harassment or retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. A
false report is not a report made in good faith which cannot be proven. Given
the seriousness of the consequences for the accused, a false or frivolous
report is a severe offense that can itself result in disciplinary action. Any
person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation of any
provision of this policy shall be subject to discipline or discharge pursuant
to applicable municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee
handbooks and/or collective bargaining agreements.
         (b)   In addition, any person who intentionally makes a false report
alleging a violation of any provision of the State Officials and Employees
Ethics Act to an ethics commission, an inspector general, the State Police, a
State’s Attorney, the Attorney General, or any other law enforcement official
is guilty of a Class A misdemeanor. An ethics commission may levy an
administrative fine of up to $5,000 against any person who intentionally makes
a false, frivolous or bad faith allegation.
   (S)   Workplace harassment other than sexual harassment.
      (1)   The city operating philosophy is one of sustaining a work
environment where all individuals are treated fairly and with respect. Any form
of workplace harassment is unprofessional, and is prohibited. Individual
conduct that constitutes workplace harassment may be subject to discipline.
Workplace harassment does not refer to performance-based or other business-
related discussions. Harassment can be both physical and verbal conduct, and is
not necessarily sexual in nature.
      (2)   Workplace harassment that creates or is intended to create an
intimidating, hostile, or offensive working environment; unreasonably
interferes with work performance; or otherwise adversely affects’ an
individual’s employment opportunities is prohibited.
      (3)   Workplace harassment may include, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Conduct constituting criminal assault or battery.
         (b)   Unreasonable or repetitive physical contact.
         (c)   Staring, ogling, leering, whistling, stalking or related
behavior;
         (d)   Not relevant to work and unwelcomed statements, comments,
questions, jokes, humor, anecdotes, or innuendoes;
         (e)   Graphic comments about a person’s clothing or body;
         (f)   Obscene gestures;
         (g)   Harassing use of electronic mail or other forms of
communication.
         (h)   Repeated comments about ethnic backgrounds, race, religion,
physical characteristics and racial or ethnic stereotypes;
         (i)   Hostile or demeaning behavior in the workplace based on an
employee’s race, gender, sexual orientation, ethnic or cultural background, and
the like;
         (j)   Graphic or degrading comments about an employee’s appearance;
         (k)   Providing or withholding work assistance, cooperation or
information based on a fellow employee’s race, gender, ethnic or cultural
background;
      (4)   Each supervisor has a responsibility to maintain his or her
department free of harassment and intimidation. A supervisor who becomes aware
of harassment shall report the incident to their commissioner in charge and
Mayor and develop appropriate corrective action to ensure that such conduct is
immediately stopped.
      (5)   Employees are encouraged to report any workplace harassment and
should report such in writing to their supervisor, to the commissioner in
charge and to the Mayor describing the offensive conduct. Such written
complaint should not be provided to any one of the above if such person is the
person subject matter of the complaint. Complaints should be filed as soon as
possible since a delay in reporting may make it more difficult to investigate
the complaint. An employee will be able to have a representative present when
filing a complaint or at any discussion or investigation involving the
complaint.
      (6)   The supervisor, commissioner and mayor (excluding any of the
foregoing if subject matter of the complaint) will investigate the complaint in
a confidential manner to the extent reasonably practical and appropriate under
the circumstances. Upon completion of the investigation indicating workplace
harassment, a corrective action plan will be implemented with the knowledge of
the victim. Corrective action may include, without’ limitation, counseling,
reassignment or termination to ensure compliance with the policy.
      (7)   (a)   No municipal official, municipal agency, municipal employee
or municipal agency or office shall take any retaliatory action against any
municipal employee due to a municipal employee’s:
            1.   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this
policy;
            2.   The provision of information related to or testimony before
any public body conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any
violation of this policy; or
            3.   Assistance or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this policy.
         (b)   For the purposes of this policy, retaliatory action means the
reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer, or
change in the terms or conditions of employment of any municipal employee that
is taken in retaliation for a municipal employee’s involvement in protected
activity pursuant to this policy.
         (c)   No individual making a report will be retaliated against even if
a report made in good faith is not substantiated. In addition, any witness will
be protected from retaliation.
         (d)   Similar to the prohibition against retaliation contained herein,
the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act ( ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 15-10)
provides whistleblower protection from retaliatory action such as reprimand,
discharge, suspension, demotion, or denial of promotion or transfer that occurs
in retaliation for an employee who does any of the following:
            1.   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a
public body an activity, policy, or practice of any officer, member, state
agency, or other state employee that the state employee reasonably believes is
in violation of a law, rule, or regulation;
            2.   Provides information to or testifies before any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry into any violation of a law,
rule, or regulation by any officer, member, state agency or other state
employee; or
            3.   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act.
         (e)   Pursuant to the Whistleblower Act (ILCS Ch. 740, Act 174, § 15
(a)), an employer may not retaliate against an employee who discloses
information in a court, an administrative hearing, or before a legislative
commission or committee, or in any other proceeding, where the employee has
reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a violation of a
state or federal law, rule, or regulation. In addition, an employer may not
retaliate against an employee for disclosing information to a government or law
enforcement agency, where the employee has reasonable cause to believe that the
information discloses a violation of a state or federal law, rule, or
regulation. (ILCS Ch. 740, Act 174, § 15(b)).
         (f)   According to the Illinois Human Rights Act (ILCS Ch. 775, Act 5,
§ 6-101), it is a civil rights violation for a person, or for two or more
people to conspire, to retaliate against a person because he/she has opposed
that which he/she reasonably and in good faith believes to be sexual harassment
in employment, because he/she has made a charge, filed a complaint, testified,
assisted, or participated in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing under the
Illinois Human Rights Act.
         (g)   An employee who is suddenly transferred to a lower paying job or
passed over for a promotion after filing a complaint with IDHR or EEOC, may
file a retaliation charge - either due within 300 days of the alleged
retaliation.
      (8)   A false report is not a report made in good faith which cannot be
proven. Given the seriousness of the consequences for the accused, a false or
frivolous report is a severe offense that can itself result in disciplinary
action. Any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation
of any provision of this policy shall be subject to discipline or discharge
pursuant to applicable municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures,
employee handbooks and/or collective bargaining agreements.
      (9)   An employee is protected by the Illinois Human Rights Act and all
municipal employees have the right to contact the Illinois Department of. Human
Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) for
information regarding filing a formal complaint or otherwise seeking assistance
with those entities. An IDHR complaint must be filed within 180 days of the
alleged incident(s) unless it is a continuing offense. A complaint with the
EEOC must be filed within 300 days.
(Ord. 1451, passed 9-7-11; Am. Ord. 1646, passed 11-15-17; Am. Ord. 1652,
passed 1-17-18; Am. Ord. 1664, passed 3-7-18; Am. Ord. 1690, passed 11-7-18)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.28 DISCIPLINE POLICY.
   (A)   Application of discipline policy. The following discipline policy
shall not apply employees subject to a collective bargaining agreement when the
collective bargaining agreement contains provisions contrary to this discipline
policy. Employees not subject to a collective bargaining agreement are
employees-at-will and can be discharged at any time at the sole discretion of
the city. Notwithstanding any employment-at-will, the city adopts the following
discipline policy as general guide for employees.
   (B)   Discipline philosophy. As a general rule, disciplinary measures shall
be administered in an objective and constructive manner intended to motivate
the employee toward proper conduct in the future.
   (C)   Classes of discipline. There are four basic classifications of
disciplinary actions:
      (1)   Oral reprimand. Employee is counseled by the supervisor following a
minor offense in an effort to eliminate possible misunderstandings and to
explain what constitutes proper conduct.
      (2)   Written reprimand. Employee receives written notice of discipline
following intentional or repeated minor offenses. The purpose of a written
reprimand is to make certain that the employee is fully aware of the misconduct
he or she has committed and what is expected, thereby enabling the employee to
avoid a recurrence of the incident.
      (3)   Suspension. Employee receives disciplinary time off without pay
following serious misconduct or further repeated minor offenses. A suspension
should be considered as a final written warning that further misconduct will
most likely result in discharge.
      (4)   Discharge. Employee is discharged as the result of a serious
offense or the final step in the accumulation of minor offenses of the same
nature.
   (D)   Supervisor discipline. A supervisor is responsible for the discipline
of employees. A disciplinary conference should take place at a private location
and at the request of the employee and the employee may be accompanied by a
union representative or other person of their choice. The supervisor shall
assure that the disciplinary conference is conducted in a professional and non-
confrontational manner and shall terminate the conference to a later date or
provide a written statement in the event that the disciplinary conference
becomes confrontational. The supervisor shall place in an employee’s personnel
file as maintained by the City Clerk a record of all discipline except as to an
oral reprimand. An employee shall have rights as to their personnel file as are
granted under the Personnel Record Review Act.
   (E)   Oral and written reprimands and suspensions. Any supervisor may
reprimand any employee under his or her supervision for minor infractions of
conduct that do not comply with the above required conduct of employees. Unless
employee misconduct is very minor or occasional, such reprimand shall be in
writing, and a copy of the reprimand shall be in the employee’s personnel file
as maintained by the City Clerk.
   (F)   Serious violations. The following are examples of violations of
employee conduct which may result in suspension or termination. The following
list is for illustration purposes and not conclusive of conduct that may result
in suspension or termination:
      (1)   Insubordination or failure to follow reasonable and proper
directions.
      (2)   Failure to perform assigned work in a competent and efficient
manner.
      (3)   Wasteful of material, property, or working time.
      (4)   Repeated or excessive discourteous behavior towards a supervisor or
member of public.
      (5)   Workplace harassment or instigating disruptive behavior.
      (6)   Misuse of sick leave and/or other benefits.
      (7)   Habitual or excessive tardiness and/or absenteeism.
      (8)   Physical or mental unfitness for the performance of duties.
      (9)   Excessive conduct of personal business during working hours.
      (10)   Possession or use of intoxicating liquors or drugs during work
time.
      (11)   Attendance at work while under the influence of liquor or drugs.
      (12)   Conviction of a felony or loss of required driving privileges.
      (13)   Repeated convictions of misdemeanors and/or traffic charges.
      (14)   Failure to properly report accidents, injuries or workplace abuse.
      (15)   False or recklessly inaccurate records, reports, or statements to
supervisors or officials.
      (16)   Release of confidential information.
      (17)   Improper use, reckless use, unauthorized personal use or theft of
city equipment.
      (18)   Engaging in outside business activities on city time.
      (19)   Improper political activity.
      (20)   Requesting or accepting bribes, gifts or favors in the course of
or connected with it.
      (21)   Engaging in outside employment which conflicts with City
employment.
   (G)   Suspensions. Any supervisor may suspend an employee without pay for
not to exceed three days for any serious violation of employee conduct or for
repeated violations of minor violations. No suspension shall be instituted
without a written statement to the employee stating the reasons for the
suspension with sufficient detail for the employee to understand the specific
conduct for which the employee is being suspended. An employee shall not be
suspended for more than three days without an opportunity for a hearing. An
employee with a suspension not to exceed three days may within 14 days of
receipt of a written notice of suspension appeal the suspension, but the appeal
shall not delay the start of the period of suspension. If it is decided that
the suspension was unjustified, the employee shall be paid their usual rate of
pay (not including any usual and customary overtime pay).
      (1)   The hearing adjudicator for a suspension hearing shall be held be
the Commissioner of his or her department unless the Commissioner requests that
the hearing adjudicator be the City Council. An employee may request that the
City Council be the bearing adjudicator upon significant allegations that the
Commissioner has a conflict of interest preventing a fair hearing. Suspension
hearings shall initially be set within three days of the notice of suspension.
The hearing may be continued to a later date but if the city is the party
requesting additional time for a hearing the employee shall be allowed to
returned to work or directed not to return to work but paid their usual rate of
pay (not including any usual and customary overtime pay). The hearing
adjudicator may allow (discovery witnesses and the like).
      (2)   The term of a suspension shall not be for more than 30 days except
in the case of an indefinite suspension pending action of an employee in which
circumstance the hearing adjudicator may be extended the period of a suspension
to a stated time not to exceed 90 days. Any suspension shall be considered a
final notice that a further violation will likely result in termination.
   (H)   Terminations. Any supervisor may seek termination of an employee for
any serious violation of employee conduct or for repeated violations of minor
violations acts. No termination shall be instituted without a written statement
to the employee stating the reasons for requesting termination with sufficient
detail for the employee to understand the specific conduct for which the
employee may be terminated. Unless an employee resigns or waives a termination
hearing, a termination hearing shall be conducted by a hearing adjudicator. The
hearing adjudicator and procedures shall be the same as for a suspension
hearing. Termination hearings shall initially be set within seven days of the
notice of termination. The hearing may be continued to a later date but if the
city is the party requesting additional time for a hearing the employee shall
be returned to work or directed not to return to work but paid their usual rate
of pay (not including any usual and customary overtime pay). A terminated
employee may not be rehired without the approval of the City Council. Unless
otherwise identified in a termination agreement or unless an employee elects to
pay for continued insurance, all insurance paid by the city will terminate the
date the employee is discharged.
(Ord. 1451, passed 9-7-11)
§ 35.29 CLOTHING ALLOWANCES.
   (A)   On May 1, each full-time and certain permanent part-time employees of
the city except those covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the
city shall be credited with a clothing allowance. This allowance is used for
the purchase of apparel, which is used in the performance of the employee’s
duties. Allowances for each department are as follows:
      (1)   Office personnel (full-time): $400 per employee;
      (2)   WWTF, Water & Street Superintendent: $450 per employee; and
      (3)   Police Chief, Captain and Lieutenants: $600 per employee.
   (B)   None of the sums paid to or on behalf of an employee pursuant to this
provision shall be included in the employee’s base salary. The clothing
allowance for new hires shall be pro-rated as follows: For each month hired
prior to May 1, the employee will be allowed 8-1/2% of the scheduled clothing
allowance. For example, an employee hired on August 15 would receive nine
months (August to April, inclusive) times 8.5% times the allotted allowance, or
76.5% of the annual clothing allowance.
(Ord. 1254, passed 7-19-06; Am. Ord. 1358, passed 12-3-08; Am. Ord. 1410,
passed 6-2-10; Am. Ord. 1451, passed 9-7-11; Am. Ord. 1456, passed 10-19-11;
Am. Ord. 1465, passed 1-18-12)
FULL TIME CITY OFFICES STAFF
§ 35.44 ILLINOIS MUNICIPAL LEAGUE CERTIFICATION PROGRAM.
   City Clerk and City Treasurer - $500 additional salary each certificate
level, and pay for courses for maintaining certification, and $1,000 for
recertification.
(Ord. 1358, passed 12-3-08; Am. Ord. 1410, passed 6-2-10; Am. Ord. 1456, passed
10-19-11; Am. Ord. 1465, passed 1-18-12)
§ 35.45 SALARIES.
   (A)   The City Clerk may also be appointed as an Assistant City Treasurer
and the City Treasurer may also be appointed as an Assistant City Clerk at the
discretion of the City Council. They will receive no additional compensation
for such appointments.
   (B)   Longevity.  Executive and Administrative employees shall be granted a
longevity increase of $200 per year of service added to their base pay, after
any percent increase. The increase shall be paid only after the employee has
completed at least five years of service (or will complete at least five years
of service within 90 days of the beginning of the fiscal year). The amount due
each employee shall be calculated based upon the above at the beginning of the
fiscal year.
   (C)   Education.
      (1)   Executive and administrative employees who acquire or hold a
bachelor’s degree in a related field pertaining to their job and who have two
years of on-the-job experience shall be paid an additional $800 per year added
to their base salary.
      (2)   Executive and administrative employees who acquire or hold an
associate’s degree in a related field pertaining to their job and who have four
years of on-the-job experience shall be paid an additional $400 per year added
to their base salary.
(Ord. 1410, passed 6-2-10; Am. Ord. 1456, passed 10-19-11; Am. Ord. 1465,
passed 1-18-12)
§ 35.46 COMPENSATION FOR MEETINGS.
   The City Clerk and City Treasurer shall be paid an additional $30 per
meeting for City Council meetings or any other meetings outside of normal
business hours where their presence is required by the Council.
(Ord. 1254, passed 7-19-06; Am. Ord. 1358, passed 12-3-08; Am. Ord. 1410,
passed 6-2-10; Am. Ord. 1456, passed 10-19-11; Am. Ord. 1465, passed 1-18-12)
§ 35.47 OVERTIME.
   The City Clerk and City Treasurer are salaried officers of the municipality
who perform executive and administrative duties and responsibilities. They are
non-covered and/or exempt employees under the provisions of the Fair Labor
Standards Act and will not receive overtime compensation.
(Ord. 1254, passed 7-19-06; Am. Ord. 1358, passed 12-3-08; Am. Ord. 1410,
passed 6-2-10; Am. Ord. 1456, passed 10-19-11; Am. Ord. 1465, passed 1-18-12)
§ 35.48 WORK HOURS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Clerk, in consideration of the salary as set forth from
time to time by City Council, will be allowed every other, or non-consecutive,
Friday off.
      (2)   The City Clerk may utilize any other day during the week as the
“Friday” off, provided that prior approval is obtained from the Accounts and
Finance Commissioner and that proper employee coverage is provided in the city
offices.
   (B)   The City Treasurer, in consideration of the salary as set forth from
time to time by City Council, will be allowed every other, or non-consecutive,
Monday off. The City Treasurer may utilize any other day during the week as the
“Monday” off, provided that prior approval is obtained from the Accounts and
Finance Commissioner and that proper employee coverage is provided in the city
offices.
   (C)   The City Council reserves the right to terminate or eliminate this §
35.48 at its discretion.
(Ord. 1254, passed 7-19-06; Am. Ord. 1358, passed 12-3-08; Am. Ord. 1410,
passed 6-2-10; Am. Ord. 1456, passed 10-19-11; Am. Ord. 1465, passed 1-18-12)
§ 35.49 PART TIME HELP.
   (A)   From time to time, the Water Department may require additional help
for such tasks as office clerical help and other duties. These part time people
are not entitled to any city benefits such as health insurance, vacations and
the like. The hourly wages of these part time employees will range between $8
and $10.50 per hour, with the actual rate and hours to be determined by the
Commissioner of Public Property.
   (B)   The part time help described herein does not include part time summer
help nor is it considered a permanent part time position.
(Ord. 1456, passed 10-19-11; Am. Ord. 1465, passed 1-18-12)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 35.55 OVERTIME.
   (A)   The Police Chief and Captain perform executive and administrative
responsibilities and are exempt or non-covered employees under the Fair Labor
Standards Act, and will not receive overtime compensation.
   (B)   Part-time officers are hourly employees and will be paid one and one-
half times their hourly rate for all hours worked over 40 in a work week,
defined as Saturday through the following Friday.
(Ord. 1254, passed 7-19-06; Am. Ord. 1358, passed 12-3-08; Am. Ord. 1410,
passed 6-2-10; Am. Ord. 1456, passed 10-19-11; Am. Ord. 1465, passed 1-18-12)
§ 35.56 SCHOOLS.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to encourage its police officers to seek
training in skills that will improve their performance and knowledge as police
officers. However, the city will allow no more than six weeks per fiscal year
of specialized schools for the Police Chief and Captain.
   (B)   Education.  
      (1)   Executive and administrative employees who acquire or hold a
bachelor’s degree in a related field pertaining to their job and who have two
years of on-the-job experience shall be paid an additional $800 per year added
to their base salary.
      (2)   Executive and administrative employees who acquire or hold an
associate’s degree in a related field pertaining to their job and who have four
years of on-the-job experience shall be paid an additional $400 per year added
to their base salary.
   (C)   Longevity. Executive and administrative employees shall be granted a
longevity increase of $200 per year of service added to their base pay, after
any percent increase. the increase shall be paid only after the employee has
completed at least five years of service (or will complete at least five years
of service within 90 days of the beginning of the fiscal year). The amount due
each employee shall be calculated based upon the above at the beginning of the
fiscal year.
(Ord. 1254, passed 7-19-06; Am. Ord. 1358, passed 12-3-08; Am. Ord. 1410,
passed 6-2-10; Am. Ord. 1456, passed 10-19-11; Am. Ord. 1465, passed 1-18-12)
§ 35.57 OTHER OFFICERS.
   All other officers of the Police Department are covered under a separate
bargaining agreement and are subject to the terms and conditions of that
agreement.
(Ord. 1254, passed 7-19-06)
STREET AND WATER DEPARTMENT EMPLOYEES
§ 35.65 OVERTIME.
   (A)   All employees of the Street and Water Department will be paid at one
and one-half their hourly rate of pay for all hours worked in excess of 40
hours in a workweek. It shall be the responsibility of the department
supervisor to fairly and uniformly as possible distribute any required
overtime. There shall be no compensatory time off.
   (B)   Hours worked do not include any vacation, sick days, personal days or
any other days that an employee is off for any reason, other than city-observed
holidays as described in §
35.20, bereavement days or jury duty.
   (C)   The Superintendent of the Street and Water Department forms executive
and administrative responsibilities and is an exempt or non-covered employee
under the Fair Labor Standards Act.
(Ord. 1254, passed 7-19-06; Am. Ord. 1358, passed 12-3-08; Am. Ord. 1410,
passed 6-2-10; Am. Ord. 1456, passed 10-19-11; Am. Ord. 1465, passed 1-18-12)
§ 35.66 CALLOUT AND PAGER DUTY.
   (A)   In order to respond to various problems that may arise outside of
working hours, employees will be required from time to time to carry a pager
and be on pager duty. When necessary, all employees of the Street and Water
Department will be required to assist with events such as snow plowing, water
leaks and other such matters both during and outside of normal working hours.
All employees will be required to be on pager duty when assigned by the
department superintendent. The primary responsibility of pager duty will be the
superintendent of the Street and Water Department who will prepare and post the
pager duty callout list. In the event of the superintendent's absence, the
pager may be assigned to an employee of the department by the superintendent to
prepare and post the pager duty and callout list. An employee who has
scheduled/used one or more vacation days in a week may choose not to be placed
on pager duty for that week. An employee who chooses not to be on pager duty
may still be called to work in case of an extreme emergency.
   (B)   Employees not responding to callout in case of emergency or refusal to
be on pager duty will be subject to disciplinary action, including suspension
or termination.
   (C)   Any employee on pager duty will be notified of water leaks, sewer
problems, etc. and will be responsible to notify the appropriate personnel in
the Street and Water Departments to attempt to correct the problem or problems.
   (D)   Any employee assigned pager duty may trade with another employee as
long as the department superintendent may and the dispatcher is notified of the
change. It will be the responsibility of the department superintendent to
notify the payroll department including the date or dates of any employee
assigned pager duty.
   (E)   In consideration of being on pager duty, each employee will receive
$10 for each day or part of a day he or she is on pager duty, regardless of
whether he or she is paged or not.
   (F)   Any employee called to work outside of his or her regularly scheduled
work shift shall be credited with a minimum of two hours worked.
(Ord. 1254, passed 7-19-06)
§ 35.67 EXPERIENCE INCREMENTS (STEPS).
   Experience increments are not guaranteed due only to year's experience/
service. This incremental increase will be based on the employee's ability to
perform the various tasks that are assigned to him or her. Other factors that
will be taken into account will also include the following:
   (A)   Absenteeism;
   (B)   Tardiness;
   (C)   Safety;
   (D)   Treatment of city vehicles and machinery;
   (E)   Ability to work with fellow employees; and
   (F)   Treatment of the public.
(Ord. 1254, passed 7-19-06)
§ 35.68 PRIOR EXPERIENCE AND OTHER CREDITS FOR EXPERIENCE INCREMENTS.
   (A)   Street and Water Department employees may be credited with six-month's
experience for each year of full-time experience with another Street or Water
Department up to a maximum of five-years experience credit. Previous experience
must be compatible with the job that employee is hired for. These credited
years of service are for the purposes of determining wages only.
   (B)   Credit may also be given for experience in the construction trades.
This type of credit will be subject to the commissioner's discretion.
   (C)   One year of credit will be given to an employee if he or she has
obtained a CDL prior to his or her employment by the city, has a safe driving
record, and has not failed a drug or alcohol test in the past.
(Ord. 1254, passed 7-19-06)
§ 35.69 MECHANIC TOOL ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   The employee designated as the City Mechanic will be allowed up to
$500 per fiscal year to purchase tools used in the performance of his or her
duties. The mechanic is to turn into the City Treasurer and or Assistant City
Clerk the paid receipts for any items to be charged against the tool allowance.
The mechanic will then be reimbursed, with the regular accounts payable, from
the city for the amount up to the $500 per year maximum.
   (B)   Any balance left in the mechanic's tool allowance at the end of the
fiscal year will not be credited to the following fiscal year. Any balance
remaining in the mechanic's tool allowance upon termination will remain with
the city and will NOT be paid to the employee.
(Ord. 1254, passed 7-19-06)
§ 35.70 LUNCH BREAKS.
   (A)   Each department employee shall be entitled to and required to take a
30-minute lunch break, at approximately four hours into each employee's regular
shift. The lunch break may not be taken at the end of the shift.
   (B)   Special exceptions to this policy may be made for unusual hours,
callout and snow removal. The special exceptions will be at the discretion of
the department head and with the approval of the commissioner of the respective
department.
(Ord. 1254, passed 7-19-06)
§ 35.71 PART TIME HELP.
   (A)   From time to time, the Water Department may require additional help
for such tasks as office clerical help and other duties. These part-time people
are not entitled to any city benefits such as health insurance, vacations, etc.
The hourly wages of these part-time employees will range between $8 and $10.50
per hour, with the actual rate and hours to be determined by the Commissioner
of Public Property.
   (B)   The part-time help described herein does not include part-time summer
help nor is it considered a permanent part-time position.
(Ord. 1254, passed 7-19-06; Am. Ord. 1358, passed 12-3-08; Am. Ord. 1410,
passed 6-2-10)
§ 35.72 OTHER DEPARTMENTS.
   Some employees may be assigned to assist temporarily in the Wastewater
Treatment Department Sewer System with such tasks as sewer cleaning,
maintenance, and repairs. These tasks are considered part of their normal
duties and are without additional compensation.
(Ord. 1254, passed 7-19-06)
§ 35.73 METER READERS.
   (A)   The water meter readers are part-time employees and as such are not
entitled to any benefits such as vacation, sick days, IMRF or any other
benefits afforded to full-time or permanent part-time city employees.
   (B)   The hourly wage rate of the water meter reader will range depending on
experience between $10 and $12 per hour with the actual rate set by the
Commissioner of Public Property.
(Ord. 1254, passed 7-19-06; Am. Ord. 1358, passed 12-3-08; Am. Ord. 1410,
passed 6-2-10; Am. Ord. 1456, passed 10-19-11; Am. Ord. 1465, passed 1-18-12)
§ 35.74 SCHOOLS.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to encourage its superintendents to seek
training in skills that will improve their performance and knowledge. However,
the city will allow no more than 6 weeks per fiscal year of specialized
schools.
   (B)   Education.
      (1)   Executive and administrative employees who acquire or hold a
bachelor’s degree in a related field pertaining to their job and who have two
years of on-the-job experience shall be paid an additional $800 per year added
to their base salary.
      (2)   Executive and administrative employees who acquire or hold an
associate’s degree in a related field pertaining to their job and who have four
years of on-the-job experience shall be paid an additional $400 per year added
to their base salary.
   (C)   Longevity. Executive and administrative employees shall be granted a
longevity increase of $200 per year of service added to their base pay, after
any percent increase. The increase shall be paid only after the employee has
completed at least five years of service (or will complete at least five years
of service within 90 days of the beginning of the fiscal year). The amount due
each employee shall be calculated based upon the above at the beginning of the
fiscal year.
(Ord. 1358, passed 12-3-08; Am. Ord. 1410, passed 6-2-10; Am. Ord. 1456, passed
10-19-11; Am. Ord. 1465, passed 1-18-12)
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT EMPLOYEES
§ 35.80 COMPENSATION FOR OPERATOR IN CHARGE OF PLANT MAINTENANCE.
   The designated operator or operators in charge of plant maintenance shall be
paid an additional $0.15 per hour.
(Ord. 1254, passed 7-19-06)
§ 35.81 OVERTIME.
   (A)   All employees of the Wastewater Plant Department will be paid at one
and one-half their hourly rate of pay for all hours worked in excess of 40
hours in a workweek.
   (B)   Hours worked do not include any vacation days, sick days, personal
days or any other days that an employee is off for any reason, other than city-
observed holidays as described in §
35.20, jury duty and bereavement days.
   (C)   The Superintendent of the Wastewater Department forms executive and
administrative responsibilities and is an exempt or non-covered employee under
the Fair Labor Standards Act.
(Ord. 1254, passed 7-19-06; Am. Ord. 1358, passed 12-3-08; Am. Ord. 1456,
passed 10-19-11; Am. Ord. 1465, passed 1-18-12)
§ 35.82 CALLOUT AND PAGER DUTY.
   (A)   In order to respond to various problems that may arise outside of
working hours, employees will be required to carry a pager and be on pager duty
when assigned by the superintendent. The primary responsibility of pager duty
will be the superintendent of the Wastewater Department. In the event of the
superintendents absence, the superintendent may assign the pager to an employee
of the department.
   (B)   Any employee on pager duty will be notified of a particular problem
and will be responsible to notify the appropriate personnel in the department
to attempt to correct the problem or problems. Any employee assigned pager duty
may trade with another employee as long as the department superintendent may
and the dispatcher is notified of the change. Employees not responding to
callout or refusal to be on pager duty will be subject to disciplinary action,
including suspension or termination. In consideration of being on pager duty,
each employee will receive $10 for each day or part of a day he or she is on
pager duty, regardless of whether he or she is paged or not. Any employee
called to work outside of his or her regularly scheduled work shift shall be
credited with a minimum of two hours worked.
   (C)   An employee who has scheduled/used one or more vacation days in a week
may choose not to be placed on pager duty for that week. An employee who
chooses not to be on pager duty may still be called to work in case of an
extreme emergency.
   (D)   Employees not responding to callout in case of emergency or refusal to
be on pager duty will be subject to disciplinary action, including suspension
or termination.
(Ord. 1254, passed 7-19-06)
§ 35.83 SCHOOLS.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to encourage its superintendents to seek
training in skills that will improve their performance and knowledge. However,
the city will allow no more than six weeks per fiscal year of specialized
schools.
   (B)   Education.
      (1)   Executive and administrative employees who acquire or hold a
bachelor’s degree in a related field pertaining to their job and who have two
years of on-the-job experience shall be paid an additional $800 per year added
to their base salary.
      (2)   Executive and administrative employees who acquire or hold an
associate’s degree in a related field pertaining to their job and who have four
years of on-the-job experience shall be paid an additional $400 per year added
to their base salary.
   (C)   Longevity. Executive and administrative employees shall be granted a
longevity increase of $200 per year of service added to their base pay, after
any percent increase. The increase shall be paid only after the employee has
completed at least five years of service (or will complete at least five years
of service within 90 days of the beginning of the fiscal year). The amount due
each employee shall be calculated based upon the above at the beginning of the
fiscal year.
(Ord. 1358, passed 12-3-08; Am. Ord. 1410, passed 6-2-10; Am. Ord. 1456, passed
10-19-11; Am. Ord. 1465, passed 1-18-12)
CHAPTER 36: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Municipal and fiscal year
   
36.02   Disposition of fines and other monies received
   
36.03   Expense for professional services, publication regarding public
hearings
Contracts For Public Works
   
36.10   Letting contracts
   
36.11   Written estimate required
   
36.12   City Engineer to prepare and/or review plans and specifications
   
36.13   Advertisement for bids
   
36.14   Proposals for improvement; bond
   
36.15   Opening and reading of bids
   
36.16   Contract to be drawn upon awarding work; bond
   
36.17   Extra work by contractor; payment
   
36.18   Payment from assessments
   
36.19   Right to suspend work and annul contract
   
36.20   Acceptance of work; payment
   
36.21   Responsible bidder defined
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01 MUNICIPAL AND FISCAL YEAR.
   The municipal year and fiscal year of the city shall commence on May 1 of
each year and end on April 30 of the following year.
('72 Code, § 3.18)
§ 36.02 DISPOSITION OF FINES AND OTHER MONIES RECEIVED.
   Fines paid to any court for violation of any ordinance of the city shall be
paid over to the City Treasurer upon receipt. Money received by the Police
Department for parking meter violations shall be paid over to the Treasurer
daily.
('72 Code, § 1.07)
§ 36.03 EXPENSE FOR PROFESSIONAL SERVICES, PUBLICATION REGARDING PUBLIC
HEARINGS.
   Whenever any person requests of the city some action which requires that the
city incur expense for professional services, whether engineering, legal,
surveying or other, or for the publication of any notice, that person shall
bear the cost of said expense. At the time the request is made, the person
making the request shall place on deposit with the City Clerk the sum of $300.
Thereafter, the city may draw against that deposit to pay for such services or
publication expenses as the city may incur. The city may require additional
deposits as it shall, from time to time, deem necessary to cover the expense of
the requested action. If, at any time, there remain no further funds on
deposit, then the city shall take no further action upon the request. No
request shall be acted upon until the costs of the action have been reimbursed
in full to the city. Any funds remaining after the request has been acted on
shall be returned to the citizen making the deposit.
(Ord. 1208, passed 7-6-05)
CONTRACTS FOR PUBLIC WORKS
§ 36.10 LETTING CONTRACTS.
   All contracts for the making of any public improvement, to be paid for in
whole or in part by special assessment, and any work or public improvement,
when the expense thereof shall exceed $1500, shall be let to the lowest
responsible bidder in the manner hereinafter prescribed, such contract to be
approved by the Mayor. But any such contract may be entered into by the proper
officer without advertising for bids, and without such approval, by a vote of
two-thirds of the City Council.
('72 Code, § 3.20(a))
§ 36.11 WRITTEN ESTIMATE REQUIRED.
   Before the letting of any contract by the City Council for any public
improvement, the City Engineer shall be required to furnish in writing an
estimate of the probable cost of such improvement.
('72 Code, § 3.20(b))
§ 36.12 CITY ENGINEER TO PREPARE AND/OR REVIEW PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   Whenever any public improvement which is required to be let to the lowest
responsible bidder shall be ordered by the City Council, it shall be the duty
of the City Engineer to prepare and/or review a plan or profile of the proposed
improvement and specifications for the construction of the same. After the City
Engineer finishes his or her preparation and/or review, the said plans and
specifications shall be submitted to the Council for approval. Once the plans
and specifications have been approved by the Council, they shall be kept on
file in the office of the City Clerk, and shall be open to the inspection of
the city officers and other persons interested therein.
('72 Code, § 3.20(c)) (Ord. 1246, passed 5-3-06)
§ 36.13 ADVERTISEMENT FOR BIDS.
   It shall thereupon be the duty of the City Clerk to advertise in the
official newspaper of the city for bids to furnish materials and do said work
according to the plans and specifications aforesaid. Such advertisement shall
be published at least twice within ten days in a newspaper circulated in the
city, before the day fixed for the opening of bids, and shall state the nature
and extent of the improvements ordered, the place where the plans and
specifications may be seen, and the time and place when and where the bids will
be opened. The right to reject any and all bids shall be reserved in such
advertisement.
('72 Code, § 3.20(d))
§ 36.14 PROPOSALS FOR IMPROVEMENT; BOND.
      All proposals for any such improvement shall be signed by the person
bidding and shall be delivered to the City Clerk enclosed in a sealed envelope
upon the outside of which shall be stated the nature of the enclosure. Each bid
shall be accompanied by a bond or certified check in such amount as may be
named in such advertisement, and in case of bond with sureties to be approved
by the City Council, conditioned that, in case that the contract be awarded to
such bidder, he will enter into contract and bond, as required, to perform such
work according to such specifications and plans.
('72 Code, § 3.20(e))
§ 36.15 OPENING AND READING OF BIDS.
   All proposals or bids shall be opened and read by the City Clerk at the next
meeting of the City Council after the time mentioned in such advertisement, in
the presence of such bidders and other persons as may attend, and the Council
shall thereupon reject all bids or let the contract for such work or
improvement to the lowest responsible bidder.
('72 Code, § 3.20(f))
§ 36.16 CONTRACT TO BE DRAWN UPON AWARDING WORK; BOND.
   Upon the letting or awarding of such work or improvement, the City Attorney
shall draw a contract between the city and the person to whom the same has been
awarded, which contract shall be properly executed in duplicate before such
person shall be entitled to proceed with such work, and such contract shall be
accompanied by a bond in the penal sum of twice the amount of such bid, with
good and sufficient sureties to be approved by the City Council, conditioned
for the faithful performance of such work according to the terms of such
contract, any applicable provisions of this code and any other ordinances of
the city.
('72 Code, § 3.20(g))
§ 36.17 EXTRA WORK BY CONTRACTOR; PAYMENT.
   No contractor shall be entitled to payment for any extra work done by him
unless such extra work shall have been specially ordered by the City Council.
('72 Code, § 3.20(h))
§ 36.18 PAYMENT FROM ASSESSMENTS.
   All persons taking any contracts with the city and who agree to be paid from
special assessments shall have no claim or lien upon the city in any event,
except from the collections of the special assessments made for the work
contracted for.
('72 Code, § 3.20(i))
§ 36.19 RIGHT TO SUSPEND WORK AND ANNUL CONTRACT.
   In all contracts for the performance of any work or improvement, the city
shall reserve the right to suspend the work and annul the contract for a
failure on the part of the contractor to execute the same according to the
terms thereof, and such action shall not affect the right of the city to bring
an action on such contractor's bond for nonperformance of his contract.
('72 Code, § 3.20(j))
§ 36.20 ACCEPTANCE OF WORK; PAYMENT.
   Upon the completion of any such work or improvement, the City Engineer shall
make a report in writing whether or not the same has been done according to the
terms of the contract, and upon acceptance and approval of such report by the
City Council, a warrant shall be drawn upon the City Treasurer for the amount
due such contractor. During the progress of any such work the Council may
require of the Engineer to make a report of the amount of work that has been
completed and whether the same has been done according to the contract, and
upon the acceptance and approval of such report by the Council it may order
such contractor to be paid not to exceed 85% of the proportionate share of the
contract price due for such work so completed, provided that at least 15% of
the contract price shall always be reserved for payment upon the final
acceptance of the work by the Council.
('72 Code, § 3.20(k))
§ 36.21 RESPONSIBLE BIDDER DEFINED.
   (A)   The term RESPONSIBLE BIDDER for construction means a bidder and all
bidder’s sub-contractors who meets all of the following applicable criteria,
and submits evidence of such compliance:
      (1)   All applicable laws pre-requisite to doing business in Illinois;
      (2)   Evidence of compliance with:
         (a)   Federal employer tax identification number or social security
number (for individuals);
         (b)   Provision of Section 2000(e) of Chapter 21, Title 42 of the
United States Code and Federal Executive Order No. 11246 as amended by
Executive Order No. 11375 (known as the Equal Opportunity Employer provisions).
      (3)   Certificates of insurance indicating the following coverages;
general liability, worker's compensation, completed operations, automobile,
hazardous occupation, product liability, and professional liability.
      (4)   Compliance with all provisions of the Illinois Prevailing Wage Act,
including wages, medical and hospitalization insurance and retirement for those
trades as covered in the Act.
      (5)   Participation in active apprenticeship and training programs
approved and registered with the United States Department of Labor’s Bureau of
Apprenticeship and Training for each trades of work contemplated under the
awarded contract.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall be construed to affect any suit or proceeding now
pending in any court or any rights accrued or liability incurred or cause or
causes of action accrued or existing under any prior resolution or ordinance.
Nor shall any right or remedy of any character be lost, impaired, or affected
by this section.
(Ord. 922, passed 12-17-97; Am. Ord. 1406, passed 4-21-10)
CHAPTER 37: TAXATION
Section
Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax
   
37.01   Imposition of tax
   
37.02   Report required
   
37.03   Payment to state
   
37.04   Clerk to transmit copy of provisions to State Department of Revenue
Municipal Service Occupation Tax
   
37.15   Imposition of tax
   
37.16   Report required
   
37.17   Payment to state
   
37.18   Clerk to transmit copy of provisions to State Department of Revenue
Fire Insurance Companies Tax
   
37.25   Compliance with provisions required
   
37.26   Fee for maintenance, use and benefits of Fire Department
   
37.27   Reports required
   
37.28   Recovery; effect on policies
Municipal Automobile Renting Occupation Tax
   
37.40   Imposition of tax
   
37.41   Report required
   
37.42   Payment to state
Municipal Automobile Renting Use Tax
   
37.55   Imposition of tax
   
37.56   Collection of tax
   
37.57   Payment to state
Hotel and Lodging Tax
   
37.60   Definitions
   
37.61   Tax imposed
   
37.62   Record keeping
   
37.63   City tax returns
   
37.64   Failure to pay; enforcement
   
37.65   Payment to the city
   
37.66   Certificate of registration required
   
37.67   Violation; penalty
   
37.68   Use restrictions
Municipal Utility Tax
   
37.70   Imposition of tax
   
37.71   Utilities defined
   
37.72   Returns
   
37.73   Exemptions
Motor Vehicle License
   
37.85   City's right to license motor vehicles
Local Tax Rights and Responsibilities
   
37.100   Title and provisions
   
37.101   Definitions
   
37.102   Notices
   
37.103   Payment
   
37.104   Certain credits and refunds
   
37.105   Audit procedure
   
37.106   Appeal
   
37.107   Hearing
   
37.108   Interest and penalties; abatement
   
37.109   Installment contracts
   
37.110   Statute of limitations
   
37.111   Voluntary disclosure
   
37.112   Publication of tax ordinances
   
37.113   Internal review procedure
   
37.114   Application
Municipal Cannabis Retailers’ Occupation Tax
   37.130   Adoption of tax
MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX
§ 37.01 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling
tangible personal property at retail in this city at the rate of 1% of the
gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such business while this
section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of Section 8 of the
Illinois Municipal Code.
('72 Code, § 34.01(a))
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning Home Rule Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax Act,
see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-1
   For definitions of terms used in this subchapter, see ILCS Ch. 35, Act 120,
§ 1
§ 37.02 REPORT REQUIRED.
   Every such person engaged in such business in the city shall file on or
before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the State Department
of Revenue required by Section Three of “An Act in Relation to a Tax upon
Persons Engaged in the Business of Selling Tangible Personal Property to
Purchasers for Use or Consumption” approved June 28, 1933, as amended, being
ILCS Ch. 35, Act 120, § 3.
('72 Code, § 34.01(b))
§ 37.03 PAYMENT TO STATE.
   At the time such report is filed there shall be paid to the State Department
of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the receipts from
sales of tangible personal property during the preceding month.
('72 Code, § 34.01(c))
§ 37.04 CLERK TO TRANSMIT COPY OF PROVISIONS TO STATE DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE.
   The City Clerk is hereby directed to transmit to the State Department of
Revenue a certified copy of this section.
('72 Code, § 34.01(d))
MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX
§ 37.15 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this municipality in the
business of making sales of service at the rate of 1% of the cost prices of all
tangible personal property transferred by said service persons either in the
form of tangible personal property or in the form of real estate as an incident
to a sale of service, in accordance with the provisions of Section 8-11-5 of
the Illinois Municipal Code.
('72 Code, § 34.02(a))
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning Home Rule Municipal Service Occupation Tax Act,
see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-5
§ 37.16 REPORT REQUIRED.
   Every supplier or service person required to account for Municipal Service
Occupation Tax for the benefit of this municipality shall file, on or before
the last day of each calendar month, the report to the State Department of
Revenue required by Section Nine of the Service Occupation Tax Act, being ILCS
Ch. 35, Act 115, § 9.
('72 Code, § 34.02(b))
§ 37.17 PAYMENT TO STATE.
   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the State
Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed.
('72 Code, § 34.02(c))
Statutory reference:
   For current provisions concerning reports, payment, conditional sales,
returns, refunds, and disposition of funds, see ILCS Ch. 35, Act 115, § 9
§ 37.18 CLERK TO TRANSMIT COPY OF PROVISIONS TO STATE DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE.
   The City Clerk is hereby directed to transmit to the State Department of
Revenue a certified copy of this section.
('72 Code, § 34.02(d))
FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES TAX
§ 37.25 COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any corporation or association, not incorporated
under the laws of the state, to engage in the city, in effecting fire
insurance, or to transact any business of fire insurance in the city while in
default by not fully complying with any of the requirements of this subchapter,
and until such requirements shall have been fully complied with; but this
provision shall not relieve any company, corporation or association from the
payment of any risk that may be undertaken in violation of this subchapter.
('72 Code, § 35.01)
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning foreign fire insurance company fees, see ILCS Ch.
65, Act 5, §§ 11-10-1 et seq.
§ 37.26 FEE FOR MAINTENANCE, USE AND BENEFITS OF FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   Any corporation, company or association not incorporated under the laws of
the state, which is engaged in the city in effecting fire insurance, shall pay
to the City Clerk for the maintenance, use and benefit of the Fire Department
of the city, a sum of money equal in amount to 2% of the gross receipts
received for premiums by any and all agents of any such corporation, company or
association during the year ending on every July 1, for any insurance effected
or agreed to be effected on property situated in the city by or with any such
corporation, company or association during such year, as set forth in ILCS Ch.
65, Act 5, §§ 11-10-1 et seq.
('72 Code, § 35.02)
§ 37.27 REPORTS REQUIRED.
   Every such corporation, company or association as aforesaid, doing business
in the city, or any person acting as agent for or on behalf of any such
corporation, company or association, shall, on or before July 15 of each year,
render to the City Clerk, a full, true and just account, verified by the oath
of the secretary or treasurer of such corporation, company or association or
verified by the oath of such person acting as agent for or on behalf of any
such corporation, company or association. Every such corporation, company or
association or any such person acting as agent as aforesaid, shall also at the
time of rendering the report, pay to the Clerk the sum of money for which such
corporation, company or association is chargeable, by virtue of the provisions
of this subchapter.
('72 Code, § 35.03)
§ 37.28 RECOVERY; EFFECT ON POLICIES.
   (A)   The sum of money for which such corporation, company or association is
so chargeable, may be recovered of it, or its agent or agents, by an action in
the name of and for the use of the city, as for money had and received.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be held to exempt any person,
corporation, company or association from indictment and conviction under the
provisions of Article 11 Division 10 of the Illinois Municipal Code, being ILCS
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-10-1 et seq.
('72 Code, § 35.04)
MUNICIPAL AUTOMOBILE RENTING OCCUPATION TAX
§ 37.40 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of renting
automobiles in this city at the rate of 1% of the gross receipts from such
rentals made in the course of such business while this subchapter is in effect,
in accordance with the provisions of Section 8-11-7 of the Illinois Municipal
Code, being ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-7.
(Ord. 631, passed 1-6-82)
§ 37.41 REPORT REQUIRED.
   Every such person engaged in such business in the city shall file on or
before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the State Department
of Revenue required by Sections Two and Three of “An Act in Relation to a Tax
upon Persons Engaged in the Business of Selling Tangible Personal Property to
Purchasers for Use or Consumption” approved June 29, 1933, as amended, ILCS Ch.
35, Act 155, §§ 2 and 3.
(Ord. 631, passed 1-6-82)
§ 37.42 PAYMENT TO STATE.
   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the State
Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the
renting of automobiles during the preceding month.
(Ord. 631, passed 1-6-82)
AUTOMOBILE RENTING USE TAX
§ 37.55 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   A tax is hereby imposed upon the privilege of using in this city an
automobile which is rented from a renter outside the state and which is titled
or registered with an agency of this state's government in this city at the
rate of 1% of the rental price of such automobile while this subchapter is in
effect, in accordance with the provisions of Section 8-11-8 of the Illinois
Municipal Code, being ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-8.
(Ord. 632, passed 1-6-82)
§ 37.56 COLLECTION OF TAX.
   The tax provided for in this subchapter shall be collected from the persons
whose Illinois address for titling or registration purposes is given as being
in this city.
(Ord. 632, passed 1-6-82)
§ 37.57 PAYMENT TO STATE.
   The tax imposed by this subchapter shall be paid to the State Department of
Revenue.
(Ord. 632, passed 1-6-82)
HOTEL AND LODGING TAX
§ 37.60 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOTEL. Every building, buildings, or structure, kept, used, maintained,
advertised and held out to the public to be a place in which the public may,
for consideration, obtain living quarters, sleeping, housekeeping
accommodations, lodging, lodging and food, or apartments, or suites, or other
accommodations offered to the public for rental on a daily basis. The term
includes, but is not limited to: inns, hotels, tourist homes or courts, lodging
houses, rooming houses, motels, apartment houses, and bed and breakfast
establishments.
   PERMANENT RESIDENT. A person who occupies or has the right to occupy any
room or other hotel living accommodations, as hotel is defined herein, for 30
consecutive days or more in such hotel, or a person who works and lives in the
same hotel.
(Ord. 1822, passed 6-1-22)
§ 37.61 TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   There is hereby levied and imposed a tax of 5% of the gross rental
receipts from the renting, leasing or letting of a hotel or motel room within
the city for each 24-hour period, or any portion thereof, for which a daily
room charge is made; provided, however, that a tax shall not be levied or
imposed upon any person who shall be a permanent resident.
   (B)   If any hotel operator collects an amount (however designated) which
purports to reimburse such operator for the hotel tax liability measured by
receipts which are not subject to hotel tax, or if any hotel operator, in
collecting an amount (however designated) which purports to reimburse such
operator for hotel tax liability measured by receipts which are subject to tax
under this act, collects more from the customer than is the operator's hotel
tax liability in the transaction, then customer shall have a legal right to
claim a refund of such amount from such operator. However, if such amount is
not refunded to the customer for any reason, the hotel operator is liable to
pay such amount to the city.
   (C)   Persons subject to any tax imposed by this subchapter may reimburse
themselves for their tax liability for such tax by separately staling such tax
as an additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in a single
amount, with state tax imposed under the Hotel Operators' Occupation Tax Act.
   (D)   The tax herein levied and imposed shall be paid in addition to any and
all other taxes and charges. It shall be the duty of the operator to pay the
amount of the tax to the Treasurer of the city under procedures prescribed by
the treasurer or as otherwise provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. 1822, passed 6-1-22)
§ 37.62 RECORD KEEPING.
   (A)   Every operator shall keep separate books or records of his or her
business as an operator so as to show the rents and occupancies taxable under
this subchapter separately from his or her transactions not taxable hereunder.
If any such operator fails to keep such separate books or records, he or she
shall be liable to tax at the rate designated in §
37.61 of this subchapter upon the entire proceeds from his or her hotel.
   (B)   Such records shall show every occupancy and all rent paid, charged, or
due thereon and the tax payable thereon in such form as required by regulation
prescribed by the State of Illinois or by the Treasurer of the City of
Marseilles, or as provided in this subchapter, but shall in all instances
conform to accepted accounting practices.
   (C)   Such records shall be available for inspection and examination for any
proper purpose at any reasonable time upon demand by the Treasurer or a duly
authorized agent or employee of the city, and shall be preserved for a period
of five years unless the Treasurer shall prescribe a shorter period of time. It
shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, hinder, or interfere with the
treasurer or the duly authorized deputy or representative of the treasurer in
the discharge of the duties of the Treasurer.
(Ord. 1822, passed 6-1-22)
§ 37.63 CITY TAX RETURNS.
   (A)   Every operator shall file with the City Treasurer, a return of
occupancy and of rents and of the taxes payable thereon on forms prescribed by
the Treasurer and consistent with returns required under the Illinois Hotel
Operators' Occupation Tax Act. The return shall be due on or before the due
date established by the Illinois Department of Revenue for each type of filer,
either monthly, quarterly, or annually. The due date is generally the last day
of the month following the month the tax is computed and due. For example, an
annual filer's due date is January 31. A monthly filer who is filing for May,
would have a due date of June 31. Quarterly filers would have due dates of
April 30, July 31, October 31, and January 31.
   (B)   A separate return shall be filed for each place of business within the
city regardless of ownership. A copy of the Illinois state hotel operators'
occupation tax return shall be provided to the city treasurer.
   (C)   Thereafter, the reporting periods and tax payments shall be in
accordance with the filing requirements imposed on the taxpayer by the Illinois
Department of Revenue. At the time of filing such tax returns, the operator
shall pay the full amount of all tax due hereunder.
   (D)   If for any reason any tax is not paid when due. a penalty at the rate
of 1% per 30-day period, or portion thereof, from the date of delinquency shall
be added and collected. In addition, a penalty of 10% of the tax and interest
due shall be assessed and collected against any hotel or motel owner, operator
or licensee who shah fail to collect and remit the tax imposed by this
subchapter.
(Ord. 1822, passed 6-1-22)
§ 37.64 FAILURE TO PAY; ENFORCEMENT.
   Whenever any person shall fail to pay any taxes or penalty herein provided,
the City Attorney shall, upon request of the Treasurer or the Mayor, bring or
cause to be brought, an action to enforce the payment of said tax on behalf of
the city in any court of competent jurisdiction, and the city shall be entitled
to recover, in said action all delinquent taxes, interest in penalties thereon,
and the costs of such collection including all attorney fees incurred in such
collection action.
(Ord. 1822, passed 6-1-22)
§ 37.65 PAYMENT TO THE CITY.
   All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax under this subchapter,
including interest and penalties, shall be paid into the treasury of the city,
and shall be credited to and deposited in the corporate fund of the city.
(Ord. 1822, passed 6-1-22)
§ 37.66 CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this subchapter for any person to
engage in the business of renting, leasing or letting rooms in a hotel within
the city without a certificate of registration issued by the Illinois
Department of Revenue. A copy of the said certificate of registration shall be
provided to the Treasurer not later than the filing due date of the first
return required to be filed with the city.
(Ord. 1822, passed 6-1-22)
§ 37.67 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting or
refusing to comply with or resisting or opposing the enforcement of any
provision of this subchapter, in addition to any and all other penalties
provided herein, upon conviction thereof, shall be liable for payment of the
tax and the cost of collection including reasonable attorney fees. Any person
violating this subchapter shall also be subject to a fine according to the
Uniform Fine Schedule of the City of Marseilles, found in §
10.99.
(Ord. 1822, passed 6-1-22)
§ 37.68 USE RESTRICTIONS.
   The amounts collected by the city pursuant to this subchapter shall be
expended by the city solely to promote tourism, conventions, and other special
events with the city or otherwise to attract nonresident overnight visitors to
the city.
(Ord. 1822, passed 6-1-22)
MUNICIPAL UTILITY TAX
§ 37.70 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   A tax of 5% of the gross receipts of all utilities as hereinafter defined,
from business originating within the corporate limits of the city, is hereby
imposed and established.
(Ord. 627, passed 9-2-81; Am. Ord. 866, passed 5-15-96; Am. Ord. 1082, passed
9-18-02)
§ 37.71 UTILITIES DEFINED.
   UTILITIES are defined as:
   (A)   All persons, corporations, partnerships and all other entities engaged
in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing, or selling gas for use
or consumption within the corporate limits of the city and not for resale.
   (B)   All persons, corporations, partnerships and all other entities engaged
in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing, or selling electricity
for use or consumption within the corporate limits of the city, and not for
resale.
   (C)   (1)   Tax imposed. A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the
following occupations or privileges:
         (a)   The privilege of using or consuming electricity acquired in a
purchase at retail and used or consumed within the corporate limits of the
municipality at the following rates, calculated on a monthly basis for each
purchaser:
            1.   For the first 2,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month; .61 cents per kilowatt-hour;
            2.   For the next 48,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month; .04 cents per kilowatt-hour;
            3.   For the next 50,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month; .36 cents per kilowatt-hour;
            4.   For the next 400,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month; .35 cents per kilowatt-hour;
            5.   For the next 500,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month; .34 cents per kilowatt-hour;
            6.   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month; .32 cents per kilowatt-hour;
            7.   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month; .315 cents per kilowatt-hour;
            8.   For the next 5,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month; .31 cents per kilowatt-hour;
            9.   For the next 10,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month; .305 cents per kilowatt-hour;
            10.   For all electricity used or consumed in excess of 20,000,000
kilowatt-hours in a month; .30 cents per kilowatt-hour.
         (b)   The tax rates set forth in the preceding table are proportional
to the rates enumerated in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-2 (as modified by Public
Act 90-561).
         (c)   The provisions of this section shall not be effective until
April 1, 2010.
      (2)   Exceptions. None of the taxes authorized by this section may be
imposed with respect to any transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to
the extent to which the business or privilege may not, under the Constitution
and statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by this
state or any political subdivision thereof; nor shall any persons engaged in
the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing, or selling or transmitting
gas, water, or electricity, or engaged in the business of transmitting
messages, or using or consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at retail,
be subject to taxation under the provisions of this section for those
transactions that are or may become subject to taxation under the provisions of
the “Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax Act” authorized by ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5,
§ 8-11-1; nor shall any tax authorized by this section be imposed upon any
person engaged in a business or on any privilege unless the tax is imposed in
like manner and at the same rate upon all persons engaged in businesses of the
same class in the municipality, whether privately or municipally owned or
operated, or exercising the same privilege within the municipality.
      (3)   Additional taxes. Such tax shall be in addition to other taxes
levied upon the taxpayer or its business.
      (4)   Collection. The tax authorized by this section shall be collected
from the purchaser by the person maintaining a place of business in this state
who delivers the electricity to the purchaser. This tax shall constitute a debt
of the purchaser to the person who delivers the electricity to the purchaser
and if unpaid, is recoverable in the same manner as the original charge for
delivering the electricity. Any tax required to be collected pursuant to this
section and any such tax collected by a person delivering electricity shall
constitute a debt owed to the municipality by such person delivering the
electricity. Persons delivering electricity shall collect the tax from the
purchaser by adding such tax to the gross charge for delivering the
electricity. Persons delivering electricity shall also be authorized to add to
such gross charges an amount equal to 3% of the tax to reimburse the person
delivering electricity for the expense incurred in keeping records, billing
customers, preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax and supplying data
to the municipality upon request. If the person delivering electricity fails to
collect the tax from the purchaser, then the purchaser shall be required to pay
the tax directly to the municipality in the manner prescribed by the
municipality. Person delivering electricity who file returns pursuant to this
division (C) shall, at the time of filing such return, pay the municipality the
amount of the tax collected pursuant to this section.
      (5)   Reports of municipality.  
         (a)   On or before the last day of each month, each taxpayer shall
make a return to the city for the preceding month stating:
            1.   His name.
            2.   His principal place of business.
            3.   His gross receipts and/or kilowatt-hour usage during the month
upon the basis of which the tax is imposed.
            4.   Amount of tax.
            5.   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
         (b)   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the
time of making such return, pay to the City of Marseilles, the amount of tax
herein imposed; provided that in connection with any return, the taxpayer may,
if he so elects, report and pay an amount based upon his total billings of
business subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made
(exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later
payments based upon any differences between such billings, and the taxable
gross receipts.
      (6)   Credit for over-payment.  
         (a)   If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was
not due under the provisions of this subchapter, whether as the result of a
mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against
any tax due, or to become due, under this subchapter from the taxpayer who made
the erroneous payment; provided that no amounts erroneously paid more than
three years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited.
         (b)   No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions
of this subchapter shall be commenced more than three years after the due date
of such amount.
      (7)   Penalty.  Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a
fraudulent return, or who willfully violates any other provision of this
subchapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
subject to a fine according to the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99 and, in addition, shall be liable in a civil action for the amount of tax
due. (See ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-2).
(Ord. 627, passed 9-2-81; Am. Ord. 866, passed 5-15-96; Am. Ord. 940, passed 7-
15-98; Am. Ord. 978, passed 8-18-99; Am. Ord. 1082, passed 9-18-02; Am. Ord.
1092, passed 1-15-03; Am. Ord. 1326, passed 2-20-08; Am. Ord. 1403, passed 2-3-
10)
§ 37.72 RETURNS.
   (A)   On or before the last day of each month, each utility as defined
herein shall make a return to the City Collector for the immediately preceding
month stating:
      (1)   The name of the utility.
      (2)   The principal place of business of the utility.
      (3)   The gross receipts of the utility during those months upon the
basis of which the tax is imposed hereby.
      (4)   The amount of tax due the city.
      (5)   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities of the city may require.
   (B)   The taxpayer making the return herein provided shall, at the time of
making such return, pay to the City Collector the amount of tax imposed;
provided that in connection with any return the taxpayer may, if he so elects,
report and pay an amount based upon his total billings of business subject to
the tax during the period for which the return is made (exclusive of any
amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustment of later payments based upon
any differences between such billings and the taxable gross receipts.
(Ord. 627, passed 9-2-81; Am. Ord. 866, passed 5-15-96; Am. Ord. 1082, passed
9-18-02)
§ 37.73 EXEMPTIONS.
   The city shall be exempt from the payment of any tax imposed hereby, and
said city shall further be exempt from the indirect payment of any such tax by
the city to any utility as defined herein, including the payment of any charge
to said utilities to cover costs of accounting.
(Ord. 627, passed 9-2-81; Am. Ord. 628, passed 9-30-81)
MOTOR VEHICLES LICENSE
§ 37.85 CITY'S RIGHT TO LICENSE MOTOR VEHICLES.
   The City Council reserves and retains the right to license motor vehicles in
the future depending upon the adequacy of all sources of revenues.
(Ord. 727, passed 3-2-88)
LOCAL TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
§ 37.100 TITLE AND PROVISIONS.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the “Locally
Imposed and Administered Tax Rights and Responsibility Ordinance.”
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to the city's procedures
in connection with all of the city's locally imposed and administered taxes.
(Ord. 1037, passed 3-7-01)
§ 37.101 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The “Local Government Taxpayers' Bill of Rights Act.”
   CITY. The City of Marseilles, Illinois.
   LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The city's Treasurer, is charged with the
administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes,
including staff, employees or agents to the extent they are authorized by the
local tax administrator to act in the local tax administrator's stead. The
local tax administrator shall have the authority to implement the terms of this
ordinance to give full effect to this ordinance. The exercise of such authority
by the local tax administrator shall not be inconsistent with this subchapter
and the Act.
   LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX or TAX. Each tax imposed by the city
that is collected or administered by the city not an agency or department of
the state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
property tax code or fees collected by the city other than infrastructure
maintenance fees.
   NOTICE. Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the city's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   TAX ORDINANCE. Each ordinance adopted by the city that imposes any locally
imposed and administered tax.
   TAXPAYER. Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered
tax and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax
is placed and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
city.
(Ord. 1037, passed 3-7-01)
§ 37.102 NOTICES.
   Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, the
notice is to be in writing mailed not less than seven calendar days prior to
the day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of the
local tax administrator. The notice shall be sent by the local tax
administrator as follows:
   (A)   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the persons' last known address; or
   (B)   Personal service or delivery.
(Ord. 1037, passed 3-7-01)
§ 37.103 PAYMENT.
   (A)   Late payment. Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required
to be made to the city pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late
unless it is:
      (1)   Physically received by the city on or before the due date; or
      (2)   Received in an envelope or other container displaying a valid,
readable U.S. Postmark dated on or before the due date, properly addressed to
the city, with adequate postage prepaid.
   (B)   Payment. Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be
applied in the following order:
      (1)   First to the tax due for the applicable period;
      (2)   Second to the interest due for the applicable period; and
      (3)   Third to the penalty for the applicable period.
(Ord. 1037, passed 3-7-01)
§ 37.104 CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS.
   (A)   The city shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid without
written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally imposed and
administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional by a court
of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed to have paid
the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts upon which to
protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid the taxes
under duress.
   (B)   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be
one year after the end of the calendar year in which payment in error was made.
The city shall not grant a credit or refund of locally imposed and administered
taxes, interest, or penalties to a person who has not paid the amounts directly
to the city.
   (C)   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as follows:
      (1)   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         (a)   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         (b)   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         (c)   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the
cancelled check or receipt for the payment;
         (d)   The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         (e)   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid, and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the city.
      (2)   Within ten days of the receipt by the local tax administrator of
any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator shall either:
         (a)   Grant the claim; or
         (b)   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement
as to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      (3)   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of 5% per annum, based on a year of 365
days and the number of days elapsed, from the date of the overpayment to the
date of mailing of a refund check or the grant of a credit.
(Ord. 1037, passed 3-7-01)
§ 37.105 AUDIT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local administered tax
shall comply with the notice requirements of §
37.102.
   (B)   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The tax;
      (2)   The time period of the audit; and
      (3)   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   (C)   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and if the
date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within 30 days
after the originally designated audit and during normal business hours.
   (D)   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven days nor more than
30 days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer and the local
tax administrator agreed to some other convenient time. In the event taxpayer
is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question, the taxpayer may
request another date within the 30 days, approved in writing, that is
convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax administrator.
   (E)   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the taxpayer's
business or activities, including original source documents and books of entry
denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given rise to any
tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in the English
language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by the city.
   (F)   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make available
its books and records for inspection by the city. If the taxpayer or tax
collector fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the time
provided, the local tax administrator may issue a tax determination and
assessment based on the tax administrator's determination of the best estimate
of the taxpayer's tax liability.
   (G)   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within 30 days of the
city's determination of the amount of overpayment.
   (H)   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing such tax.
(Ord. 1037, passed 3-7-01)
§ 37.106 APPEAL.
   (A)   The local tax administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the local tax administrator's issuance of a protestable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial, or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The
notice shall include the following information:
      (1)   The reason for the assessment;
      (2)   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      (3)   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      (4)   The obligations of the city during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   (B)   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the local tax
administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the
local tax administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting
forth the basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written protest
and petition for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator within
45 days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination and
assessment.
   (C)   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the
local tax administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within 14 days of receipt of the written protest and petition for hearing,
unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
   (D)   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the
45 day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment shall become a final
bill due and owing without further notice.
   (E)   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the local tax administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than 90 days after the expiration of the 45 day period.
(Ord. 1037, passed 3-7-01)
§ 37.107 HEARING.
   (A)   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under section nine, above, the local tax
administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any appeal.
   (B)   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance
is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed 14 days.
   (C)   At the hearing the local tax administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit
or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
   (D)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision.
(Ord. 1037, passed 3-7-01)
§ 37.108 INTEREST AND PENALTIES; ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Time frame. In the event a determination has been made that a tax is
due and owing, through audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be
paid within the time frame otherwise indicated.
   (B)   Interest. The city hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be 18%
per annum, based on a year of 365 days and the number of days elapsed.
   (C)   Late Filing and Payment Penalties. If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty, of 5% of the amount of tax required to be shown as due on a return
shall be imposed; and a late payment penalty of 5% of the tax due shall be
imposed. If no return is filed within the time or manner provided by the
controlling tax ordinance and prior to the city issuing a notice of tax
delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure to file penalty shall be
assessed equal to 25% of the total tax due for the applicable reporting period
for which the return was required to be filed. A late filing or payment penalty
shall not apply if a failure to file penalty is imposed by the controlling
ordinance.
   (D)   Abatement. The local tax administrator shall have the authority to
waive or abate any late filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file
penalty if the local tax administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists
for delay or failure to make a filing.
(Ord. 1037, passed 3-7-01)
§ 37.109 INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS.
   The city may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local tax
administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
local tax administrator that the payment is 30 days delinquent, the taxpayer
shall have 14 working days to cure any delinquency. If the taxpayer fails to
cure the delinquency within the 14 day period or fails to demonstrate good
faith in restructuring the installment contract with the local administrator,
the installment contract shall be canceled without further notice to the
taxpayer.
(Ord. 1037, passed 3-7-01)
§ 37.110 STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The city, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax
returns in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due
and owing. The taxpayer shall have 45 days after receiving notice of the
reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax still
due and owing.
   (B)   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four
years maximum after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
   (C)   If any tax return is not filed or if during any four-year period for
which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the city,
the tax paid was less than 75% of the tax due, the statute of limitations shall
be six years maximum after the end of the calendar year in which return for the
applicable period was due or end of the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was filed.
   (D)   No statute of limitations shall not apply if a fraudulent tax return
was filed by the taxpayer.
(Ord. 1037, passed 3-7-01)
§ 37.111 VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE.
   For any locally imposed and administered for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment from the
local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of 1% per month, for all periods prior to the filing
of the application but not more than four years before the date of filing the
application. A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure application may not
be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for any period before
the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer incorrectly
determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is liable for the
underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid tax, unless the
underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the taxpayer, in which case
the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The payment of tax and
interest must be made by no later than 90 days after the filing of the
voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to by the local tax
administrator. However, any additional amounts owed as a result of an
underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this Section must be
paid within 90 days after a final determination and the exhaustion of all
appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed to by the local tax
administrator, whichever is longer.
(Ord. 1037, passed 3-7-01)
§ 37.112 PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES.
   Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the City
Clerk's office.
(Ord. 1037, passed 3-7-01)
§ 37.113 INTERNAL REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review procedure
regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes. Upon a
determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is valid, the lien
shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is determined to be
improper, the local tax administrator shall:
   (A)   Timely remove the lien at the city's expense;
   (B)   Correct the taxpayer's credit record; and
   (C)   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien.
(Ord. 1037, passed 3-7-01)
§ 37.114 APPLICATION.
   This subchapter shall be liberally construed and administered to supplement
all of the city's tax ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in
conflict with or inconsistent with this subchapter, this subchapter shall be
controlling.
(Ord. 1037, passed 3-7-01)
MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX
§ 37.130 ADOPTION OF TAX.
   The City of Marseilles adopts under the Municipal Cannabis Retailers'
Occupation Tax Law a tax in the amount of 3% against the gross receipts against
all persons engaged in the business of selling cannabis, other than cannabis
purchased under the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, at
retail in the City of Marseilles. The City Mayor and Clerk are authorized to
execute such documents as required with the Illinois Department of Revenue to
impose this tax.
(Ord.1716, passed 7-17-19)
CHAPTER 38: EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY
Section
   
38.01   Establishment; composition
   
38.02   Director-Coordinator; appointment; responsibilities
   
38.03   Functions; duties
   
38.04   Mobile support team
   
38.05   Mutual aid agreement
   
38.06   Disaster emergency declared by Governor; cooperation with state
   
38.07   Compensation for training time
   
38.08   Reimbursement for expenses by state
   
38.09   Purchases and contracts authorized
   
38.10   Oath
   
38.11   Office space
   
38.12   Tax levy for emergency services and disaster operations
§ 38.01 ESTABLISHMENT; COMPOSITION.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Marseilles Emergency Services and Disaster
Agency to prevent, repair and alleviate injury or damage resulting from
disaster caused by enemy attack, sabotage, or from other hostile action, or
from natural or man-made disaster, in accordance with the Illinois Emergency
Services and Disaster Agency (ESDA) Act.
   (B)   This Emergency Services and Disaster Agency shall consist of the
Director-Coordinator and such additional members as may be selected by the
Director-Coordinator.
(‘72 Code, § 3.17(a)) (Am. Ord. 584, passed 3-19-79; Am. Ord. 1671, passed 5-
16-18; Am. Ord. 1819, passed 3-16-22)
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning the Illinois Emergency Management Agency Act, see
ILCS Ch. 20, Act 3305, § 1 et seq.
§ 38.02 DIRECTOR-COORDINATOR; APPOINTMENT; RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Director-Coordinator of the Emergency Services and Disaster Agency
shall be appointed by the Mayor with consent of City Council and shall serve
until removed by same.
   (B)   The Director-Coordinator shall have direct responsibility for the
organization, administration, training and operating of the Emergency Services
and Disaster Agency subject to the direction and control of the Mayor as
provided by statute.
   (C)   In the event of the absence, resignation, death or inability to serve
as the Director-Coordinator, the Mayor or any person designated the Mayor,
shall be an act as Director-Coordinator until a new appointment is made as
provided in this chapter.
(‘72 Code, § 3.17(b)) (Am. Ord. 584, passed 3-19-79; Am. Ord. 1819, passed 3-
16-22)
§ 38.03 FUNCTIONS; DUTIES.
   The Emergency Services and Disaster Agency of the city shall perform such
civil defense functions within the city as shall be prescribed in and by the
State ESDA plan and program prepared by the Governor, and such orders, rules
and regulations as may be promulgated by the Governor, and in addition shall
perform such duties outside the corporate limits as may be required pursuant to
any mutual aid agreement with any other political subdivision, municipality or
quasi-municipality entered into as provided in the Illinois Emergency
Management Agency Act.
(‘72 Code, § 3.17(c)) (Am. Ord. 584, passed 3-19-79; Am. Ord. 1671, passed 5-
16-18; Am. Ord. 1819, passed 3-16-22)
Statutory reference:
   See Illinois Revised Statutes, Ch. 127, Sec. 1119 (Repealed)
§ 38.04 MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM.
   (A)   All or any members of the Emergency Services and Disaster Agency of
the city may be designated as members of a mobile support team created by the
Director of the State ESDA, as provided by law.
   (B)   The leader of such mobile support team shall be designated by the
Director-Coordinator of the Department.
   (C)   Any member of a mobile support team who is a city employee or officer
while serving on call to duty by the Governor, or the State Director, shall
receive compensation and have the powers, duties, rights, and immunities
incident to such employment or office. Any such member who is not a paid
officer or employee of the city, while so serving, shall receive from the state
reasonable compensation as provided by law.
(‘72 Code, § 3.17(d)) (Am. Ord. 584, passed 3-19-79; Am. Ord. 1671, passed 5-
16-18; Am. Ord. 1819, passed 3-16-22)
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning emergency powers of the Governor, see ILCS Ch. 20,
Act 3305, § 7
§ 38.05 MUTUAL AID AGREEMENT.
   The Director-Coordinator of the Emergency Services and Disaster Agency of
the city may negotiate mutual aid agreements with other cities or political
subdivisions of the state, but no such agreement shall be effective until it
has been approved by the Mayor and City Council and by the State Director of
ESDA.
(‘72 Code, § 3.17(e)) (Am. Ord. 584, passed 3-19-79; Am. Ord. 1671, passed 5-
16-18; Am. Ord. 1819, passed 3-16-22)
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning mutual aid arrangements between political
subdivisions, see ILCS Ch. 20, Act 3305, § 13
§ 38.06 DISASTER EMERGENCY DECLARED BY GOVERNOR; COOPERATION WITH STATE.
   If the Governor proclaims that a disaster emergency exists in the event of
actual enemy attack upon the United States or the occurrence within the state
of a major disaster resulting from enemy sabotage or other hostile action, or
from man-made or natural disaster, is shall be the duty of the Emergency
Services and Disaster Agency of the city to cooperate fully with the State
ESDA, and with the Governor in the exercise of emergency powers, as provided by
law. Pursuant to Section 13 of the State ESDA Act, the Mayor may proclaim the
existence of a disaster for a period not to exceed seven days, unless a
continuance thereof be authorized by the City Council.
(‘72 Code, § 3.17(f)) (Am. Ord. 584, passed 3-19-79; Am. Ord. 1671, passed 5-
16-18; Am. Ord. 1819, passed 3-16-22)
§ 38.07 COMPENSATION FOR TRAINING TIME.
   Members of the Emergency Services and Disaster Agency who are paid employees
or officers of the city, if called for training by the State Director of ESDA,
shall receive for the time spent in such training, the same rate of pay as is
attached to the position held; members who are not such city employees or
officers shall receive for such training time such compensation as may be
established by the City Council.
(‘72 Code, § 3.17(g)) (Am. Ord. 584, passed 3-19-79; Am. Ord. 1671, passed 5-
16-18; Am. Ord. 1819, passed 3-16-22)
§ 38.08 REIMBURSEMENT FOR EXPENSES BY STATE.
   The State Treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund, any
reimbursement by the state to the city for expenses incident to training
members of the Emergency Services and Disaster Agency as prescribed by the
State Director of ESDA, compensation for services and expenses of members of a
mobile support team while serving outside the city in response to a call by the
Governor or State Director of ESDA, as provided by law, and any other
reimbursement made by the state incident to Department activities as provided
by law.
(‘72 Code, § 3.17(h)) (Am. Ord. 584, passed 3-19-79; Am. Ord. 1671, passed 5-
16-18; Am. Ord. 1819, passed 3-16-22)
§ 38.09 PURCHASES AND CONTRACTS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The City Council may, on recommendation of the Director- Coordinator,
authorize any purchase or contracts necessary to place the city in a position
to combat effectively any disaster resulting from the expansion of any nuclear
or other bomb or missile, and to protect the public health and safety, protect
property, and provide emergency assistance to victims in the case of such
disaster, or from man-made or natural disaster.
   (B)   In the event of enemy-caused or other disaster, the Director-
Coordinator of the Emergency Services and Disaster Agency is authorized, on
behalf of the city, to procure such services, supplies, equipment or material
as may be necessary for such purposes, in view of the emergency without regard
to the statutory procedures or formalities normally prescribed by law
pertaining to city contracts or obligations, as authorized by the State ESDA
Act, provided, that if the Council meets as such time he shall act subject to
the directions and restrictions imposed by that body.
(‘72 Code, § 3.17(i)) (Am. Ord. 584, passed 3-19-79; Am. Ord. 1671, passed 5-
16-18; Am. Ord. 1819, passed 3-16-22)
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning the Illinois Emergency Management Agency Act, see
ILCS Ch. 20, Act 3305, § 1 et seq.
§ 38.10 OATH.
   Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the Emergency Services
and Disaster Agency organization shall, before entering upon his or her duties,
subscribe to the following oath, which shall be filed with the Director-
Coordinator:
“I,           , do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and defend
and bear true faith, and allegiance to the Constitution of the United States
and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and the territory, institutions,
and facilities thereof, both public and private, against all enemies, foreign
and domestic; that I take this obligation freely, without any mental
reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully
discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do further swear (or
affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I, nor have I been a member of any
political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government
of the United States or of this State by force or violence; and that during
such time as I am affiliated with the Emergency Services and Disaster Agency of
the City of Marseilles, I will not advocate nor become a member of any
political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government
of the United States, or of this State by force or violence.”
(‘72 Code, § 3.17(j)) (Am. Ord. 584, passed 3-19-79; Am. Ord. 1819, passed 3-
16-22)
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning Emergency Management Agency; personnel; oath, see
ILCS Ch. 20, Act 3305, § 20.
§ 38.11 OFFICE SPACE.
   The Mayor is authorized to designate space in a city building, or elsewhere,
as may be provided for by the City Council for the Emergency Services and
Disaster Agency as its operational headquarters and also as its Emergency
Operation Center.
(‘72 Code, § 3.17(k)) (Am. Ord. 584, passed 3-19-79; Am. Ord. 1819, passed 3-
16-22)
§ 38.12 TAX LEVY FOR EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER OPERATIONS.
   The Mayor and the City Council may make an appropriation for the Emergency
Services and Disaster Agency in the manner provided by law.
(‘72 Code, § 3.17(l)) (Am. Ord. 584, passed 3-19-79; Am. Ord. 1671, passed 5-
16-18; Am. Ord. 1819, passed 3-16-22)
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning tax for emergency services and disaster
operations, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-3-16
CHAPTER 39: CITY POLICIES
Section
Liability Insurance For Professionals
   
39.01   Definitions
   
39.02   Insurance required
   
39.03   Amount of insurance coverage
   
39.04   Filing requirements
   
39.05   Prerequisite and condition of service agreements
   
39.06   Contracts
Drug and Alcohol Abuse Policy
   
39.20   Purpose
   
39.21   Definitions
   
39.22   Use prohibited
   
39.23   Types of testing
   
39.24   Drug testing
   
39.25   Alcohol testing
   
39.26   Access to records
   
39.27   Employee assistance program
   
39.28   Information concerning the effects of alcohol and controlled substances
use on an individual's health, work and personal life
   
39.29   Disciplinary action
Gift Ban Act
   
39.40   Adoption of Act
   
39.41   Ethics Officer
   
39.42   State Legislative Ethics Commission; complaints
   
39.43   Existing ethics ordinance or gift ban ordinance
   
39.44   Future amendments to State Gift Ban Act
   
39.45   Future declaration of unconstitutionality of State Gift Ban Act
Social Media Policy
   
39.50   Definition and statement of purpose
   
39.51   Limited public forum
   
39.52   Content restrictions
   
39.53   Content removal
   
39.54   Notice
   
39.55   Time of use
   
39.56   Accessibility
   
39.57   Emergency notice
Interested Parties Registry Registration Rules for Redevelopment Project Areas
   
39.60   Definitions
   
39.61   Establishment of registry
   
39.62   Maintenance of registry
   
39.63   Registration by residents
   
39.64   Registration by organizations
   
39.65   Determination of eligibility
   
39.66   Renewal and termination
   
39.67   Amendment to registration
   
39.68   Registries available for public inspection
   
39.69   Notices to be sent to interested parties
   
39.70   Non-interference
   
39.71   Amendment of registration rules
LIABILITY INSURANCE FOR PROFESSIONALS
§ 39.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Marseilles, LaSalle County, Illinois, a municipal
corporation of the State of Illinois.
   INSURANCE, LIABILITY INSURANCE and PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE. A
policy or policies of insurance insuring against errors, omissions, negligence
or neglect of an individual, firm or corporation rendering services to the
city.
   PROFESSIONAL. An individual, partnership, firm or corporation rendering
professional services to the city.
   PROFESSIONAL SERVICES or SERVICES. The work, advice or services rendered by
any professional to the city, including, but without limitation, the following
occupations:
      (1)   Attorney;
      (2)   Architect;
      (3)   Engineer;
      (4)   Surveyor;
      (5)   Accountant; and
      (6)   Consultants.
(Ord. 676, passed 9-19-84)
§ 39.02 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   Any professional rendering professional services to the city shall maintain
during the period of rendition of said services professional liability
insurance issued by an insurance company licensed to transact business in the
state.
(Ord. 676, passed 9-19-84)
§ 39.03 AMOUNT OF INSURANCE COVERAGE.
   The insurance required by §
39.02, shall provide coverage with a single limit of liability of not less than
$100,000 and aggregate liability coverage of not less than $300,000.
(Ord. 676, passed 9-19-84)
§ 39.04 FILING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All professional presently rendering services to the city shall within
14 days of the effective date of this chapter, file with the City Clerk a
current certificate of insurance, duplicate copy of any policy of insurance or
some other document evidencing compliance with the requirements of this
subchapter. It shall be the duty of the Clerk to maintain all such certificates
or duplicate copies of insurance and to regularly report to and advise the City
Council as to compliance and noncompliance with this subchapter.
   (B)   It shall be the duty and responsibility of all such professionals to
maintain on file with the Clerk, current and effective certificates or
duplicate policies of insurance.
(Ord. 676, passed 9-19-84)
§ 39.05 PREREQUISITE AND CONDITION OF SERVICE AGREEMENTS.
   The requirements of this subchapter shall be a prerequisite to and a
condition of all agreements, understandings and contracts between the city and
any professional. The failure of any professional to comply with the
requirements of this subchapter shall render any agreement, understanding or
contract with the city null and void. The requirements of professional
liability insurance as imposed by this chapter shall be a condition precedent
to any obligation or liability of the city to pay any professional for services
rendered to the city and shall be a part of any agreement or contract between a
professional and the city as if the requirements of this subchapter were set
forth verbatim in any such agreement or contract.
(Ord. 676, passed 9-19-84)
§ 39.06 CONTRACTS.
   The city shall not enter into any contract, agreement or understanding, or
pay any sum of money on account of professional services rendered to the city
unless the requirement of this subchapter has been fulfilled.
(Ord. 676, passed 9-19-84)
DRUG AND ALCOHOL ABUSE POLICY
§ 39.20 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This government entity has adopted the following policy that not only
meets, but exceeds Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations requirements on
drug and alcohol abuse as set forth in 49 CFR Parts 40 and 382. This policy
supersedes any previous government entity policy or agreement that may be in
existence prior to the effective date of this policy.
   (B)   All CDL drivers are subject to drug testing as required in 49 CFR
Parts 40 and 382. All CDL drivers are subject to alcohol testing whenever they
are performing a safety sensitive function, just prior to performing a safety
sensitive function, or immediately after performing such functions as required
in 49 CFR Parts 40 and 382.
   (C)   Under the FHWA drug and alcohol testing regulations for safety-
sensitive drivers, the testing for the following five drugs and alcohol is
required: marijuana, cocaine, opiates, phencyclidine and amphetamines. When
drugs are mentioned in this policy it will include these drugs. When alcohol is
mentioned in this policy, it will include all types of drinks, medication and
foodstuffs which contain alcohol.
   (D)   This policy becomes effective May 20, 1998.
(Ord. 858, passed 12-20-95; Am. Ord. 936, passed 5-20-98)
§ 39.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this policy, the words and terms defined in this section
shall have the meaning therein given, unless the context otherwise clearly
requires.
   AIR BLANK. A reading by an EBT of ambient air containing no alcohol. (In
EBT's using gas chromatography technology, a reading of the device's internal
standard.)
   BREATH ALCOHOL TECHNICIAN (BAT). An individual who instructs and assists
individuals in the alcohol testing process and operates an Evidential Breath
Testing device (EBT).
   CANCELED OR INVALID TEST. In drug testing, a drug test that has been
declared invalid by a Medical Review Officer. A canceled test is neither a
positive nor a negative test. For purposes of this part, a sample that has been
rejected for testing by a laboratory is treated the same as a canceled test. In
alcohol testing, a test that is deemed to be invalid under 49 CFR Part 40.79,
is neither a positive nor a negative test.
   COLLECTION SITE PERSON. A person who instructs and assists individuals at a
collection site and who receives and makes a screen examination of the urine
specimen provided by individuals.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVERS LICENSE (CDL). A license issued by a state or other
jurisdiction, in accordance with the standards contained in 49 CFR Part 383, to
an individual which authorizes the individual to operate a class of commercial
motor vehicle.
   COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE (CMV). A motor vehicle or combination of motor
vehicles used in commerce to transport passengers or property if the motor
vehicle:
      (1)   Has a gross combination weight rating of 11,794 or more kilograms
(26,001 or more pounds) inclusive of a towed unit with a gross vehicle weight
rating of more than 4,536 kilograms (10,000 pounds); or
      (2)   Has a gross vehicle weight rating of 11,794 or more kilograms
(26,001 or more pounds); or
      (3)   Is designed to transport 16 or more passengers, including the
driver; or
      (4)   Is of any size and is used in the transportation of materials found
to be hazardous for the purposes of the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act
and which require the motor vehicle to be placarded under the Hazardous
Materials Regulations.
   CONFIRMATION (OR CONFIRMATORY) TEST. In drug testing, a second analytical
procedure to identify the presence of a specific drug or metabolite that is
independent of the screening test and that uses a different technique and
chemical principle from that of the screening test in order to ensure
reliability and accuracy. (Gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS) is the
only authorized confirmation method of cocaine, marijuana, opiates,
amphetamines, and phencyclidine.) In alcohol testing, a second test, following
a screening test with a result of 0.02 or greater, that provides a quantitative
data of alcohol concentration.
   CONSORTIUM. The Consortium is the Mid-West Truckers Association Drug and
Alcohol Testing Consortium.
   DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (DHHS). The Department or any
designee of the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.
   DRIVER. Any person who operates any commercial motor vehicle. This includes,
but is not limited to: full time, regularly employed drivers; casual,
intermittent or occasional drivers; leased drivers and independent owner-
operator contractors who are either directly employed by or under lease to an
employer or who operate a commercial motor vehicle at the direction of or with
the consent of an employer.
   EMPLOYER. Any person (including the United States, a state, District of
Columbia, tribal government or a political subdivision of a state) who owns or
leases a commercial motor vehicle or assigns persons to operate such a vehicle.
The term EMPLOYER includes an employer's agents, officers, and representatives.
   EVIDENTIAL BREATH TESTING DEVICE (EBT). An EBT approved by the National
Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) for the evidential testing of
breath and placed on NHTSA's "Conforming Products List of Evidential Breath
Measurement Devices" (CPL), and identified on the CPL as conforming with model
specifications available from the National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration, Office of Alcohol and State Programs.
   FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION (FHWA). Federal agency responsible for the
administration of federal regulations for commercial motor vehicle drivers.
   MEDICAL REVIEW OFFICER (MRO). A licensed physician (Medical Doctor or Doctor
of Osteopathy) responsible for receiving laboratory results generated by an
employer's drug testing program who has knowledge of substance abuse disorders
and has appropriate medical training to interpret and evaluate an individual's
confirmed positive test result together with his or her medical history and any
other relevant biomedical information.
   SAFETY SENSITIVE FUNCTION. All time from the time a driver begins to work or
is required to be in readiness to work until the time he/she is relieved from
work and all responsibility for performing work. Safety sensitive functions
shall include:
      (1)   All time at the government entity or shipper plant, terminal,
facility or other property, or any public property, waiting to be dispatched,
unless the driver has been relieved from duty by the government entity;
      (2)   All time inspecting equipment as required by 49 CFR Parts 392.7 and
392.8 or otherwise inspecting, servicing or conditioning any commercial motor
vehicle at any time;
      (3)   All time spent at the driving controls of a commercial motor
vehicle in operation;
      (4)   All time, other than driving time, in or upon any commercial motor
vehicle except time resting in a sleeper berth (a berth conforming to
requirements of 49 CFR Part 393.76);
      (5)   All time loading and unloading a vehicle, supervising or assisting
in the loading or unloading, attending a vehicle being loaded or unloaded,
remaining in readiness to operate the vehicle, or in giving or receiving
receipts for shipments loaded or unloaded; and
      (6)   All time repairing, obtaining assistance, or remaining in
attendance upon a disabled vehicle.
   SCREENING TEST (OR INITIAL TEST). In drug testing, an immunoassay screen to
eliminate "negative" urine specimens from further analysis. In alcohol testing,
an analytic procedure to determine whether an employee may have a prohibited
concentration of alcohol in a breath specimen.
   SUBSTANCE ABUSE AND MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (SAMHSA). Federal
agency under the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) responsible for
the certification of laboratories used as part of the drug testing program.
   SUBSTANCE ABUSE PROFESSIONAL (SAP). A licensed physician (Medical Doctor or
Doctor of Osteopathy); or a licensed or certified psychologist, licensed or
certified social worker, or a licensed or certified employee assistance
professional; or addiction counselor (certified by the National Association of
Alcoholism and Drug Abuse Counselors Certification Commission or by the
International Certification Reciprocity Consortium/Alcohol & Other Drug Abuse).
All must have knowledge of and clinical experience in the diagnosis and
treatment of alcohol and controlled substances-related disorders.
(Ord. 858, passed 12-20-95; Am. Ord. 936, passed 5-20-98)
§ 39.22 USE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The Code of Federal Regulations, Part 382, prohibits the use/misuse of
controlled substances and/or alcohol by drivers of commercial motor vehicles.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the disciplinary action as cited in this policy, under
this government entity's independent authority, the unlawful manufacture,
distribution, dispensation or possession of drugs are prohibited on this
government entity's premises, in any government entity-owned or leased
commercial motor vehicle, or other location at which the driver is to perform
work. If an official of this government entity proves a driver is engaging in
activities as stated above, the driver shall be subject to termination. Any
driver who faces criminal action as a result of engaging in activities as
stated above will be immediately suspended without pay until the court
determines innocence or guilt. If the driver is convicted, the driver will be
immediately terminated. If the driver is found innocent, the driver will be
placed back into a safety sensitive function. No retroactive pay will be given
to the driver.
   (C)   Under this government entity's independent authority, we may conduct
reasonable searches for illegal drugs or alcohol on government premises or in
government entity-owned or leased motor vehicles.
   (D)   No driver, at any work site, in any government entity vehicle or
leased vehicle, will possess any quantity of any controlled substance or
alcohol, lawful or unlawful, which in sufficient quantity could result in
impaired performance. The only exception being a substance administered by or
under the direction of a physician, as stated in this section below.
   (E)   Searches of drivers and their personal property may be conducted when
there is reasonable grounds to believe the driver is in violation of this
policy.
   (F)   All drivers are expected to cooperate in such searches. A driver's
refusal to cooperate or consent to such searches may result in disciplinary
action, including termination.
   (G)   The only exception to alcohol possession in this policy is alcohol not
intended for human consumption or products containing alcohol which, when
ingested would not impair driving ability while performing safety-sensitive
functions.
   (H)   This government entity will maintain a pre-employment screening
program designed to prohibit the hiring of anyone who uses any illegal drugs.
   (I)   No driver will consume any Schedule 1 drug of the Schedule of
Controlled Substances of the Drug Enforcement Administration (marijuana,
cocaine, opiates, phencyclidine, amphetamines) or any other drug as cited by
the USDOT, Federal Highway Administration, while on or off duty, except as
provided in the following division of this section. No driver shall continue to
perform safety-sensitive functions after a positive drug test result. No
government entity, having actual knowledge of a positive drug test result,
shall permit the driver to continue to perform safety-sensitive functions.
   (J)   A driver may use a substance administered by or under direction of a
physician who has advised the driver that the substance will not affect the
drivers ability to safely operate a CMV. Under this government entity's
independent authority, the driver will be required to inform this government
entity of any prescribed medications which may impair their ability to perform
a safety-sensitive function. This government entity will require written
verification from the prescribing physician that the prescribed medication will
not adversely affect their ability to safely perform a safety-sensitive
function. The driver shall promptly provide such written verification to this
government entity. If the prescribed medication should adversely affect their
ability to perform a safety-sensitive function, or, if the driver does not
promptly provide written verification from the prescribing physician, this
government entity will temporarily remove or reassign the driver from the
safety-sensitive function if deemed appropriate.
   (K)   A driver may use an over-the-counter substance that will not affect
the driver's ability to safely perform a safety-sensitive function.
   (L)   The consumption of alcohol is prohibited while the driver is
performing a safety-sensitive function. No driver shall report for duty or
remain on duty, requiring the performance of safety-sensitive functions, while
consuming or having consumed alcohol within four hours of reporting for such
duties, or having a BAC of .02 or greater. No government entity having
knowledge of such conditions shall allow a driver to perform or continue to
perform safety-sensitive functions. Any driver having a BAC of .04 or greater
shall be subject to the disciplinary action set forth in §
39.29 of this policy.
   (M)   No driver required to take a post-accident alcohol test shall use
alcohol for up to eight hours after the accident or until a post-accident test
is completed.
   (N)   No driver shall refuse to test when required under 49 CFR Part 382.
This government entity shall not permit a driver who refuses to test when
required under 49 CFR Part 382 to perform or continue to perform a safety-
sensitive function.
   (O)   Any driver who has engaged in conduct prohibited in this section shall
be advised by this government entity of the resources available in evaluating
and resolving problems associated with the misuse of alcohol and/or drugs by
providing the driver with the name, address and telephone number of one or more
SAP's and treatment facilities.
(Ord. 858, passed 12-20-95; Am. Ord. 936, passed 5-20-98)
§ 39.23 TYPES OF TESTING.
   According to Part 382, drivers shall be subject to six types of drug and/or
alcohol testing - pre-employment, random, post-accident, reasonable cause,
return-to-duty and follow-up. (See § 39.29 of this policy for disciplinary
action resulting from alcohol and/or drug misuse.)
   (A)   Pre-employment testing.
      (1)   Prior to the first time a driver performs a safety-sensitive
function for this government entity, the driver shall be pre-employment drug
tested except when the conditions of the exceptions below apply. We shall not
allow a driver who this government entity intends to hire or use, to perform
safety-sensitive functions unless the driver has received a negative drug test
result from the MRO. (Attachment A must be completed by the driver)
      (2)   Exceptions to pre-employment drug testing. This government entity
is not required to pre-employment test a driver if the driver has participated
in a drug and alcohol testing program within the previous 30 days and while
participating in that program either was drug tested within the past six months
(from date of application with this government entity) or has participated in a
random drug and alcohol testing program for at least the previous 12 months
(from date of application with this government entity) and this government
entity insures that no previous employer of the driver of whom this government
entity is aware of has records of a violation of 49 CFR Part 382 or the drug
testing rule of another USDOT agency within the previous six months.
(Attachment B must be signed by the driver in order to get this information)
      (3)   If the conditions of the exceptions above apply, this government
entity shall contact the drug and alcohol testing program(s) in which the
driver participates or participated and shall obtain and retain from the
testing program(s) the name and address of the program, verification the driver
participates or participated in the program, verify the program conforms to 49
CFR Part 40, verify the driver is qualified under the rules of 49 CFR Part 382,
including the driver has not refused to be tested for drugs, the dates the
driver was last tested for drugs, and the results of any tests taken within the
previous six months, and any other violations as stated in §
39.22.
      (4)   The "Return to Duty" and "Follow-Up Testing" provisions of this
section do not apply to an applicant who refuses to submit to a pre-employment
drug test or who receives a positive pre-employment drug test result.
   (B)   Random testing.
      (1)   All drivers covered by this policy will be included as a part of
the Mid-West Truckers Association Drug and Alcohol Testing Consortium group
from which the Consortium will randomly select a sufficient number of drivers
for testing each calendar year to equal an annual rate of not less than a
minimum annual percentage for random alcohol (currently 10 percent) and drug
testing (currently 50 percent) as determined by the FHWA Administrator.
      (2)   On a monthly basis, our MRO will, from the total group, randomly
select by a computer-based random number generated program, that is matched
with the membership numbers, the drivers' names and their social security
numbers. Under the selection process used, each driver shall have an equal
chance of being selected each time selections are made.
      (3)   Once the MRO makes the monthly selections, he will forward the
random list to the Consortium which will notify the employers under whose drug
and alcohol policies those selected are covered. If any of this government
entity's drivers are selected, we will be given a date before which the driver
must be tested per the random selection process. Failure of this government
entity to ensure the random testing is conducted within the time allotted will
cause us to be out of compliance with the random testing requirement of Section
382.305 of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations.
      (4)   This government entity shall ensure that random drug and alcohol
tests conducted under the random testing regulations are unannounced.
      (5)   A driver shall only be tested for alcohol while the driver is
performing safety-sensitive functions, just before the driver is to perform
safety-sensitive functions, or just after the driver has ceased performing such
functions.
   (C)   Post-accident.
      (1)   As soon as possible following an accident involving a CMV on a
public road, a post-accident drug and alcohol test shall be conducted when
either of the two circumstances below apply:
         (a)   If an accident involves a fatality;
         (b)   If a driver receives a citation for a moving traffic violation
and either the accident involves bodily injury to a person who as a result of
the accident immediately receives medical treatment away from the scene of the
accident, OR, one or more motor vehicles incur disabling damage as a result of
the accident, requiring the motor vehicle(s) to be transported away from the
scene by tow truck or other motor vehicle.
      (2)   If a post accident breath alcohol test is not conducted within two
hours following the accident, we shall prepare and maintain on file a record
stating why the breath alcohol test was not promptly administered. If the
breath alcohol test is not conducted within eight hours following the accident,
we shall cease all attempts to complete the alcohol test and shall prepare and
maintain a record stating why the breath alcohol test was not promptly
administered. (See Attachment C)
      (3)   If a post-accident drug test is not conducted within 32 hours
following the accident, we shall cease all attempts to conduct the drug tests
and prepare and maintain, on file, a record stating why the drug test was not
promptly administered. (See Attachment C)
      (4)   A driver who is subject to post-accident testing shall remain
readily available for such testing or may be deemed by this government entity
as a refusal to test. Nothing in this section shall be construed to require the
delay of necessary medical attention for injured people following an accident
or to prohibit a driver from leaving the scene of an accident for the period
necessary to obtain assistance in responding to the accident, or to obtain
necessary medical care.
      (5)   This government entity shall provide the driver with necessary
post-accident information, procedures and instructions, prior to the driver
operating a CMV, so that the driver will be able to comply with the
requirements of this section. (See Attachment D)
      (6)   Drug and/or breath or blood alcohol tests conducted by federal,
state or local officials, having independent authority for the test, shall be
considered to meet the post-accident testing requirements provided such testing
conforms to the applicable federal, state or local drug and/or alcohol testing
requirements, and that the results are obtained by this government entity.
   (D)   Reasonable cause testing.
      (1)   All persons designated by this government entity who supervise this
government entity's drivers must complete supervisory training in accordance
with Part 382.603. When our designated person(s) has reasonable suspicion that
a driver has violated the "Use Prohibited" provision of §
39.22 of this Policy, that driver shall be required to submit to an alcohol
and/or drug test. This government entity's determination that reasonable
suspicion exists to require the driver to undergo an alcohol and/or drug test
must be based on specific contemporaneous, articuable observations concerning
the appearance, behavior, speech or body odor of the driver. (See Attachment E)
      (2)   Alcohol testing is authorized only when observations of the driver
are made during, just before, or just after the period of the work day the
driver is required to be in compliance with Part 382. The driver may be
required to undergo reasonable suspicion alcohol testing while the driver is
performing safety-sensitive functions, just before the driver is to perform
safety-sensitive functions, or just after the driver has ceased such functions.
      (3)   If a reasonable cause alcohol test is not conducted within two
hours after observing the driver, this government entity shall prepare and
maintain on file, a record stating the reason why the test was not promptly
administered. If the test is not conducted within eight hours after observing
the driver, this government entity shall cease attempts to conduct the test and
prepare and maintain on file a record stating the reasons why the test was not
administered.
      (4)   No driver shall report for duty or remain on duty when this
government entity's designated person(s) has observed the driver as under the
influence of alcohol or impaired by alcohol. This government entity shall not
permit the driver to perform or continue to perform safety-sensitive functions
until an alcohol test is conducted and the driver's breath alcohol test result
is less than .02 or 24 hours have elapsed since this government entity's first
suspicion of the driver being under the influence or impaired by alcohol.
      (5)   Refusal to submit to a reasonable cause test shall be considered a
positive test.
      (6)   The reasonable cause observation form must be completed and signed
by at least one of this government entity's designated person(s) who made the
observations either within 24 hours of the observed behavior or before the drug
test results are released, whichever is earlier. (See Attachment F)
   (E)   Return to duty testing.
      (1)   Any driver who has engaged in conduct prohibited in §
39.22 of this Policy shall be advised by this government entity of the
resources available in evaluating and resolving problems associated with the
misuse of alcohol and/or drugs by providing the driver with the name, address
and telephone number of one or more SAP's and treatment facilities.
      (2)   Each driver who has violated the "Use Prohibited" (§
39.22) of this Policy shall be evaluated by a SAP who will determine what
assistance, if any, the driver needs in resolving problems with drugs and/or
alcohol misuse.
      (3)   After the driver has complied with the SAP's recommendations,
including a rehabilitation program if prescribed, a letter from the SAP must be
received by this government entity stating the driver is ready to return to
duty. A copy of the letter shall be faxed or mailed to the Consortium, who will
forward it to the MRO. Upon determination by the MRO that the recommendations
of the SAP have been followed, the MRO shall give approval for the driver to
undergo a return to duty test. The SAP may direct the driver to undergo both a
drug and alcohol test if the SAP determines that return to duty testing for
both drugs and alcohol are necessary for that driver. If the breath alcohol
test result is less than .02, and/or the drug test result is negative, the
driver may return to duty.
      (4)   The provisions of this section do not apply to an applicant who
refuses to submit to a pre- employment drug test or who receives a positive
pre-employment drug test result. The provisions of this section will not apply
if this government entity has chosen not to rehire a driver who previously
violated a provision of this government entity's Policy.
   (F)   Follow-up testing.
      (1)   If the SAP determines that the driver is in need of assistance in
resolving a drug and/or alcohol problem, the driver may be subject to
unannounced follow-up drug and/or alcohol tests following the driver's return
to duty. The number and frequency of such tests shall be determined by the SAP
and shall consist of at least six tests in the first twelve months of the
driver's return to duty. In cases where the SAP does not make that
determination, the MRO will direct at least the minimum six unannounced follow-
up tests to be administered within the first twelve months. The SAP may direct
the driver to undergo both drug and alcohol tests if the SAP determines that
follow-up testing for both drugs and alcohol are necessary for that driver.
Follow-up testing shall not exceed 60 months from the date of the drivers
return to duty.
      (2)   The provisions of this section do not apply to applicants who
refuse to submit to a pre-employment drug test or who receives a positive pre-
employment drug test result. The provisions of this section will not apply if
this government entity has chosen not to rehire a driver who previously
violated a provision of this government entity's Policy.
(Ord. 936, passed 5-20-98)
§ 39.24 DRUG TESTING.
   (A)   Drug testing procedures.  
      (1)   The facilities to be used for testing must be secured during drug
testing by visual inspection to ensure other persons are not present or
undetected access is not possible. Bluing agents shall be placed in toilet
tanks wherever possible so the reservoir of water in the toilet tank always
remains blue. If there is any other source of water, it shall be effectively
secured and monitored to ensure it is not used as a source for diluting the
specimen. Security must be maintained throughout the collection process. No
unauthorized personnel shall be permitted in any part of the designated
collection site during the collection procedure.
      (2)   The driver must be positively identified by photo identification or
by the identification of the driver by the driver's employer (this government
entity's) representative. The driver will be asked to remove any outer garments
such as a coat or jacket. All personal belongings such as briefcases or purses
must remain with the outer garments. The wallet may be retained by the driver.
      (3)   The driver must wash and dry his/her hands before providing the
specimen. The specimen shall be given in a private stall or partitioned area
for individual privacy unless there is reason to believe that a particular
driver may alter or substitute the specimen. If the collector observes conduct
clearly and unequivocally indicating an attempt to adulterate or substitute the
specimen, the collector shall immediately inform this government entity, note
any unusual findings on the chain of custody form, and forward the specimen to
the lab. Whenever there is reason to believe the driver has altered or
substituted the specimen (either by look, color, or vision of an altered
specimen or the driver refuses to provide an oral temperature), the driver
shall be required to provide a second specimen as soon as possible under direct
observation by a collector of the same gender.
      (4)   The urine specimen shall be placed in a split sample container. The
"primary sample" shall be at least 30 ml. of urine. The "split sample" shall be
at least 15 ml. of urine.
      (5)   After the specimen container is handed to the collector, the driver
should observe the specimen at all times until it is sealed and labeled (this
is for the driver's protection to ensure it is his/her specimen). The driver is
to initial the identification label which will be placed on the specimen
container for proof that it is his/her specimen. The driver will also be
required to sign the chain of custody form as proof that the specimen
identified as having been collected from the driver is in fact the driver's.
      (6)   Both samples are then sent by overnight delivery, along with proper
copies of the custody and control form to the DHHS/SAMHSA-certified laboratory
for analyses. The laboratory will forward all results to the MRO. All results
will be reviewed by the MRO. Negative drug test results are then released by
the MRO to Mid-West Truckers Association (our drug and alcohol testing
consortium), which will forward them to the Illinois Municipal League, which
will then forward the results to this government entity. If there is evidence
of a positive result, a second more stringent test (confirmation test) will be
conducted. If the confirmation test is still a positive result, the MRO will
call the driver to give him/her the opportunity to discuss the positive test
result.
      (7)   The positive result is then released by the MRO to Mid-West
Truckers Association (our drug and alcohol testing consortium), which will
forward the result to the Illinois Municipal League, which will forward the
result to this government entity, who has the authority to take employment
action against the driver for drug use (see Disciplinary Action Option in the
policy).
   (B)   Shy bladder. If the driver is unable to provide at least 45 ml. of
urine, the collection site person shall instruct the driver to drink not more
than 40 oz. of fluids, and after a period of up to three hours, again attempt
to provide a complete sample of at least 45 ml. using a fresh collection
container. Any insufficient specimen shall be discarded. If the driver is still
unable to provide an adequate specimen after the three hour period, the
insufficient specimens shall be discarded, testing discontinued and this
government entity so notified. The driver shall be referred for a medical
evaluation by a licensed physician who is acceptable to this government entity
to develop pertinent information concerning whether the driver's inability to
provide a specimen is genuine or constitutes a refusal to test. If the licensed
physician, in his or her reasonable medical judgment, is unable to make the
determination after the evaluation, the driver's failure to provide an adequate
amount of urine will be a refusal to test. The medical evaluation shall be
forwarded to our MRO who shall report his conclusions, in writing, to this
government entity.
      (2)   In pre-employment testing, if this government entity does not wish
to hire the driver who fails to provide an adequate specimen because of shy
bladder, the driver need not be referred for a medical evaluation.
   (C)   Split sample analysis.
      (1)   If the driver requests an analysis of the split specimen within 72
hours of having been informed of a verified positive test, the driver must
transmit in writing to the Medical Review Officer that he/she wishes to have
the split specimen tested at a different DHHS/SAMHSA certified laboratory. The
driver must include the MRO's name and address, the driver's name, social
security number, and Mid-West Truckers Association Consortium membership
number. The driver must sign his name and forward it by fax or mail to the MRO.
The MRO will then prepare the documentation and forward it to the laboratory
that is storing the split specimen. That lab will then prepare the
documentation and send both the split specimen and the documentation to another
DHHS/SAMSHA lab for the split specimen testing. Pending the result of the split
specimen test, the driver is not allowed to remain in a safety-sensitive
function.
      (2)   If a driver is unable to contact the MRO within 72 hours, the
driver may present to the MRO information documenting that serious illness,
injury, inability to contact the MRO, lack of actual notice of the verified
positive test, or other circumstances unavoidably prevented the driver from
timely contacting the MRO. If the MRO concludes there is a legitimate
explanation for the driver's failure to contact the MRO within 72 hours, the
MRO shall direct that the analysis of the split specimen be performed.
      (3)   Under this government entity's independent authority, any driver
who requests a split specimen analysis will be required to assume all costs
assessed to this government entity by the Consortium for such testing.
      (4)   The provisions of this section do not apply to an applicant who
refuses to submit to a pre- employment drug test.
(Ord. 936, passed 5-20-98)
§ 39.25 ALCOHOL TESTING.
   (A)   Alcohol testing procedures. 
      (1)   A driver shall only be tested for alcohol while the driver is
performing a safety-sensitive function, just before a driver is to perform a
safety-sensitive function, or just after the driver has ceased performing such
functions.
      (2)   All breath alcohol testing will be administered by a certified
Breath Alcohol Technician (BAT), who has been trained in accordance with 49 CFR
Part 40.
      (3)   The driver must be positively identified by photo identification or
by identification of the driver by the drivers employer (this government
entity's) representative. The BAT shall then explain the testing procedures.
      (4)   Step One of the USDOT's Breath Alcohol Test Form is to be completed
by the BAT. Step Two is to be completed by the driver (refusal to sign Step 2
certification of the Breath Alcohol Test Form when requested will be considered
a refusal to test, which is the same as a positive test).
      (5)   Before the screening test is administered, the BAT and the driver
shall read the sequential test number displayed by the EBT.
      (6)   An individually-sealed mouthpiece will be opened in view of the
driver and attached to the EBT. The driver will be requested to blow forcefully
in the mouthpiece for at least six seconds or until the BAT indicates
sufficient breath has been obtained.
      (7)   The BAT will show the driver the results of the test on the EBT and
then affix the printout to the Breath Alcohol Test Form in the designated space
using tamper-evident tape.
      (8)   If the results are less than .02 breath alcohol concentration, the
BAT shall sign and date in Step Three of the Breath Alcohol Test Form. Step
Four is to be completed by the driver. If the driver does not sign Step Four it
will not be considered a refusal to test; however, the BAT will have to note in
the "Remarks" section of the drivers failure to sign.
      (9)   If the test result printed by the EBT does not agree with the
result displayed or if a sequential test number printed by the EBT does not
match the sequential test number displayed by the EBT prior to the screening
test, the BAT will note it in the "Remarks" section of the Form and both the
driver and the BAT will initialize the "Remarks" section. The test would be
invalid and the driver and this government entity would be so advised.
      (10)   If the alcohol concentration is .02 or greater, a confirmation
test shall be performed not less than 15 minutes nor more than 30 minutes after
the completion of the screening test. During that time, the driver will be
asked to not drink, eat, belch or place any substance in their mouth, if at all
possible. The purpose for this is to prevent accumulation of mouth alcohol. If
the driver ignores that instruction, the confirmation test will still be
conducted and the BAT will note it in the "Remarks" section.
      (11)   If the confirmation test is conducted more than 30 minutes after
the result of the screening test, the BAT shall note in the "Remarks" section
of the form the reason the confirmation test could not be conducted during the
proper time period.
      (12)   Before the confirmation test is administered, the BAT and the
driver shall read the sequential test number displayed by the EBT. The BAT
shall also perform an air blank test that registers "0.00.".
      (13)   Another individually-sealed mouthpiece will be opened in front of
the driver and attached to the EBT. The driver will be requested to blow
forcefully into the mouthpiece for at least six seconds or until the BAT
indicates sufficient breath has been obtained.
      (14)   The BAT will show the driver the results of the test on the EBT.
The BAT shall then sign and date Step Three of the Breath Alcohol Test Form.
Step Four is to be completed by the driver. If the driver does not sign Step
Four it will not be considered a refusal to test; however, the BAT will have to
note in the "Remarks" section of the driver's failure to sign.
      (15)   If the test result printed by the EBT does not agree with the
result displayed or if a sequential test number printed by the EBT does not
match the sequential test number displayed by the EBT prior to the confirmatory
test, the BAT will note it in the "Remarks" section of the Form and both the
driver and the BAT will initialize the "Remarks" section. The test would be
invalid and the driver and this government entity would be so advised.
      (16)   If the screening and confirmation test results disagree, the
confirmation test will be used as the final result.
      (17)   The BAT will give the driver Copy 2 of the Breath Alcohol Test
Form and this government entity Copy 1.
      (18)   The BAT will perform external calibration checks on the EBT as
prescribed by the manufacturer. Inspection, maintenance and calibration of each
EBT by the manufacturer will be performed in accordance with their quality
assurance plan.
   (B)   Inability to provide an adequate amount of breath.
      (1)   If a driver is unable, or alleges he/she is unable, to provide an
amount of breath sufficient to give a reading on the EBT, the BAT should again
instruct the driver to attempt to provide an adequate amount of breath. If the
driver refuses to make a second attempt, the BAT shall immediately inform this
government entity.
      (2)   If the driver does make the second attempt and fails to provide an
adequate amount of breath, the BAT shall note the second failure in the
"Remarks" section of the form and this government entity shall be so notified.
The driver shall be referred as soon as practicable for a medical evaluation
from a licensed physician who is acceptable to this government entity to
develop pertinent information concerning whether the drivers inability to
provide an adequate amount of breath is genuine or constitutes a refusal to
test. If the licensed physician, in his or her reasonable medical judgment, is
unable to make the determination after the evaluation, the drivers failure to
provide an adequate amount of breath shall be regarded as a refusal to test.
The medical evaluation shall be forwarded to our MRO who shall report his
conclusions, in writing, to this government entity.
   (C)   Other alcohol-related conduct.  
      (1)   No driver tested under §
39.23 of this Policy, who is found to have an alcohol concentration of .02 or
greater, but less than .04, shall perform or continue to perform safety-
sensitive functions, nor shall this government entity allow a driver to perform
or continue to perform safety-sensitive functions until the start of the
drivers next regularly scheduled work period, but not less than 24 hours after
the administration of the alcohol test.
      (2)   This government entity has the authority to take employment action
against the driver for alcohol use (see Disciplinary Action Option in the
policy).
(Ord. 936, passed 5-20-98)
§ 39.26 ACCESS TO RECORDS.
   All records pertaining to this government entity's drug and alcohol testing
program shall be maintained in a secure location with controlled access and
shall be maintained according to 49 CFR 382.401. Records, including drug and
alcohol test results, shall only be released in the following circumstances:
   (A)   Drivers are entitled to copies of their records pertaining to their
use of drugs and alcohol, including any records pertaining to their drug and
alcohol tests. This government entity shall promptly provide records requested
by the drivers. Access to the driver's records shall not be conditional upon
payment for records, other than those they are specifically requesting.
   (B)   Records to subsequent employers shall be made available upon receipt
of a written authorization from the driver. This government entity will only
disclose information that is expressly authorized by the terms of the driver's
authorization request. This government entity shall provide such information
and results requested promptly to the subsequent employer at no charge.
   (C)   This government entity may disclose drug and alcohol information
pertaining to a driver to the decision maker in a lawsuit, grievance or other
proceeding initiated by or on behalf of the driver, and arising from the
results of a drug and alcohol test administered according to this policy or
from this government entity's determination that the driver engaged in conduct
prohibited in §
39.22 (including, but not limited to worker's compensation, unemployment
compensation or other proceeding relating to a benefit sought by the driver).
   (D)   This government entity shall only release information regarding a
drivers record as directed by the specific written consent of the driver to an
identified person. Release of that information by the person receiving the
information is permitted only in accordance with the terms of the employee's
consent.
   (E)   Records shall be accessible and copies shall be made available in all
of this government entity's facilities to the U.S. Secretary of Transportation,
and DOT agency, or any state or local officials with regulatory authority over
this government entity or any of this government entity's drivers.
   (F)   In the event this government entity chooses to rehabilitate a driver
with a positive alcohol result of .04 or greater, or a refusal to test, we
shall release the alcohol result and or documentation to Mid-West Truckers
Association (our drug and alcohol testing consortium) and to the MRO to
administer the return-to-duty and follow-up testing as required under 49 CFR
Part 382.
(Ord. 936, passed 5-20-98)
§ 39.27 EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.
   (A)   Each driver will receive a copy of this drug and alcohol abuse policy,
which includes all requirements under 49 CFR Part 382.601. Some of those
requirements include: the name(s) of the person or people that can answer
drivers' questions about the drug and alcohol program and testing; what period
of the workday the driver is required to be in compliance; what drivers are
required to comply with the federal regulations and this policy; what conduct
is prohibited under the drug and alcohol program; what procedures are used to
test for drugs and alcohol; and educational information concerning the effects
and consequences of drug and alcohol use on the drivers personal health, safety
and work environment, including signs and symptoms of a drug and alcohol
problem.
   (B)   Each driver will be required to sign a Drug & Alcohol Policy Receipt
Certificate (See Attachment G) certifying that they received a copy of the drug
and alcohol abuse policy which includes the required content as stated above.
This government entity will provide a copy of the Drug & Alcohol Policy Receipt
Certificate to each driver and keep the original.
   (C)   Federal regulations require that the drivers be made aware of the
effects of drug and alcohol use on the driver's health, work and personal life.
It is the driver's responsibility to report to work fit for duty, and remain
fit throughout the workday in order to perform in a safe, efficient and
productive manner. The driver will also be made aware of the signs and symptoms
of a drug and/or alcohol problem (his/hers or a co-workers) and shall be made
aware of ways to intervene when a drug and/or alcohol problem is suspected,
including referral to management, referral to an employee assistance program
(if available from this government entity), referral to drug and/or alcohol
abuse hotlines, or local Alcoholics Anonymous or Narcotics Anonymous groups as
provided below.
   (D)   When a driver suspects a co-worker is under the influence of drugs
and/or alcohol, the driver should refer the co-workers name to management, who
shall respond accordingly.
   (E)   These hotline numbers are made available as a reference only:
      Alcohol Abuse: A 24-Hour Access Crisisline & Treatment (800) 234-0286
      Alcohol Abuse and Crisis Intervention (800) 234-0246
      Alcohol and Drug Abuse Hotline (800) 234-0420
      Narcotics Abuse 24-Hour Helpline and Treatment (800) 234-0420
   (F)   Under this government's independent authority, any driver may come
forward for assistance with a drug and/or alcohol use problem, as long as it is
before a driver's notification of an impending drug and/or alcohol test. This
government entity shall provide the driver with referrals of where the driver
can go for assistance. The driver will be removed from any safety sensitive
function, and if no other position is available, will be put on unpaid leave of
absence until such time the driver has completed all evaluations and
rehabilitation required by the SAP. A letter must be written by the SAP and
received by this government entity stating the drivers readiness to return to
duty to a safety sensitive function, and, the driver shall be required to
complete a return to duty test for drugs and/or alcohol. If the result(s) are
"negative," the driver may return to duty or safety sensitive function. The
driver may then be subject to follow-up drug and/or alcohol tests as prescribed
by the SAP after returning to duty. All costs associated with the evaluations
and rehabilitation will be the responsibility of the driver. The return-to-duty
testing and follow-up testing shall be pre-paid by this government entity, to
be immediately reimbursed by the driver.
(Ord. 936, passed 5-20-98)
§ 39.28 INFORMATION CONCERNING THE EFFECTS OF ALCOHOL AND CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
USE ON AN INDIVIDUAL'S HEALTH, WORK & PERSONAL LIFE.
   (A)   Employees who abuse drugs and/or alcohol cause more absenteeism, loss
in work productivity, more accidents and more medical claims. This results in a
loss of $140 billion to American businesses each year.
   (B)   Compared with the average employee, a typical drug-using employee in
the workplace is:
      (1)   2.5 times more likely to be absent 8 days or more each year,
      (2)   3 times more likely to be late for work,
      (3)   3.6 times more likely to be involved in workplace accidents,
      (4)   5 times more likely to file a workers' compensation claim; and,
      (5)   incur 300% higher medical claims.
   (C)   Marijuana. 
      (1)   The common name for the drug made from chopped leaves, stems and
flowering tops of a cannabis plant. Some common street names for marijuana are
"dope," "grass," "joint," "pot," "reefer." Marijuana can be smoked or eaten.
      (2)   Marijuana is a depressant and mind-altering drug. It works on the
brain and causes hallucinations. A person operating a CMV while using marijuana
is more than likely to experience slowed reaction time, reduced concentration,
distorted vision and depth perception, is slower in making decisions, often
drives slower than the speed limit, is unable to correctly measure distance and
time, and has impaired short-term memory.
      (3)   Some of the symptoms and signs of marijuana use are:
         short-term memory loss
         slowed thinking
         moodiness
         dilated pupils
         reddened eyes
         loss of memory
         increased heart rate
         increased appetite
         paranoia
      (4)   Some visible signs noted for the presence of marijuana are:
         roach clips
         cigarette rolling papers
         "one hitters" (usually metal - slim tubular device)
         small pipes
         bongs
      (5)   The active ingredient in marijuana (THC) is stored in the body fat
and could be retained for days or weeks, depending on the quality of the drug,
the tolerance of the user and the dosage or amount taken. Marijuana and alcohol
together will magnify the effects of both many times. Chronic marijuana smoking
could cause severe irritation of the lungs, heart problems, reduced immune
system and possible brain damage.
   (D)   Phencyclidine (PCP).
      (1)   PCP was developed originally as an anesthetic but was taken off the
market because it sometimes caused hallucinations. The most common street names
for PCP are "angel dust," "crystal," "tea" and "THC." PCP is sold in various
forms, mainly as a white, off-white or brown crystal-like powder, tablet or
capsule. It can be ingested by mouth, snorted or injected intravenously. It can
also be smoked when combined with marijuana or tobacco.
      (2)   A person operating a CMV while using PCP is more than likely to
experience impaired coordination and dulled senses, a sense of power,
drowsiness, aggressive behavior, hallucinations and blurred or double-vision.
In some cases a person could even experience convulsions, coma, ruptured blood
vessels in the brain, heart and lung failure, or even death.
      (3)   Some of the symptoms and signs of PCP use are:
         confusion
         drowsiness
         increased heart rate, sweating, aggressive behavior
         disorientation
         increased blood pressure
         anxiety
         dizziness
         hallucinations
         panic
      (4)   Some of the signs for the presence of PCP are:
         needles
         syringes
         plastic packets with a powdery substance
         tablets
         capsules
      (5)   PCP is water soluble but still could be retained in the body's
system for days, depending on the quality of the drug, the tolerance of the
user and the dosage or amount taken. PCP and alcohol together is dangerous and
could cause an overdose. Chronic PCP use could cause hallucinations, psychosis,
convulsions, coma or possible death.
   (E)   Cocaine.
      (1)   Cocaine comes from the leaves of coca plants. Some common street
names for cocaine are "coke," "crack," "rock," "snort," "toot," "blow," and
"snow." Cocaine can be snorted, injected intravenously, smoked or free-based
(heating the cocaine and inhaling the vapors).
      (2)   Cocaine stimulates the body's central nervous system. Psychological
dependence on the drug can be high with repeated use.
      (3)   A person operating a CMV while using cocaine is more than likely to
experience impatience, anger, overstimulated reflexes, distorted vision and
depth perception, slow reaction time and false sense of security and alertness.
In some cases, a person could even experience seizures, heart attacks,
convulsions, hallucinations and death.
      (4)   Some of the symptoms and signs of cocaine use are:
         dilated pupils
         paranoia
         runny nose
         increased blood pressure
         restlessness
         anxiety
         depressions
         nervousness
         weight loss
         talkativeness
         needle marks
         irritability
         nose bleeds
         hallucinations
      (5)   Some of the signs for the presence of cocaine are:
         small spoons
         needles
         syringes
         razor blades
         mirrors
         small plastic bags or vials
         small drinking straws
         rolled paper currency
         small butane torch
      (6)   Cocaine is water soluble but still could be retained in the body's
system for several days, depending on the quality of the drug, the tolerance of
the user and the dosage or amounts taken. Cocaine causes the most mental
dependency of any known drug. Cocaine and depressants, taken together, can be
very dangerous or even fatal. Intravenous users have a high risk of contracting
liver disease, tetanus, serum hepatitis and AIDS from the use of needles.
Chronic cocaine use could cause seizures, heart attacks, strokes, convulsions,
depression or death.
   (F)   Amphetamines.
      (1)   Amphetamines are manufactured central nervous system stimulants
used most often by drivers to stay awake. Psychological dependence on the drug
can be high with repeated use. Some common street names for amphetamines are
"speed," "crank," "meth," "crystal," "diet pills," "bennies" and "uppers."
      (2)   In pure form, amphetamines are yellowish crystals in which some are
made into tablets, pills or capsules. Amphetamines can be ingested in tablet,
pill or capsule form, snorted, or injected intravenously if in powder or liquid
form.
      (3)   A person operating a CMV while using amphetamines is more than
likely to experience delayed reaction time, overstimulated reflexes, anxiety,
irritability, distorted vision and depth perception, and a false sense of
security and alertness.
      (4)   Some of the symptoms and signs of amphetamine use are:
         loss of appetite
         weight loss
         dilated pupils
         dry mouth
         sleeplessness
         needle marks
         hallucinations
         anxiety
         depression
         nervousness
         talkativeness
         increased blood pressure
         sweating
         paranoia
      (5)   Some of the signs for the presence of amphetamines are:
         pills
         tablets
         capsules
         small plastic bags or vials
         needles
         syringes
         razor blades
         small drinking straws
         rolled paper currency
         small butane torch
      (6)   Amphetamines are water-soluble, but still could be retained in the
body's system for several days depending on the quality of the drug, the
tolerance of the user and the dosage or amount taken. Chronic amphetamine use
could cause physical collapse, delusions, hallucinations, brain damage, heart
damage, toxic psychosis or death.
   (G)   Opiates.  
      (1)   Some opiates come from the seed pod of the Asian poppy. Other
opiates are synthesized or manufactured. Psychological dependence can be high
with repeated use. Some common street names are "horse," "junk," "smack,"
"downers," "M," "yellow jackets," "blues" and "ludes."
      (2)   Opiates are in many different compounds and forms. The most common
are the pills, tablets or capsules. Other compounds and forms are in liquid or
powder form. Opiates can be injected, smoked or injected intravenously.
      (3)   A person operating a CMV while using opiates is more than likely to
experience distorted sense of time and distance, slowed reflexes, difficulty
focusing, drowsiness and little or no concentration.
      (4)   Some of the symptoms and signs of opiate use are:
         nausea
         loss of appetite
         drowsiness
         depression
         reduced pain
         constricted pupils
         diarrhea
         vomiting
         sweating
         memory loss
         short attention span
         cold or moist skin
         confusion
         needle marks
      (5)   Some of the signs for the presence of opiates are:
         pills
         tablets
         capsules
         needles
         syringes
         small spoons
         eye droppers
         small packets
         bottle caps
      (6)   Opiates are water soluble, but still could be retained in the
body's system for one to several days, depending on the quality of the drug,
the tolerance of the user and the dosage or amount taken. Opiates taken with
alcohol and other depressant drugs magnify the effects of the opiates and could
lead to overdoses. Intravenous users have a high risk of contracting liver
disease, tetanus, serum hepatitis and AIDS from the use of needles. Chronic
opiate use could cause loss of consciousness, convulsions, coma or death.
   (H)   Alcohol.
      (1)   Some common street names for alcohol are "booze," "juice," "brew,"
"sauce" and "hooch."
      (2)   As a rule, a drink or two will create a feeling of well-being. What
determines the rate of metabolism in the body and how fast it dissipates the
alcohol depends on the altitude, the driver's body weight, metabolism, stomach
content, gender, and whether the driver is sick or healthy, rested or tired.
After the first drink or two, impairment begins, depending on the factors
stated above. When the driver consumes alcohol that produces physical or mood-
altering effects, it becomes a substance of abuse.
      (3)   A person operating a CMV while using alcohol is more than likely to
experience blurred or distorted vision, impaired reaction time, impaired
judgment, anger, nausea, drowsiness and aggressiveness.
      (4)   Some of the symptoms and signs of alcohol use are:
         slurred speech
         odor on breath
         flushed skin
         glazed eyes
         blackouts
         drowsiness
         incoherence
         memory loss
         unsteadiness
         loss of concentration
         insomnia
         hostility
      (5)   Chronic alcohol use could cause brain damage, neurological damage,
liver damage, pancreas and kidney damage, heart problems, strokes, cancer,
coma, toxic psychosis and possible death.
(Ord. 936, passed 5-20-98)
§ 39.29 DISCIPLINARY ACTION.
   (A)   After two violations of this policy the driver shall be terminated.
   (B)   After each violation(s) of this policy, this government entity will
advise the driver of the resources available in evaluating and resolving
problems associated with the misuse of drugs and/or alcohol.
   (C)   Prior to being eligible for return-to-duty testing, the driver must be
evaluated by a SAP, who shall set up any assistance needed.
   (D)   When the driver has complied with all of the recommendations of the
SAP, the driver shall request from the SAP a letter stating whether the driver
had a problem, if any, and that the driver has complied or is continuing to
comply with the SAP's recommendations, if any. If the SAP did determine that
the driver had a problem, the SAP shall also state in the letter the number of
follow-up tests that will need to be administered after the driver returns to
duty.
   (E)   All costs associated with the evaluation(s) and rehabilitation will be
the responsibility of the driver. All costs associated with the return-to-duty
testing and follow-up testing will be paid by this government entity.
(Ord. 936, passed 5-20-98)
GIFT BAN ACT
§ 39.40 ADOPTION OF ACT.
   (A)   The State Gift Ban Act (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 425, §§ 1 et seq.) is hereby
adopted as required by ILCS Ch. 5, Act 425, § 83.
   (B)   The solicitation or the acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited
or accepted under the Act is prohibited by any elected or appointed official or
any employee of the city.
(Ord. 966, passed 6-2-99)
§ 39.41 ETHICS OFFICER.
   To the extent authorized by law and to the extent required by ILCS Ch. 5,
Act 425, § 35, the Mayor is appointed to serve as the “Ethics Officer” of the
city. The Ethic's Officer's duties shall be as provided in ILCS Ch. 5, Act 425,
§ 35.
(Ord. 966, passed 6-2-99)
§ 39.42 STATE LEGISLATIVE ETHICS COMMISSION, COMPLAINTS.
   All complaints for violations of the Act and this subchapter shall be filed
with the State Legislative Ethics Commission (created by ILCS Ch. 5, Act 425, §
45(a)(6) of the Act).
(Ord. 966, passed 6-2-99)
§ 39.43 EXISTING ETHICS ORDINANCE OR GIFT BAN ORDINANCE.
   This subchapter does not repeal or otherwise amend any other ordinance or
provision of the municipal code, which regulates the conduct of city officials
and employees. To the extent of any conflict between this subchapter and any
other ordinance, then the provisions and this ordinance shall prevail in
accordance with the provisions of ILCS Ch. 5, Act 425, § 95.
(Ord. 966, passed 6-2-99)
§ 39.44 FUTURE AMENDMENTS TO STATE GIFT BAN ACT.
   Any amendment to the State Gift Ban Act (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 425, §§ 1 et seq.)
that becomes effective after the passage of this subchapter shall be
incorporated into this subchapter by reference and shall be applicable to the
solicitation and acceptance of gifts. However, any amendment that makes its
provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be incorporated
into this subchapter by reference without formal action by the corporate
authorities of the city.
(Ord. 966, passed 6-2-99)
§ 39.45 FUTURE DECLARATION OF UNCONSTITUTIONALITY OF STATE GIFT BAN ACT.
   (A)   If the Illinois Supreme Court declares the State Gift Ban Act (ILCS
Ch. 5, Act 425, §§ 1 et seq.) unconstitutional in its entirety, then this
subchapter shall be repealed as of the date that the Supreme Court's decision
becomes final and not subject to any further appeals or re-hearings. The
subchapter shall be deemed repealed without further action by the corporate
authorities of the city of if the Act is found unconstitutional by the Illinois
Supreme Court.
   (B)   If the Illinois Supreme Court declares part of the State Gift Ban Act
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 425, §§ 1 et seq.) unconstitutional but upholds the
constitutionality of the remainder of the Act or does not address the remainder
of the Act, then the remainder of the Act as adopted by this subchapter shall
remain in full force and effect; however, that part of this subchapter relating
to the part of the Act found unconstitutional shall be deemed repealed without
further action by the corporate authorities of the city.
(Ord. 966, passed 6-2-99)
SOCIAL MEDIA POLICY
§ 39.50 DEFINITION AND STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   SOCIAL MEDIA ACCOUNT shall mean any of the City of Marseilles' accounts or
online services that allow for interaction with city residents and other
stakeholders, including, but not limited to, Facebook. The city recognizes that
social media platforms like Facebook have become mainstream forms of
communication among residents, media outlets, government agencies, businesses
and others. Using this technology, the city has additional avenues by which to
share news releases, inform the public of projects, initiatives and general
city service information, and highlight events and positive media coverage.
Additionally, social media provides the ability to share other information that
supports the goals and mission of the city. Social media also provides a two-
way means by which to interact with residents, visitors, media, local business
owners and people who work in the city.
(Ord. 1752, passed 5-20-20)
§ 39.51 LIMITED PUBLIC FORUM.
   The city's social media accounts are limited public forums. The city does
not make its social media accounts available for general public discourse, but
rather reserves and limits the topics that may be discussed on the social media
accounts.
(Ord. 1752, passed 5-20-20)
§ 39.52 CONTENT RESTRICTIONS.
   Because communication via social media constitutes a limited public forum,
the city reserves the right to reject or remove (if possible) any content that
is deemed in violation of this policy or any applicable law. City social media
account content and comments containing any of the following forms of content
shall not be allowed for posting and shall be subject to removal:
   (A)   Comments unrelated to the purpose and topical scope of the page.
 
   (B)   Defamatory, threatening or profane language.
   (C)   Content that promotes, fosters, or perpetuates discrimination on the
basis of race, creed, color, age, religion, gender, marital status, status with
regard to public assistance, national origin, physical or mental disability or
sexual orientation.
   (D)   Sexual content or links to sexual content.
   (E)   Personally identifiable information, such as an address, phone number,
social security number or other sensitive information.
   (F)   Information which may interfere with or compromise current
investigations, police tactics and the safety or security of public safety
staff and/or the public or public systems.
   (G)   Promotion or advertisement in favor of, or in opposition to a
political campaign, ballot measure candidate.
   (H)   Conduct or encouragement of illegal activity.
   (I)   Distribution of copyrighted photographs, music, video, graphics or
other content without the express permission of the copyright holder.
(Ord. 1752, passed 5-20-20)
§ 39.53 CONTENT REMOVAL.
   Content that is deemed not suitable for posting by the administrators of the
city's social media accounts based on the criteria defined above, shall be
retained by staff pursuant to the records retention schedule through use of
third party social media archive service(s). In the event such third party
services are or become unavailable, subject content shall be retained in the
form of a screen capture along with a description of the reason the specific
content was rejected. The comment will then be removed, as technology allows,
from the city's social media account(s). The city reserves the right to remove
their social media pages without notice.
(Ord. 1752, passed 5-20-20)
§ 39.54 NOTICE.
   Users and visitors to the city's social media accounts shall be notified
that the intended purpose of the account is to serve as a mechanism for
communication of city news, services and events and that it is a limited public
forum. By posting or commenting, users agree to the terms of use outlined in
this policy, which will be posted to the city's website and linked to, as
technology allows, from each of the city's social media accounts.
(Ord. 1752, passed 5-20-20)
§ 39.55 TIME OF USE.
   The city’s social media accounts are not monitored 24/7, and as such, posts
and responses should not be immediately expected. Accounts are traditionally
monitored during normal business hours, designated as weekdays from 8:00 a.m.
to 4:30 p.m., excluding holidays.
(Ord. 1752, passed 5-20-20)
§ 39.56 ACCESSIBILITY.
   When possible, and as technology allows, staff will make every effort to
ensure that photos and videos posted to social media accounts are accessible to
all, including those with visual or auditory impairments, by using available
alt text, closed captioning or other assistive features.
(Ord. 1752, passed 5-20-20)
§ 39.57 EMERGENCY NOTICE.
   As the city's social media accounts are not monitored 24/7, users are
advised NOT to use the city's social media accounts to report a crime or
emergency situation. Crime reports and requests for police, fire or emergency
medical assistance must be made by dialing 9-1-1 This policy will be reviewed,
at a minimum, annually by the City Manager's Communications Division and will
be updated as necessary.
(Ord. 1752, passed 5-20-20)
INTERESTED PARTIES REGISTRY REGISTRATION RULES
FOR REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREAS
§ 39.60 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in these registration rules codified herein, the following terms
shall have the definitions set forth below.
   ACT. The Tax Increment Allocation Redevelopment Act, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§
11-74.4-1 et seq., as amended from time to time.
   CITY. The City of Marseilles, LaSalle County, Illinois.
   CLERK. The Clerk of the City.
   INTERESTED PARTY(IES). Any individual or organization or entity registered
in a specific registry who has registered in such registry and whose
registration has not been terminated in accordance with these registration
rules.
   REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA. A redevelopment project area that (a) is
intended to qualify as a “redevelopment project area” under the act and (b) is
subject to the “interested parties” registry requirements of the Act.
   REGISTRATION FORM. The form appended to these registration rules codified
herein or such revised form as may be approved by the city consistent with the
requirements of the Act.
   REGISTRY or REGISTRIES. Each interested parties registry, and all such
registries, collectively, established by the city pursuant to § 11-74.4-4.2 of
the Act for any and all redevelopment project areas in the city.
(Ord. 1647, passed 12-6-17)
§ 39.61 ESTABLISHMENT OF REGISTRY.
   The city shall establish a separate interested parties registry for each
redevelopment project area, whether existing as of the date of the adoption of
these rules codified herein or hereafter established. The city shall establish
a new registry whenever it has identified an area for study and possible
designation as a redevelopment project area. In any event the process of
establishing the new registry must be completed prior to the deadline for
sending any of the notices required by §
39.69 or any other notices required by the Act with respect to the proposed
redevelopment project area.
(Ord. 1647, passed 12-6-17)
§ 39.62 MAINTENANCE OF REGISTRY.
   The registries shall be maintained by the Clerk or his or her designee. In
the event the city determines that an individual other than the Clerk should
maintain the registries, the city may transfer the responsibility for
maintaining the registries to such other department provided that the city (i)
gives prior written notice to all interested parties not less than 30 days
prior to such transfer and (ii) published notice of such transfer in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city.
(Ord. 1647, passed 12-6-17)
§ 39.63 REGISTRATION BY RESIDENTS.
   An individual seeking to register as an interested person with respect to a
redevelopment project area must complete and submit a registration form to the
Clerk.
(Ord. 1647, passed 12-6-17)
§ 39.64 REGISTRATION BY ORGANIZATIONS.
   An organization seeking to register as an interested person with respect to
a redevelopment project area must complete and submit a registration form to
the Clerk.
(Ord. 1647, passed 12-6-17)
§ 39.65 DETERMINATION OF ELIGIBILITY.
   All individuals and organizations whose registration form and supporting
documentation complies with these registration rules shall be registered in the
applicable registry within ten business days after the Clerk’s receipt of all
such documents. The Clerk shall provide written notice to the registrant
confirming such registration. Upon registration interested parties shall be
entitled to receive all notices and documents required to be delivered under
these rules or as otherwise required under the Act with respect to the
applicable redevelopment project area. If the Clerk determines that a
registrant’s registration form and/or supporting documentation is incomplete or
does not comply with these registration rules, the Clerk shall give written
notice to the registrant specifying the defect(s) and the registrant shall be
entitled to correct any defects and resubmit a new registration form and
supporting documentation.
(Ord. 1647, passed 12-6-17)
§ 39.66 RENEWAL AND TERMINATION.
   An interested person’s registration shall remain effective for a period of
three years. At any time after such three-year period the Clerk may provide
written notice by regular mail to the interested person stating that such
registration shall terminate unless the interested person renews such
registration with 30 days after the Clerk’s mailing of written notice. To renew
such registration, the interested person shall, within such 30 day period,
complete and submit the same registration form then required of initial
registrants operations in the city. The registration of all individuals and
organizations whose registration form is submitted in a timely manner and
complies with these regulation rules shall be renewed for an additional,
consecutive three year period. If the Clerk determines that a registrant’s
renewal registration form is incomplete or does not comply with these
registration rules, the clerk shall give written notice to the registrant at
the address specified in the renewal registration form submitted by such
registrant, specifying the defect(s). The registrant shall be entitled to
correct any defects and resubmit a new registration form within 30 days after
receipt of the Clerk’s notice. If all defects are not corrected within 30 days
after the interested person’s receipt of the Clerk’s notice, the interested
person’s registration shall be terminated. Any interested person whose
registration is terminated shall be entitled to register again as if a first-
time registrant.
(Ord. 1647, passed 12-6-17)
§ 39.67 AMENDMENT TO REGISTRATION.
   An interested party may amend its registration by giving written notice to
the Clerk by certified mail of any of the following: (i) change in address for
notice purposes: (ii) in the case of organizations, a change in the name of the
contact person; and (iii) a termination of registration. Upon receipt of such
notice, the Clerk shall revise the applicable registry accordingly.
(Ord. 1647, passed 12-6-17)
§ 39.68 REGISTRIES AVAILABLE FOR PUBLIC INSPECTION.
   Each registry shall be available for public inspection during normal
business hours. The registry shall include the name, address and telephone
number of each interested person and for organizations, the name and phone
number of a designated contact person.
(Ord. 1647, passed 12-6-17)
§ 39.69 NOTICES TO BE SENT TO INTERESTED PARTIES.
   Interested parties shall be sent the following notices and any other notices
required under the Act with respect to the applicable redevelopment project
area:
   (A)   Pursuant to ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1l-74.4-5(a), notice of the
availability of a proposed redevelopment plan and eligibility report, including
how to obtain this information; such notice shall be sent by mail within a
reasonable period of time after the adoption of the ordinance or resolution
fixing the public hearing for the proposed redevelopment plan;
   (B)   Pursuant to sub-section ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1l-74.4-5(a), notice of
changes to proposed redevelopment plans that do not (1) add additional parcels
of property to the proposed redevelopment project area, (2) substantially
affect the general land uses proposed in the redevelopment plan, (3)
substantially change the nature of or extend the life of the redevelopment
project, or (4) increase the number of inhabited residential units to be
displaced from the redevelopment project area, as measured from the time of
creation of the redevelopment project area, to a total of more than ten; such
notice shall be sent by mail not later than ten days following the city’s
adoption by ordinance of such changes.
   (C)   Pursuant to ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1l-74.4-5(c), notice of amendments
to previously approved redevelopment plans that do not (1) add additional
parcels of property to the redevelopment project area, (2) substantially affect
the general land uses in the redevelopment plan, (3) substantially change the
nature of the redevelopment project, (4) increase the total estimated
redevelopment project costs set out in the redevelopment plan by more than 5%
after adjustment for inflation from the date the plan was adopted, (5) add
additional redevelopment project costs to the itemized list of redevelopment
project costs set out in the redevelopment plan, or (6) increase the number of
inhabited residential units to be displaced from the redevelopment project
area, as measured from the time of creation of the redevelopment project, to a
total of more than ten; such notice will be sent by mail not later than ten
days following the city’s adoption by ordinance of such amendment;
   (D)   Pursuant to ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1l-74.4-5(d)(9), for redevelopment
plans or projects that would result in the displacement of residents from ten
or more inhabited residential units, or that contain 75 or more inhabited
residential units, notice of the availability of the annual report described by
ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1l-74.4-5(d), including how to obtain the annual report;
such notice shall be sent by mail within a reasonable period of time after
completion of the certified audit report.
   (E)   Pursuant to ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1l-74.4-6(e), notice of the
preliminary public meeting required under the Act for a proposed redevelopment
project area that will result in the displacement of residents from ten or more
inhabited residential units or which will contain 75 or more inhabited
residential units; such notice shall be sent by certified mail not less than 15
days before the date of such preliminary public meeting.
(Ord. 1647, passed 12-6-17)
§ 39.70 NON-INTERFERENCE.
   These registration rules shall not be used to prohibit or otherwise
interfere with the ability of eligible organizations and individuals to
register for receipt of information to which they are entitled under the Act.
(Ord. 1647, passed 12-6-17)
2018 S-15
§ 39.71 AMENDMENT OF REGISTRATION RULES.
   The registration rules codified herein may be amended by the city subject to
and consistent with the requirements of the Act.
(Ord. 1647, passed 12-6-17)
CHAPTER 40: ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION
Section
   
40.01   Purpose; authority, reservations of rights
   
40.02   Definitions
   
40.03   Code Hearing Division
   
40.04   Powers of the hearing officer
   
40.05   Pre-commencement of administrative hearings
   
40.06   Commencement of administrative hearings
   
40.07   Service of complaint and notice of hearing
   
40.08   Administrative hearings
   
40.09   Appeal from decision of hearing officer
   
40.10   Enforcement of judgement
   
40.11   Supplemental hearings
§ 40.01 PURPOSE; AUTHORITY, RESERVATIONS OF RIGHTS.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide a fair and efficient method of
enforcing city ordinances by an administrative hearing officer. Administrative
adjudication shall only be utilized for purposes authorized under Division 2.1
Administrative Adjudications under the Illinois Municipal Code. Administrative
adjudication shall not be used for offenses governing the movement of vehicles
that are reportable offenses under Section 6-204 of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
A hearing officer under administrative adjudication shall not have authority to
impose a penalty of incarceration, or impose a fine in excess of $50,000. The
maximum monetary fine shall be exclusive of costs including costs of
enforcement, costs imposed to secure compliance with the city's ordinances, and
cost of collection including costs of any collection agency or attorney. The
city reserves its right to employ all other means and methods available under
the law to enforce its city ordinances, including direct application to the
Circuit Court.
(Ord. 1625, passed 1-18-17)
§ 40.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   BUILDING CODE. Any city ordinance or law that establishes construction,
plumbing, heating, electrical, fire prevention, sanitation or other health and
safety standards that are applicable to structures in the city.
   CODE VIOLATION. Non-compliance with any building code or non-building code
ordinance or law adopted by the city.
   COMPLAINT. A formal written accusation against a person or entity (i.e., a
ticket or notice of violation for a violation of a city ordinance).
   DEFAULT. A failure to appear for a scheduled hearing.
   HEARING OFFICER. A State of Illinois attorney licensed for at least three
years and in good standing with the attorney registration and disciplinary
commission of the Supreme Court of Illinois appointed by the Mayor. A hearing
officer shall have successfully completed a formal training program which
includes:
      (1)   Instruction on the rules of procedure of the administrative
hearings which they will conduct;
      (2)   Orientation to each subject area of the code violations that they
will adjudicate;
      (3)   Observation of administrative hearings; and
      (4)   Participation in hypothetical cases, including ruling on evidence
and issuing final orders.
   NON-BUILDING CODE. Any city ordinance or law, except for a building code
ordinance or law, which prohibits certain actions or behaviors that are
contrary to the public's health, safety and welfare.
   OFFICER. A full or part-time Marseilles Police Department Officer.
   RESPONDENT. Person charged with violating any ordinance or law in the City
of Marseilles.
(Ord. 1625, passed 1-18-17)
§ 40.03 CODE HEARING DIVISION.
   There is hereby established a Marseilles Code Hearing Division, the function
of which is to expedite the prosecution and correction of code violations in
the manner set out in this chapter. The Mayor shall appoint members to the Code
Hearing Division consisting of a hearing officer, a clerk, and a computer
operator. In the event that the city has an intergovernmental agreement with
another Illinois unit of local government to establish a mutual program of
administrative adjudication, the Mayor may appoint to the Code Hearing Division
parties employed by other parties to the intergovernmental agreement.
(Ord. 1625, passed 1-18-17)
§ 40.04 POWERS OF THE HEARING OFFICER.
   (A)   Preside at an administrative hearing called to determine whether or
not a code violation exists.
   (B)   At the request of any party or on the administrative hearing officer's
own motion, issue subpoenas for the attendance of relevant witnesses and/or the
production of relevant books, records, or other information. Subpoena issuance
shall be at the discretion of the administrative hearing officer, where it is
determined that the requested witness or document is material to the defense of
the allegations and does not constitute a needless presentation and that the
elements of the defense sought to be proved could not otherwise be established
without the production of the requested evidence.
   (C)   Administer oaths to witnesses, hear testimony, ask questions of the
parties and witnesses, if necessary, to ensure the clarity and completeness of
the testimony and the record, and accept evidence that is relevant to the
existence of a code violation.
   (D)   Preserve and authenticate the record of the hearing and all exhibits
and evidence introduced at the hearing.
   (E)   Issue a written determination based on a review of the notice of
violation, citation, other charging documents and based upon the evidence
presented at the hearing, stating whether a code violation exists. The
determination shall be in writing.
   (F)   Impose penalties consistent with applicable code provisions and assess
costs upon finding a party liable for the charged violation. When applicable,
each day a code provision is found to have been violated by the respondent
shall constitute a separate offense, and each separate offense subjects the
respondent to the penalty provided by the governing penalty provision.
   (G)   Impose, in addition to fines, administrative and enforcement costs
and, when applicable, imposing costs incurred by the city for effecting
compliance with code provision(s) for which a respondent has been found liable.
(Ord. 1625, passed 1-18-17)
§ 40.05 PRE-COMMENCEMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS.
   (A)   A police officer or the Code Hearing Unit at the request of a police
officer prior to commencing an administrative hearing procedure may provide
notice to an alleged ordinance offender that the city intends to commence an
administrative hearing. The notice shall advise that an administrative hearing
may be avoided by payment of 1/2 of the minimum fine paid and received by the
city no less than five business days before the hearing date. If no payment is
timely received by the city the charge or ticket shall remain on the docket for
an administrative hearing.
   (B)   An officer issuing a ticket to the offender may present to the
offender a notice advising that they may avoid an administrative hearing by
payment of 1/2 of the minimum fine paid and received by the city no less than
five business days before the hearing date. If no payment is timely received by
the city the charge or ticket shall remain on the docket for an administrative
hearing.
   (C)   The prepayment of a fine under this section shall not constitute an
admission of guilt by the person charged and no record of the filing of an
administrative hearing shall be maintained for a potential respondent making a
pre-commencement payment.
(Ord. 1625, passed 1-18-17)
§ 40.06 COMMENCEMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS.
   (A)   Any police officer may request a code violation be referred to
administrative adjudication by tendering a charging document to the Code
Hearing Division. A person may also initiate an administrative hearing by
making a report with a designated code enforcement officer of the Police
Department signing a charging document if found sufficient by the code
enforcement officer. Any refusal to initiate a person's charge by the code
enforcement officer may be appealed to the Commission of Public Health and
Safety.
   (B)   The charging document shall:
      (1)   Identify the respondent by name and identify the respondent's
address or place for service;
      (2)   Identify the relevant code section or sections;
      (3)   Identify the date, time, and place of the alleged violation;
      (4)   Provide a description of the activity, conduct or condition alleged
to constitute a code violation in sufficient detail so that a reasonable person
can identify the nature of the alleged code violation;
      (5)   Be signed by the police officer or person making the complaint to
the police officer. A police officer signing a charge shall constitute a
certification of the correctness of the information in the complaint and shall
establish a prima facie case. A person other than a police officer shall swear
to the accuracy of the information in the complaint before a notary public and
such shall also constitute a certification of the correctness of the
information in the complaint and shall establish a prima facie case;
      (6)   If a person signing the complaint is not a police officer, the
complaining person shall provide their contact information to allow the Code
Hearing Division to provide effective notice of scheduled administrative
hearing; and
      (7)   Upon receipt of a complaint, the Code Hearing Division shall
register the complaint on a docket for an upcoming administrative hearing and
initiate service of the complaint and notice of hearing on the respondent if
not already provided the respondent by the initiating police officer.
(Ord. 1625, passed 1-18-17)
§ 40.07 SERVICE OF COMPLAINT AND NOTICE OF HEARING.
   The Code Hearing Division shall establish a calendar of hearing dates and
make such available to the Police Department. The notice of hearing may be
provided with the complaint. In non-emergency circumstances, the hearing should
generally be set not less than two weeks nor more than six weeks from the date
of the complaint. A copy of the complaint and a notice of hearing identifying
service may be obtained on a respondent by one or more of the following means:
   (A)   By personal delivery of the complaint and notice of hearing to a
respondent no less than ten days before the hearing by a police officer or
other party designated by the Code Hearing Division;
   (B)   By a police officer or other party designated by the Code Hearing
Division leaving a copy of the complaint and notice of hearing no less than ten
days before the hearing at the usual place of abode of the respondent with a
family member or a person residing there who is 13 years of age or older and
mailing a copy of the complaint and notice of hearing in a sealed envelope with
postage fully prepaid, addressed to the respondent at their usual place of
abode;
   (C)   By certified or registered mail, return receipt requested to the usual
place of abode of the respondent, upon return of a receipt showing to whom
delivered and the date and address of delivery which shall be no less than ten
days before the hearing;
   (D)   Service of notice of a violation of ordinance governing parking or
standing of vehicles may be made by affixing the complaint and notice of
hearing to an unlawfully parked or standing vehicle or by handing the notice to
the operator of the vehicle if the operator is present;
   (E)   Service of notice of a violation of ordinance governing a nuisance
building may be made by posting the complaint and notice of hearing at a main
entrance of the building with a mailing of the complaint and notice of hearing
no less than ten days before the hearing to the address where tax bills are
mailed; or
   (F)   The officer or other person accomplishing service of the complaint and
notice of hearing shall complete and sign a proof of service describing the
manner of service and date of service. Failure to endorse the date and manner
of service shall not affect the validity of service. If service is not
accomplished within ten days of the hearing, the Code Hearing Division shall
remove the complaint from the hearing docket, establish a new hearing date and
attempt a further service of complaint and notice of hearing.
(Ord. 1625, passed 1-18-17)
§ 40.08 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS.
   (A)   All administrative hearings conducted by a hearing officer are open to
the public and shall be presided over by a duly appointed hearing officer who
is charged with providing the parties a full and fair opportunity to be heard.
   (B)   All administrative hearings shall be conducted on the date set for
hearing. In rare instances and for good cause shown, a continuance may be
granted at the discretion of the administrative hearing officer. The purpose of
administrative hearings is to provide a prompt resolution of alleged code
violations. Accordingly, the request for, and the grant of, continuances shall
be curtailed to the extent fairness permits. Lack of preparation shall not be
grounds for a continuance. Continuances shall not be granted for more than two
months.
   (C)   The formal and technical rules of evidence shall be waived in the
conduct of the hearing. Evidence, including hearsay, may be admitted.
Respondents may be represented by attorney or other representative. The city
may, but need not, be represented by an attorney or other representative. The
respondent may testify, present witnesses, and cross-examine any opposing
witnesses. The complaint shall be considered proof of a complaint violation and
the city may, but need not, present witnesses or other proofs. The hearing
officer shall consider the police report and any accompanying pictures or other
documents. For good cause shown to the hearing officer, the parties may request
the hearing officer to issue subpoenas to direct the attendance and testimony
of relevant witnesses and the production of relevant documents.
   (D)   The hearing officer shall permit persons to contest the merits of a
charge without attending a hearing. Any person may file a notarized statement
of facts specifying grounds for contesting the violation notice, which must be
received with the office of administrative hearings no less than five business
days prior to the date of the hearing.
   (E)   No violation may be established except upon proof by a preponderance
of the evidence. The charging document, issued in accordance with the
applicable provisions of this code, however, shall be prima facie evidence of
the correctness of the facts specified in the document.
   (F)   If at the time set for hearing, the respondent, or their attorney or
other agent fails to appear, the administrative hearing officer shall enter a
default judgment of liability against the respondent and impose fines and
assess costs.
   (G)   The administrative hearing officer shall dismiss a case without
prejudice upon motion by a representative of the city.
   (H)   At the conclusion of a hearing, the hearing officer shall issue their
final determination which may be liable, not liable, or liable upon default or
a plea of no contest. If the hearing officer issues a final determination of
liability, the hearing officer shall impose fines and assess costs. At the
request of the city, the hearing officer may issue an order of compliance. The
order of compliance shall set a further compliance hearing and the hearing
officer may advise the respondent that the fine amount will be determined at
the further compliance hearing taking into consideration needed compliance
work. At any scheduled compliance hearing, the hearing officer may continue the
matter for a further compliance hearing, and may establish a fine if not before
established.
   (I)   The cost to be assessed as part of an administrative hearing shall be
$30 consisting of fees associated with file management/record keeping, fees
paid the hearing officer, and review and/or attendance by the City Attorney.
   (J)   If one or more respondents are present, the hearing officer shall make
their decision both orally and in writing. The hearing officer shall under all
circumstances issue a written decision. The decision shall also contain a
statement that the respondent may appeal the decision to the Circuit Court
within 35 days, pursuant to the Illinois Administrative Review Act set forth in
ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq. Any decision of the hearing officer
finding liability shall provide fine payment information to the offender. The
Code Hearing Unit within five business days of a written decision shall mail a
copy of the order by United States mail to any respondent not present at the
hearing.
   (K)   The hearing officer's written final determination shall constitute a
final determination for purposes of judicial review and is subject to review
under the Illinois Administrative Review Act.
   (L)   The hearing officer may set aside any order entered by default and set
a new hearing date upon a petition received by the Code Hearing Unit within 21
days after the issuance of the order of default and mailing of the order. The
hearing officer may vacate a default if they determine that the respondent's
failure to appear at the hearing was for good cause or at any time if the
respondent establishes that the city did not provide proper service of process.
If any judgment is set aside pursuant to this section, the hearing officer
shall have the authority to enter any order extinguishing any lien which has
been recorded for any debt due and owing the city as a result of the vacated
default order.
   (M)   The Mayor, or in his or her absence the members to the Code Hearing
Division, shall determine the manner in which the record shall be preserved.
Such preservation may be made by tape recording or other appropriate means.
Recording by any means by any member of the public is prohibited unless
expressly authorized by the hearing officer. The record of all hearings before
an administrative hearing officer shall include a copy of the findings,
decision, and order of the administrative hearing officer's final
determination.
(Ord. 1625, passed 1-18-17)
§ 40.09 APPEAL FROM DECISION OF HEARING OFFICER.
   Any final decision by a hearing officer that a code violation does or does
not exist shall constitute a final determination for purposes of judicial
review and shall be subject to review under the Illinois Administrative Review
Law. Any person filing for judicial review under the Administrative Review Law
shall be subject to the assessment of costs of the Code Hearing Division for
the preparation and certification of the record of proceedings before the
hearing officer. Any failure to pay such fee shall subject the party seeking
review to the provisions of ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 3-109, including dismissal
of the complaint on a motion by the city.
(Ord. 1625, passed 1-18-17)
§ 40.10 ENFORCEMENT OF JUDGMENT.
   (A)   Any fine, other sanction, or costs imposed, or part of any fine, other
sanction or costs imposed by the hearing officer which remains unpaid after
expiration of the period in which judicial review may be commenced under the
Illinois Administrative Review Law (unless stayed by a court of competent
jurisdiction) shall be a debt due and owing the city may be enforced in the
same manner as a judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction. Upon
being recorded in the manner required by Article XII of the Illinois Code of
Civil Procedure, a lien shall be imposed upon the real estate of the respondent
in the amount of any debt due and owing. The lien may be enforced in the same
manner as a judgment lien pursuant to a judgment of a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   (B)   The city may commence a proceeding in the circuit court for the
purpose of obtaining a judgment on the findings, decision, and order. Nothing
in this section shall prevent the city from consolidating multiple findings,
decisions, and orders against a person in such a proceeding. When the city
seeks a judgment on the findings, decision, and order, the city shall file a
certified copy of the findings, decision, and order, which shall be accompanied
by a certificate that recites facts sufficient to show that the findings,
decision, and order was issued in accordance with this chapter and applicable
provisions of this code.
   (C)   Upon being recorded in the manner required by Article XII of the Code
of Civil Procedure or by the Uniform Commercial Code, a lien shall be imposed
on the real estate or personal estate, or both, of the respondent in the amount
of any debt due and owing the city under this section. The lien may be enforced
in the same manner as a judgment lien pursuant to a judgment of a court of
competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   In the event that the order provided for the correction of a
violation, the hearing officer shall set a future hearing date for the
respondent to correct the violation. At such time, the hearing officer shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the abatement of the
violation in accordance with the order.
   (E)   The order to correct a code violation and the sanctions imposed by the
city as the result of a fine of a code violation under this section shall
attach to the property as well as to the owner of the property, so that a
finding of a code violation against one owner cannot be avoided by conveying or
transferring the property to another owner. Any subsequent transferee or owner
of property takes subject to the findings, decision and order of a hearing
officer under this section.
   (F)   Any expenses incurred by the city to enforce the judgment, including,
but not limited to, attorney's fees, court costs, and collection costs
including that or a collection agency may be assessed against the respondent by
the hearing officer in a supplemental proceeding.
(Ord. 1625, passed 1-18-17)
§ 40.11 SUPPLEMENTAL HEARINGS.
   In any case in which a respondent has failed to comply with an order
directing the respondent to correct a city code violation or other sanction or
when a fine is not timely paid, the city may commence a supplemental hearing
imposing any expenses incurred by the city in the enforcement of the order
against the respondent. Notice shall be provided the respondent by mail no less
than 14 days before the scheduled hearing on the supplemental proceeding.
Notice may be provided in the same manner as service of complaint and notice of
hearing or may be provided by United States mail to any address provided by the
respondent to the city during the hearing process.
(Ord. 1625, passed 1-18-17)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
Chapter
   
50.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
   
51.   SEWER USE
   
52.   WATER AND SEWER SERVICE
   
53.   ELECTRIC SERVICE
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
Collection and Disposal of Garbage and Refuse
   
50.10   Containers; specifications
   
50.11   Preparation of garbage
   
50.12   Transportation of ashes and non-noxious matter
   
50.13   Burning of landscape waste, refuse and garbage
   
50.14   Prohibited disposition of refuse or garbage
Recycling
   
50.25   Findings of fact
   
50.26   Definitions
   
50.27   Licensing
   
50.28   Restriction on fees
   
50.29   Scavenging prohibited
   
50.30   Periodic review
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the meaning or definition
as contained in Section 3 of the Environmental Protection Act (ILCS Ch. 415,
Act 5, § 1, et seq.), unless the context otherwise clearly requires.
   GARBAGE. Waste resulting from the handling, processing, preparation, cooking
and consumption of food, and wastes from the handling, processing, storage and
sale of produce.
   WASTE. Any garbage, sludge from a waste treatment plant, water supply
treatment plant, or air pollution control facility or other discarded material,
including solid, liquid, semi-solid or contained gaseous material resulting
from industrial, commercial, mining and agricultural operations, and from
community activities, but does not include solid or dissolved material in
domestic sewage, or solid or dissolved materials in irrigation return flows or
industrial discharges which are point sources subject to permits under Section
402 of the Clean Water Act (33 USC 142) or sources, special nuclear, or by-
product materials as defined by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (68
Stat. 921) (42 USC 2011 et seq.) or any solid or dissolved material from any
facility subject to the Federal Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of
1977 (P.L. 95-87) (30 USC 1201 et seq.) or the rules and regulations thereunder
or any law or rule or regulation adopted by the state pursuant thereto.
   REFUSE. Shall mean waste.
   LANDSCAPE WASTE. All accumulations of grass or shrubbery cuttings, leaves,
tree limbs and other materials accumulated as the result of the care of lawns,
shrubbery, vines and trees.
   MUNICIPAL WASTE. Garbage, general household and commercial waste, landscape
waste and construction or demolition debris.
   FLUID. Material or substance which flows or moves whether in a semi-solid,
liquid, sludge, gas or any other form or state.
   DISPOSAL. The discharge, deposit, injection, dumping, spilling, leaking or
placing of any waste or hazardous waste into or on any land or water or into
any well so that such waste or hazardous waste or any constituent thereof may
enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharge into any waters,
including ground waters.
   ASHES. The waste product of combustion of any material.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, political
subdivision, state agency or any other legal entity, or their legal
representative, agent or assigns.
   OPEN BURNING. The combustion of any matter in the open or in an open dump.
   OPEN DUMPING. The consolidation of refuse from one or more sources at a
disposal site that does not fulfill the requirements of a sanitary landfill.
(Ord. 741, passed 4-5-89)
COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE
§ 50.10 CONTAINERS; SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every person, tenant, lessee, or occupant of
very dwelling, tenement house, lodging house, hotel, restaurant, boarding house
or other person on whose premises municipal waste collects, to provide, at all
times to keep within such building, or on the premises, containers sufficient
to hold of municipal waste which may accumulate on the premises.
   (B)   Such containers shall be of metal or plastic, water-tight, and with a
tight fitting cover, and equipped with suitable handles and of such size to be
easily handled by one man. No person unless authorized or licensed for that
purpose, shall interfere with such containers or the contents thereof.
   (C)   All other waste and ashes or cinders may be placed in a separate
fireproof receptacle, readily accessible for emptying or removal, and of such
size as to be easily handled by one man, and where such receptacles will not be
a public nuisance. All such municipal waste ashes or cinders and other refuse
shall be removed on a regular basis.
(Ord. 741, passed 4-5-89) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.11 PREPARATION OF GARBAGE.
   (A)   The disposal of municipal waste and refuse by all persons, including
landscape waste, shall conform with all requirements of state and federal law,
and shall be in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. Surplus liquids
and fluid of all municipal waste must be drained off so as to avoid spillage.
Household garbage must be enclosed or wrapped before being placed in the
receptacle, as hereinabove set forth. Collection of garbage shall be made at
least once a week from single-family dwelling units and multiple-family
dwellings of less than three units. Collection of garbage from multiple-family
dwellings and non-residential property shall be established by order of the
Commissioner of Streets and Public Improvements.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this section for any person, firm,
corporation or entity of any kind to place garbage, recyclable materials or
other wastes of any nature and kind for collection by the contract garbage
hauler at the curbside or other designated collection area more than 48 hours
prior to the scheduled collection time.
(Ord. 741, passed 4-5-89; Am. Ord. 1413, passed 5-19-10)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.12 TRANSPORTATION OF ASHES AND NON-NOXIOUS MATTER.
   All ashes and non-noxious matter must be hauled in vehicles of such
construction and so covered as not to permit the sifting out or spilling or
scattering by the wind or leakage of any matter to be hauled or transported.
(Ord. 741, passed 4-5-89) Penalty, see §
50.99
  § 50.13 BURNING OF LANDSCAPE WASTE, REFUSE AND GARBAGE.
   (A)   Except as provided below, it shall be unlawful to burn any garbage, or
other organic refuse at any time in the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to burn papers, excelsior, or other material
which may be blown about the wind anywhere in the city unless the same is
burned in a stove, fireplace, furnace or incinerator sufficiently fine to
prevent the escape of ignited particles.
   (C)   Landscape waste which is dry may be burned only when raked into piles
of a reasonable size with the wind velocity being less than ten miles per hour
and burned between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m., and with a person at
least 18 years old in attendance to control the fire. Burning leaves and debris
must be completely extinguished after 4:00 p.m. No leaves shall be burned upon
an asphalt or bituminous surface in any street or alley.
   (D)   In addition to any fine for violation of this section, any person who
shall violate this section and cause a response from the Marseilles Fire
Protection District, or any other fire district or ambulance service pursuant
to a mutual aid call from the Marseilles Fire Protection District shall be
required to make restitution to the agency for the costs of that emergency
response. The restitution may not exceed $1,000 per public agency for each
emergency response.
(Ord. 741, passed 4-5-89; Am. Ord. 1413, passed 5-19-10  Penalty, see §
50.99
Cross-reference:
   Burning of leaves and garbage, see §
92.03
§ 50.14 PROHIBITED DISPOSITION OF REFUSE OR GARBAGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to deposit or leave any refuse or material in
such a place or condition that it can be blown by the wind so as to be
scattered.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dump or deposit, or cause to be
dumped or deposited, any landscape waste or any other things in the right-of-
way of any street or alley in the city, except that dry leaves may be raked to
the parking area along any street to be burned promptly within the limitations
specified in §
50.13.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit anywhere in the city
any refuse, garbage, offal, or the body of any dead animal, except in a duly
permitted landfill. The deposit of any such material, except as lawfully
permitted, is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit refuse, garbage, ERWP
or large recyclable items, in or out of containers, on the berms of the city
except as follows:
      (1)   Refuse, garbage, and ERWP may be placed on the berm of the street
immediately adjacent to the premises from which the refuse or garbage was
generated no sooner than 12 hours prior to removal from the premises, and said
containers shall be removed therefrom no later than 12 hours following the
removal of the refuse and garbage contained therein.
      (2)   Large recyclable items may be placed on the berm of the street only
after a request of pickup has been filed with the City Clerk. Such items may be
placed on the berm no sooner than 12 hours prior to scheduled date for removal.
Such items shall be placed on the berm immediately adjacent to the premises
from which the large recyclable items were generated.
(Ord. 741, passed 4-5-89; Am. Ord. 1370, passed 3-4-09 ) Penalty, see §
50.99
RECYCLING
§ 50.25 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   The city has made the following findings of fact:
   (A)   The recycling of certain items, including, but not limited to,
aluminum cans, tin (steel) cans, newspaper, mixed paper (low to high grade),
plastic containers, glass bottles and any Economically Recyclable Waste
Products (ERWP), is vital to the conservation of America's natural resources.
   (B)   The inclusion of ERWP in the garbage and waste generated by the
residents of the city, increases the volume of garbage and waste which must
ultimately be disposed of in sanitary landfills.
   (C)   The continued disposal of ERWP generated by residents of the city and
surrounding communities will exacerbate the shortage of landfill space.
   (D)   By eliminating ERWP from the stream of garbage and waste, the capacity
of existing landfills to serve the needs of the city for the disposal of
nonrecyclable garbage and rubbish will be extended for several years.
   (E)   In the interim, science may find new technological methods for the
safe disposition of household garbage without threatening our air and water
supplies.
   (F)   The city has called upon the private contracting haulers who provide
garbage and waste pick-up service in the city to provide such special recycling
service upon the condition that all of the licensed private haulers who collect
garbage and rubbish in the city shall provide such recycling service.
   (G)   If all private haulers who collect garbage and waste in the city do
not participate in the recycling program, the haulers who do participate in the
recycling program will be at a competitive disadvantage and as a result will
not be able to provide this vitally needed recycling service.
   (H)   The private garbage and waste haulers who provide pick up and disposal
service in the city have offered to provide such special recycling service upon
the condition that all of the private haulers who collect garbage and rubbish
in the city provide such recycling service.
   (I)   Regulations providing for the licensing of recycling services by
private hauling contractors serving the city are necessary to institute viable
curbside recycling.
   (J)    City residents need a convenient method to dispose of large
recyclable items, and the city can assist with regular periodic pickup of large
recyclable items so long as residents comply with designated pickup procedures.
   (K)   Illinois Compiled Statutes Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-19-4 authorizes the
establishment of recycling programs by municipalities and the collection of a
service charge therefore.
(Ord. 787, passed 11-18-92; Am. Ord. 1370, passed 3-4-09 )
§ 50.26 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. All other
words and phrases herein shall have the meaning ascribed to them by the
Illinois Environmental Protection Act, the Solid Waste Planning and Recycling
Act or the Local Solid Waste Disposal Act.
   CURBSIDE GARBAGE AND WASTE COLLECTION. Refers to unrecyclable items
collected from a set out point in line with the street curb, or in line with
rural mail boxes on a curb-less street.
   CURBSIDE RECYCLABLE COLLECTION. Refers to recyclable items collected from a
set out point in line with the street curb, or in line with rural mail boxes on
a curb-less street.
   ERWP (list of Economically Recyclable Waste Products.) These include
newspaper, magazines, all grades of mixed (low to high grade) paper, cardboard
(OCC), plastics including HDPE, PET plastic bottles, (otherwise known as #1 &
#2 plastic), clear, amber and green glass bottles, aluminum, bi-metal and tin
(steel cans).
   GARBAGE. Wastes resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and
consumption of food.
   GARBAGE AND RUBBISH REMOVAL CONTRACTOR. A person, firm, corporation or other
entity who collects garbage, rubbish, refuse, trash, and the like, for hire in
the incorporated area of the city.
   HOUSEHOLDS. Refers to single-family residential dwellings having curbside
garbage and waste/ and or curbside recyclable collection service.
   LARGE ITEM. Refers to oversized items such as furniture, bedding, cartons,
boxes, bathtubs, radios, televisions, musical records, tape players, musical
instruments (except for pianos), but shall not include such items as broken
concrete, building materials, rocks, fallen trees, dirt or any item to large to
be placed in a compactor-type truck.
   LARGE RECYCLABLE ITEMS. Empty refrigerators with doors removed, empty
freezers with doors removed, stoves, hot water heaters, washers, dryers,
microwaves, dishwashers, lawn mowers, bicycles, air conditioners, wire hangers,
wire fencing, empty barrels, empty cans, disassembled swing sets, propane
tanks, car batteries, or any car parts with the exception of tires.
   RECYCLING CONTAINERS. Eighteen-gallon rectangular bins made from recycled
plastic to be used by the source or generator of the waste stream for the
source separation of recyclables from nonrecyclables.
   REFUSE. Combustible trash, including, but not limited to, paper, cartons,
boxes, barrels, wood, excelsior, tree branches, yard trimmings, wood furniture,
bedding; noncombustible trash, including, but limited to, metals, tin cans,
metal furniture, dirt, small quantities of rock and pieces of concrete, glass,
crockery, other mineral waste; street rubbish, including, but not limited to,
street sweepings, dirt, leaves, catch-basin dirt, contents of litter
receptacles, but refuse does not mean earth and wastes from building
operations, nor shall it include solid wastes resulting from industrial
processes and manufacturing operations such as food processing wastes, boiler-
house cinders, lumber, scraps and shavings.
   SOLID WASTE.  WASTE as defined in the Illinois Environmental Protection Act,
which is in solid or semi-solid form provided that SOLID WASTE does not include
material that is intended or collected to be recycled.
(Ord. 787, passed 11-18-92; Am. Ord. 1370, passed 3-4-09)
§ 50.27 LICENSING.
   (A)   No garbage, refuse, waste or recycling hauling contractor shall pickup
garbage, refuse, waste or recyclable waste products in the city unless:
      (1)   Licensed by the city pursuant to this subchapter, and
      (2)   Unless, the hauler provides separate collection service for
Economically Recyclable Waste Products, and other garbage and waste, or
      (3)   Such garbage and waste hauler subcontracts with a licensed garbage
and waste hauler to provide the recycling service to its customers pursuant to
this subchapter.
      (4)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to limit curbside
recycling collection service to single-family residential units.
      (5)   Eighteen-gallon recycling containers shall be the required
receptacle for the separate collection of ERWP in the city. The containers
shall be provided by contractor to all residential customers at contractor's
expense.
      (6)   A recycling hauling contractor may obtain a license for just pickup
of large recyclable items.
   (B)   The license shall:
      (1)    Be available from the city at an annual charge of $50 per vehicle
used in the City of Marseilles; the license fee shall be paid upon the
submittal of application to the city. The Mayor and City Council may issue,
deny, suspend or revoke a license upon the determination that the issuance,
denial, suspension or revocation of such license would tend to further the
health, safety and welfare of the residents of the city.
      (2)   Require each licensee to provide weekly curbside recycling
collection service for all of its curbside garbage and rubbish collection
customers.
      (3)   Require each licensee to provide the city with a surety bond
conditioned upon the observance of the requirements of this subchapter and all
other valid regulations and laws pertaining to recycling and waste disposal.
The bond shall be in the sum of $10,000 and be filed in the Office of the City
Clerk. In the alternative, contractor may furnish a cashier's check in the
amount of $10,000 made payable to the city as security for the performance of
the requirements of this subchapter. The city will deposit the $10,000 security
check in an interest bearing account and upon the complete compliance of the
terms of this subchapter and the conditions of the license issued pursuant to
this subchapter, the city will return the $10,000, plus accumulated interest,
to the licensee. Upon the renewal of a license, the city shall pay all
accumulated interest to the licensee.
      (4)   Require each licensee to provide evidence of workman's compensation
as required by law, and public liability and property damage insurance with the
following coverages:
         (a)   Five million dollars each person;
         (b)   Five million dollars each accident;
         (c)   Five million dollars each property damage;
      (5)   Prohibit each licensee from disposing of ERWP in any sanitary
landfill, and to provide to the city such evidence of the disposal of ERWP as
the city may require from time to time.
      (6)   Provide each customer at least one 18-gallon recycling bin at no
additional charge to the customer.
      (7)   Require each licensee to submit to the city a list of the names and
addresses of each customer residing within the city.
      (8)   Be for a term of one year from the date of its issuance and not be
transferable; providing, however, the license may be revoked for the violation
of any provision of this subchapter. Renewal licenses may be issued for a term
not to exceed one year.
      (9)   (a)    Require each licensee to provide to its customers garbage
collection stickers at a cost not to exceed $1.25 per sticker; the garbage
collection stickers shall be placed upon all containers of garbage in excess of
two 30-gallon cans or bags or the equivalent thereof, or one 30-gallon
container or bag and one large item which may include furniture, box springs,
mattresses, bathtubs, cartons, boxes, barrels, but shall not include items as:
broken concrete, building materials, rocks, fallen trees, dirt, or any
household item to large to be placed in a compactor-type truck.
         (b)   All such cans, containers or bags, except large items, shall not
exceed 30-gallon capacity with a maximum weight for any one container and its
contents not to exceed 50 pounds.
      (10)   All licensees shall provide to the city not less than six
commercial refuse containers (dumpsters) which shall be conveniently placed at
the following locations: one at the sewage treatment plant; one at the city
garage; one at the swimming pool; two at the little league baseball diamonds;
and one across from City Hall. All of the commercial refuse containers to be
provided to the city by licensee shall be collected and disposed of once per
week without charge to the city, and each licensee receiving a license under
the provisions of this subchapter shall provide such number of dumpsters which
is equal to the percentage of the licensee's customers compared to the total
residential customers residing within the city. For example, if the total
number of customers of an individual licensee equals 50% of the total
residential customers located within the city, then the licensee shall provide
50% or one-half of the six commercial refuse containers as required by this
division (B)(10).
      (11)   Indemnify and protect the city from all suits, claims, and/or
actions brought against the city, and any/or all costs or damage which the city
may be put to by reason of injury, to any person or property of another which
results from performance by the licensee under the terms and provisions of this
subchapter; and to this end the licensee agrees to cause the city to be named
as an additional insured on all policies of the insurance required by this
subchapter.
      (12)   Defend, save and hold the city free, harmless and indemnified
against any and all claims, suits, causes of any kind or nature whatsoever,
hereafter, which occur or arise out of the ownership, maintenance, use,
operation, and/or control of any vehicle owned maintained, or utilized by the
licensee and/or arising out of licensee's pick-up and/or disposal of garbage
and refuse under the terms of this subchapter.
      (13)   The city shall have the right, without notice to apply all or part
of the licensees security deposit towards any cost to the city incurred as a
result of the licensee's failure to comply with the terms and obligations of
its license or the terms of this subchapter.
      (14)   In the event the licensee becomes insolvent, or at any time fails
to perform or comply with its obligations hereunder, or fails in any way to
perform its obligations with promptness, diligence and/or in a workmanlike
manner; and the city delivers or sends by certified mail a notice to the
licensee specifying the manner in which the licensee has failed to perform or
to comply with its obligation, and the licensee fails to perform and comply
with the obligations within 14 days after receipt of notice, the city shall
have the right to provide any such labor, equipment, and/or materials; and/or
the right to terminate the license issued hereunder and to cause any other
person or persons to perform licensee's work hereunder. In case of such
discontinuance of the license issued hereunder, the licensee shall not be
entitled to charge any person or firm any fees whatsoever.
      (15)   In the event that the licensee fails to perform any of its
obligations or conditions of its license at the time required and as a result
thereof the city incurs attorneys fees and/or court costs; then the licensee
shall pay the city's attorneys fees and or court costs.
      (16)   Require each licensee to provide once-a-week service at such times
and upon such days of the week as mutually agreed upon by the city and the
licensee, and in the absence of such agreement, as designated by the city.
      (17)   The application for, receipt, and acceptance of a license issued
pursuant to this subchapter shall constitute an acknowledgement of a
contractual relationship between each licensee and the city, incorporating each
and every provision of this subchapter.
      (18)   A license for recycling hauling contractor seeking just pickup of
large recyclable items shall comply with divisions (B)(1), (3), (4), (8), (11),
(12), (13), (14), (15), (16), and (17) and further shall weekly on a designated
day of the week pick up from the curb, free of costs, large recyclable items
which have been placed on the curb by a city resident who has filed with the
City Clerk a completed pick up request form.
(Ord. 787, passed 11-18-92; Am. Ord. 1370, passed 3-4-09; Am. Ord. 1723, passed
10-16-19)
§ 50.28 RESTRICTION ON FEES.
   (A)   Garbage, waste, and recycling haulers, so licensed, shall be entitled
to charge a flat monthly fee not to exceed $20 beginning November 1, 2018, and
all licensed waste haulers operating within the city shall provide curbside
recycling service to their customers at no additional charge to the customers.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any of the foregoing to the contrary, all garbage
bags, cans or other containers in excess of two 30-gallon cans, bags or
containers, or the equivalent thereof, per week, or one 30-gallon can, bag or
container or the equivalent thereof, and one large item as defined herein,
shall have affixed thereto garbage collection stickers of the city, which
stickers shall be provided by each licensee hereunder at an amount not to
exceed $1.25 each. The stickers shall be sold by the said licensees and/or
their duly designated agents at convenient location(s) within the city.
   (C)   Multi-family units or commercial establishments may negotiate a fee
with their licensed contractor-hauler due to special requirements for
containers or service such facilities may have.
   (D)   In the event the state or any other unit of government increases the
fees assessed to the sanitary landfill operator and as a result of the
increased fees, the sanitary landfill operator increases the tipping fee to
licensee, the licensee may increase the monthly fee to its customers resulting
from any such increase upon the express consent of the city.
   (E)   In the event the state or any other unit of government decreases or
eliminates any of the current fees assessed to the sanitary landfill operator
and as a result of the decrease or elimination of assessed fees the landfill
operator decreases the tipping fee to the licensee, then the monthly amount
charged by the licensee as authorized by this subchapter shall be reduced in an
amount equal to the decrease in tipping fees.
   (F)   No person, firm or corporation licensed pursuant to the provisions of
this subchapter shall collect any fees for recycling and/or refuse collection
services in excess of the fees authorized by this subchapter without first
obtaining the express consent of the City Council following a public hearing
for the purpose.
(Ord. 787, passed 11-18-92; Am. Ord. 1154, passed 3-17-04; Am. Ord. 1385,
passed 8-19-09; Am. Ord. 1686, passed 10-3-18)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.29 SCAVENGING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   From time of placement of recyclables at the curb in recycling
containers for collection in accordance with the terms hereof, such items shall
be the property of the licensee.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for any person or firm
unauthorized by the householder or the recycling collector to collect or cause
to be collected any such items. Any and each such collection in violation
hereof from one or more locations shall constitute a separate and distinct
offense punishable as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 787, passed 11-18-92) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.30 PERIODIC REVIEW.
   The City Council shall from time to time and not less frequently than each
six months, review the impact and effectiveness of recycling and including any
increase cost of operation of each licensee hereunder; and the City Council
may, upon such review, modify or amend this subchapter in whole or in part.
(Ord. 787, passed 11-18-92)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which
another penalty is not provided, shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than
$500 per each offense.
(Ord. 741, passed 4-5-89)
   (B)    Any offense of any person who violates or fails to comply with any
provision of §§
50.25 through
50.30 or any regulation promulgated pursuant thereto, shall, upon conviction
thereof, be subject to a fine according to the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99.
(Ord. 787, passed 11-18-92; Am. Ord. 1326, passed 2-20-08 )
CHAPTER 51: SEWER USE
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Definitions
   
51.002   Depositing objectionable waste prohibited
   
51.003   Discharge of untreated sewage or other polluted waters to natural
outlets
   
51.004   Privies, septic tanks, and other facilities
   
51.005   Owner's responsibility to install suitable toilet facilities
   
51.006   Tampering with or damaging city equipment
   
51.007   Right of entry for purpose of inspection, observation and testing
Private Sewage Disposal System
   
51.020   Connecting building sewer to private sewage disposal system
   
51.021   Written permit to be obtained; application
   
51.022   Inspection and approval of installation
   
51.023   Compliance with State Department of Public Health and/or University of
Illinois Small Homes Council
   
51.024   Maintenance of private sewage disposal facilities
Building Sewer and Connections
   
51.035   Connection permit required
   
51.036   Building sewer permits
   
51.037   Costs and expenses of installation and connection of building sewer;
indemnification
   
51.038   Separate building sewer required for every building
   
51.039   Use of old building sewers with new buildings; connection fee for each
new unit
   
51.040   Laying of building sewer
   
51.041   Pipe and joint specifications
   
51.042   Size and slope
   
51.043   Excavations
   
51.044   Location of connection
Use of Public Sewers
   
51.055   Discharge of stormwater and other unpolluted drainage
   
51.056   Storm and roof drains
   
51.057   Prohibited discharges to public sewers
   
51.058   Discharge of certain waste subject to review and approval
   
51.059   Discharge of certain wastes restricted
   
51.060   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
51.061   Preliminary treatment facilities
   
51.062   Control manhole; measurements, tests and analyses
   
51.063   Industrial wastes; special agreement
   
51.064   Dump stations
   
51.065   Private sewage disposal pumping contractor
Sewer Use Charges
   
51.075   Sewer user service charges
   
51.076   Payment of charges
   
51.077   Delinquent charges
   
51.078   Disconnection of service
   
51.079   Rendering bills
   
51.080   Delinquent bills, tax or service on premises; prerequisite to
purchasing premises
   
51.081   Accounts; books and records
   
51.082   Copies of provisions to be on file
   
51.083   Access to records
   
51.084   Notification to users of rates and charges
Industrial Cost Recovery
   
51.100   Determination of payment for industrial cost recovery; obtainment of
federal grant
   
51.101   Access to records
 
   
51.998   Violations
   
51.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Administrator of the city or his duly authorized deputy
or representative.
   APPROVAL OF THE ENGINEER. That work completed and equipment and materials
used complies with the provisions of this chapter.
   BASIC USER CHARGE. The amount to be paid each billing period by all public
sewer users including payment of operation and maintenance costs, plus
replacement of the sewerage works.
   BASIC SEWER USER CHARGE. The base amount billed each billing period to every
economic unit which includes, without limitation, costs for IEPA testing, NPEDS
permit fees
   B.O.D. (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in parts per million by weight.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer,
the public service sewer, or other place of disposal.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning two feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   CITY. The City of Marseilles, LaSalle County, State of Illinois.
   CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure specifically designed and constructed for
sampling and metering industrial wastes discharged into a public sewer.
   ECONOMIC UNIT. 
      (1)   Each dwelling unit*, business*, industry, mobile home* located on a
mobile home lot* or other lot, recreational vehicle* located on a recreational
vehicle lot* and any other entity receiving city water and/or sewer services
(*see definition in Marseilles Zoning Ordinance) or where water and/or sewer
services would reasonably be expected. A building, building complex, mobile
home park, or recreational vehicle park with more than one economic unit shall
be considered as have the number of economic units housed therein regardless of
the number of water meters or sewer connections contained therein. For high
volume users of water or sewer and entities with an uncertain number of
economic units, the Commissioner of Public Property may determine the number of
economic units ascribed to such user based on average water consumption by
other economic units. Any decision of Commissioner of Public Property may be
appealed to the City Council. The number of economic units attributed to a
campground, or to an owners' association of any planned development or other
form of subdivision designed not for single family homes but for recreational
vehicles where each recreational vehicle that does not have a city approved
water meter (hereinafter camping facility) shall be determined by the following
formula:
      (2)   Formula. 
         (a)   The total monthly metered water usage for the camping facility
shall be divided by the average of all water usage in the applicable geographic
area (North or the Illinois River or South of the Illinois River). Such average
shall be determined by the total water usage in the geographic area (minus the
water account of any camping facility) divided by the total number of water
accounts in the geographic area (minus camping facility accounts).
         (b)   The number of economic units, rounded down to a whole number,
shall be the number of economic units applied to the monthly bill. Such formula
shall be calculated monthly and the calculation shall be included with the
monthly billing. The following is an example of the calculation:
      (3)   Example of formula.
         (a)   If in the month of August a camping facility located North of
the Illinois has a total metered water usage of 4,141 units (414,100 gallons)
and the average water usage of all water users North of the Illinois (except
for the camping facilities) was 51 units (5,100 gallons), the August billing
calculation to determine the number of economic units (to be multiplied against
basic charges) would be as follows:
            1.   Camping facility metered water use.
            2.   Average water use North of Illinois River. Metered usage
divided by average units rounded down to whole number:
               4,141 units (414,100 gallons)
               51 units (5,100 gallons)
               81.19 economic units 81 economic units
         (b)   Economic Units of 81 multiplied by basic charge of $25.50* =
$2,065.50 basic charge to be added to water and sewer usage charges (*in this
example,*$25.50 is combined basic charges for water and sewer North of the
Illinois River).
   EMPLOYEE EQUIVALENT. Total number of man-hours worked by all employees per
year divided by 1952.
   ENGINEER. An engineer designated by the city, City Superintendent of
streets, or the city's authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   FEDERAL ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 USC 1251 et seq.),
as amended by the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of Amendments of 1972
(Public Law 92-500 and Public Law 93-243).
   FEDERAL GRANT. The U.S. Government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by Title II - Grants for
Construction of Treatment Works of the Act and implementing regulations.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food,
and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. 
      (1)   Any nongovernmental use of publicly-owned sewerage works identified
in the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1972, Office of Management
and Budget, as amended and supplemented, under the following divisions:
         (a)   Division A - Agriculture, forestry and fishing;
         (b)   Division B - Mining;
         (c)   Division D - Manufacturing;
         (d)   Division E - Transportation, communications, electric, gas and
sanitary services; and
         (e)   Division I - Services.
      (2)   The term INDUSTRIAL USER shall not include a SPECIAL INDUSTRIAL
USER, as defined herein. A user in the divisions listed above may be excluded
if it is determined by the City Council that it will introduce primarily
segregated comestic wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. The wastewater discharged, permitted to flow, or escaping
from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or business establishment or
process, or from the development, recovery or processing of any natural
resource as distinct from employees' wastes or wastewater from sanitary
conveniences.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industrial user that has a flow of 50,000
gallons or more per average work day, or has a flow greater than 10% of the
flow carried by the sewerage works receiving the waste, or has in its waste, a
toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in standards issued under Section
307(a) of the Federal Act, or if found by permit issuance authority, in
connection with the assurance of the NPDES permit to the publicly owned
treatment works receiving the waste, to have significant impact, either single
or in combination with other contributing industries, on that treatment works
or upon the quality of effluent from that treatment works.
   mg/L. Milligrams per liter.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   NPDES PERMIT. Any permit or equivalent document to regulate the discharge of
pollutants pursuant to Section 402 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
(33 U.S. 1251 et seq.) as amended by the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of
Amendments of 1972 (Public Law 92-500 and Public Law 243).
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. All costs accrued in the collection and
treatment of sewage. Includes billing, auditing and equipment replacement
costs.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial including any individual,
firm, company, public or private corporation, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen in grams per
liter of solution.
   POPULATION EQUIVALENT. A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other wastes on a treatment works or stream. One population equivalent is 100
gallons of sewage per day,containing 0.37 pounds of BOD and 0.20 pounds of
suspended solids.
   PRIMARY TREATMENT. The first treatment in a sewage treatment works, usually
sedimentation. The removal of a high percentage of suspended matter but little
or no colloidal and dissolved matter.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of good that have been shredded to such degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SERVICE SEWER. That part of the sewer from the'public sewer main to
individual residences, business buildings, institutions- and industrial
establishments. The maintenance of public service sewer shall be as provided in
§ 51.043.
   PUBLIC SEWER MAIN. A sewer in which controlled and maintained by public
authority.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. Expenditures for purchasing and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the
sewerage works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed.
   RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL or NON-INDUSTRIAL USER. Any user of the sewerage
works not classified as an industrial user or excluded as an industrial user.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. The liquid and water carried wastes discharged from
sanitary plumbing facilities and characterized by a composition typical of
waste emanating from an average residential connection.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that conveys sewage and polluted industrial wastes,
and to which storm water, surface drainage, groundwater or unpolluted
wastewater are not intentionally admitted.
   SANITARY WASTEWATER. Combined liquid and water-carried wastes discharged
from sanitary plumbing facilities by reason of normal human or domestic use
activities.
   SECONDARY TREATMENT. The treatment of sewage by biological methods after
primary treatment.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the wastewater from residential, commercial,
industrial and institutional buildings together with such groundwater
infiltration and surface water inflow that may be in the sewers.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other wastewater,
including storm water, surface water and groundwater drainage.
   SEWER VOLUME CHARGE. The amount billed each billing period to every economic
unit based on the volume of water usage which includes, without limitation,
costs of operation, maintenance, and replacement for the sewerage works.
   SEWERAGE WORKS. All facilities of the city for collecting and pumping sewage
and industrial wastes.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. An arrangement of devices, structures and processes
for the treating and disposing of sewage.
   SHALL is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SPECIAL INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial user which discharges its industrial
waste directly to the secondary sewage treatment plant of the city, and
provides its own primary treatment.
   STATE ACT. The Illinois Anti-Pollution Bond Act of 1970.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage.
   SURCHARGE. The amount to be paid each billing period by certain public sewer
users in addition to the charges for billing, operation, maintenance and
equipment replacement.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage, industrial wastes or other wastewaters; the
quantity of which is determined by standard laboratory filtering test
procedures and referred to as nonfilterable residue expressed in mg/1.
   TOTAL SEWER CHARGE. The combined amounts of the basic sewer user charge and
the sewer volume charge amount billed each billing period to every economic
unit plus any surcharges.
   UNIT. A total of 100 gallons of metered water usage.
   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which the sewerage works will be
operated and shall be 30 years from the date of start-up of any facilities
constructed with a federal grant.
   USER CLASS. The type of user either “residential or commercial”
(nonindustrial) or “industrial as defined herein.”
   WASTEWATER. The wastewater from domestic, commercial, industrial and
institutional users including service water inflow and groundwater
infiltration.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Ord. 523, passed 7-1-74; Am. Ord. 566, passed 12-19-77; Ord. 578, passed 9-6-
78; Ord. 694, passed 12-30-85; Am. Ord. 795, passed 6-2- 93; Am. Ord. 981,
passed 9-15-99; Am. Ord. 1387, passed 9-2-09; Am. Ord. 1571, passed 4-15-15;
Am. Ord. 1619, passed 11-16-16; Am. Ord. 1708, passed 5-15-19)
§ 51.002 DEPOSITING OBJECTIONABLE WASTE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in an unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
(Ord. 523, passed 7-1-74) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.003 DISCHARGE OF UNTREATED SEWAGE OR OTHER POLLUTED WATERS TO NATURAL
OUTLETS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city, or
in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sanitary sewage, industrial
wastes, or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been
provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 523, passed 7-1-74) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.004 PRIVIES, SEPTIC TANKS, AND OTHER FACILITIES.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Ord. 523, passed 7-1-74)
   (B)   No cesspool or privy vault shall be constructed in this city on
property within a sewer district and abutting on any public sewer system of the
city. The Commissioner of Public Health and Safety, with the approval of the
City Council, may compel the sewerage from any premises to be conveyed into the
public sewer system at any time when such action shall be necessary to protect
the public health. No privy vault or cesspool shall be connected with the
public sewer system.
('72 Code, § 11.03) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.005 OWNER'S RESPONSIBILITY TO INSTALL SUITABLE TOILET FACILITIES.
   (A)   The owner of an economic unit situated within the city and abutting on
any street, alley or right-of-way, in which there is now located or may in the
future be located a public sanitary sewerage of the city, is hereby required at
his expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such
facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after date of official notice to do
so, provided that said public sewer is within 400 feet of the property line.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to use any economic unit, other than storage,
unless such structure is equipped with proper toilet facilities connected with
the public sanitary sewer system, as required in this section.
(Ord. 523, passed 7-1-74; Am. Ord. 1571, passed 4-15-15) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.006 TAMPERING WITH OR DAMAGING CITY EQUIPMENT.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage works.
(Ord. 523, passed 7-1-74) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.007 RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR PURPOSE OF INSPECTION, OBSERVATION AND TESTING.
   All duly authorized employees of the city shall be permitted to enter upon
all properties for the purposes of inspecting, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM
§ 51.020 CONNECTING BUILDING SEWER TO PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.
   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of §
51.005, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 523, passed 7-1-74)
§ 51.021 WRITTEN PERMIT TO BE OBTAINED; APPLICATION.
   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system, the
owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Commissioner of Public
Property. The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by
the city, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and
other information as are deemed necessary by the Engineer. A permit and
inspection fee of $15 shall be paid to the City Collector at the time the
application is filed.
(Ord. 523, passed 7-1-74; Am. Ord. 1571, passed 4-15-15)
§ 51.022 INSPECTION AND APPROVAL OF INSTALLATION.
   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed and approved by the city. The Engineer
shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction, and, in any
event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the Engineer when the work is
ready for final inspection, and before any underground portions are covered.
The inspection shall be made within two working days of the receipt of notice
by the city.
(Ord. 523, passed 7-1-74)
§ 51.023 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND/OR UNIVERSITY OF
ILLINOIS SMALL HOMES COUNCIL.
   The type, capacities, locations and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of Circular No. N815, Septic
Tanks, of the Department of Public Health of the state, and/or Bulletin: Index
No. 65, Septic Tank Systems, Circular Series, of the University of Illinois
Small Homes Council, whichever is more restrictive.
(Ord. 523, passed 7-1-74)
§ 51.024 MAINTENANCE OF PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL FACILITIES.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
(Ord. 523, passed 7-1-74) Penalty, see §
51.999
BUILDING SEWER AND CONNECTIONS
§ 51.035 CONNECTION PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb a public sewer or appurtenances thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent of Streets.
(Ord. 523, passed 7-1-74) Penalty, see §
51.999
Cross-reference:
   Building permit issuance contingent on applicant's sewerage being connected
to adequate sewer system, see §
150.01
§ 51.036 BUILDING SEWER PERMITS.
   (A)   There shall be four classes of building sewer permits as follows:
      (1)   Single-family residential service;
      (2)   Two-family and larger residential;
      (3)   Business service; and
      (4)   Industrial establishments.
   (B)   In any case, the owner or his agent shall make application on a form
furnished by the city. The permit application shall be supplemented by any
plans, specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment
of the Superintendent of Streets and/or the Building Inspector. Permit and
inspection fees shall be paid to the Finance Director at the time the
application is filed.
   (C)   A building sewer permit will only be issued and a sewer connection
shall only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the downstream sewerage
work, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater treatment facilities have
sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and efficiently handle the additional
anticipated waste load.
(Ord. 523, passed 7-1-74; Am. Ord. 566, passed 12-19-77)
§ 51.037 COSTS AND EXPENSES OF INSTALLATION AND CONNECTION OF BUILDING SEWER;
INDEMNIFICATION.
   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city
from loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
installation of the building sewer.
(Ord. 523, passed 7-1-74)
§ 51.038 SEPARATE BUILDING SEWER REQUIRED FOR EVERY BUILDING.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one existing building stands at the rear of another
existing building on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can
be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or
driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the
rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer.
(Ord. 523, passed 7-1-74) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.039 USE OF OLD BUILDING SEWERS WITH NEW BUILDINGS; CONNECTION FEE FOR EACH
NEW UNIT.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Engineer, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 523, passed 7-1-74)
§ 51.040 LAYING OF BUILDING SEWER.
   The building sewer shall be brought to the building at an elevation above
the basement floor. No building sewer shall be laid parallel to or within three
feet of any bearing wall, which might be thereby weakened. The building sewer
shall be laid at uniform grade and in straight alignment insofar as possible.
Changes in direction shall be made only with properly curved pipe and fittings.
(Ord. 523, passed 7-1-74; Am. Ord. 1517, passed 9-4-13)
§ 51.041 PIPE AND JOINT SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The building sewer shall be cast iron soil pipe; vitrified clay sewer
pipe; PVC pipe or equal; or other suitable material approved by the City
Council. Joints shall be gas-tight, water-tight and root-proof. If installed in
filled or unstable ground, the building sewer shall be laid on a suitable
concrete bed or cradle as approved by the Engineer.
   (B)   All joints and connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight and
root-proof. Other jointly materials and methods may be used only by approval of
the Engineer.
(Ord. 523, passed 7-1-74; Am. Ord. 1517, passed 9-4-13) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.042 SIZE AND SLOPE.
   The size and slope of the building sewer shall be subject to the approval of
the Engineer, but in no event shall the diameter to be less than six inches for
a sanitary building sewer and four inches for a storm building sewer.
(Ord. 523, passed 7-1-74) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.043 EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer shall be
open trench work unless otherwise approved by the Engineer. Pipe laying and
backfill shall be performed in accordance with good construction practice
except that no backfill shall be placed until the work has been inspected, and
the backfill material approved prior to placement. All such excavations and the
cost thereof shall be performed by and paid for by the owner of the property.
The maintenance of the public service sewer shall be the responsibility of the
residential, commercial and industrial user.
(Ord. 523, passed 7-1-74; Am. Ord. 851, passed 9-6-95; Am. Ord. 980, passed 9-
15-99) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.044 LOCATION OF CONNECTION.
   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer main shall be
made at the “Y” branch, if such branch is available at a suitable location or
to the public service sewer if available. If the public sewer main is 12 inches
in diameter or less, and no properly located “Y” branch is available, the owner
shall, at his expense, install a “Y” branch in the public sewer main at the
location specified by the Engineer. Where the public sewer is greater than 12
inches in diameter, and no properly located “Y” branch is available, a neat
hole may be cut into the public sewer main to receive the building sewer, with
entry in the downstream direction at an angle of about 45°. A 45° ell may be
used to make such connection, with the spigot end cut so as not to extend past
the inner surface of the public sewer. The building sewer shall be connected to
the public service sewer by a water-tight band approved by the Engineer. The
invert of the building sewer at the point of connection shall be at the same or
a higher elevation than the invert of the public sewer. A smooth, neat joint
shall be made, and the connection made secure and water-tight by encasement in
concrete.
(Ord. 523, passed 7-1-74; Am. Ord. 795, passed 6-2-93) Penalty, see §
51.999
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 51.055 DISCHARGE OF STORMWATER AND OTHER UNPOLLUTED DRAINAGE.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water roof runoff, cooling water or unpolluted industrial
process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged into
storm sewers or into a natural outlet.
(Ord. 523, passed 7-1-74) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.056 STORM AND ROOF DRAINS.
   (A)   All storm water drains, including roof drains, yard drains, area
drains and surface drains, not connected to any sanitary sewer or sanitary
building sewer, shall be discharged therefrom within six months from the date
of the passage of this chapter.
   (B)   All storm water drains, including roof drains, yard drains, area
drains and surface drains, shall be connected to existing storm sewers where
said sewers are available. If said sewers are not available, then said storm
water may be emptied into natural outlets, or may be run onto the street
pavement area at the gutter or ditch line. However, in no case shall said water
be discharged so as to run over a public sidewalk.
(Ord. 523, passed 7-1-74) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.057 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES TO PUBLIC SEWERS.
   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described water or wastes to any public sewer:
   (A)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F;
   (B)   Any water or waste which may contain more than 100 parts per million,
by weight, of fat, oil or grease;
   (C)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
   (D)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
   (E)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure or any other solid or viscous
substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or interference
with the proper operation of the sewage works;
   (F)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower the 5.5 or higher than 9.0, or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works;
   (G)   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or create any hazard in the receiving
waters of the sewage treatment plant;
   (H)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of such character and
quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle such materials
at the sewage treatment plant.
   (I)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance.
   (J)   Any waste discharge that would violate any provisions of the NPDES
permit issued to the city and any other applicable state or federal regulations
pertaining to the discharge of pollutants.
(Ord. 523, passed 7-1-74; Am. Ord. 566, passed 12-19-77) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.058 DISCHARGE OF CERTAIN WASTE SUBJECT TO REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   The admission into the public sewers of any waters or wastes having:
      (1)   A five-day biochemical oxygen demand greater than 300 parts per
million by weight of suspended solids;
      (2)   Containing more than 350 parts per million by weight of suspended
solids;
      (3)   Containing an excessive quantity of substances having the
characteristics described in §
51.057; or
      (4)   Having an average daily flow greater than two percent of the
average daily sewage flow of the city;
   shall be subject to the review and approval of the city.
   (B)   Where necessary in the opinion of the city, the owner shall provide at
his expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary to reduce the
biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million and the suspended solids to
350 parts per million by weight, or reduce objectionable characteristics or
constituents to within the maximum limits provided for in §
51.057, or control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes, and to comply with the federal pretreatment standards, and the
requirements of any other applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   (C)   Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval
of the Engineer, and of the Water Pollution Control Commission of the state,
and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced until said approvals
are obtained in writing.
(Ord. 523, passed 7-1-74; Am. Ord. 566, passed 12-19-77)
§ 51.059 DISCHARGE OF CERTAIN WASTES RESTRICTED.
   This part of the rules and regulations concerning water pollution places
certain restrictions on the types, concentrations and quantities of
contaminants which can be discharged into sewer system in the state.
   (A)   Any wastes discharged to any sewer owned by any municipality, any
county, or any sanitary district in the state shall meet the following criteria
in addition to any established by the municipality, county or sanitary district
itself:
      (1)   Liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature of
quantity may cause fire or explosion; or be injurious in any other way to
sewers, treatment works structures or to the operations of the treatment works;
or cause a safety hazard to the personnel operating the treatment works, or
cause the effluent from the treatment works to violate applicable effluent
standards are prohibited;
      (2)   Solid or viscous wastes which cause obstruction to the flow in
sewers or other interference with the proper operation of any sewer or
treatment works are prohibited.
   (B)   Mercury, STORET number — 71900.
      (1)   No effluent to any public sewer system shall include mercury (Hg)
or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 mg/l as Hg at any time.
      (2)   The discharge of mercury shall be exempt from the limitations of
division (B)(1) above if all the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The total plant discharge is less than one-half pound as Hg in
any year;
         (b)   The discharge is to be a public sewer served by a sewage
treatment facility handling no less than 25,000 population equivalents;
         (c)   The discharge does not alone, or in conjunction with other
sources, cause the effluent from the sewage treatment plant to exceed 0.0005
mg/l as Hg; and
         (d)   At least 95% of the mercury that would be discharged in the
absence of control is removed from the effluent by July 1, 1975.
         (e)   After July 1, 1975, the exemptions provided in this subdivision
(2) shall terminate.
      (3)   The discharge of wastes from medicinal or therapeutic use of
mercury, exclusive of laboratory use, shall be exempt from the limitations of
division (B)(1) and (2) of this section if all the following conditions are
met:
         (a)   The total plant discharge is less than one-half pound as Hg in
any year;
         (b)   The discharge is to a public sewer system; and
         (c)   The discharge does not, alone or in conjunction with other
sources, cause the effluent from the sewer system or treatment plant to exceed
0.0005 mg/l of Hg.
         (d)   No discharge of mercury shall be permitted which, alone or in
combination with other sources, causes a violation of the water quality
standard of 0.0005 mg/l of Hg.
   (C)   Cyanide, STORET number — 00720.
      (1)   No waste discharge to any public sewer system shall contain cyanide
in excess of 0.025 mg/l at any time except as permitted by division (C)(2) of
this section.
      (2)   Upon application by a county, municipality, sanitary district, or
public utility and approval by the Agency, limited amounts of cyanide or
cyanogen compounds may be permitted to be discharged to a county, municipal,
sanitary district or public utility's sewer works. Total cyanide shall not
exceed 10 mg/l provided any sample tested shall not lease more than 2 mg/l of
cyanide when tested at a pH of 4.5 and at a temperature of 150° for a period of
30 minutes. Such discharges shall be permitted only when the Agency has
determined that no violation of the effluent criteria of this chapter will
result from such discharge.
(Ord. 523, passed 7-1-74) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.060 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the City Engineer, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand and other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the city, and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Grease and oil
interceptors shall be constructed of impervious materials capable of
withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperatures. They shall be
substantial construction, watertight, and equipped with easily removable covers
which, when bolted in place, shall be gas-tight and watertight.
   (B)   Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at his expense, in continuously efficient operation at
all times.
(Ord. 523, passed 7-1-74) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.061 PRELIMINARY TREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Where preliminary treatment facilities are provided for any waters or
wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation, by the owner at his expense.
(Ord. 523, passed 7-1-74) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.062 CONTROL MANHOLE; MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES.
   (A)   When required by the city, the owner of any property served by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurements of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly
and safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved
by the Engineer. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense and
shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
   (B)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in §§
51.057 and
51.058 shall be determined in accordance with “Standards Methods for the
Examination of Water and Sewage,” and “Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures
for Analysis of Pollutants,” and shall be determined at the control manhole
provided for in division (A) of this section, or upon suitable samples taken at
said control manhole.
(Ord. 523, passed 7-1-74; Am. Ord. 566, passed 12-19-77) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.063 INDUSTRIAL WASTES; SPECIAL AGREEMENT.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangements between the city and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the city for treatment, subjected to the approval of the State
Sanitary Water Board, and subject to payment therefore by the industrial
concern; provided such payments are in accordance with all city regulations for
User Charge System and Industrial Cost Recovery System. Notwithstanding any
other provision of this chapter, the city retains the right to reject
industrial wastes in whole or in part, for any reason.
(Ord. 523, passed 7-1-74; Am. Ord. 566, passed 12-19-77)
§ 51.064 DUMP STATIONS.
   (A)   No dump stations are allowed in the city except in a Conservation/
Recreation Zoning District, where a current license has been issued by the city
to an active campground. A city dump station license shall be non-transferable
and have duration of only one year. An applicant for a city dump station
license shall satisfy the following requirements:
      (1)   Pay an annual application fee of $100;
      (2)   Provide proof of operation of a camping facility for recreational
vehicles and proof of a current state license if required;
      (3)   Acknowledge receipt of a copy of
Chapter 51, Sewer Use, of the Code of Marseilles and agree to comply with such;
      (4)   Agree to comply with the following dumping procedures, unless one
or more of the following are waived in writing by the city’s Sewer
Superintendent:
         (a)   Only toilet and kitchen waste from recreational vehicles
utilizing the applicant’s campground will be dumped at the dump station;
         (b)   Licensee will illustrate the existence and operation of an
enforcement plan to limit dump station use to toilet and kitchen waste from a
recreational vehicle utilizing the applicant’s campground; and
         (c)   Licensee will collect periodic samples of sewer in the area of
dump station for delivery to the city wastewater treatment facility and
testing, the costs of which shall be paid by the licensee;
   (B)   Defend, save and hold the city free, harmless and indemnified against
any and all claims, suits, causes of any kind or nature whatsoever, fines,
penalties and all costs including attorney fees or damage to person or property
arising from the operation of the dump station or from dumping of waste not
approved under city ordinance at the dump station;
   (C)   (1)   Produce a certificate of insurance including:
         (a)   Commercial vehicle coverage in an amount no less than $1,000,000
per person and $2,000,000 in aggregate;
         (b)   General liability insurance in an amount no less than $1,000,000
per person and $2,000,000 in aggregate; and
         (c)   Workers’ compensation insurance for no less than statutory
amounts.
      (2)   The above required insurance must include a notice of cancellation
clause stating that the policy(s) may not be cancelled or amended before the
30th day after written notice of the cancellation or amendment is provided the
city;
   (D)   Provide a bond or certificate of insurance, in an amount no less than
$100,000 covering damage to the city sewers and/or treatment plant resulting
from dumping of waste, not approved under city ordinance, at the dump station;
   (E)   The City Council may deny, suspend or revoke a license should a
licensee fail to perform or comply with license provisions or should further
operation of the license be a detriment the health, safety and welfare of the
residents of the city. The city shall provide a licensee written notice of a
hearing on denial, suspension or revocation of such license on or before the
10th day before the hearing. A notice under this section shall include the
basis of the proposed action. Following a hearing, the city shall provide the
licensee with the city’s decision in writing stating the reasons for any
denial, suspension or revocation. A licensee whose permit has been revoked may
not reapply for a permit for one year after the date of the revocation; and
   (F)   In the event that the licensee fails to perform any of its obligations
or conditions of its license and as a result thereof the city incurs any
liability, the licensee in addition to being liable for such damages as may be
awarded in a court of law or equity shall also be liable for the city’s court
costs and litigation expenses including reasonable attorney fees.
(Ord. 1387, passed 9-2-09; Am. Ord. 1571, passed 4-15-15)
§ 51.065 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL PUMPING CONTRACTOR.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation required to obtain a private sewage
disposal pumping contractor license under applicable Illinois statutes and
regulations may dispose of any waste into a sewer line connected to the city
sewer collection and treatment system unless they maintain a current city
private sewage disposal pumping contractor license. A city private sewage
disposal pumping contractor license shall be non-transferable and have duration
of only one year. An applicant for a city private sewage disposal pumping
contractor license shall satisfy the following requirements:
      (1)   Pay an annual application fee of $100;
      (2)   Provide a current copy of their State of Illinois private sewage
disposal pumping contractor license;
      (3)   Acknowledges receipt of a copy of
Chapter 51, Sewer Use, of the Code of Marseilles and agrees to comply with
such;
      (4)   Agrees to comply with the following dumping procedures, unless one
or more of the following are waived in writing by the city’s Sewer
Superintendent:
         (a)   All waste must be deposited at the North Waste Water Treatment
Plant, 880 Commercial Street in Marseilles under the personal supervision of a
city treatment plant employee;
         (b)   Licensee will provide a written statement identifying the nature
of the waste, the location where the waste was picked up, the person(s) who
were in possession of the waste, and the identifying name or names of the
person(s) retaining the licensee to haul the waste;
         (c)   Licensee will produce a sample of the waste for testing as
deemed appropriate by the city’s Sewer Superintendent. Dumping of the waste may
be delayed pending final test results. Dumping may also be refused at the
discretion of the city’s Sewer Superintendent, should the city’s Sewer
Superintendent believe that the dumping of waste will be detrimental to the
current operation of the treatment plant; and
         (d)   Licensee shall pay the standard dumping charge of $200 plus $1
per 100 gallons and pay for all testing charges. Should test results indicate
that the waste fails to comply with wastes permitted for disposal under
Chapter 51 or will otherwise require special treatment, the licensee shall pay
the costs of additional treatment charges or procedures recommended by the
city’s Sewer Superintendent;
      (5)   Defend, save and hold the city free, harmless and indemnified
against any and all claims, suits, causes of any kind or nature whatsoever,
fines, penalties and all costs including attorney’s fees or damage to person or
property arising from dumping of waste not approved under city ordinance;
      (6)   Produce a certificate of insurance including:
         (a)   Commercial vehicle coverage in an amount no less than $1,000,000
per person and $2,000,000 in aggregate;
         (b)   General liability insurance in an amount no less than $1,000,000
per person and $2,000,000 in aggregate; and
         (c)   Workers’ compensation insurance for no less than statutory
amounts. The above required insurance must include a notice of cancellation
clause stating that the policy(s) may not be cancelled or amended before the
30th day after written notice of the cancellation or amendment is provided the
city;
      (7)   Provide a bond or certificate of insurance, in an amount no less
than $100,000, covering damage to the city sewers and/or treatment plant
resulting from dumping of waste not approved under city ordinance;
      (8)   The City Council may deny, suspend or revoke a license should a
licensee fail to perform or comply with license provisions or should further
operation of the license be a detriment to the health, safety and welfare of
the residents of the city. The city shall provide a private sewage hauler
written notice of a hearing on denial, suspension or revocation of such license
on or before the 10th day before the hearing. A notice under this section shall
include the basis of the proposed action. Following a hearing, the city shall
provide the private sewage hauler with the city’s decision in writing stating
the reasons for any denial, suspension or revocation. A private sewage hauler
whose permit has been revoked may not reapply for a permit for one year after
the date of the revocation.
      (9)   In the event that the licensee fails to perform any of its
obligations or conditions of its license and as a result thereof the city
incurs any liability, the licensee in addition to being liable for such damages
as may be awarded in a court of law or equity shall also be liable for the
city’s court costs and litigation expenses including reasonable attorney fees.
(Ord. 1387, passed 9-2-09; Am. Ord. 1571, passed 4-15-15) Penalty, see §
51.999
SEWER USE CHARGES
§ 51.075 SEWER USER SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   There shall be and there are hereby established a total sewer charge
for the use of and for the service supplied by the city sewage works which
shall consist of a basic sewer user charge and a sewer volume charge. Total
sewer charge shall be determined by the amount of revenue funds required to
operate and maintain the city sewage works and to provide a funds for the
repair and/or replacement of component parts of said sewage works for each
fiscal year. Said charges shall also be determined by geographic location north
and south of the Illinois River.
   (B)   The sewer charges for a special industrial user shall be established
on a separate basis because the user's wastewater receives only secondary
treatment by the city.
   (C)   The sewer volume charge shall be based on the water usage as recorded
by approved water meters and/or sewage meters for wastewater having normal
concentration of 395 mg/1 of BOD and 390 mg/1 of suspended solids. A surcharge
will be levied to all users whose discharges (except special industrial user)
exceed the normal concentrations for BOD (395 mg/1) and suspended solids (390
mg/1). The surcharge will be based on metered sewage flow for all wastes which
exceed these concentrations.
      (1)   Metered usage shall be read to the lowest even increment of units
(unit is 100 gallons).
      (2)   Sewer users who obtain any portion of their water service from
public water supply sources other than the city shall install and maintain, at
no expense to the city, water meters of a type approved by the City Council for
the purpose of metering the water usage obtained from such other sources.
      (3)   Dischargers manufacturing products, which utilize water that does
not reach the sewer system, will be allowed a reduction in their water
consumption reading if they can demonstrate, by meter reading or calculations,
the volume not discharged to the sewer system.
      (4)   Wherever required by the Council, sewage metering devices shall be
installed and maintained, at no expense to the city, when the volume of
wastewater discharged to the public sewer cannot be otherwise determined by use
of water meters.
      (5)   Metering devices shall not be removed without the consent of the
Council.
   (D)   The purpose of the basic sewer user charge is to charge a base amount
each monthly billing period to every economic unit which discharges or is
capable of discharging sewerage from the economic unit to cover the basic
charges of maintaining the sewer system which includes, without limitation,
ongoing infrastructure costs, NPDES fees, IEPA costs and to provide funds for
the repair and/or replacement of component parts of said sewerage works for
each fiscal year. The basic sewer user charges shall commence and be assessed
against each economic unit upon a sewer line from the economic unit being
connected to a city sewer main. The charges continue until there is no longer a
connection from the economic unit to the city sewer main, or if the City
Council resolves to terminate charges. A temporary shut off of water shall not
terminate basic sewer charges.
      (1)   North of the Illinois River, the basic sewer user charge is $16.75
which includes $3.75 storm water separation charge. Effective August 1, 2021,
the charge shall be $17 which includes $4 storm water separation charge.
Effective May 1, 2022, the charge shall be $18 includes $5 storm water
separation charge.
      (2)   South of the Illinois River, the basic sewer user charge is $34.
      (3)   Commencing January 1, 2007, the City Treasurer shall establish and
fund from sewer volume charges North of the Illinois River:
         (a)   A waste treatment capital reserve fund for the purpose of
funding the replacement and installation of new equipment at the North Waste
Water Treatment Plant and place into said fund the sum of $2,895 per month.
         (b)   A sewer maintenance reserve fund for the purpose of eliminating
storm water infiltration into the sanitary sewers north of the Illinois River
and place into said fund the sum of $8,374 per month.
   (E)   (1)   The current monthly sewer volume charge for North of the
Illinois River is $0.66 per each unit (unit is 100 gallons) or fraction thereof
of water used. The volume charge shall increase an additional $0.01 per 100
gallons every May 1 after May 1,2022.
      (2)   The current monthly sewer volume charge for South of the Illinois
River is $0.325 per each unit (unit is 100 gallons) or fractions thereof of
water used. The volume charge shall increase an additional $0.01 per 100
gallons every May 1 after May 1,2022.
      (3)   The volume sewer charges shall commence and be assessed against
each economic unit upon a water line from the economic unit being connected to
a city water main.
      (4)   The volume sewer charges may be shut off upon requesting a
termination of water service. (Notice, however, the basic sewer charges
continue, unless the City Council passes a resolution to terminate charges or
unless the lateral water line serving property from the City water main is
removed.)
   (F)   (1)   The sewer volume charge to be paid monthly by all non-metered
residential or commercial sewer users north of the Illinois River shall be a
charge of $75 which allows a maximum wastewater discharge of 10,000 gallons per
month. Whenever it has been determined by the Council that the non-metered
wastewater discharge exceeds 10,000 gallons per month, the Council may require
such nonmetered sewer user to install metering devices on the water supply or
building sewer to measure the volume of wastewater discharged to the public
sewer.
      (2)   The sewer volume charge to be paid monthly by all non-metered
residential or commercial sewer users south of the Illinois River shall be a
charge of $125 which allows a maximum waste water discharge of 10,000 gallons
per month.
      (3)   Whenever it has been determined by the Council that the non-metered
waste water discharge exceeds 10,000 gallons per month, the Council may require
such non-metered sewer user to install metering devices on the water supply or
building sewer to measure the volume of waste water discharged to the public
sewer.
   (G)   In the event use of the wastewater facilities by nonresidential users
other than special industrial user is determined by the Council to include
wastewaters having more than 395 mg/1 BOD and/or 390 mg/1 suspended solids, the
user shall also pay a surcharge cost. The surcharge shall be for all BOD in
excess of 395 mg/1 and suspended solids in excess of 390 mg/1.
      (1)   The rate of surcharges for BOD and suspended solids shall be in
accordance with the following schedules, based on metered sewage flow:
         (a)   BOD @ 0.13/lb. BOD;
         (b)   Suspended solids @ $0.09/lb. S.S.
      (2)   (a)   The volume and concentration of wastes shall be used for
computing surcharges and shall be established by sewage flow metering and waste
sampling. Waste sampling and testing by an approved laboratory shall be
completed by the discharger as often as may be deemed necessary by the Council.
The city shall reserve the right to sample and test all discharges at any time.
The city shall establish discharge loads and surcharges based on either or both
tests and this shall be binding as a basis for surcharges.
         (b)   Manholes, samplers and metering devices for determining the
volume of waste shall be installed, owned, and maintained by the discharger.
Following approval and installation, such meters may not be removed, unless
service is cancelled, without the consent of the City Council.
   (H)   The industrial waste sewer volume charge to be paid quarterly by a
special industrial user to the city shall be $4.50 minimum charge plus $0.60
per 1,000 gallons of wastewater and surcharge for all BOD in excess of 255 mg/
1 and suspended solids in excess of 155 mg/1. In addition, a special industrial
user will be charged for all of the following costs: ammonia cost; pumping
station power costs; and equipment replacement and repair costs related to the
force main, pumping station and ammoniation facilities.
      (1)   Surcharge rate (special industrial user only). The rates of
surcharges for BOD and suspended solids shall be in accordance with the
following schedules (based on metered sewage flow):
         (a)   BOD.
Concentration in mg/l Rate Per lb. BOD
Concentration in mg/l Rate Per lb. BOD
256 to 360            $0.21
361 to 500            $0.23
501 to 600            $0.26
601 to 700            $0.30
701 to 800            $0.35
801 to 900            $0.41
901 to 1000           $0.48
1001 to 1100          $0.56
1101 to 1200          $0.65
1201 to 1300          $0.75
1301 to 1400          $0.86
1401 to 1500          $0.98
All over 1500         $1.00
 
         (b)   Suspended Solids.
 
Concentration in mg/l Rate Per lb. BOD
156 to 200            $0.10
201 to 300            $0.12
301 to 400            $0.14
All over 400          $0.18
 
      (2)   Computation of surcharge (special industrial user only). The volume
and concentration of wastes shall be used for computing surcharges and shall be
established by sewage flow metering and waste sampling. Waste sampling and
testing by an approved laboratory shall be completed by the discharger as often
as may be deemed necessary by the Council. The city shall reserve the right to
sample and test all discharges at any time. The city shall establish discharge
loads and surcharges based on either or both tests and this shall be binding as
a basis for surcharges.
      (3)   Computation of user charge (special industrial user only). The user
charge shall be computed by the following formula:
            CW = CM + (Vu) CU + CS
         Where CW = Amount of wastewater service charge ($) per billing period.
         Where CM = Minimum charge for auditing, billing and accounting.
         Where Vu = Metered water consumption for the billing period.
         Where CU = User rate for operation, maintenance and equipment
replacement.
         Where CS = Amount of surcharge.
(Ord. 694, passed 12-30-85; Am. Ord. 720, passed 11-5-87; Am. Ord. 725, passed
1-6-88; Am. Ord. 751, passed 7-2-90; Am. Ord. 796, passed 6-16-93; Am. Ord.
850, passed 9-6-95; Am. Ord. 928, passed 3-11-98; Am. Ord. 968, passed 6-2-99;
Am. Ord. 1016, passed 7-19-00; Am. Ord. 1058, passed 10-17-01; Am. Ord. 1124,
passed 9-3-03; Am. Ord. 1250, passed 5-17-06; Am. Ord. 1304, passed 11-7-07;
Am. Ord. 1571, passed 4-15-15; Am. Ord. 1595, passed 1-20-16; Am. Ord. 1599,
passed 4-20-16; Am. Ord. 1619, passed 11-16-16; Am. Ord. 1708, passed 5-15- 19;
Am. Ord. 1748, passed 4-1-20; Am. Ord. 1801, passed 7-7-21)
§ 51.076 PAYMENT OF CHARGES.
   The total sewer charge and any custom or special sewer charges shall be
payable monthly. The owner of the premises, the occupant and the user of the
service shall be jointly and severally liable to pay for the sewer service. All
bills for service shall be rendered as of the 25th day of the month for which
the service is billed, and shall be payable not later than the close of
business day on the tenth day of the month. A penalty of 10% shall be added to
all bills not paid within ten days of date of billing. When the tenth day of
any month shall be Sunday or a legal holiday, then such bills for service shall
be payable on the next succeeding secular day without any additional penalty.
(Ord. 694, passed 12-30-85; Am. Ord. 751, passed 7-2-90; Am. Ord. 1571, passed
4-15-15)
§ 51.077 DELINQUENT CHARGES.
   (A)   In the event the charges for service are not paid within ten days
after rendition of the bill for such service, such charges shall be deemed and
are hereby declared to be delinquent, and thereafter such delinquencies shall
constitute liens upon the real estate of which such service is supplied. The
City Collector is hereby authorized and directed to file from time to time as
directed by the City Council, sworn, detailed statements showing such
delinquencies in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of LaSalle County, and the
filing of such statement shall be deemed notice of the lien for payment of the
services rendered.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the City Attorney or Corporation Counsel to
assist in the collection of sewage bills if requested by the Collector. It
shall also be the duty of the City Attorney or Corporate Counsel to prepare all
liens and lien notices against persons and owners of property, whose bills are
delinquent by the provisions of this chapter (and to have the City Collector
signs and swear to same) and file said liens and lien notices in the office of
the Recorder of Deed of LaSalle County. The city shall have the power to
foreclose such liens in like manner and with like effect as in the foreclosure
of mortgages on real estate. The city is authorized from time to time to sue
the occupant or users of real estate in a civil action to recover money due for
sewage services, plus a reasonable attorney fee to be fixed by the court,
provided however, when judgment is obtained in such civil action, the foregoing
provisions in the section with respect to filing sworn statements of such
delinquencies in the office of the Recorder of Deeds and creating a lien
against such real estate for such delinquency and judgment in such civil suit,
shall operate as a release and waiver of such lien for said amount.
(Ord. 694, passed 12-30-85)
§ 51.078 DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE.
   If the rates or charges for such service are not paid within seven days
after due date of the bill for such service, the City Collector is hereby
authorized and directed to notify in writing the owner of the premises, the
occupant thereof, and the user of the service that such delinquency exists and
that city water service may be shut off, or in circumstances where a property
is not serviced by city water, that sewer service may be disconnected or
blocked without further notice if such rates or charges are not paid within
five days after. Upon the disconnecting of water or sewer service, a charge of
$50 shall be made for reconnecting the same after settlement of the delinquent
account. An additional $100 charge shall be assessed if one or more city
workers must take action on an emergency basis not during normal city working
hours.
(Ord. 694, passed 12-30-85; Am. Ord. 969, passed 6-2-99; Am. Ord. 1425, passed
11-3-10; Am. Ord. 1825, passed 7-20-22)
§ 51.079 RENDERING BILLS.
   It is hereby made the duty of the City Collector and the city to render
bills for service and for all rates and charges in connection therewith and to
collect all monies due thereon.
(Ord. 694, passed 12-30-85)
§ 51.080 DELINQUENT BILLS, TAX OR SERVICE ON PREMISES; PREREQUISITE TO
PURCHASING PREMISES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of any person about to purchase any premises
within the corporate limits of the city, or of any mortgagee, trustee or lien
claimant holding any mortgage, trust deed or lien against any premises within
the city, to first ascertain from the office of the City Clerk as to any
delinquent water or sewer bill, tax, rate, rent or service that may have
accrued or be against said premises, before purchasing the premises or
instituting proceedings foreclosing said mortgage, trust deed, or lien and to
notify the City Clerk in writing as to his intention of purchasing said
property or foreclosing said mortgage, trust deed or lien, and 24 hours notice
shall be deemed sufficient notice under this section.
   (B)   In addition to any other remedy provided herein for the enforcement or
collection of any sewer rate, all such rates shall be a lien upon the premises
and real estate upon and for which the same is used. Such liens shall attach
when the water or sewer bill becomes delinquent, which is hereby declared to be
15 days after the due date of payment as set forth on said bill, and may be
enforced together with the cost and penalties by foreclosure in equity in any
court having jurisdiction in the same manner and with like force and effect as
the foreclosure of liens of mortgages and trust deeds.
(Ord. 694, passed 12-30-85)
§ 51.081 ACCOUNTS; BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   (A)   The City Treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounts
including a separate account for operation, maintenance and equipment
replacement, and a separate account for debt repayment, and shall keep proper
books, records, and accounts in which complete and correct entries shall be
made of all transactions relative to the sewerage system, and at regular annual
intervals he shall cause to be made an audit by an independent auditing concern
of the books to show the receipts and disbursements of the sewerage system to
assure that each customer is paying a proportionate share of the operation and
maintenance costs.
   (B)   In addition to the customary operating statement, the annual audit
report shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of the wastewater
facilities, including a replacement cost. In this regard, the financial
information to be shown in the audit report shall include the following:
      (1)   Flow data showing total gallons received at the wastewater plant
for the current fiscal year.
      (2)   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed.
      (3)   Number of users connected to the system.
      (4)   Number of nonmetered users.
      (5)   A list of users discharging nondomestic wastes (industrial users
and special industrial users) and volume and strength of waste discharged.
(Ord. 694, passed 12-30-85)
§ 51.082 COPIES OF PROVISIONS TO BE ON FILE.
   A copy of this subchapter, properly certified by the City Clerk, shall be
filed in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of LaSalle County and shall be
deemed notice to all users of the sewerage system of the charges of the system
of said city on their properties.
(Ord. 694, passed 12-30-85; Am. Ord. 751, passed 7-2-90)
§ 51.083 ACCESS TO RECORDS.
   The United States Environmental Protection Agency or its authorized
representative shall have access to any books, documents, papers and records of
the city which are applicable to the city system of users charges or industrial
cost recovery for the purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts and
transcriptions thereof to insure compliance with the terms of the grant.
(Ord. 694, passed 12-30-85)
§ 51.084 NOTIFICATION TO USERS OF RATES AND CHARGES.
   Each user will be notified, at least annually, in conjunction with a regular
bill, of the rate and that portion of the user charges which are attributable
to wastewater treatment services.
(Ord. 694, passed 12-30-85; Am. Ord. 725, passed 1-6-88)
INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY
§ 51.100 DETERMINATION OF PAYMENT FOR INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY;
OBTAINMENT OF FEDERAL GRANT.
   (A)   Each industrial user of the city sewerage works shall pay its share of
the total amount of the federal grant which has been obtained by the city under
Federal Grant Project No. 0170759 for the financing of the construction of
wastewater treatment works allocable to the treatment of the industrial
wastewater from such user. Such users share shall not include an interest
component.
(Ord. 578 § 2.1, passed 9-6-78)
   (B)   An industrial user's portion of the federal grant shall be based upon
the volume and strength of industrial wastewater discharge to the wastewater
treatment works of the city. This shall be determined based upon the following
parameters:
      (1)   Nonsegregated wastes (combined industrial and domestic wastes):
         (a)   Volume: This value equals the total volume of water consumed per
year as determined by the consumption records of the past year minus 25 gallons
per employee per eight hours shift (for domestic waste) or, where water
consumption does not reflect the actual quantity of wastewater tributary to the
treatment works from such user, then the total yearly flow as recorded in the
control manhole required by division (R) of this section minus 25 gallons per
employee per eight hours shift (for domestic waste).
         (b)   Biochemical oxygen demand (BOD). This value equals the total
pounds of BOD in the wastewater discharged per year as determined in division
(R) of this section minus 0.043 pounds of BOD per employee per eight hour shift
(for domestic waste).
         (c)   Suspended Solids (SS). This value equals the total pounds of
suspended solids in the wastewater discharged per year from such user as
determined in division (R) of this section minus 0.05 pounds of suspended
solids per employee per eight hour shift (for domestic waste).
      (2)   Segregated wastes:
         (a)   Volume. This value equals the total volume of industrial
wastewater discharged per year, as recorded in the control manhole required in
division (R) of this section.
         (b)   Biochemical oxygen demand (BOD). This value equals the total
pounds of BOD in the industrial wastewater discharged per year as determined in
division (R) of this section.
         (c)   Suspended Solids (SS). This value equals the total pounds of
suspended solids in the industrial wastewater discharged per year from such
user as determined in division (R) of this section.
(Ord. 578 § 2.2, passed 9-6-78)
   (C)   Unit costs: The unit cost shall be as follows:
      (1)   Volume. Annual grant cost allocable to volume proportioned to
design flow to plant per year — $0.013/1000 gallons.
      (2)   BOD. Annual grant cost allocable to BOD proportioned to design BOD
plant loading per year — $0.016 per lb. BOD.
      (3)   SS. Annual grant cost allocable to SS proportioned to design SS
plant loading per year — $0.015 per lb. SS.
      (4)   CD. Credit for domestic waste based on division (C)(1) through (3)
herein: one employee per eight hour shift is equivalent to one-fourth of each
standard per capita domestic waste discharger.
   Volume   =   100 gpd/4 = 25 gpd
   BOD   =   0.17 lbs/day/4 = 0.043 lbs. BOD/day
   SS   =   0.20 lbs/day/4 = 0.05 lbs. SS/day
   CD   =   25 gpd x 244 x $0.013/1000 gals. + 0.043 lbs. BOD/day x 244 x
$0.016 lb.
BOD + 0.05 lbs. SS/day x 244 x $0.015/lb. SS = $0.43 per employee equivalent
(Ord. 578 § 2.3, passed 9-6-78)
   (D)   Cost for industrial user. The cost to be recovered from an industrial
user (CI) shall be determined as follows:
   CI   =   C(Volume) + C(BOD) + C(SS) - CD x N
   Where CI   =   Industrial waste cost recovery amount (annual cost) to
industrial user:
   C   =   Unit cost for volume, BOD or SS as determined in division (C) above.
   Volume   =   Gallons of waste discharged to plant per year.
   BOD   =   lbs. of BOD discharged to plant per year.
   SS   =   lbs. of suspended solids discharged to plant per year.
   N   =   O for segregated industrial discharges.
   N   =   employee equivalent if industrial discharge is not segregated from
domestic wastewater.
(Ord. 578 § 2.4, passed 9-6-78)
   (E)   Reserved.
   (F)   Reserved.
   (G)   The annual industrial cost recovery payment must be greater than the
minimum payment allowable under the federal regulations. The minimum industry
payment shall be proportional to its flow or reserve capacity in relation to
the treatment plant flow capacity. The minimum annual payment = $32,663/
1,228,000 gals./365 x 1000 = $0.073 per 1000 gallons of wastewater. If the ICR
payment established in division (D) are less than the minimum ICR payment
calculated in this division, then the minimum ICR payment must be charged.
(Ord. 578 § 2.7, passed 9-6-78)
   (H)   The industrial cost recovery period shall be 30 years starting January
1, 1976, as stipulated by the United States and Illinois Environmental
Protection Agencies.
(Ord. 578 § 2.8, passed 9-6-78)
   (I)   For the purpose of industrial cost recovery, the year shall be divided
into quarterly periods, said periods to begin on the fist day of July, October,
January and March, and all industrial users of the city shall pay the cost for
industrial cost recovery, and such payment shall be made quarterly on the first
day of the month immediately following the expiration of the quarterly period,
for which service has been supplied and shall be payable within 20 days after
rendition thereof.
(Ord. 578 § 2.9, passed 9-6-78)
   (J)   Each year during the industrial cost recovery period, each industrial
user of the treatment works shall pay the cost recovery amount determined by
division (D) of this section. Where an industry is connected to a public sewer
after the start-up of the facilities constructed under a grant, such industry
shall only pay its portion of the grant for each quarter remaining in the
recovery period. Such industry will not be required to pay for those quarters
of the recovery period prior to connection to a public sewer.
(Ord. 578 § 2.10, passed 9-6-78)
   (K)   The initial industrial cost recovery payment made by an industrial
user which is connected to a public sewer after the start-up of the treatment
plant constructed with a grant shall be made by the next scheduled due date as
defined in division (I) of this section and shall be equal to one-quarter of
the amount as determined by divisions (D), (F), or (G).
(Ord. 578 § 2.11, passed 9-6-78)
   (L)   If there is a change in the volume of industrial waste discharged into
the sewerage works by an industrial user other than Nabisco as determined by
the previous year's records, the city shall adjust such user's industrial cost
recovery payment accordingly.
(Ord. 578 § 2.12, passed 9-6-78)
   (M)    If the volume of industrial wastewater discharged by Nabisco is in
excess of the treatment plant capacity reserved for Nabisco, as determined by
the previous year's records, the city shall increase Nabisco's industrial cost
recovery payment accordingly.
(Ord. 578 § 2.13, passed 9-6-78)
   (N)   If there is an expansion or upgrading of the sewerage works utilizing
a grant, each existing industrial user's share shall be adjusted accordingly.
This does not include Nabisco if Nabisco's volume of industrial wastewater is
less than Nabisco's reserved capacity.
(Ord. 578 § 2.14, passed 9-6-78)
   (O)   The city shall retain 50% of the amounts recovered from industrial
users. The remainder, together with any interest earned thereon, shall be
returned to the United States Environmental Protection Agency on an annual
basis.
(Ord. 578 § 2.15, passed 9-6-78)
   (P)   Eighty percent of the retained amounts recovered from industrial
users, together with interest earned thereon, shall be used solely for the
eligible costs of the expansion or reconstruction of sewerage works associated
with the project and necessary to meet the requirements of the Federal Act. The
city, prior to commitment of the retained amounts, shall obtain written
approval of the United States Environmental Protection Agency for any expansion
or reconstruction. The remainder of the retained amounts may be used for such
expenditures as the city deems appropriate. Pending use, the city shall invest
the retained amounts in: obligations of the U.S. Government; or obligations
guaranteed as to principal and interest by the U.S. Government or any agency
thereof; or shall deposit such amounts in accounts fully collateralized by
obligations of the U.S. Government or by obligations fully guaranteed as to
principal and interest by the U.S. Government or any agency thereof.
(Ord. 578 § 2.16, passed 9-6-78)
   (Q)   The city shall maintain a program of monitoring industrial user
discharges as the City Council deems necessary, provided that any major
contributing industry shall be monitored no less than 12 times annually and any
industrial user that has a population equivalent of 50 or more shall be
monitored no less than once annually. All other industrial users shall be
monitored at such frequency as deemed necessary by the Council.
(Ord. 578 § 2.17, passed 9-6-78)
   (R)   (1)   Industrial waste dischargers, within 90 days of the date of
notification by the city, shall install and maintain at their expense
acceptable water meters or flow metering devices and samplers and manholes as
required to determine waste characteristics discharged to the public sewers.
      (2)   Flow metering devices, installed in monitoring manholes on service
lines, will be required for measurement of the volume of waste discharged to
the sewer when volumes cannot otherwise be determined from metered water
consumption records. This determination shall be made by the city.
      (3)   The industry shall install and maintain waste samplers and hire an
approved laboratory to complete waste testing when directed by the city. Waste
sampling and testing shall be completed by the discharger as often as may be
deemed necessary by the city and all certified test results shall be forwarded
to the city. The city shall reserve the right to sample and test all discharges
at any time and bill the dischargers for all involved costs. The city shall
establish discharge loads and industrial cost recovery charges based on either
or both tests and this shall be binding as a basis for industrial cost recovery
charges.
(Ord. 578 § 2.18, passed 9-6-78; Am. Ord. 1571, passed 4-15-15) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.101 ACCESS TO RECORDS.
   The United States Environmental Protection Agency or its authorized
representative shall have access to any books, documents, papers and records of
the city which are applicable to the city system of user charges or industrial
cost recovery for the purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts and
transcriptions thereof to insure compliance with the terms of the grant.
(Ord. 578, passed 9-6-78)
§ 51.998 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any violation of §§
51.075 through
51.085 shall constitute a misdemeanor and be punishable as provided for a
violation of this code.
(Ord. 694, passed 12-30-85)
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the city
by reason of such violation.
(Ord. 523, passed 7-1-74)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which another
penalty is not provided, shall be fined not less than $50, nor more than $200,
for each offense. Each and every day on which the violation of any of the
provisions of this ordinance occurs shall constitute a separate and distinct
offense.
(Ord. 523, passed 7-1-74)
   (B)    Any person, firm or corporation violating §§
51.100 through
51.103 shall be fined according to the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99.
(Ord. 578, passed 9-6-78; Am. Ord. 1326, passed 2-20-08)
CHAPTER 52: WATER AND SEWER SERVICE
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Right of city to shut off water for purpose of repairs, extensions or
other purpose
   
52.03   Breaks in service or fixtures
   
52.04   Supplying water to others prohibited
   
52.05   Use of fire hydrants
   
52.06   Information furnished to plumbers; accuracy not guaranteed
   
52.07   Delinquent water or sewer bill, tax or service on premises prerequisite
to purchasing premises
   
52.08   Use of groundwater as a potable water supply prohibited
Service Charges and Use Regulations
   
52.15   Application for water service
   
52.16   Deposits; responsibility for payment for water service
   
52.17   Charge for water service
   
52.18   City not responsible for damages in turning on water
   
52.19   Payment of charges
   
52.20   Modification or discontinuance of water use
   
52.21   Unnecessary use of water
   
52.22   Contractor's service; swing meter deposit; penalty
   
52.23   Other supply of water than city water
   
52.24   Filling swimming pools
   
52.25   Compliance with F.A.C.T. Act
Connections and Extensions
   
52.30   Applications for water service connections; water tap fees
   
52.31   Sewer connection fee
   
52.32   Extensions of water mains and sanitary sewers outside city
   
52.33   Service pipes across private property
   
52.34   Separate connections
   
52.35   Service curb cocks
   
52.36   Specifications for service pipe
   
52.37   Depth of water service pipe
   
52.38   Maintenance of service pipes
   
52.39   Abandoned service pipes
Meters
   
52.50   Installation of meters
   
52.51   Responsibilities of owners
   
52.52   Testing of meters; filing of complaint after investigation
   
52.53   Charge for reading and administering re-metering of water
Administration and Enforcement
   
52.65   Waterworks and sewerage systems deemed separate systems
   
52.66   Commissioner of Department of Public Property; duties
   
52.67   Procedure for purchase of materials and supplies for Department
   
52.68   Agents of Department to be provided with badge
   
52.69   Right of entry of premises; right to set or remove meter
   
52.70   Appointment of employees; salaries
   
52.71   Rules and regulations considered part of contract
   
52.72   Violations
Cross-Connection Control
   
52.80   Purpose
   
52.81   Application; specific policy
   
52.82   Definitions
   
52.83   Water system
   
52.84   Cross-connection prohibited
   
52.85   Survey and investigations
   
52.86   Inspection; maintenance; testing; records
   
52.87   Where protection is required
   
52.88   Type of protection required
   
52.89   Backflow prevention devices
   
52.90   Booster pumps
   
52.91   Violations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASIC WATER USER CHARGE. The base amount billed each billing period to every
economic unit which includes, without limitation, costs for radium removal and
IEPA testing
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen used in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter in five days at 20°C, determined by
standard laboratory test procedures and expressed in mg/l.
   ECONOMIC UNIT. Each dwelling unit* business*, industry, mobile home* located
on a mobile home lot* or other lot, recreational vehicle* located on a
recreational vehicle lot* and any other entity receiving city water and/or
sewer services (*see definition in Marseilles Zoning Ordinance) or where water
and/or sewer services would reasonably be expected. A building, building
complex, mobile home with more than one economic unit shall be considered as
have the number of economic units housed therein regardless of the number of
water meters or sewer connections contained therein the number of economic
units attributed to a campground, or to an owners' association of any planned
development or other form of subdivision designed not for single family homes
but for recreational vehicles where each recreational vehicle that does not
have a city approved water meter (hereinafter camping facility) shall be
determined by the following formula:
      (1)   Formula. The total monthly metered water usage for the camping
facility shall be divided by the average of all water usage in the applicable
geographic area (North or the Illinois River or South of the Illinois River).
Such average shall be determined by the total water usage in the geographic
area (minus the water account of any camping facility) divided by the total
number of water accounts in the geographic area (minus camping facility
accounts).
         (a)   The number of economic units, rounded down to a whole number,
shall be the number of economic units applied to the monthly bill. Such formula
shall be calculated monthly and the calculation shall be included with the
monthly billing. The following is an example of the calculation:
         (b)   Example of formula. 
         If in the month of August a camping facility located North of the
Illinois has a total metered water usage of 4,141 units (414,100 gallons) and
the average water usage of all water users North of the Illinois (except for
the camping facilities) was 51 units (5,100 gallons), the August billing
calculation to determine the number of Economic Units (to be multiplied against
basic charges) would be as follows:
            Camping Facility metered water use:   4,141 units (414,100 gallons)
            Average water use North of Illinois River:   51 units (5,100
gallons)
            Metered usage divided by average:   81.19 economic units
            Units rounded down to whole number:   81 economic units
         Economic Units of 81 multiplied by basic charge of $25.50* = $2,065.50
basic charge to be added to water and sewer usage charges (*in this example,
*$25.50 is combined basic charges for water and sewer North of the Illinois
River).
   MAY. Is permissive.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial including any individual,
partnership, co-partnership, firm, company, limited liability company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, political
subdivision, or any other legal entity or their legal representatives, agents
or assigns.
   POTABLE WATER. Any water used for human or domestic consumption, including,
but not limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming, washing dishes
or preparing foods.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. Expenditures for purchasing and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of
the sewerage works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such
works were designed and constructed.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SEWERAGE WORKS. All facilities of the city for collecting and pumping sewage
and industrial wastes.
   SURCHARGE. The amount to be paid each billing period by certain public sewer
users in addition to the basic user charge.
   TOTAL WATER CHARGE. The combined amounts of the basic water user charge and
the water user service charge amount billed each billing period to every
economic unit.
   UNIT. A total of 100 gallons of metered water usage.
   WATER VOLUME CHARGE. The amount billed each billing period to every economic
unit based on the volume of water usage which includes, without limitation,
costs of operation, maintenance, and replacement for the sewerage works.
(Ord. 549, passed 12-22-75; Am. Ord. 565, passed 11-28-77; Am. Ord. 1240,
passed 2-15-06; Am. Ord. 1571, passed 4-15-15; Am. Ord. 1619, passed 11-16-16;
Am. Ord. 1708, passed 5-15-19)
§ 52.02 RIGHT OF CITY TO SHUT OFF WATER FOR PURPOSE OF REPAIRS, EXTENSIONS OR
OTHER PURPOSE.
   (A)   The city may, when necessary, without notice, shut the water off in
its mains for the purpose of making repairs or extensions or for other purposes
and no claims shall be made against the city by reason of the breakage of any
service pipe or service cock, or from any other damage that may result from
shutting off water for repairing, laying or re-laying mains, hydrants, or other
connections. The Water and Sewer Department shall give notice of shutting off
water if conditions are such that it is possible to do so.
   (B)   When water is shut off for making repairs in premises having water
heat-coils in heaters, consumers should turn off the water at the basement
shut-off and open a faucet in the hot water pipe and leave it open until water
is turned on, in order to protect piping and fixtures from excessive pressures
from hot water or steam.
(Ord. 549, passed 12-22-75)
§ 52.03 BREAKS IN SERVICE OR FIXTURES.
   The city shall not be held responsible by reason of the breaking of any
service pipe or apparatus, or for failure in the supply of water.
(Ord. 549, passed 12-22-75)
§ 52.04 SUPPLYING WATER TO OTHERS PROHIBITED.
    No consumer shall supply water to other persons, nor suffer them to take it
except by special permission from the Superintendent of Water and Sewer or his
agents. Where such permission is granted, the owner of the service from which
the water is taken shall be responsible for payment of the total amount of the
bill plus an additional monthly minimum water and sewer charge for each further
residential unit provided water from the customer’s service.
(Ord. 549, passed 12-22-75; Am. Ord. 1308, passed 12-5-07 ) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.05 USE OF FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   No person except members of the Department of Streets and Public
Improvements of the city, or officers of employees of the Water and Sewer
Department acting in the regular performance of their duties, shall open any
hydrant belonging to the department at any time without a permit in writing
signed by the Commissioner of Public Property.
   (B)   Any person or entity wishing to purchase water in bulk from the city
by tapping directly into a hydrant shall be required to make application to the
city for this service. A charge of $30 shall include a hook up to a city water
meter, a water shut off valve and up to 150 feet of water hose. There shall
also be the usual water service charge, based on the city’s current water and
sewer rate for every 100 gallons of water used. Use of city fire hydrants shall
only be permitted on city business days between 7:00 a.m. and 2:30 p.m.
(Ord. 549, passed 12-22-75; Am. Ord. 1112, passed 7-2-03; Am. Ord. 1543, passed
6-4-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.06 INFORMATION FURNISHED TO PLUMBERS; ACCURACY NOT GUARANTEED.
   Such information as may be obtained from the records, maps, employees, and
the like, of the Water and Sewer Department relative to the location of water
mains, service pipes, will be furnished to licensed plumbers and interested
parties; but the Department does not guarantee the accuracy of the same.
(Ord. 549, passed 12-22-75)
§ 52.07 DELINQUENT WATER OR SEWER BILL, TAX OR SERVICE ON PREMISES PREREQUISITE
TO PURCHASING PREMISES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of any person about to purchase any premises
within the corporate limits of the city, or of any mortgagee, trustee or lien
claimant holding any mortgage, trust deed or lien against any premises within
the city, to first ascertain from the office of the City Clerk as to any
delinquent water or sewer bill, tax, rate, rent or service that may have
accrued or be against said premises, before purchasing the premises or
instituting proceedings foreclosing said mortgage, trust deed, or lien and to
notify the City Clerk in writing as to his intentions of purchasing said
property or foreclosing said mortgage, trust deed or lien, and 24 hours notice
shall be deemed sufficient notice under this section.
   (B)   In addition to any other remedy provided herein for the enforcement or
collection of any water or sewer tax, rate of rent, all such rates or rents
shall be a lien upon the premises and real estate upon and for which the same
is used or supplied. Such liens shall attach when the water or sewer bill
becomes delinquent, which is hereby declared to be 15 days after the due date
of payment as set forth on said bill, and may be enforced together with the
cost and penalties by foreclosure in equity in any court having jurisdiction in
the same manner and with like force and effect as the foreclosure of liens of
mortgages and trust deed.
(Ord. 549, passed 12-22-75)
§ 52.08 USE OF GROUNDWATER AS A POTABLE WATER SUPPLY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Use of groundwater as a potable water supply is prohibited except for
such uses or methods in existence before the effective date of this section.
The use of, or attempted use of, groundwater from within the corporate limits
of the city, as a potable water supply, by the installation or drilling of
wells or by any other method is hereby prohibited. This prohibition does not
include the city.
   (B)    Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be fined
according to the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99.
   (C)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to enter into a memorandum
of understanding with the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency ("Illinois
EPA") in which the city assumes responsibility for tracking all sites that have
received no further remediation determinations from the Illinois EPA, notifying
the Illinois EPA of changes to this section and taking certain precautions when
siting public potable water supply wells.
(Ord. 1240, passed 2-15-06; Am. Ord. 1326, passed 2-20-08 )
SERVICE CHARGES AND USE REGULATIONS
§ 52.15 APPLICATION FOR WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   A written application for water services must be completed and
delivered to City Hall. The application must include evidence of ownership of
the property in question such as by a copy of a deed, title policy, or property
insurance policy. The applicant must present with the application appropriate
identification. When submitting their application, applicant(s) must present
adequate identification. Identification must show the applicant’s name, date of
birth, and residential or business address and no less than one form of
photographic identification such as driver’s license or state identification
card. A business entity must provide proof of the business entity’s existence
and all principals of the business must be identified on the application. No
less than one principal of the business must present the application and such
principal will need to provide adequate identification and proof of his or her
principal relationship with the business entity. No social security numbers or
tax identification numbers will be requested in the application process. Water
bills will not be sent to tenants. Owners will receive bills for all service
accounts at only one mailing address.
   (B)   No owner seeking to establish a new city water and sewer account,
shall be given water service until any and all delinquent water and sewer
charges shall have been paid in full. A charge of $35 will be made for turning
on water and renewing service.
(Ord. 549, passed 12-22-75; Am. Ord. 1356, passed 11-5-08 )
§ 52.16 DEPOSITS; RESPONSIBILITY FOR PAYMENT FOR WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   A deposit of $75 is required at time of application for water and
sewer service.
   (B)   Said deposit may be refunded after one year, provided all fees and
charges have been timely paid in full. It shall remain the responsibility of
the person tendering the deposit to request a refund of deposits by submitting
a written request to the City Clerk.
   (C)   The owner applicant is always responsible for payment of services
regardless if the owner provides the bills to tenant for payment and regardless
if any deposit was refunded.
   (D)   No refunds or discounts on water rentals shall be made on account of
the premises having been vacant or no water used unless water has been shut off
by the Water and Sewer Department upon written request of the owner or
consumer.
   (E)   An administrative fee of $25 shall be imposed at the time each new
account is opened or modified.
(Ord. 549, passed 12-22-75; Am. Ord. 693, passed 12-30-85; Am. Ord. 708, passed
12-17-86; Am. Ord. 750, passed 7-3-90; Am. Ord. 1241, passed 2-15-06; Am. Ord.
1345, passed 8-20-08; Am. Ord. 1356, passed 11-5-08)
§ 52.17 CHARGE FOR WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   There shall be and there are hereby established a total water charge
for the use of and for the service supplied by the city water works which shall
consist of a basic water user charge and a water volume charge. Total water
charge shall be determined by the amount of revenue funds required to operate
and maintain the city water works and to provide a fund for the repair and/or
replacement of component parts of said water works for each fiscal year. Said
charges shall also be determined by geographic location north and south of the
Illinois River.
   (B)   The water volume charge for North of the Illinois River is $0.47 per
each unit (unit is 100 gallons) or fractions thereof. Effective August 1,2021
the volume charge north of the Illinois River shall be $0.485 per unit. On May
1, 2022 and thereafter each year on May 1 the volume charge shall increase in
an amount of $0.015 per each unit.
   (C)   The water volume charge for South of the Illinois River is $0.425.
Effective August 1, 2021 the volume charge South of the Illinois River shall be
$0.44 per unit. On May 1, 2022 and thereafter each year on May 1 the volume
charge shall increase in an amount of $0.015 per each unit.
      (1)   The volume water charges shall commence and be assessed against
each economic unit upon a water line from the economic unit being connected to
a city water main.
      (2)   The volume water charges may be shut off upon requesting a
termination of water service. (Notice, however, the basic water charges
continue, unless the City Council passes a resolution to terminate charges or
unless the lateral water line serving property from the city water main is
removed.)
   (D)   The purpose of the basic water user charge is to charge a base amount
each billing period to every economic unit which receives or is capable of
receiving city water to cover the basic charges of maintaining the water system
which includes, without limitation, ongoing infrastructure costs, radium
removal and IEPA testing. The basic water user charges shall commence and be
assessed against each economic unit upon a water line from the economic unit
being connected to a city water main. The charges continue until there is no
longer a connection from the economic unit to the city water main, or if the
City Council has passed a resolution to terminate charges. A temporary shut off
of water shall not terminate basic water charges.
      (1)   North of the Illinois River, the basic water user charge is $8.75.
Effective August 1, 2021, the charge shall be $11. Effective May 1, 2022, the
charge shall be $12.
      (2)   South of the Illinois River, the basic water user charge is $34.
(Ord. 549, passed 12-22-75; Am. Ord. 563, passed 10-17-77; Am. Ord. 624, passed
5-20-81; Am. Ord. 651, passed 1-5-83; Am. Ord. 669, passed 12-15-83; Am. Ord.
693, passed 12-30-85; Am. Ord. 750, passed 7-3-90; Am. Ord. 850, passed 9-6-95;
Am. Ord. 929, passed 3-11-98; Am. Ord. 968, passed 6-2-99; Am. Ord. 1016,
passed 7-19-00; Am. Ord. 1125, passed 9-3-03; Am. Ord. 1449, passed - -11; Am.
Ord. 1571, passed 4-15-15; Am. Ord. 1575, passed 6-17-15; Am. Ord. 1599, passed
4-20-16; Am. Ord. 1619, passed 11-16-16; Am. Ord. 1708, passed 5-15- 19; Am.
Ord. 1800, passed 7-7-21)
§ 52.18 PAYMENT OF CHARGES.
   (A)   Payment of all charges for water and sewer service shall be made
within 15 days of the city’s providing notice of the amount due. Any amounts
remaining unpaid after 30 days shall be subject to collection proceedings.
   (B)   In the event collection proceedings are required, the account holder
shall be responsible for all costs of collection, including surcharges or fees
payable to any collection agency and any and all attorney fees and court costs.
   (C)   Any person who makes payment for the charges provided by this chapter
by check shall be liable and responsible for the payment of an additional sum
of $35 for each check not honored by the bank or institution upon which it is
drawn.
(Ord. 549, passed 12-22-75; Am. Ord. 693, passed 12-30-85; Am. Ord. 750, passed
7-3-90; Am. Ord. 1245, passed 4-19-06; Am. Ord. 1571, passed 4-15-15; Am. Ord.
1762, passed 8-5-20)
§ 52.19 CITY NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR DAMAGES IN TURNING ON WATER.
   In turning on water, the city or the Water and Sewer Department shall not be
responsible for any damage that may occur by reason of improper fixtures, open
or improper connections or for any other causes.
(Ord. 549, passed 12-22-75)
§ 52.20 MODIFICATION OR DISCONTINUANCE OF WATER USE.
   (A)   The owner of the property, desiring to discontinue or otherwise change
service (including a change of the mailing address for a billing) shall make
such request in person and in writing at City Hall. Appropriate identification
from the owner is required. Only an owner can terminate or modify service. Any
request of a tenant to terminate or modify an account will not be considered
without the owner appearing at City Hall and making such request. Where
discontinuance of service is requested, charges shall continue until the water
shutoff is completed at which time final charges are due in full.
   (B)   Where a business entity desires to discontinue or otherwise change
service (including a change of the mailing address for a billing) no less than
one principal of the business shall make such request in person and in writing
at the City Hall. All principals of the business must be identified or re-
identified.
   (C)   When water service is again desired after having been discontinued, no
matter if discontinued by owner request, due to nonpayment of charges or other
cause, a charge of $50 shall be made and collected before turning on water and
renewing service. An additional $100 charge shall be added to the $50 charge if
water was shut off on an emergency basis not during normal city work hours. For
any fees paid to the city after 2:30 p.m. with a request to turn on water, the
water account shall be turned on by the close of the next business day.
(Ord. 549, passed 12-22-75; Am. Ord. 970, passed 6-2-99; Am. Ord. 1347, passed
8-20-08; Am. Ord. 1356, passed 11-5-08; Am. Ord. 1452, passed 9-21-11; Am. Ord.
1533, passed 1-15-14; Am. Ord. 1825, passed 7-20-22)
§ 52.21 UNNECESSARY USE OF WATER.
   Consumers shall prevent unnecessary waste of water and keep all water
outlets closed when not in actual use. If unnecessary waste of water takes
place, the Water and Sewer Department reserves the right to cut off the supply.
The city reserves the right to prohibit the use of water for yard sprinklers
and large consumers of water when in the judgment of the city it shall be
necessary to do so.
(Ord. 549, passed 12-22-75)
§ 52.22 CONTRACTOR'S SERVICE; SWING METER DEPOSIT; PENALTY.
   (A)   When a temporary service is desired by contractors and builders for
water to be used on construction work, they shall make application to the City
Engineer for such temporary service and deposit with the Water and Sewer
Department the sum of $50 for a swing meter to be used on such services.
   (B)   The charges for such water service shall be at the same rate as other
services, including the basic water user charge. No one shall use water that is
not measured by a meter furnished by the city.
   (C)   All swing meters shall be returned to the meter room of the Department
office at the end of each construction or building job for reading and tests.
   (D)   A penalty of $10 per month shall be charged for swing meters that are
not returned as above specified.
(Ord. 549, passed 12-22-75; Am. Ord. 1571, passed 4-15-15)
§ 52.23 OTHER SUPPLY OF WATER THAN CITY WATER.
   (A)   On premises where water is supplied from two sources, the city water
being one of them, the piping system for city water must be entirely separated
from that of the other source. If other than city water is to be furnished
premises previously supplied with city water, the owner or his plumber must
give notice at the office of the Water and Sewer Department when he will make
this change and must also cut off the city water at the corporation cock and
disconnect the service pipe.
   (B)   Premises now having direct connection between the city water supply
and another supply shall forthwith disconnect the same.
(Ord. 549, passed 12-22-75)
§ 52.24 FILLING SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   Residents wishing to fill their swimming pools by the use of their
water tap may do so. There shall be a charge for water and sewer service, based
on the current water and sewer rate for every 100 gallons of water used.
   (B)   Residents wishing to fill their swimming pools by use of city fire
hydrants shall be required to make application to the city for this service in
accordance with §
52.05, Use of Fire Hydrants, of the Code of Marseilles.
(Ord. 1113, passed 7-2-03; Am. Ord. 1543, passed 6-4-14)
§ 52.25 COMPLIANCE WITH F.A.C.T. ACT.
   (A)   Compliance. The city desires and intends to comply with the Fair and
Accurate Credit Transaction Act of 2003 (F.A.C.T. Act) which is applicable to
the city’s water and sewer billings.
   (B)   Confidential information. All customer account information other than
name and address of water sewer users shall be deemed confidential.
   (C)   Representatives of owners. All changes to water and sewer user
accounts must be made by the owner in person at City Hall. In the event an
owner is unable to or incapable of making an application, an application may be
made by an appropriate person with authority such as a power of attorney agent
or a court appointed representative. Under such circumstances, the person
making the application on behalf of the owner must produce original documents
indicating their authority and may be requested by the city to produce
additional documentation or to wait while verification of their agent authority
is confirmed.
   (D)   Security systems.
      (1)   All computer records shall be protected by a password system. Such
password system shall be limited to city personnel involved with water and
sewer billing, the Mayor and other City Commissioners. Any change in personnel
shall require an update of the password.
      (2)   All paper records shall be kept under lock and key. Keys shall be
limited to city personnel involved with water and sewer billing, the Mayor and
other City Commissioners. Any change in city personnel shall require an
updating of the lock and key system.
      (3)   Any documents related to water and sewer billing shall be
appropriately disposed of (i.e. shredded).
      (4)   Water and sewer billing system shall be periodically updated to
include current virus safeguard procedures and firewall protection.
   (E)   Red flags. After consideration of the city’s operations and customer
account system, all city personnel involved with water and sewer billing and
officials shall be on the guard for following “red flags” that suggest or
indicate the possibility of identity theft:
      (1)   Documents used for identification that appear to be forged,
altered, date in time, or otherwise inauthentic;
      (2)   Identification document(s) not consistent with the person
presenting the document(s) or not consistent with statements of the person
presenting the documents or not consistent with other documents;
      (3)   Identifying information presented that is the same as another
customer or the same information shown on other applications that were found or
are suspected to be fraudulent;
      (4)   A person fails to provide complete personal identifying information
after reminded to do so;
      (5)   Payments stop on an otherwise consistently up-to-date account;
      (6)   Change of address for an account followed by a request to change
the account holder’s name;
      (7)   Account used in a way that is not consistent with prior use (e.g.
very high activity);
      (8)    Mail sent to the account holder is repeatedly returned as
undeliverable;
      (9)   Notice from a customer, identity theft victim, law enforcement or
other person to the city of identity theft or related criminal activity or that
an account has unauthorized activity; and
      (10)   Breach in the City’s computer system security or secured record
system.
   (F)   Duties of city personnel.
      (1)   The city has made revisions to
Chapter 52 in the Code of Marseilles in an attempt to comply with the Fair and
Accurate Credit Transaction Act of 2003. No less frequently than yearly, the
city personnel involved with water and sewer billing shall meet with the
Commissioner of Public Health and Safety to consider further ordinance
revisions or changes in policies or procedures.
      (2)   Upon any city personnel involved with water and sewer billing
detecting a red flag, such person shall take the following steps:
         (a)   Log the event as a detected red flag and update such log
periodically to indicate this disposition of said red flag;
         (b)   Take reasonable steps to verify whether or not the red flag is a
true indication of identity theft or other possible criminal activity; and
         (c)    When criminal activity is indicated or where city personnel
cannot determine if criminal activity is identity theft, report the incident to
the Police Chief in writing for further investigation.
(Ord. 1356, passed 11-5-08)
CONNECTIONS AND EXTENSIONS
§ 52.30 APPLICATIONS FOR WATER SERVICE CONNECTIONS; WATER TAP FEES.
   (A)   Application for water service connections must be made in writing to
the Superintendent of the Water and Sewer Department (or their assign) by the
owner or agent of the property to be served. Such application shall state,
without limitation, the official house number or numbers of the premises to be
served, the size of pipe required and the approximate location where such
sendee will enter the premises. After the applicant pays the appropriate
connection fee and any delinquent city charges, a new connection to the water
mains will then be made by the city for the plumber engaged by the applicant.
If a tap is made before the fees are paid or made without advance permission by
the city, then the fees charged shall be three times the amount provided below.
The City Council reserves the right to bill additional time and material
charges for problematic taps such as those involving difficult excavations or
the need to replace pipe sections or the need to make non-standard connections.
   (B)   The connection fee varies upon the size of the connection and the
location within one of the following geographic areas:
      (1)   Connections south of the Illinois River;
      (2)   Connections north of the Illinois River except for property located
within the following identified Rutland 180 Water and Sewer Expansion
Territory;
      (3)   Connections within the Rutland 180 Water and Sewer Expansion
Territory being land lying North of 11th Street (or the east west extensions of
11th Street) utilizing the 2022 water and sewer main line extensions along
Rutland Street extending towards Interstate 80.
   (C)   The water connection fee for the geographic area south of the Illinois
River shall be as follows:
      1.   For all connections of one inch or less, the sum of $1,500.
      2.   For all connections in excess of one inch, a sum fixed by the City
Council upon a case-by-case basis determined at the actual cost of labor and
material plus a reasonable overhead charge and not being less than $1,500 for
each economic unit.
   (D)   The water connection fee for the geographic area north of the Illinois
River and not within the Rutland 180 Water and Sewer Expansion Territory shall
be as follows:
      (1)   For all connections of one inch or less, the sum of $1,200;
      (2)   For all connections in excess of one1 inch, a sum fixed by the City
Council upon a case-by-case basis determined at the actual cost of labor and
material plus a reasonable overhead charge and not being less than $1,200 for
each economic unit.
   (E)   The water connection fee for the Rutland 180 Water and Sewer Expansion
Territory shall be as follows:
      (1)   For all connections of one inch or less, the sum of $7,500;
      (2)   For all connections in excess of one inch, a sum fixed by the City
Council upon a case- by-case basis determined at the actual cost of labor and
material plus a reasonable overhead charge and not being less than $7,520 for
each economic unit.
   (F)   Any property owner of a buildings used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation, or other purposes situated within the city and located
within 100 feet of any water main which is now in existence, or which may
hereafter be installed shall, at their expense, connect said house or other
building directly to the public water system of this city within 90 days after
date of official notice to do so from the city.
(Ord. 549, passed 12-22-75; Am. Ord. 617, passed 1-7-81; Am. Ord. 851, passed
9-6-95; Am. Ord. 929, passed 3-11-98; Am. Ord. 1127, passed 9-3-03; Am. Ord.
1215, passed 9-21-05; Am. Ord. 1233, passed 1-18-06; Am. Ord. 1766, passed 8-5-
20; Am. Ord. 1824, passed 7-20-22)
§ 52.31 SEWER CONNECTION FEE.
   (A)   Application for sewer sendee connections must be made in writing to
the Superintendent of the Water and Sewer Department (or their assign) by the
owner or agent of the property to be served. Such application shall state,
without limitation, the official house number or numbers of the premises to be
served, the size of pipe required and the approximate location where such
sendee will enter the premises. After the applicant pays the appropriate
connection fee and any delinquent city charges, a new connection to the sewer
main will then be made by the city for the plumber engaged by the applicant. If
a tap is made before the fees are paid or made without advance permission by
the city, then the fees charged shall be three times the amount provided below.
The City Council reserves the right to bill additional time and material
charges for problematic taps such as those involving difficult excavations or
the need to replace pipe sections or the need to make non-standard connections.
   (B)   (1)   The connection fee varies upon the size of the connection and
the location within one of the following geographic areas:
         (a)   Connections south of the Illinois River;
         (b)   Connections north of the Illinois River except for property
located within the following identified Rutland 180 Water and Sewer Expansion
Territory;
         (c)   Connections within the Rutland 180 Water and Sewer Expansion
Territory being land lying north of 11th Street (or the east west extensions of
11th Street) utilizing the 2022 water and sewer mail line extensions along
Rutland Street extending towards Interstate 80.
      (2)   If the water service connection is required as part of a special
assessment which contains stated connections fees different than the following
standard connection fees, the connection fee to be paid shall be that stated in
the special assessment.
      (3)   The water connection fee for the geographic area south of the
Illinois River shall be as follows:
         (a)   For all connections of one inch or less, the sum of $1,500;
         (b)   For all connections in excess of one inch, a sum fixed by the
City Council upon a case-by-case basis determined at the actual cost of labor
and material plus a reasonable overhead charge and not being less than $1,500
for each economic unit.
   (C)   The sewer connection fee for the geographic area south of the Illinois
River shall be as follows:
      (1)   For up to a four-inch sewer line, the sum of $1,500;
      (2)   For all connections in excess of four inches, a sum fixed by the
City Council upon a case-by-case basis determined at the actual cost of labor
and material plus a reasonable overhead charge and not being less than $1,500
for each economic unit.
   (D)   The sewer connection fee for the geographic area north of the Illinois
River shall be as follows:
      (1)   For up to a 4-inch sewer line, the sum of $1,200;
      (2)   For all connections in excess of four inches, a sum fixed by the
City Council upon a case-by-case basis determined at the actual cost of labor
and material plus a reasonable overhead charge and not being less than $1,200
for each economic unit.
   (E)   The sewer connection fee for the Rutland 180 Water and Sew er
Expansion Territory shall be as follows:
      (1)   For up to a 4-inch sewer line, the sum of $7,500;
      (2)   For all connections in excess of four inches, a sum fixed by the
City Council upon a case-by-case basis determined at the actual cost of labor
and material plus a reasonable overhead charge and not being less than $7,500
for each economic unit.
   (F)   Any property owner of a buildings used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation, or other purposes situated within the city and located
within 100 feet of any water main which is now in existence, or which may
hereafter be installed shall, at their expense, connect said house or other
building directly to the public water system of this city within 90 days after
date of official notice to do so from the city.
   (G)   Each building requires a separate sewer connection to the sewer main.
(Ord. 549, passed 12-22-75; Am. Ord. 667, passed 12-7-83; Am. Ord. 851, passed
9-6-95; Am. Ord. 928, passed 3-11-98; Am. Ord. 1128, passed 9-3-03; Am. Ord.
1215, passed 9-21-05; Am. Ord. 1233, passed 1-18-06; Am. Ord. 1766, passed 8-5-
20; Am. Ord. 1824, passed 7-20-22)
§ 52.32 EXTENSIONS OF WATER MAINS AND SANITARY SEWERS OUTSIDE CITY.
   No extensions of water mains or sanitary sewers shall be made outside the
city limits, unless such property to be serviced shall first have been annexed
to the city, and any such extension shall be at the cost of the property owner
and subject to installation plan acceptable to the city.
(Ord. 549, passed 12-22-75) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.33 SERVICE PIPES ACROSS PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No consumer shall be permitted to conduct water pipes across lots or
buildings to adjoining premises, but all service pipe shall be laid on streets,
alleys, or public ground to the premises to be served, and enter at the front
or rear of the building nearest the main.
(Ord. 549, passed 12-22-75) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.34 SEPARATE CONNECTIONS.
   There shall be separate service pipes laid from the main to each building
wherever there is a water main adjacent to the property on which such building
is located, with such extensions as may be allowed by the Commissioner of
Public Property in writing. Such service pipe shall be laid on as near a
straight line as possible from the point on the water main nearest to such
building to where it enters such building with such exceptions as may be
allowed by the Commissioner in writing. No two or more services shall be
interconnected.
(Ord. 549, passed 12-22-75)
§ 52.35 SERVICE CURB COCKS.
   (A)   A curb stop box and inside shut-off for controlling the supply of
water to consumers shall be placed on every service. When connections are made
in streets or avenues, the curb stop box shall be placed 12 inches outside the
sidewalk line on the street side; and when made in alley it shall be placed 12
inches outside the lot line. The cover of said curb stop box shall be
maintained at the same height as the sidewalk or the surrounding ground. Where
area walls or curb lines prevent the location of curb stop box at the point
indicated, it shall be placed immediately within the area wall or curb line.
All stop boxes must be set on a line drawn at right angles to the main through
the service corporation or connection in the main.
   (B)   Every service pipe must also have a stop placed in the building within
nine inches of the point where the pipe enters the building. Said inside shut-
off must have a handle or wrench attached to turn the same, and be kept in
working order at all times so that the water may be shut off by the occupant of
the premises. There shall also be a gate valve placed on the outlet side of the
water meter not more than three feet from the meter so that the meter can be
taken out or replaced without draining the pipe system in the building. No gate
valve shall be made prior to the meter.
   (C)   All gate valves next to the water meter must have round ways of the
same diameter as the pipe with which they are placed with proper locking
device, and with proper handles for turning on and off, and of a make and
pattern approved by the Commissioner of Public Property.
   (D)   The curb stop box shall be under the sole control of the Water and
Sewer Department and no one except an employee or person specially authorized
by the Water and Sewer Department shall open the cover of such box, or turn on
or off water. It is a violation of this code to cover, damage, block or
otherwise interfere with said shut-off. This shall include interference due to
shrubbery, trees, greenery, blacktop, cement or any other structure that
covers, damages, blocks or otherwise interferes with the city’s access to said
shut-off.
   (E)   If the stop box is found to be out of repair at any time, the Water
and Sewer Department shall have the right to clean or repair the same when
needed without giving notice, and if cleaning or repairs are due to the owner’s
interference, then the city shall charge the cost thereof to the owner and if
payment is refused may turn off the water in the service until the same is
paid.
   (F)   Owners of premises having water services which do not have separate
curb stop cocks and boxes for each building or which otherwise do not conform
to the requirements in this chapter at the time of its passage shall upon the
demand of the city allow the city to establish a stop box and perform other
necessary work so as to allow the city to shut off water to every consumer.
(Ord. 549, passed 12-22-75; Am. Ord. 1532, passed 12-4-13)
§ 52.36 SPECIFICATIONS FOR SERVICE PIPE.
   (A)   That portion of the water service pipe from the water main to the
meter up to one and one-half inches in size inclusive must be laid of type “K”
copper or polybutylene plastic meeting the requirements of ASTM specification
D-2666. Said service line shall be capable of withstanding an internal pressure
of 160 pounds per square inch. For two inches or over, services polyvinyl
chloride (PVC 1120) Class 22, or cast iron may also be used, all non-metallic
service lines shall be marked with a continuous wire or metallic tape capable
of detection with city equipment and meeting the approval of the City Engineer
or Commissioner of Public Property.
   (B)   No water service pipe or tap for any building shall be less than 3 1/
4-inch internal diameter, and pipes supplying sill cocks or hydrants outside of
buildings shall not be less than 1/2-inch internal diameter.
   (C)   Plumbers installing water service pipes shall close the curb shut-off
and leave it closed upon completion of their work, and when pipes are laid to
the curb only they shall close the end of the pipe or fitting with a right
metal plug or cap.
(Ord. 549, passed 12-22-75)
§ 52.37 DEPTH OF WATER SERVICE PIPE.
   Service pipes must be laid at least four feet below the surface of the
ground. When pipes are laid in streets or grounds subject to fixed grades,
where the surface of the ground is higher than the established grades, they
shall be so laid that they will be at least four feet below the established
grade, except in sandy soil formation, the Commissioner of Public Property may
require pipes be laid to a depth of at least five feet below the established
grade.
(Ord. 549, passed 12-22-75)
§ 52.38 MAINTENANCE OF SERVICE PIPES.
   The city shall maintain the water main tap, corporation cock at the main,
and service line from the water main to the curb stop at or near the property
line. All service lines, or pipes located between the curb stop or property
line and the residence, commercial building or other structure shall be
maintained by the water user or property owner at their sole expense, and any
leaks or other defects shall be promptly repaired by them. If not promptly
repaired the water service shall be turned off until such repairs have been
made, and all expenses associated therewith shall be charged against the user
or owner and must be paid before water service is re-established.
(Ord. 549, passed 12-22-75; Am. Ord. 979, passed 9-15-99)
§ 52.39 ABANDONED SERVICE PIPES.
   (A)   All service pipes that may become useless because of laying of larger
or other new services, or because water will be no longer used through them,
must be permanently closed off at the water main at the expense of the owner of
the premises, and so reported to the City Engineer. No plumber, or owner of
property shall disconnect or remove water supply fixtures or piping from any
premises served by city water, or alter the same in such a way as to make the
service connection unnecessary for the premises, without permanently closing
off the connections at the water main and reporting the same to the City
Engineer or Commissioner of Public property in writing.
   (B)   If a service pipe or connections, which is not being used, is found to
be leaking, the Water and Sewer Department may, without notice, repair or turn
off the same and charge the expense thereof to the owner of property for which
the connection was made.
(Ord. 549, passed 12-22-75)
METERS
§ 52.50 INSTALLATION OF METERS.
   (A)   All water furnished consumers shall be metered. All economic units
shall have separate meters. In cases where it is not practical, or will cause
undue hardship, for an economic unit to establish separate meters for each
unit, the Superintendent of Water and Sewer may waive the separate meter
requirement, but only upon the owner paying basic sewer user charges and basic
water user charges for each economic unit, in addition to sewer volume charges
and water volume charges. All meters shall be furnished and set by the Water
and Sewer Department, but owners must provide a suitable location in their
piping system for same. Meters shall be placed on service pipe, not to exceed
two feet from the wall where such pipe enters the premises. There shall be a
stop between the meter and the wall, and a suitable place provided for the
meter so as to keep it dry and clean, and readily accessible at all times to
the meter reader and inspectors of the Department. A gate valve shall also be
placed on the pipe on the meter. All valves and fittings necessary to comply
with these requirements and to provide connection to meter, except a coupling
or flange at each end of meter, shall be provided by the owner of premises to
be served.
   (B)   All meters to new economic units shall be of the “remote read”
variety. The owner shall protect the reading device and maintain accessibility
and visibility for reading of the meter.
   (C)   All residential economic units of the city water system shall have a
remote reading adaptor attached to their water meter, and shall pay to the city
the sum of $20 for the installation thereof. Any residential customer who does
not have a remote reading adaptor so attached shall be assessed the sum of $5
per month or part thereof, and such assessment shall be in addition to all
other assessments, rates or charges imposed by this chapter.
   (D)   Where a service pipe larger than two inches in diameter is used, the
plumber shall call at the Department office for instructions regarding the
fittings and space to be provided for the water meters.
   (E)   In case that two or more meters are desired for measuring water to
different tenants in the same building from one service connection, they shall
be so placed that no one of them shall measure water which has passed through
another one.
   (F)   When it is necessary to install a meter or meters in newly constructed
houses or buildings, or when it is necessary by reason of alterations in a
house or building to install one or more additional meters, or when it is
necessary to install a larger size meter in a house or building, the owner of
the premises or the contractor doing the construction or alterations on said
premises shall reimburse the Water and Sewer Department for the actual cost of
the meter or meters furnished by the Department plus 10% for overhead expenses.
(Ord. 549, passed 12-22-75; Am. Ord. 624, passed 5-20-81; Am. Ord. 693, passed
12-30-85; Am. Ord. 750, passed 7-3-90; Am. Ord. 1308, passed 12-5-07; Am. Ord.
1332, passed 3-5-08; Am. Ord. 1346, passed 8-20-08; Am. Ord. 1571, passed 4-15-
15)
§ 52.51 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of premises where a meter is installed shall be
held responsible for its care and protection from freezing or hot water and
from other injury or interference from any person or persons. In case of any
injury to the meter, or in case of its stoppage or imperfect working, said
owner or occupant shall give immediate notice to the office of the Water and
Sewer Department. In all cases where meters are broken or damaged by negligence
of owners or occupants of premises, or by freezing, hot water, or other
injuries except wear and tear, the necessary repairs to the meter shall be made
by the Department and the cost of such repairs, with a minimum of a $50 repair
charge, shall be paid for by such owner or occupant and shall also include an
additional $100 charge if water was shut off on an emergency basis not during
normal city work hours, and in case payment thereof is neglected or refused,
the water supply shall be turned off and shall not be turned on until full
payment has been made, together with a $50 charge for turning on the water
again. Damaged meters may be repaired by the department without first giving
notice thereof to the owner of premises served by such meter.
   (B)   No one shall in any way interfere with the proper registration of a
water meter, and no one except an authorized employee of the Department shall
break a seal on a meter. However, the City Engineer may grant written permits
to licensed plumbers in case of emergency to break such seal for draining pipes
or stopping water leaks.
   (C)   Wherever a water meter is installed on a water service in premises
that is to be remodeled, removed or destroyed, or where the service is
discontinued so that the water meter is no longer needed, the owner of such
premises shall give notice in writing to the City Engineer to remove such
meter, and free access to such meter must be provided at least 24 hours after
notice is given so that the meter may be removed. The owner of the premises
shall be held responsible for the meter until such written notice is given, and
if the meter is covered or lost, the owner shall be required to pay for the
same at the actual value.
   (D)   When the Water and Sewer Department is called by the owner or occupant
of a premises to inspect the water system or perform some service to the water
connections of said premises to the city water system, on Saturdays, Sundays,
holidays or any other day except between 8:00 a.m. and 2:30 p.m., the owner or
occupant who has requested such inspection or service call shall pay the
department the sum of $100 for each such inspection or service call, except
that no such payment shall be required if a leak, flaw, break or other defect
is found to exist in the city water system adjacent to the premises rather than
on the premises of the owner or occupant. The owner or occupant shall pay a
$100 charge for any inspection that is requested on an emergency basis not
during normal city work hours. If the inspection reveals that the act or acts
of the owner or occupant of the premises has damaged the water system, then
said owner or occupant shall be liable to the city for any and all sums or
charges incurred by the city to repair said damage, including, but not limited
to, overtime pay for city employees. Said sum shall become a lien upon the
premises served by the repairs.
(Ord. 549, passed 12-22-75; Am. Ord. 970, passed 6-2-99; Am. Ord. 1114, passed
7-2-03; Am. Ord. 1533, passed 1-15-14; Am. Ord. 1825, passed 7-20-22)
§ 52.52 TESTING OF METERS; FILING OF COMPLAINT AFTER INVESTIGATION.
   (A)    In case there is doubt as to the accuracy of a water meter on the
part of the consumer, the consumer may have the meter tested by the Water and
Sewer Department at which test the consumer may be present or have a
representative present if he so desires, and if the meter is found to register
within 6% of being correct a charge of $150 will be made to pay for a part of
the labor for making such tests. If the meter is found to measure more than 6%
incorrectly no charge shall be made for making the test. If the meter should be
found to over-register more than 6%, there shall be a proportional deduction
made from the previous water bill. A water meter shall be considered to
register satisfactorily when it registers within 6% of accuracy.
   (B)   Penalty for non-payment of bill in time required by this chapter shall
attach unless decision is in favor of the consumer.
(Ord. 549, passed 12-22-75; Am. Ord. 1737, passed 2-5-20)
§ 52.53 CHARGE FOR READING AND ADMINISTERING RE-METERING OF WATER.
   When the city has an agreement with a water user to bill further water users
based on a re-metering of water, there shall be added to each re-metered water
bill an additional flat rate charge of $2 to compensate the city for any
additional meter reading and administrative work associated with billing re-
metered water. The above-mentioned $2 flat rate charge shall not apply to
circumstances where the applicable agreement with the city otherwise provides a
mechanism for the city to be compensated for the administrative work or shifts
additional administrative work to a party other than the city.
(Ord. 1424, passed 9-15-10)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 52.65 WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE SYSTEMS DEEMED SEPARATE SYSTEMS.
   The Waterworks and Sewerage Systems of the city are hereby declared to be
separate and distinct systems. Both systems shall be operated for the benefit
of the inhabitants of the city, and charges and rates for the operation and use
thereof shall be established sufficient to pay the cost of maintenance,
operation, depreciation and payment of interest and principal on any revenue
bonds that may be issued by the city for the purpose of making repairs or
constructing improvements and extensions to said systems.
(Ord. 549, passed 12-22-75)
§ 52.66 COMMISSIONER OF DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC PROPERTY; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Water and Sewer Department of the city shall be under the
supervision of the Commissioner of the Department of Public Property, who shall
also be the Superintendent of Water and Sewer. In the absence of the
Commissioner the Department shall be under the direct supervision of the Mayor.
   (B)   The active supervision of the Water and Sewer Department and of any
and all property pertaining thereto shall be in the hands of the Commissioner
in charge of the Department of Public Property or his designated employee.
      (1)   It shall be his duty to protect the same from unnecessary damage or
loss and keep the Water and Sewer Department in good running order and repair,
and he shall superintend and direct all work pertaining to the future extension
of the Water and Sewer Department and all the repairs upon the same of every
kind and nature; subject however, to the advise and approval of the
Commissioner of the Department of Public Property and the City Council.
      (2)   The Commissioner shall keep a correct map of profile of all the
mains now or hereinafter laid in the city on file in his office with their
dimensions, locations and connections, hydrants and cut- offs.
      (3)   The Commissioner shall keep just, true and correct books of account
in such a manner as at all times to show the true condition and state of
business of his office. Such books shall at all times be subject to inspection
by the Council. He shall deliver such books of account, maps and profiles to
his successor in office and he shall also perform such other duties as shall be
encumbered upon him.
(Ord. 549, passed 12-22-75)
§ 52.67 PROCEDURE FOR PURCHASE OF MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES FOR DEPARTMENT.
   The Commissioner of the Department of Public Property shall make the
necessary purchase of material and supplies for use in the Department to the
amount of $2,500, but when the cost of the same would exceed the amount of
$2,500, a written estimate, previously made by him, must be presented to the
City Council and said material estimate shall be approved by them before
ordered or contracted for by him, and when the cost shall exceed $2,500 an
estimate shall be furnished the Council and they shall advertise for bids
according to law before contracting for the same, unless approved by four
Councilmembers to be done without bids.
(Ord. 549, passed 12-22-75)
§ 52.68 AGENTS OF DEPARTMENT TO BE PROVIDED WITH BADGE.
   Inspectors, foreman meter readers or any other employees of the Water and
Sewer Department, whose duty it may be to enter upon private premises to make
inspection and examination of water meters, pipes, fixtures or appurtenances
thereto, for any reason whatsoever in connection with the city water supply,
will be provided with a badge or other credential to identify him or them as
authorized agents and representatives of the Water and Sewer Department.
(Ord. 549, passed 12-22-75)
§ 52.69 RIGHT OF ENTRY OF PREMISES; RIGHT TO SET OR REMOVE METER.
   The City Engineer or any officer or employee of the Water and Sewer
Department shall be permitted at all reasonable hours to enter the premises or
buildings of consumers for the purpose of reading meters and to examine the
water pipe and fixtures and the manner in which water is used. Consumers shall
maintain their meters and remotes in such position and condition that they are
accessible to city meter readers at all times. The city shall be authorized to
shut off water to any consumer who fails to make a meter or remote accessible
for more than two months (resulting in estimated bills for two months or more).
Service shall be restored upon obtaining a reading of the meter or remote. The
Water and Sewer Department reserves the right to set or remove a meter whenever
it is deemed advisable so to do.
(Ord. 549, passed 12-22-75; Am. Ord. 1181, passed 10-6-04)
§ 52.70 APPOINTMENT OF EMPLOYEES; SALARIES.
   The Commissioner of the Department of Public Property shall have the
authority to appoint all employees necessary for the proper operation and
management of the Water and Sewer Department subject to the approval of the
City Council. The salaries of all employees of the Water and Sewer Department
shall be fixed by Council.
(Ord. 549, passed 12-22-75)
§ 52.71 RULES AND REGULATIONS CONSIDERED PART OF CONTRACT.
   The foregoing rules and regulations shall be considered a part of the
contract with every person who takes water supplied by the city through the
Water and Sewer Department, and every such person who takes water shall be
considered as having expressed his agreement to be bound thereby.
(Ord. 549, passed 12-22-75)
§ 52.72 VIOLATIONS.
   Any violation of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor and be
punishable as provided for a violation of this code.
(Ord. 549, passed 12-22-75)
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
§ 52.80 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide an effective means for
protecting the public water supply system from contamination due to backflow of
contaminants through the customer water service connection into the public
water system.
(Ord. 1213, passed 9-7-05)
§ 52.81 APPLICATION; SPECIFIC POLICY.
   (A)   These rules and regulations shall apply to all premises served by the
public potable water supply system of the city.
   (B)   All plumbing installed within the city shall be installed in
accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 890. If, in
accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code or in judgment of the Superintendent
of Water, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety of
the public water supply system, the Superintendent of Water will give notice to
the water customer to install such an approved device immediately. The water
customer shall, at his or her own expense, install such an approved device at a
location and in a manner in accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code,
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and all applicable local regulations,
and shall have inspections and tests made of such approved devices upon
installation and as required by the Illinois Plumbing Code, Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency and local regulations.
(Ord. 1213, passed 9-7-05)
§ 52.82 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement
of these regulations:
   AGENCY. Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   APPROVED. Backflow prevention devices or methods approved by American Water
Works Association, American National Standards Institute, and by the National
Sanitation Foundation.
   AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM. Any water source or system on or available to the
premises other than the public water supply system and includes the water
supplied by the system. These auxiliary waters may include water from another
purveyor's public water supply system: or water from a source such as wells,
lakes, river, streams, or process fluids; or used water. These waters may be
polluted or contaminated or objectionable or constitute a water source or
system over which the water purveyor does not have control.
   BACKFLOW. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances into
the distribution pipes of a portable water system from any source other than
the intended source of the potable water supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. Any device, method, or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system. All devices used for
backflow prevention in Illinois must meet the standards of the Illinois
Plumbing Code and the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   CONSUMER or CUSTOMER. The owner, official custodian or person in control of
any premises supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water system.
   CONSUMER'S WATER SYSTEM. Any water system located on the customer's
premises. A building plumbing system is considered to be a customer's water
system.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water by entrance of any
substance to a degree which could create a health hazard.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and the
other a substance of unknown or questionable safety or quality, whereby there
may be a flow from one system into the other.
      (1)   DIRECT CROSS-CONNECTION. A cross-connection formed when a water
system is physically joined to a source of unknown or unsafe substance.
      (2)   INDIRECT CROSS-CONNECTION. A cross-connection through which an
unknown substance can be forced, drawn by vacuum or otherwise introduced into a
safe potable water system.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of single independently
acting check valves approved under ASSE Standard 1015. A double check valve
assembly must include tight shutoff valves located at each end of the assembly
and suitable connections for the existing or new piping systems.
   FIXED PROPER AIR GAP. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the water discharge point and the flood level rim of the
receptacle.
   HEALTH HAZARD. Any conditions. Device or practice in a water system or its
operation resulting from a real or potential danger to the health and well-
being of consumers. The word "severe" as used to qualify "health hazard" means
a hazard to the health of the user that could be expected to result in death or
significant reduction in the quality of life.
   INSPECTION. A plumbing inspection to examine carefully and critically all
materials, fixtures, piping and appurtenances, appliances and installations of
a plumbing system for compliance with requirements of the Illinois Plumbing
Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 890.
   NON-POTABLE WATER. Water not safe for drinking, personal, or culinary use as
determined by the requirements of 77 Ill. Adm. Code 900.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological, or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as
to constitute a hazard that will impair the usefulness of the water.
   POTABLE WATER. Water which meets the requirements of 77 Ill. Adm. Code 900
for drinking, culinary, and domestic purposes.
   POTENTIAL CROSS-CONNECTION. A fixture or appurtenance with threaded hose
connections, tapered spout, or other connection which would facilitate
extension of the water supply line beyond its legal termination point.
   PROCESS FLUID(S). Any fluid or solution which may be chemically,
biologically or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration
such as would constitute a health, pollution, or system hazard if introduced
into the public or a consumer's potable water system. This includes but is not
limited to:
      (1)   Polluted or contaminated waters;
      (2)   Process waters;
      (3)   Used water originating from the public water supply system which
may have deteriorated in sanitary quality;
      (4)   Cooling waters;
      (5)   Questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells,
lakes, streams, or irrigation systems;
      (6)   Chemicals in solution or suspension; or
      (7)   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis, and other liquid and gaseous fluids
used in industrial or other processes or for firefighting purpose.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. All mains, pipes and structures through which water is
obtained and distributed to the public, including wells and well structures,
intakes and cribs, pumping stations, treatment plants, reservoirs, storage
tanks and appurtenances, collectively or severally, actually used or intended
for the use for the purpose of furnishing water for drinking or general
domestic use and which serve at least 15 service connections or which regularly
serve at least 25 persons at least 60 days per year. A public water supply is
either a "community water supply" or a "non-community water supply."
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. A device containing a
minimum of two independently acting check valves together with an automatically
operated pressure differential relief valve located between the two check
valves and approved under ASSE Standard 1013. During normal flow and at the
cessation of normal flow, the pressure between these two checks shall be less
than the supply pressure. In case of leakage of either check valve, the
differential relief valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall operate to
maintain the pressure between the check valves at less than the supply
pressure. The unit must include tightly closing shutoff valves located at each
end of the device, and each device shall be fitted with properly located test
cocks.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The opening, including all fittings and appurtenances,
at the water main through which water is supplied to the user.
   SURVEY. The collection of information pertaining to a customer's piping
system regarding the location of all connections to the public water supply
system and must include the location, type and most recent inspection and
testing date of all cross-connection control devices and methods located within
that customer's piping system. The survey must be written form, and should not
be an actual plumbing inspection.
   SYSTEM HAZARD. A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable or
degrading material not dangerous to health may enter the public water supply
system or a consumer's potable water system.
   USED WATER. Any water supplied by a public water supply system to a
consumer's water system after it has passed through the service connection and
is no longer under the control of the water supply official custodian.
   WATER PURVEYOR. The owner or official custodian of a public water system.
(Ord. 1213, passed 9-7-05)
§ 52.83 WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   The water system shall be considered as made up of two parts: the
public water supply system and the consumer's water system.
   (B)   The public water supply shall consist of the source facilities and
distribution system, and shall include all those facilities of the potable
water system under the control of the Superintendent of Water up to the point
where the consumer's water system begins.
   (C)   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized in
the production, treatment, storage, and delivery of water to the public water
supply distribution system.
   (D)   The public water supply distribution system shall include the network
of conduits used to deliver water from the source to the consumer's water
system.
   (E)   The consumer's water system shall include all parts of the facilities
beyond the curb stop used to convey water from the public water supply
distribution system to points of use.
(Ord. 1213, passed 9-7-05)
§ 52.84 CROSS-CONNECTION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a
private, auxiliary, or emergency water supply other than the regular public
water supply of the city may enter the supply or distribution system of said
municipality, unless such private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the
method of connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the
Superintendent of Water and the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   (B)   (1)   No physical connection shall be permitted between the potable
portion of a supply and any other water supply not equal or better
bacteriological and chemical quality as determined by inspection and analysis
by certified laboratory.
      (2)   There shall be no arrangement or connection by which an unsafe
substance may enter a supply. When a piping system is not being used because of
an air-gap situation, that pipe will be protected from any outside source of
contamination by using the proper device to cap the end of the pipe.
(Ord. 1213, passed 9-7-05)
§ 52.85 SURVEY AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   The approved cross-connection control device inspector shall have the
right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to
the public water supply or distribution system of the city for the purpose of
verifying the presence or absence of cross-connections, and that the Water
Superintendent or his or her authorized agent shall have the right to enter at
any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public water
supply or distribution system of the city for the purpose of verifying
information submitted by the customer regarding the required cross-connection
control inspection. On demand the owner, lessees or occupants of any property
so served shall furnish to the Superintendent of Water any information which he
or she may request regarding the piping system or systems or water use on such
property. The refusal of such information, when demanded, shall, within the
discretion of the Superintendent of Water, be deemed evidence of the presence
of improper connections as provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   It is the responsibility of the water consumer to prevent backflow
into the public water system by ensuring that:
      (1)   All cross-connections are removed; or approved cross-connection
control devices are installed for control of backflow and back-siphonage.
      (2)   Cross-connection control devices shall be installed in accordance
with manufacturer's instructions by license plumber.
      (3)   Cross-connection control devices shall be inspected at the time of
installation and at least annually by a person approved by the city as a cross-
connection control device inspector (CCCDI). The inspection of mechanical
devices shall include physical testing in accordance with manufacturer's
instructions.
(Ord. 1213, passed 9-7-05)
§ 52.86 INSPECTION; MAINTENANCE; TESTING; RECORDS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on which backflow
prevention devices required by these regulations are installed to have
inspection, tests, maintenance and repair made in accordance with the following
schedule or more often where inspections indicate a need or are specified in
manufacturer's instructions.
      (1)   Fixed proper air gap separations shall be inspected to document
that a proper vertical distance is maintained between the discharge point of
the service line and the flood level rim of the receptacle at the time of
installation and at least annually thereafter. Corrections to improper or by
passed air gaps shall be made within 24 hours.
      (2)   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested at the
time of installation and at least annually thereafter, and required service
performed within five days.
      (3)   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies shall be
tested at the time of installation and at least annually or more frequently if
recommended by the manufacturer, and required service performed within five
days.
   (B)   Testing shall be performed by a person who is approved as competent to
service the device. Proof of approval shall be in writing. Each test result
will be sent to the city Water Superintendent.
   (C)   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most recent
test or visual inspection, name of tester, and type of date of repairs.
   (D)   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
      (1)   Date of each test or visual inspection;
      (2)   Name of approval number of person performing the test or visual
inspection;
      (3)   Test results;
      (4)   Repairs or servicing required;
      (5)   Repairs and date completed; and
      (6)   Servicing performed and date completed.
   (E)   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by these regulations are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the
consumer without delay as required by §
52.88(A).
   (F)   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorized by the
Superintendent of Water.
   (G)   Each device shall be tested at the time of the installation and at
least annually or more frequently if recommended by the manufacturer.
(Ord. 1213, passed 9-7-05)
§ 52.87 WHERE PROTECTION IS REQUIRED.
   (A)   After this date of approval, all new construction including homes,
commercial, or industry will install on each service line coming from the
public water supply source, an approved backflow preventing device before the
shutoff valve into the consumer's structure.
   (B)   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code
890 and the Agency's regulations 35 Ill. Adm. Code 680. In addition, an
approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each service line to
a consumer's water system serving premises, where in the judgment of the
Superintendent of Water, actual or potential hazards to the public water supply
system exist.
   (C)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer's water system serving premises where the following
conditions exist:
      (1)   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless such auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source by the Superintendent of Water and
the source is approved by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
      (2)   Premises having sources or systems containing process fluids or
waters originating from the public water system which are no longer under the
sanitary control of the Superintendent of Water.
      (3)   Premises having internal cross-connections that, in the judgment of
the Superintendent of Water and/or the cross-connection control device
inspector, are not correctable of intricate plumbing arrangements which make it
impractical to determine whether or not cross-connections exist.
      (4)   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross-connection survey.
      (5)   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or re-established.
   (D)   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code
890 and the Agency's regulations 35 Ill. Adm. Code 653. In addition, an
approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each service line to
a consumer's water system serving, but not necessarily limited to the following
types of facilities unless the Superintendent of Water determines that no
actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system exists:
      (1)   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics, nursing homes.
      (2)   Laboratories.
      (3)   Piers, docks, waterfront facilities.
      (4)   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations or storm water
pumping stations.
      (5)   Food or beverage processing plant.
      (6)   Chemical plants.
      (7)   Metal plating industries.
      (8)   Petroleum processing or storage plants.
      (9)   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors.
      (10)   Car washes.
      (11)   Pesticide, or herbicide or extermination plants and trucks.
      (12)   Farm service and fertilization plants and trucks.
(Ord. 1213, passed 9-7-05)
§ 52.88 TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The type of protection required under §
52.89 shall depend on the degree of hazard which exists as follows:
      (1)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation shall be installed
where the public water supply system may be contaminated with substances that
could cause a severe health hazard.
      (2)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly shall be installed where the
public water supply system may be contaminated with a substance that could
cause a system or health hazard.
      (3)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly or a double check valve
assembly shall be installed where the public water supply system may be
polluted with substances that could cause a pollution hazard not dangerous to
health.
   (B)   The type of protection required under §
52.85 shall be an approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved
reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device.
   (C)   Where a public water supply or an auxiliary water supply is used for a
tire protection system, reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall be
installed on fire safety systems connected to the public water supply when:
      (1)   The fire safety system contains antifreeze, fire retardant or other
chemicals;
      (2)   Water is pumped into the system from another source;
      (3)   Water flows by gravity from a non-potable source; or water can be
pumped into the fire safety system from any other source; or
      (4)   There is a connection whereby another source can be introduced into
the fire safety system.
   (D)   All other fire safety systems connected to the potable water supply
shall be protected by double check valve assembly on metered service lines and
a double detector check valve assembly on unmetered service lines.
(Ord. 1213, passed 9-7-05)
§ 52.89 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   (A)   All backflow prevention devices or methods required by these rules and
regulations shall be approved by the Research Foundation for the Cross-
Connection Control of the University of Southern California, American Water
Works Association, American Society of Sanitary Engineering, or American
National Standards Institute or certified by the National Sanitation Foundation
to be in compliance with applicable industry specification.
   (B)   Installation of approved devices shall be made in accordance with the
manufacturer's instructions. Maintenance as recommended by the manufacturer of
the device shall be performed. Manufacturer's maintenance manual shall be
available on-site.
(Ord. 1213, passed 9-7-05)
§ 52.90 BOOSTER PUMPS.
   (A)   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, such pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cut-off
device designed to shut-off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to 20 or less.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the water to maintain the low pressure cut off
device.
(Ord. 1213, passed 9-7-05)
§ 52.91 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The Superintendent of Water shall deny or discontinue, after
reasonable notice to the occupants therefore, the water service to any premises
when any water user fails to timely respond to a backflow survey or fails to
cooperate with a backflow inspection or when any backflow prevention device
required by these regulations is not installed, tested, maintained and repaired
in a manner acceptable to the Superintendent of Water, or if it is found that
the backflow prevention device has been removed or bypassed, or if an
unprotected cross-connection exists on the premises, or if a low pressure cut-
off required by these regulations is not installed and maintained in working
order.
   (B)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance
with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of Water,
and the required reconnection fee is paid.
   (C)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects on conformance
with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of Water.
   (D)   Neither the city, the Superintendent of Water, or it’s agents or
assigns shall be liable to any customers of the city for any injury; damages or
lost revenues which may result from termination of said customer’s water supply
in accordance with the terms of this subchapter, whether or not said
termination of the water supply was with or without notice.
   (E)   The consumer is responsible for back-siphoned material or
contamination through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply
system occurs through an illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed,
maintained or repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear
the cost of clean-up of the potable water supply system.
   (F)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this subchapter
shall be served with written notice stating the notice of the violation and
providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The
offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently
cease all violation.
   (G)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this subchapter in
addition to the fine provided shall become liable to the city for any expense,
loss or damage occasioned by the city by reason of such violation, whether the
same was caused before of after notice.
(Ord. 1213, passed 9-7-05; Am. Ord. 1589, passed 11-4-15)
CHAPTER 53: ELECTRIC SERVICE
Section
   
53.01   Aggregation of electrical load by municipalities and counties
§ 53.01 AGGREGATION OF ELECTRICAL LOAD BY MUNICIPALITIES AND COUNTIES.
   (A)   The corporate authorities of the city find and determine that it is in
the best interest of the city to operate the electric aggregation program under
the Aggregation of Electrical Load by Municipalities and Counties (hereinafter
referred to as the “Act”).
   (B)   The corporate authorities of the city hereby are authorized to
aggregate in accordance with the terms of the Act residential and small
commercial retail electrical loads located within the corporate limits of the
city, and for that purpose may solicit bids and enter into service agreements
to facilitate for those loads the sale and purchase of electricity and related
services and equipment.
   (C)   The corporate authorities of the city are granted the authority to
exercise such authority jointly with any other municipality or county, and in
combination with two or more municipalities or counties, may initiate a process
jointly to authorize aggregation by a majority vote of each particular
municipality or county as required by the Act.
   (D)   The aggregation program for the city shall operate as an opt-out
program for residential and small commercial retail customers with a single
rate for all customer classes.
   (E)   The aggregation program shall be approved by a majority of the members
of the corporate authority of the city.
   (F)   The corporate authorities of the city with the assistance from the
Illinois Power Agency and Progressive Energy Group shall develop a plan of
operation and governance for the aggregation program and shall conduct such
public hearings and provide such public notice as required under the Act. The
Load Aggregation Plan shall provide for universal access to all applicable
residential customers and equitable treatment of applicable residential
customers, shall describe demand management and energy efficiency services to
be provided to each class of customers and shall meet any requirements
established by law concerning aggregated service offered pursuant to the Act.
   (G)   As an opt-out program, the corporate authorities of the city shall
fully inform residential and small commercial retail customers in advance that
they have the right to opt-out of the aggregation program. The disclosure and
information provided to the customers shall comply with the requirements of the
Act.
   (H)   The electric aggregation shall occur automatically for each person
owning, occupying, controlling, or using an electrical load center proposed to
be aggregated in the corporate limits of the city, subject to a right to opt-
out of the program as described under this chapter and the Act.
   (I)   The corporate authorities hereby grant the City Mayor or his or her
designee in writing the specific authority to execute a contract without
further action by the corporate authorities and with the authority to bind the
city with the following limitations:
      (1)   A term no longer than 36 months.
      (2)   Winning electric supplier must utilize Ameren as the billing/
invoicing agent.
      (3)   The contract contains no early termination fees.
      (4)   Village is to be reimbursed for Ameren program fees and legal fees.
(Ord. 1473, passed 5-16-12; Am. Ord. 1537, passed 4-2-14)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
Chapter
   
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
71.   RULES OF OPERATION
   
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
   
73.   BICYCLES; MOPEDS; SCOOTERS; MOTORCYCLES; AND SNOWMOBILES; UTILITY TERRAIN
VEHICLES AND OTHER TRANSPORTATION DEVICES
   
74.   PEDESTRIANS
   
75.   EQUIPMENT; LOADS
   
76.   MOTOR VEHICLE OFFENSES
   
77.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
   
78.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
In General
   
70.01   Definitions
Obedience to and Effect of Traffic Laws
   
70.10   Obedience to police officers
   
70.11   Public officers and employees to obey traffic code; exceptions
   
70.12   Traffic laws apply to persons riding animals or driving animal-drawn
vehicles
   
70.13   Fleeing or attempting to elude police officer
Traffic Signs, Signals, and Markings
   
70.30   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
70.31   Traffic-control signal legend
   
70.32   Pedestrian-control signals
   
70.33   Lane-control signals
   
70.34   Flashing signals
   
70.35   Display of unauthorized signs, signals, markings, or advertising signs
   
70.36   Interference with official traffic control devices or railroad signs or
signals
   
70.37   Unlawful use or damage to highways, appurtenances, and structures
   
70.38   Unlawful possession of highway sign or marker
   
70.39   Zones of quiet
   
70.40   No-turning signs and turning markers
   
70.41   Stop and yield signs
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Editor's note:
   '72 Code, Chapter 42, regarding parking meters has been repealed.
IN GENERAL
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   ALLEY. A public way within a block, generally giving access to the rear of
lots or buildings, and not used for general traffic circulation.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-102)
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Emergency vehicles of city departments or
public service corporations as are designated or authorized by proper local
authorities; police vehicles; emergency fire vehicles and ambulances.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-105)
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two tandem wheels either of which is more than 16 inches in
diameter.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1- 106)
   BUS. Every motor vehicle, other than a commuter van, designed for carrying
more than ten persons.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-107)
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway when
within 600 feet along the highway there are buildings in use for business or
industrial purposes, including but not limited to hotels, banks, or office
buildings, railroad stations, and public buildings which occupy at least 300
feet of frontage on one side, or 300 feet collectively on both sides of the
highway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-108)
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any vehicle operated for the transportation of persons
or property in the furtherance of any commercial or industrial enterprise, for-
hire or not-for-hire, but not including, a commuter van, a arrangement when
being used for that purpose, or a recreational vehicle not being used
commercially.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-111.8)
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every highway, street, or roadway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal
right of access to or from the same, except at such points only and in such
manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over
the highway, street, or roadway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-112)
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway, and in the absence of a sidewalk on one side of a
highway, that part of the highway included within the extension of the lateral
line of the existing sidewalk to the side of the highway without the sidewalk,
with the extension forming a right angle to the centerline of the highway;
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface,
placed in accordance with the provisions in the manual adopted by the
Department of Transportation as authorized in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-301.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-113)
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-116)
   FARM TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing wagons, plows, mowing machines, and other implements of
husbandry, and every implement of husbandry which is self-propelled.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-120)
   GROSS WEIGHT. The weight of a vehicle, whether operated singly or in
combination, without load, plus the weight of load thereon.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-125)
   HANDICAPPED PERSON. Every natural person who is unable to walk 200 feet or
more unassisted by another person or without the aid of a walker, crutches,
braces, prosthetic device, or a wheelchair, or without great difficulty or
discomfort due to the following impairments: neurologic, orthopedic,
respiratory, cardiac, arthritic disorder, blindness, or the loss of function or
absence of a limb or limbs.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-159.1)
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-126)
   IMPLEMENT OF HUSBANDRY. Every vehicle designed and adapted exclusively for
agricultural, horticultural, or livestock raising operations, including farm
wagons, wagon trailers, or like vehicles used in connection therewith, or for
lifting or carrying an implement of husbandry, provided that no farm wagon,
wagon trailer, or like vehicle having a gross weight of more than 36,000
pounds, shall be included hereunder.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-130)
   IMPROVED HIGHWAY. Any roadway of concrete, brick, asphalt, macadam and
crushed stone, or gravel.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-131)
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right
angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different roadways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways 40 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
      (3)   The junction of an alley with a street or highway does not
constitute an intersection.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-132)
   LANE-CONTROL SIGNAL. An official traffic-control device consisting of an
electrically controlled and illuminated signal of a square or rectangular
design, and employing distinctive colors or symbols used to control the
direction of vehicular flow on the particular lane to which the indication
applies.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-135)
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-136)
   LEASE. A written document vesting exclusive possession, use, control, and
responsibility of the lessee during the periods the vehicle is operated by or
for the lessee for a specific period of time.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-137)
   LICENSE TO DRIVE. Any driver's license or any other license or permit to
operate a motor vehicle issued under the laws of this state including:
      (1)   Any temporary license or instruction permit;
      (2)   The privilege of any person to drive a motor vehicle, whether or
not the person holds a valid license or permit;
      (3)   Any nonresident's driving privilege as defined herein.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-138)
   LIMOUSINE. Any privately owned first division vehicle intended to be used
for the transportation of persons for-hire when the payment is not based on a
meter charge but is prearranged for a designated destination.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-139.1)
   LOCAL AUTHORITIES. Every county, city, and other local board or body having
authority to enact laws relating to traffic under the constitution and laws of
this state.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-140)
   MAIL. To deposit in the United States mail properly addressed and with
postage prepaid.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-141)
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled, except for vehicles
moved solely by human power, and motorized wheelchairs. For this section, motor
vehicles are divided into two divisions:
      (1)   First division: motor vehicles designed for carrying not more than
ten persons.
      (2)   Second division: motor vehicles designed for carrying more than ten
persons, those designed or used for living quarters, and those motor vehicles
which are designed for pulling or carrying freight or cargo, and those motor
vehicles of the first division remodeled for use and used as motor vehicles of
the second division.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-146)
   MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLE. Every motorcycle and every motor scooter with less than
150 cubic centimeter piston displacement, including motorized pedalcycles.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-145.001)
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider, and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding a tractor.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-147)
   MOTORIZED PEDALCYCLE. A motor-driven cycle whose speed attainable in one
mile is 30 m.p.h. or less, which is equipped with a motor that produces two
brake horsepower or less. If an internal combustion engine is used, the
displacement shall not exceed 50 cubic centimeter displacement and the power
drive system shall not require the operator to shift gears.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1- 148.2)
   MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR. Any self-propelled vehicle designed for and used by a
handicapped excess of eight m.p.h. on level ground.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-148.3)
   MUFFLER. A device consisting of a series of chambers or baffle plates or
other mechanical design for the purpose of receiving exhaust gas from an
internal combustion engine or turbine wheels for the purpose of receiving
exhaust gas from a diesel engine, all of which are effective in reducing noise.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-148.3a)
   NONCOMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any vehicle that is not a commercial vehicle.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-148.6)
   NOT-FOR-HIRE. Operation of a commercial vehicle in furtherance of any
commercial or industrial enterprise, but not-for-hire.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-153)
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings, and devices
which conform with the state manual, and not inconsistent with this title,
placed or erected by authority of a public body or official having
jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-154)
   OWNER. A person who holds legal title of a motor vehicle, or in the event a
motor vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in
the agreement, and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of the motor vehicle
is entitled to possession, then the conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor
shall be deemed the owner for the purpose of this title.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-155)
   PARK or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than when temporarily and actually engaged in loading or unloading
merchandise or passengers.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-156)
   PASSENGER CAR. A motor vehicle of the first division, including a
multipurpose passenger vehicle, that is designed for carrying not more than ten
persons.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-157)
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-158)
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic, or
to make arrests and issue citations for violations of traffic regulations.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-162)
   PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BUSINESS. The place where any person transacts his
principal business, or where he makes up and approves his payroll, maintains a
central file of records, and maintains his principal executive offices. In the
event that not all of these functions are performed in one place, then that
place where a majority of these functions are performed, or the place where the
person does in fact principally transact and control his business affairs shall
be considered as the principal place of business.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-1-162.5)
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership, and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-163)
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property upon cars, other than streetcars,
operated upon stationary rails.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-166)
   RAILROAD-HIGHWAY GRADE CROSSING. The intersection of stationary rails owned
or used in the operation of a railroad corporation across a highway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-166.1)
   RAILROAD SIGNS OR SIGNAL. Any sign, signal, or device, other than an
official traffic-control signal or device, erected in accordance with the laws
governing the same, and intended to give notice of the presence of railroad
tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 167)
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without
cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except streetcars.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-168)
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Every camping trailer, motor home, mini motor home,
travel trailer, truck camper, or van camper used primarily for recreational
purposes, and not used commercially nor owned by a commercial business.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-169)
   REGISTRATION. The registration certificate or certificates and registration
plates issued under the laws of this state pertaining to the registration of
vehicles.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-171)
   REGISTRATION STICKER. A device to be attached to a registration plate that
will renew the registration and registration plate or plates for a
predetermined period, not to exceed one registration year.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-171)
   REMOVE. Includes removing, defacing, covering, or destroying.
   RESCUE SQUAD. A voluntary association of individuals, or a fire department,
dedicated to saving lives through the rescue of persons entrapped in wrecked
vehicles or other hazardous circumstances, and associated with some unit of
government.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-171.6)
   RESCUE VEHICLE. Any publicly or privately owned vehicle which is
specifically designed, configured, and equipped for the performance of access
and extrication of persons from hazardous or life-endangering situations, as
well as for the emergency transportation of persons who are sick, injured,
wounded, or otherwise incapacitated or helpless.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-171.8)
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway, not
comprising a business district, when the property on the highway for a distance
of 300 feet or more is in the main improved with residences or residences and
buildings in use for business. For purposes of establishing maximum speed
limits, a RESIDENCE DISTRICT shall be at least a quarter of a mile long with
residences or residences and buildings in use for businesses spaced no more
than 300 feet apart.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-172)
   RETAIL SALE. The act or attempted act of selling vehicles or otherwise
disposing of a vehicle to a person for use as a consumer.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-174)
   REVOCATION OF DRIVER'S LICENSE. The termination by formal action of the
secretary, of a person's license or privilege to operate a motor vehicle on the
public highways, which termination shall not be subject to renewal or
restoration, except that an application for a new license may be presented and
acted upon by the secretary after the expiration of at least one year after the
date of revocation.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-176)
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful
manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such
circumstances of direction, speed, and proximity as to give rise to danger of
collision, unless one grants precedence to the other.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-177)
   ROAD TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used for drawing other
vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry any load thereon, either
independently or any part of the weight of a vehicle or load so drawn.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-178)
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a highway
includes two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY as used herein shall
refer to any such roadway separately, but not to all such roadways
collectively.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-179)
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians, and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-181)
   SCHOOL BUS.
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, except as provided in division (2) below,
owned or operated by or for any of the following entities for the
transportation of persons regularly enrolled as students in grade 12 or below
in connection with any activity of the entity:
         (a)   A public or private primary or secondary school;
         (b)   A primary or secondary school operated by a religious
institution; or
         (c)   Any public, private, or religious nursery school.
      (2)   This definition does not include the following:
         (a)   A bus operated by a public utility, municipality corporation, or
common carrier authorized to conduct local or interurban transportation of
passengers when the bus is not traveling a specific school bus route but is:
            1.   On a regularly scheduled route for the transportation of other
fare-paying passengers;
            2.   Furnishing charter service for the transportation of groups on
field trips or other special trips or in connection with special events; or
            3.   Being used for shuttle service between attendance centers or
other educational facilities.
         (b)   A motor vehicle of the First Division.
         (c)   A motor vehicle designed for the transportation of not less than
seven nor more than 16 persons that is operated by or for a public or private
primary or secondary school, including any primary or secondary school operated
by a religious institution, for the purpose of transporting not more than 15
students to and from interscholastic athletic or other interscholastic or
school sponsored activities.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-182)
   SEMITRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power, other than a pole trailer,
designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor
vehicle, and so constructed its weight and that of its load rests upon or is
carried by another vehicle.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-187)
   SHOULDER. That portion of the highway adjacent to the roadway for
accommodating stopped vehicles or for emergency use.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-187.1)
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of roadway and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-188)
   SPEED-CHANGE LANE. An auxiliary lane, including tapered areas, primarily for
the acceleration or deceleration of vehicles entering or leaving the through
traffic lanes.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-193)
   STAND or STANDING. The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than when temporarily and actually engaged in receiving or
discharging passengers.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-194)
   STATE. A state, territory, or possession of the United States, the District
of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a province of the Dominion of
Canada.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-195)
   STATE HIGHWAYS. Defined in the Illinois Highway Code as the same may from
time to time be amended.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-196)
   STATE POLICE. The Illinois state police.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-197)
   STOP. The complete cessation from movement.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-199)
   STOP or STOPPING. Any halting, even momentarily, of a vehicle, whether
occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or
in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic-control sign
or signal.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-200)
   STREET. The entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained, when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1- 201)
   SUBURBAN DISTRICT. That portion of any city, village, or incorporated town,
other than the business and residence districts.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-203)
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every highway or portion thereof on which vehicular traffic
is given preferential right-of-way, and at the entrances to which vehicular
traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to yield the right-of-way
to vehicles on the through highway in obedience to either a stop sign or a
yield sign, when those signs are erected as provided in this title.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1- 205)
   TOW TRUCK. Every truck designed or altered and equipped for and used to
push, tow, carry upon, or draw vehicles by means of a crane, hoist, towbar,
towline, or auxiliary axle, or carried upon to render assistance to disabled
vehicles, except for any truck tractor temporarily converted to a tow truck by
means of a portable wrecker unit attached to the fifth wheel of the truck
tractor and used only by the owner to tow a disabled vehicle also owned by him
or her and never used for hire.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-205.1)
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars, and
other conveyances either singly or together while using any highway for
purposes of travel.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-207)
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any official traffic-control device other than a
railroad sign or signal, whether manually, electrically, or mechanically
operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and permitted to
proceed.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-208)
   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS. Any provision of this code or other regulatory
ordinance the purpose of which is to directly control or improve traffic and
safety of both vehicles and pedestrians.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power in operation, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property, and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle, and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the
towing vehicle.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-209)
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A trailer, not used commercially, designed to provide living
quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use, and of a size or weight not
requiring an over-dimension permit when towed on a highway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 210.01)
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle designed, used, or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-211)
   TRUCK CAMPER. A truck, not used commercially, when equipped with a portable
unit designed to be loaded onto the bed which is construed to provide temporary
living quarters for recreational, travel, or camping use.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-211.01)
   TRUCK TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-212)
   URBAN DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including any street which
is built up with structures devoted to business, industry, or dwelling houses,
and situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a distance of 1/4 mile or
more.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-214)
   URBAN AREA. An urban area is any incorporated or unincorporated area
developed primarily for residential or business purposes.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-214.8)
   VEHICLE.
      (1)   Every device, in, upon, or by which any person or property is or
may be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human
power, devices used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, and
snowmobiles as defined in the Snowmobile Registration and Safety Act.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, unless otherwise prescribed, a
device shall be considered to be a vehicle until such time it either comes
within the definition of a “junk vehicle,” as defined under this section, or a
junking certificate is issued for it.
      (3)   For this section vehicles are divided into two divisions:
         (a)   First division: those motor vehicles which are designed for the
carrying of not more than ten persons;
         (b)   Second division: those vehicles which are designed for carrying
more than ten persons; those designed or used for living quarters; those which
are designed for pulling or carrying property, freight, or cargo; those
vehicles of the first division remodeled for use and used as vehicles of the
second division; and those vehicles of the first division used and registered
as school buses.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-217)
   YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY. When required by an official sign, the act of granting
the privilege of the immediate use of the intersecting roadway to traffic
within the intersection and to vehicles approaching from the right or left, but
when the roadway is clear may proceed into the intersection.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-219)
OBEDIENCE TO AND EFFECT OF TRAFFIC LAWS
§ 70.10 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICERS.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any police officer, firefighter, school crossing guard invested by
law with authority to direct, control, or regulate traffic. Any person
convicted of violating this section is guilty of a petty offense and shall be
subject to a fine according to the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99.
(Am. Ord. 1326, passed 2-20-08)
Penalty, see § 70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-203
§ 70.11 PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES TO OBEY TRAFFIC CODE; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this traffic code applicable to the drivers of
vehicles upon the highways shall apply to the drivers of all vehicles owned or
operated by the United States, the state, or any county, city, town, district,
or any other political subdivision of the state, except as provided in this
section, and subject to specific exceptions as set forth in this title with
reference to authorized emergency vehicles.
   (B)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call, or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of
the law, or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the
conditions herein stated.
   (C)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      (1)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this traffic code;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be required and necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he does not endanger
life or property;
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing the direction of movement or
turning in specified directions.
   (D)   The exceptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle,
other than a police vehicle, shall apply only when the vehicle is making use of
either an audible signal when in motion, or visual signals meeting the
requirements of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-215.
   (E)   The foregoing provisions do not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty of driving with due regard for the safety of
all persons, nor do these provisions protect the driver from the consequences
of his reckless disregard for the safety of others.
   (F)   Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this traffic
code shall not apply to persons, motor vehicles, and equipment while actually
engaged in work upon the highway, but shall apply to such persons and vehicles
when traveling to or from such work.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-205) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.12 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY TO PERSONS RIDING ANIMALS OR DRIVING ANIMAL-DRAWN
VEHICLES.
   Every person riding an animal or driving an animal-drawn vehicle upon a
roadway shall be granted all of the rights, and shall be subject to all of the
duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this chapter, except those
provisions of this chapter which by their very nature can have no application.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-206) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.13 FLEEING OR ATTEMPTING TO ELUDE POLICE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any driver or operator of a motor vehicle who,
having been given a visual or audible signal by a police officer directing the
driver or operator to bring his vehicle to a stop, willfully fails or refuses
to obey that direction, increases his speed, extinguishes his lights, or
otherwise flees or attempts to elude the officer. The signal given by the
police officer may be by hand, voice, siren, or a red or blue light. However,
the officer giving the signal shall be in police uniform and, if driving a
vehicle, the vehicle shall be marked showing it to be an official police
vehicle.
Penalty, see §
70.99
TRAFFIC SIGNS, SIGNALS, AND MARKINGS
§ 70.30 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control accordance with this chapter, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle in this traffic code.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to leave the roadway and travel across
private property to avoid an official traffic-control device.
   (C)   No provision of this traffic code, for which official traffic-control
devices are required, shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the
time and place of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper
position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
Whenever a particular section does not state that official traffic-control
devices are required, the section shall be effective even though no devices are
erected or in place.
   (D)   Whenever any official traffic-control device is placed or held in
position approximately conforming to the requirements of this traffic code, the
device shall be presumed to have been so placed or held by the official act or
direction of lawful authority, and comply with the requirements of this traffic
code, unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence.
   (E)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a traffic-control signal on which
no signal light facing the vehicle is illuminated shall stop before entering
the intersection, in accordance with rules applicable in making a stop at a
stop sign.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-305) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.31 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting
different colored lights or color lighted arrows, successively one at a time or
in combination, only the colors green, red, and yellow shall be used, except
for special pedestrian signals carrying a word legend, and the lights shall
indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as follows:
   (A)   Green indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn. Vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left,
shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully
within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time such signal is
exhibited.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal, shown alone or in
combination with another indication, may cautiously enter the intersection only
to make the movement indicated by the arrow, or such other movement as is
permitted by other indications shown at the same time. Such vehicular traffic
shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within an adjacent
crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal, as
provided in §
70.32, pedestrians facing any green signal, except when the sole green signal
is a turn arrow, may proceed across the roadway within any marked or unmarked
crosswalk.
   (B)   Steady yellow indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow
signal is thereby warned that the related green movement is being terminated or
that a red indication will be exhibited immediately thereafter.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow signal,
unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal as provided in §
70.32, are thereby advised that there is insufficient time to cross the roadway
before a red indication is shown, and no pedestrian shall then start to cross
the roadway.
   (C)   Steady red indication.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) of this section, vehicular
traffic facing a steady circular red signal alone shall stop at a clearly
marked stop line, but if there is no such stop line, before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if there is no such
crosswalk, then before entering the intersection; and shall remain standing
until an indication to proceed is shown.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) of this section, vehicular
traffic facing a steady red arrow signal shall not enter the intersection to
make the movement indicated by the arrow and, unless entering the intersection
to make a movement permitted by another signal, shall stop at a clearly marked
stop line, but if there is no such stop line, before entering the crosswalk on
the near side of the intersection, or if there is no such crosswalk, then
before entering the intersection; and shall remain standing until an indication
permitting the movement indicated by such red arrow is shown.
      (3)   Except when a sign is in place prohibiting a turn and the city
authorities by ordinance or state authorities by rule or regulation prohibit
any such turn, vehicular traffic facing any steady red signal may cautiously
enter the intersection to turn right, or to turn left from a one-way street
into a one-way street, after stopping as required by division (C)(1) or (C)(2)
of this section. After stopping, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to
constitute an immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or
within the intersection or junction or roadways. The driver shall yield the
right-of-way to pedestrians within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk.
      (4)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal as
provided in §
70.32, pedestrians facing a steady circular red or red arrow signal alone shall
not enter the roadway.
   (D)   In the event an official traffic-control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable except as to provisions which by their nature can
have no application. Any stop required shall be at a traffic sign or a marking
on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made; or, in the absence of
such sign or marking, the stop shall be made at the signal.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-306) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.32 PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words “Walk” or
“Don't Walk” or the illuminated symbols of a walking person or an upraised palm
are in place, these signals shall indicate as follows:
   (A)   “Walk” or walking person symbol. Pedestrians facing this signal may
proceed across the roadway in the direction of the signal, and shall be given
the right-of-way by the drivers of all vehicles.
   (B)   “Don't Walk” or upraised palm signal. No pedestrian shall start to
cross the roadway in the direction of this signal, but any pedestrian who has
partly completed his crossing on the “Walk” signal or upraised palm symbol
shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety island while the “Don't Walk” signal or
upraised palm symbol is illuminated, steady, or flashing.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-307) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.33 LANE-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever lane-control signals are used in conjunction with official signs,
they shall have the following meanings:
   (A)   Downward-pointing green arrow. A driver facing this indication is
permitted to drive in the lane over which the arrow signal is located.
Otherwise, he shall obey all other traffic controls present and follow normal
safe driving practices.
   (B)   Red X symbol. A driver facing this indication shall not drive in the
lane over which the signal is located, and this indication shall modify
accordingly the meaning of all other traffic controls present. Otherwise he
shall obey all other traffic controls, and follow normal safe driving
practices.
   (C)   Yellow X (steady). A driver facing this indication should prepare to
vacate the lane over which the signal is located, in a safe manner to avoid, if
possible, occupying that lane when a steady red X is displayed.
   (D)   Flashing yellow arrow. A driver facing this indication may use the
lane only for the purpose of approaching and making a left turn.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-308) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.34 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in conjunction
with a traffic-control device, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic
as follows:
   (A)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or if none, then at a point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering the intersection, and the right to proceed shall be subject to
the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
   (B)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past the signal only with caution.
   (C)   This section does not apply at railroad grade crossings.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-309) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.35 DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS, MARKINGS, OR ADVERTISING SIGNS.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of any
highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to be,
or is an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic-control device or
railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic,
or which hides from view or interferes with the movement of traffic or the
effectiveness of an official traffic-control device or any railroad sign or
signal.
   (B)   No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit, upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any
commercial advertising.
   (C)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, or marking is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance, and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway is
hereby empowered to remove the same, or cause it to be removed without notice.
   (D)   No person shall sell or offer for sale any traffic-control device to
be used on any street or highway in this city which does not conform to the
requirements of this chapter.
   (E)   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection upon private
property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional information,
and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   (F)   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection of Illinois
Adopt-A-Highway signs by the city as provided in the Illinois Adopt-A-Highway
Act, ILCS 605, Act 120, §§ 1 et seq.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-310) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.36 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES OR RAILROAD SIGNS OR
SIGNALS.
   (A)   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact
alter, deface, injure, knock down, or remove any official traffic-control
device, or any railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield, or insignia
thereon, or any other part thereof.
   (B)    Every person who is convicted of a violation of this section shall be
punished by a fine according to the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99.
(Am. Ord. 1326, passed 2-20-08)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-311
§ 70.37 UNLAWFUL USE OR DAMAGE TO HIGHWAYS, APPURTENANCES, AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully injure or damage any
public highway or street, or any bridge or culvert, or to willfully damage,
injure, or remove any sign, signpost, or structure upon or used or constructed
in connection with any public highway or street for the protection thereof, or
for the protection or regulation of traffic thereon, by any willfully unusual,
improper, or unreasonable use thereof, or by willfully careless driving or use
of any vehicle thereon, or by willful mutilation, defacing, destruction, or
removal thereof.
   (B)    Every person who is convicted of a violation of this section shall be
punished by a fine according to the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99.
(Am. Ord. 1326, passed 2-20-08) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-312
§ 70.38 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF HIGHWAY SIGN OR MARKER.
   The City Street Department, with reference to traffic-control signs,
signals, or markers owned by the city, is authorized to indicate the ownership
of the signs, signals, or markers on the back of the devices in letters not
less than 3/8 inch, or more than 3/4-inch in height, by use of a metal stamp,
etching, or other permanent means. Except for employees of the City Street
Department, police officers, contractors and their employees engaged in a
highway construction contract or work on the highway approved by the city, it
is unlawful for any person to possess a sign, signal, or marker so identified.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-313) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.39 ZONES OF QUIET.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating a zone of quiet, no person
operating a motor vehicle within the zone shall sound the horn or other warning
device except in an emergency.
§ 70.40 NO-TURNING SIGNS AND TURNING MARKERS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left or U-
turn is permitted no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of the
sign. When authorized marks, buttons, or other indications are placed within an
intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles, no driver of a
vehicle shall disobey the directions of the indications.
§ 70.41 STOP AND YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   Preferential right-of-way at an intersection may be indicated by stop
signs or yield signs as authorized in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-302.
   (B)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-control
signal, every driver of a vehicle and every motorman of a streetcar approaching
a stop intersection indicated by a stop sign shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, in the event there is no
crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, then at the
point nearest the intersection roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign if required for
safety to stop shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the
driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1204) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Traffic violations.  Whoever violates any provision of this traffic
code for which another penalty is not already otherwise provided by ordinance
or by appropriate statutory penalty as generally set forth in ILCS Ch. 625, Act
5, §§ 16-101 et seq. shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine according to
the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99.
   (B)   Parking violations. Any person accused of a violation of any provision
of this traffic code prohibiting parking a vehicle in a designated area, or
restricting the length of time a vehicle may be there parked, may settle and
compromise the claim against him for such illegal parking by paying to the city
the specified fine of $10 for each offense if paid within 48 hours of the
violation. If not paid within 48 hours of the violation, the fine will double.
If the fine is not paid within 30 days a state uniform traffic ticket for a
city ordinance violation may be issued and the violator summoned to court. Such
payment may be made at the police station, a receipt shall be issued for all
money so received, and such money shall be promptly turned over to the City
Treasurer. This section shall not apply to persons parking a vehicle so as to
obstruct the entrance or exit of any place where Police Department apparatus or
other emergency equipment is kept or housed, or so as to block an emergency
entrance in a hospital; nor shall this section apply to any person charged with
parking a vehicle so as to entirely obstruct traffic in any street or alley, or
parking in such a way as to reduce traffic on an arterial street to one-way
traffic only; nor to any person who refuses to move a vehicle illegally parked
at the request of any member of the Police Department.
   (C)   In the event a state uniform traffic ticket is issued pursuant to
division (B) of this section, in addition to the imposition of any fine
established by this code for such offense, the violator shall also be
responsible for the payment of all costs of suit, including the reasonable
attorney's fees incurred by the city.
(Ord. 1000, passed 3-15-00 ; Am. Ord. 1326, passed 2-20-08 )
CHAPTER 71: RULES OF OPERATION
Section
Speed Restrictions
   
71.001   Speed limits
   
71.002   Special speed limits while passing schools or while traveling through
highway construction or maintenance zones
   
71.003   Minimum speed regulation
Turning and Starting; Signals
   
71.020   Required position and method of turning at intersections
   
71.021   Limitations on U-turns
   
71.022   Starting parked vehicle
   
71.023   When signal required
   
71.024   Signal by hand and arm or signal device
   
71.025   Method of giving hand and arm signals
Overtaking and Passing
   
71.040   Driving on right side of roadway; exceptions
   
71.041   Passing vehicles proceeding in opposite directions
   
71.042   Overtaking vehicles on the left
   
71.043   When overtaking on the right is permitted
   
71.044   Limitations on overtaking on the left
   
71.045   Meeting or overtaking school bus
   
71.046   One-way roadways and rotary traffic islands
   
71.047   No-passing zones
   
71.048   Driving on roadways laned for traffic
Right-of-Way
   
71.060   Vehicles approaching or entering intersection
   
71.061   Vehicle turning left
   
71.062   Vehicles entering stop crosswalk
   
71.063   Vehicle entering stop or yield intersection
   
71.064   Merging traffic
   
71.065   Vehicle entering highway from private road or driveway
   
71.066   Operation of vehicles on approach of authorized emergency vehicles
   
71.067   Funeral processions
Special Stops Required
   
71.080   Obedience to signal indicating approach of train
   
71.081   Certain vehicles must stop at all railroad grade crossings
   
71.082   Stop before emerging from alley, building, private road, or driveway
   
71.083   Stop when traffic obstructed
   
71.084   Automated railroad crossing enforcement system
Prohibitions
   
71.095   Limitations on backing
   
71.096   Following vehicle too closely
   
71.097   Obstruction of driver's view or driving mechanism
   
71.098   Opening vehicle doors
   
71.099   Coasting
   
71.100   Following fire apparatus; driving over fire hose
   
71.101   Driving upon sidewalk
   
71.102   Use of roller skates, coasters, or similar devices
   
71.103   Putting glass or other hazardous materials on highway prohibited
   
71.104   Obstructing person in highways
   
71.105   Farm tractor operation
   
71.106   Truck and weight limitation
Parades
   
71.120   Definitions
   
71.121   Permit required
   
71.122   Application for permit
   
71.123   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.124   Notice of rejection of permit application
   
71.125   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.126   Alternative permit
   
71.127   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
71.128   Contents of permit
   
71.129   Duties of permittee
   
71.130   Public conduct during parades
   
71.131   Revocation of permit
SPEED RESTRICTIONS
§ 71.001 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No vehicle may be driven upon any highway of this city at a speed
which is greater than is reasonable and proper with regard to traffic
conditions and the use of the highway, or which endangers the safety of any
person or property. The fact that the speed of a vehicle does not exceed the
applicable maximum speed limit does not relieve the driver from the duty to
decrease speed when approaching and crossing an intersection, when approaching
and going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when traveling upon any
narrow or winding roadway, or when a special hazard exists with respect to
pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of weather or highway conditions.
Speed must be decreased as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person
or vehicle on or entering the highway in compliance with legal requirements and
the duty of all persons to use due care.
   (B)   No person may drive a vehicle upon any street at a speed which is
greater than the applicable statutory maximum speed limit established by
divisions (C) and (D) below, by §
71.002, or by a regulation or ordinance made under this chapter.
   (C)   Unless some other speed restriction is established under this chapter,
the maximum speed limit in an urban district (as defined in §
70.01) for all vehicles is:
      (1)   Thirty miles per hour; and
      (2)   Fifteen miles per hour in an alley.
   (D)   Unless some other speed restriction is established under this chapter,
the maximum speed limit in a non-urban district is 55 miles per hour.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-601) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate speed, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-40-1 and Ch. 625,
Act 5, § 11-604
§ 71.002 SPECIAL SPEED LIMITS WHILE PASSING SCHOOLS OR WHILE TRAVELING THROUGH
HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION OR MAINTENANCE ZONES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, SCHOOL means the following entities:
      (1)   A public or private primary or secondary school.
      (2)   A primary or secondary school operated by a religious institution.
      (3)   A public, private, or religious nursery school.
   (B)   On a school day when school children are present and so close thereto
that a potential hazard exists because of the close proximity of the motorized
traffic, no person shall drive a motor vehicle at a speed in excess of 20 miles
per hour while passing a school zone, or while traveling upon any public
thoroughfare where children pass going to and from school.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section a school day shall begin at 7:00 a.m.
and shall conclude at 4:00 p.m.
   (D)   This section shall not be applicable unless appropriate signs are
posted upon streets and highways under their respective jurisdiction and
maintained by the city wherein the school zone is located. With regard to the
special speed limit while passing schools, the signs shall give proper due
warning that a school zone is being approached, and shall indicate the school
zone and the maximum speed limit in effect during school days when school
children are present.
   (E)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle in a construction or
maintenance zone at a speed in excess of the posted speed limit when workers
are present and so close to the moving traffic that a potential hazard exists
because of the motorized traffic.
   (F)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the use of electronic speed-
detecting devices within 500 feet of signs within a special school speed zone
or a construction or maintenance zone indicating the zone, as defined in this
section, nor shall evidence obtained thereby be inadmissible in any prosecution
for speeding, provided the use of the device shall apply only to the
enforcement of the speed limit in the special school speed zone or a
construction or maintenance zone.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, a construction or maintenance zone is
an area in which the Department or local agency has determined that the
preexisting established speed limit through a highway construction or
maintenance project is greater than is reasonable or safe with respect to the
conditions expected to exist in the construction or maintenance zone and has
posted a lower speed limit with a highway construction or maintenance zone
special speed limit sign.
   (H)   Highway construction or maintenance zone special speed limit signs
shall be of a design approved by the Department. The signs shall give proper
due warning that a construction or maintenance zone is being approached and
shall indicate the maximum speed limit in effect. The signs shall also state
the amount of the minimum fine for a violation when workers are present.
   (I)    A violation of this section shall be subject to a fine according to
the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99.
(Am. Ord. 1326, passed 2-20-08) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.003 MINIMUM SPEED REGULATION.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede or
block the normal and regular movement of traffic except when reduced speed is
necessary for safe operation of his vehicle or in compliance with law.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-606(a)) Penalty, see §
70.99
TURNING AND STARTING; SIGNALS
§ 71.020 REQUIRED POSITION AND METHOD OF TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do
so as follows:
      (1)   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made
as close as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any intersection
shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane lawfully
available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such vehicle, and
after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the
intersection in a lane lawfully available to traffic moving in such direction
upon the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable the left turn shall be
made in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the
intersection.
      (3)   The state Department of Transportation and local authorities in
their respective jurisdictions may cause official traffic-control devices to be
placed within or adjacent to intersections and thereby require and direct that
a different course from that specified in this section be traveled by vehicles
turning at an intersection, and when such devices are so placed no driver of a
vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an intersection other than as directed and
required by such devices.
   (B)   Two-way left turn lanes. Where a special lane for making left turns by
drivers proceeding in opposite directions has been indicated by official
traffic-control devices:
      (1)   A left turn shall not be made from any other lane.
      (2)   A vehicle shall not be driven in the lane except when preparing for
or making a left turn from or into the roadway or when preparing for or making
a U-turn when otherwise permitted by law.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-801) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.021 LIMITATIONS ON U-TURNS.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to proceed
in the opposite direction unless the movement can be made in safety and without
interfering with other traffic.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-802)
   (B)   On no occasion shall any driver make any u-turn on Lincoln Street
between Main Street and Aurora Street.
(Ord. 1119, passed 7-16-03) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.022 STARTING PARKED VEHICLE.
   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or parked,
unless and until the movement can be made with reasonable safety.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-803) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.023 WHEN SIGNAL REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person may turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the vehicle is
in proper position upon the roadway as required in §
71.020, or turn a vehicle to enter a private road or driveway, or otherwise
turn a vehicle from a direct course, or move right or left upon a roadway
unless and until the movement can be made with reasonable safety. No person may
so turn any vehicle without giving an appropriate signal in the manner
hereinafter provided.
   (B)   A signal of intention to turn right or left when required must be
given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the
vehicle before turning within a business or residence district, and the signal
must be given continuously during not less than the last 200 feet traveled by
the vehicle before turning outside a business or residence district.
   (C)   No person may stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle without
first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided in this chapter to
the driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to
give a signal.
   (D)   The electric turn signal device required in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-
208 must be used to indicate an intention to turn, change lanes, or start from
a parallel parked position, but must not be flashed on one side only on a
parked or disabled vehicle, or flashed as a courtesy or “do pass” signal to
operators of other vehicles approaching from the rear. However, signal devices
may be flashed simultaneously on both sides of a motor vehicle to indicate the
presence of a vehicular traffic hazard requiring unusual care in approaching,
overtaking, and passing.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-804) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.024 SIGNAL BY HAND AND ARM OR SIGNAL DEVICE.
   Any stop or turn signal, when required herein, shall be given either by
means of the hand and arm or by an electric turn signal device conforming to
the requirements provided in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-208.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-805) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.025 METHOD OF GIVING HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   All signals given by hand and arm shall be given from the left side of the
vehicle in the following manner, and the signals shall indicate as follows:
   (A)   Left turn. Hand and arm extended horizontally.
   (B)   Right turn. Hand and arm extended upward.
   (C)   Stop or decrease of speed. Hand and arm extended downward.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-806) Penalty, see §
70.99
OVERTAKING AND PASSING
§ 71.040 DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing those movements;
      (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the roadway; provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the roadway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      (3)   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon;
      (4)   Upon a roadway restricted to one-way traffic;
      (5)   Whenever there is a single-track paved road on one side of the
public highway and two vehicles meet thereon, the driver on whose right is the
wider shoulder shall give the right-of-way on the pavement to the other
vehicle.
   (B)   Upon all roadways, any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal
speed of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing
shall be driven in the right-hand lane available for traffic, or as close as
practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction, or
when preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway.
   (C)   Upon any roadway having four or more lanes for moving traffic, and
providing for two-way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to the
left of the center line of the roadway, except when authorized by official
traffic-control devices designating certain lanes to the left side of the
center of the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use the
lanes, or except as permitted under division (A)(2). However, this division
shall not be construed as prohibiting the crossing of the center line in making
a left turn into or from an alley, private road, or driveway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-701) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.041 PASSING VEHICLES PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other
to the right and upon roadways having width for not more than one line of
traffic in each direction, each driver shall give to the other at least 1/2 of
the main traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-702) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.042 OVERTAKING VEHICLES ON THE LEFT.
   The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles proceeding
in the same direction, subject to those limitations, exceptions, and special
rules otherwise stated in this chapter:
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance, and shall not
again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle. In no event shall the movement be made by driving off the
pavement or the main traveled portion of the roadway.
   (B)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal, and shall not increase the speed of his
vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
   (C)   The driver of a two-wheeled vehicle may not, in passing upon the left
of any vehicle proceeding in the same direction, pass upon the right of any
vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless there is an unobstructed lane
of traffic available to permit the passing maneuver safely.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-703) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.043 WHEN OVERTAKING ON THE RIGHT IS PERMITTED.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle with three or more wheels may overtake and
pass upon the right of another vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
      (2)   Upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for
two or more lines of vehicles moving lawfully in the direction being traveled
by the overtaking vehicle;
      (3)   Upon a one-way street, or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles.
   (B)   The driver of a two-wheeled vehicle may not pass upon the right of any
other vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless the unobstructed pavement
to the right of the vehicle being passed is of a width of not less than eight
feet.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon the
right only under conditions permitting the movement in safety. Such movement
shall not be made by driving off the roadway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-704) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.044 LIMITATIONS ON OVERTAKING ON THE LEFT.
   (A)   Passing on the left.
      (1)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless authorized by the provisions of this chapter, and unless the
left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient
distance ahead to permit the overtaking and passing to be completely made
without interfering with the safe operation of any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction, or any vehicle overtaken.
      (2)   In every event, the overtaking vehicle must return to an authorized
lane of travel as soon as practicable, and in the event the passing movement
involves the use of a lane authorized for vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction, before coming within 200 feet of any vehicle approaching
from the opposite direction.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-705)
   (B)   Conditions where passing on the left is prohibited.
      (1)   No vehicle shall be driven on the left side of the roadway under
the following conditions:
         (a)   When approaching or upon the crest of a grade or a curve in the
highway where the driver's view is obstructed within a distance as to create a
hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite direction.
         (b)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any
intersection or railroad grade crossing.
         (c)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of
any bridge, viaduct, or tunnel.
      (2)   The limitations in division (B)(1) above do not apply upon a one-
way roadway, nor upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width
for two or more lanes of moving traffic in each direction, nor to the driver of
a vehicle turning left into or from an alley, private road, or driveway when
the movements can be made with safety.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-706) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.045 MEETING OR OVERTAKING SCHOOL BUS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop the vehicle before meeting or
overtaking, from either direction, any school bus stopped for the purpose of
receiving or discharging pupils on a highway or upon a private road within an
area that is covered by a contract or agreement executed pursuant to ILCS Ch.
625, Act 5, § 11-209.1. The stop is required before reaching the school bus
when there is in operation on the school bus the visual signals as specified in
ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 12-803 and 12- 805. The driver of the vehicle shall not
proceed until the school bus resumes motion or the driver of the vehicle is
signaled by the school bus driver to proceed or the visual signals are no
longer actuated.
   (B)   The stop signal arm required by ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-803 shall be
extended after the school bus has come to a complete stop for the purpose of
loading or discharging pupils and shall be closed before the school bus is
placed in motion again. The stop signal arm shall not be extended at any other
time.
   (C)   The alternately flashing red signal lamps of an eight-lamp flashing
signal system required by ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-805 shall be actuated after
the school bus has come to a complete stop for the purpose of loading or
discharging pupils and shall be turned off before the school bus is placed in
motion again. The red signal lamps shall not be actuated at any other time
except as provided in division (D) below.
   (D)   The alternately flashing amber signal lamps of an eight-lamp flashing
signal system required by ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-805 shall be actuated
continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the school bus
before stopping for the purpose of loading or discharging pupils within an
urban area, and during not less than the last 200 feet traveled by the school
bus outside an urban area. The amber signal lamps shall remain actuated until
the school bus is stopped. The amber signal lamps shall not be actuated at any
other time.
   (E)   The driver of a vehicle upon a highway having four or more lanes which
permits at least two lanes of traffic to travel in opposite directions need not
stop the vehicle upon meeting a school bus which is stopped in the opposing
roadway; and need not stop the vehicle when driving upon a controlled access
highway when passing a school bus traveling in either direction that is stopped
in a loading zone adjacent to the surfaced or improved part of the controlled
access highway where pedestrians are not permitted to cross.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1414) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.046 ONE-WAY ROADWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (A)   Upon a roadway designated for one-way traffic, a vehicle shall be
driven only in the direction designated at all or such times as shall be
indicated by official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island must be driven only
to the right of the island.
   (C)   Whenever any highway has been divided into two or more roadways by
leaving an intervening space or by a physical barrier or a clearly indicated
dividing section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle
must be driven only upon the right-hand roadway unless directed or permitted to
use another roadway by official traffic-control devices or police officers. No
vehicle may be driven over, across, or within any dividing space, barrier, or
section except through an opening in the physical barrier, or dividing section,
or space, or at a cross-over or intersection as established by public
authority.
   (D)   The driver of a vehicle may turn left across a paved noncurbed
dividing space unless prohibited by an official traffic-control device.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-708) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.047 NO-PASSING ZONES.
   (A)   The City Council is authorized to determine those portions of any
highway within the city where overtaking and passing or driving on the left of
the roadway would be especially hazardous, and may by appropriate signs or
markings on the roadway indicate the beginning and end of the zones, and when
signs or markings are in place and clearly visible to an ordinarily observant
person, every driver of a vehicle shall obey the directions thereof.
   (B)   Where signs or markings are in place to define a no-passing zone as
set forth in division (A) no driver may at any time drive on the left side of
the roadway within the no-passing zone or on the left side of any pavement
striping designed to mark the no-passing zone throughout its length.
   (C)   This section does not apply under the conditions described in §
71.040 (A)(2), nor to the driver of a vehicle turning left into or from an
alley, private road, or driveway. The pavement striping designed to mark the
no-passing zone may be crossed from the left-hand lane for the purpose of
completing a pass that was begun prior to the beginning of the zone in the
driver's direction of travel.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-707) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.048 DRIVING ON ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC.
   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked lanes
for traffic the following rules in addition to all others consistent herewith
shall apply.
   (A)   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
   (B)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes and provides for two-
way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center lane
except when overtaking and passing another vehicle traveling in the same
direction when such center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance, or
in preparation for making a left turn or where such center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the same direction that the vehicle
is proceeding and such allocation is designated by official traffic-control
devices.
   (C)   Official traffic-control devices may be erected directing specific
traffic to use a designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by
traffic moving in a particular direction regardless of the center of the
roadway and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of every such device.
Drivers must obey lane designation signing except when it is necessary to use a
different lane to make a turning maneuver.
   (D)   Official traffic-control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadway and drivers of vehicles shall obey the
directions of every such device.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-709) Penalty, see §
70.99
RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 71.060 VEHICLES APPROACHING OR ENTERING INTERSECTION.
   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection from different roadways
at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left must
yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right. This rule may be modified
at through highways or streets and where otherwise inconsistent with the
provisions of this traffic code.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-901) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.061 VEHICLE TURNING LEFT.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an intersection
or into an alley, private road, or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is so close as to
constitute an immediate hazard, but the driver, having so yielded, may proceed
as soon as a safe interval occurs.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-902) Penalty, see §
70.99  
§ 71.062 VEHICLES ENTERING STOP CROSSWALK.
   Where stop signs or flashing red signals are in place at an intersection, or
flashing red signals are in place at a plainly marked crosswalk between
intersections, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the nearest
crosswalk, and pedestrians within or entering the crosswalk at either edge of
the roadway shall have the right-of-way over vehicles so stopped. Drivers of
vehicles having so yielded the right-of-way to pedestrians entering or within
the nearest crosswalk at an intersection shall also yield the right-of-way to
pedestrians within any other crosswalk at the intersection.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-903) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.063 VEHICLE ENTERING STOP OR YIELD INTERSECTION.
   (A)   Preferential right-of-way at an intersection may be indicated by stop
or yield signs.
   (B)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicated by
a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop line but if none, before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none, then
at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection. After having stopped, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to
any vehicle which has entered the intersection from another roadway, or which
is approaching so closely on the roadway as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when the driver is moving across or within the intersection,
but the driver, having so yielded, may proceed as soon as a safe interval
occurs.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall, in obedience
to the sign, slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions, and,
if required for safety to stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but
if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, of
if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver
has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. After slowing or
stopping, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection.
   (D)   If a driver is involved in a collision at an intersection or
interferes with the movement of other vehicles after driving past a yield
right-of-way sign, the collision or interference shall be deemed prima facie
evidence of the driver's failure to yield right-of-way.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-904) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.064 MERGING TRAFFIC.
   Notwithstanding the right-of-way provision in §
71.060, at an intersection where traffic lanes are provided for merging
traffic, the driver of each vehicle on the converging roadways is required to
adjust his vehicular speed and lateral position so as to avoid a collision with
another vehicle.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-905) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.065 VEHICLE ENTERING HIGHWAY FROM PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY.
   The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from an alley,
building, private road, or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to all
vehicles approaching on the highway to be entered.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-906) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.066 OPERATION OF VEHICLES ON APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making
use of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of this chapter, or
a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible or visual
signal, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way and
shall immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to,
the right-hand edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection, and
shall, if necessary to permit the safe passage of the emergency vehicle, stop
and remain in that position until the authorized emergency vehicle has passed,
unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the highway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-907) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.067 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   Funeral processions have the right-of-way at intersections when
vehicles comprising the procession have their headlights lighted, subject to
the following conditions and exceptions:
      (1)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the
right-of-way upon the approach of an authorized emergency vehicle giving an
audible or visible signal;
      (2)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the
right-of-way when directed to do so by a traffic officer;
      (3)   The operator of the leading vehicle in a funeral procession shall
comply with stop signs and traffic-control signals but when the leading vehicle
has proceeded across an intersection in accordance with the signal or after
stopping as required by the stop sign, all vehicles in the procession may
proceed without stopping, regardless of the sign or signal, and the leading
vehicle and the vehicles in procession shall proceed with due caution.
   (B)   The operator of a vehicle not in the funeral procession shall not
drive his vehicle in the funeral procession except when authorized to do so by
a traffic officer or when such vehicle is an authorized emergency vehicle
giving audible or visible signal.
   (C)   Operators of vehicles not a part of a funeral procession may not form
a procession or convoy and have their headlights lighted for the purpose of
securing the right-of-way granted by this section to funeral processions.
   (D)   The operator of a vehicle not in a funeral procession may overtake and
pass the vehicles in such procession if such overtaking and passing can be
accomplished without causing a traffic hazard or interfering with such
procession.
   (E)   The lead vehicle in the funeral procession may be equipped with a
flashing amber light which may be used only when such vehicle is used as a lead
vehicle in such procession. Vehicles comprising a funeral procession may
utilize funeral pennants or flags or windshield stickers or flashing hazard
warning signal flashers to identify the individual vehicles in such a
procession.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1420) Penalty, see §
70.99
SPECIAL STOPS REQUIRED
§ 71.080 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNAL INDICATING APPROACH OF TRAIN.
   (A)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing, that person must exercise due care and caution as the existence of a
railroad track across a highway is a warning of danger, and under any of the
circumstances stated in this section, the driver shall stop within 50 feet but
not less than 15 feet from the nearest rail of the railroad, and shall not
proceed until he can do so safely. The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
      (1)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
      (2)   A crossing gate is lowered or a human flagman gives or continues to
give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train;
      (3)   A railroad train approaching a highway crossing emits a warning
signal and the train, by reason of its speed or nearness to the crossing, is an
immediate hazard;
      (4)   An approaching railroad train is plainly visible and is in
hazardous proximity to the crossing;
      (5)   A railroad train is approaching so closely that an immediate hazard
is created.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around, or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while the gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed.
   (C)   When stop signs are erected at railroad grade crossings, the driver of
any vehicle shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet from the
nearest rail of the railroad, and shall proceed only upon exercising due care.
   (D)   At any railroad grade crossing provided with railroad crossbuck signs,
without automatic, electric, or mechanical signal devices, crossing gates, or a
human flagman giving a signal of the approach or passage of a train, the driver
of a vehicle shall in obedience to the railroad crossbuck sign, yield the
right-of-way and slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions
and shall stop, if required for safety, at a clearly marked stopped line, or if
no stop line, within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet from the nearest rail of
the railroad and shall not proceed until he or she can do so safely. If a
driver is involved in a collision at a railroad crossing or interferes with the
movement of a train after driving past the railroad crossbuck sign, the
collision or interference is prima facie evidence of the driver's failure to
yield right-of-way.
   (E)    A violation of any part of this section shall be subject to a fine
according to the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99.
(Am. Ord. 1326, passed 2-20-08) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.081 CERTAIN VEHICLES MUST STOP AT ALL RAILROAD GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   The driver of any of the following vehicles shall, before crossing a
railroad track or tracks at grade, stop that vehicle within 50 feet but not
less than 15 feet from the nearest rail, and while so stopped, shall listen and
look for the approach of a train, and shall not proceed until that movement can
be made with safety:
      (1)   Any second division vehicle carrying passengers for hire;
      (2)   Any school bus carrying a school child;
      (3)   Any other vehicle which is required by federal or state law to be
placarded when carrying as a cargo or part of a cargo “hazardous material” as
defined in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 700-l et seq. After stopping as required in
this section, the driver shall proceed only in a gear not requiring a change of
gears during the crossing, and the driver shall not shift gears while crossing
the track or tracks.
   (B)   This section shall not apply:
      (1)   At any railroad grade crossing where traffic is controlled by a
police officer or flagperson;
      (2)   At any railroad grade crossing controlled by a functioning traffic-
control signal transmitting a green indication which under law, permits the
vehicle to proceed across the railroad tracks without slowing or stopping;
      (3)   At any streetcar grade crossing within a business or residence
district; or
      (4)   At any abandoned industrial or spur track railroad grade crossing
designated as exempt by the Illinois Commerce Commission and marked with an
official sign as authorized in the state Manual of Uniform Traffic Control
Devices for Streets and Highways.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1202) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.082 STOP BEFORE EMERGING FROM ALLEY, BUILDING, PRIVATE ROAD, OR DRIVEWAY.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, building, private road, or
driveway within an urban area shall stop the vehicle immediately prior to
driving into the sidewalk area extending across the alley, building entrance,
road, or driveway, or in the event there is no sidewalk area, shall stop at the
point nearest the street to be entered where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic thereon, and shall yield the right-of-way to any
pedestrians as may be necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering the
roadway, shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the
roadway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1205) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.083 STOP WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk, or drive onto
any railroad grade crossing unless there is sufficient space on the other side
of the intersection, crosswalk, or railroad grade crossing to accommodate the
vehicle he is operating without obstructing the passage of other vehicles,
pedestrians, or railroad trains, notwithstanding any traffic-control signal
indication to proceed.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1425) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.084 AUTOMATED RAILROAD CROSSING ENFORCEMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, an automated railroad grade crossing
enforcement system is a system operated by a law enforcement agency that
records a driver's response to automatic, electrical or mechanical signal
devices and crossing gates. The system shall be designed to obtain a clear
photograph or other recorded image of the vehicle, vehicle operator and the
vehicle registration plate of a vehicle in violation §
71.080. The photograph or other recorded image shall also display the time,
date and location of the violation.
   (B)   Commencing on January 1, 1996, the Illinois Commerce Commission and
the Commuter Rail Board of the Regional Transportation Authority shall, in
cooperation with local law enforcement agencies, establish a two year pilot
program within a county with a population of between 750,000 and 1,000,000
using an automated railroad grade crossing enforcement system. The Commission
shall determine the three railroad grade crossings within that county that pose
the greatest threat to human life based upon the number of accidents and
fatalities at the crossings during the past five years and with approval of the
local law enforcement agency equip the crossings with an automated railroad
grade crossing enforcement system.
   (C)   For each violation of §
71.080 recorded by an automatic railroad grade crossing system, the local law
enforcement agency having jurisdiction shall issue a written uniform traffic
citation of the violation to the registered owner of the vehicle. The uniform
traffic citation shall be delivered to the registered owner, by mail, within 30
days of the violation. The uniform traffic citation shall include the name and
address of vehicle owner, the vehicle registration number, the offense charged,
the time, date, and location of the violation, the first available court date
and that the basis of the citation is the photograph or other recorded image
from the automated railroad grade crossing enforcement system.
   (D)   The uniform traffic citation issued to the violator shall be
accompanied by a written document which explains the violator's rights and
obligations and how the violator can elect to proceed by either paying the fine
or challenging the issuance of the uniform traffic citation.
   (E)   Any photograph or other recorded image evidencing a violation of §
71.080 shall be admissible in any proceeding resulting from the issuance of the
uniform traffic citation. Photographs or recorded images made by an automatic
railroad grade crossing enforcement system shall be confidential, and shall be
made available only to the defendant, governmental and law enforcement agencies
for the purposes of adjudicating a violation of §
71.080.
   (F)   Rail crossings equipped with an automatic railroad grade crossing
enforcement system shall be posted with a sign visible to approaching traffic
stating that the railroad grade crossing is being monitored, that citations
will be issued, and the amount of the fine for violation.
   (G)   The cost of the installation and maintenance of each automatic
railroad grade crossing enforcement system shall be paid from the Grade
Crossing Protection Fund if the rail line is not owned by Commuter Rail Board
of the Regional Transportation Authority. If the rail line is owned by the
Commuter Rail Board of the Regional Transportation Authority, the costs of the
installation and maintenance shall be paid from the regional transportation
authority's portion of the Public Transportation Fund.
   (H)   The Illinois Commerce Commission shall issue a report to the General
Assembly at the conclusion of the two year pilot program on the effectiveness
of the automatic railroad grade crossing enforcement system.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1201.1)
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.095 LIMITATIONS ON BACKING.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless the movement
can be made with safety and without interfering with other traffic.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same upon any shoulder or
roadway of any controlled-access highway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1402) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.096 FOLLOWING VEHICLE TOO CLOSELY.
   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely
than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of the vehicles
and the traffic upon and conditions of the street or highway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-710) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.097 OBSTRUCTION OF DRIVER'S VIEW OR DRIVING MECHANISM.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are in the front seat such number of persons, exceeding three, as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle, or as to interfere
with the driver's control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle or streetcar shall ride in a position as to
interfere with the driver's or motorman's view ahead or to the sides, or to
interfere with his control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle or
streetcar.
   (C)   No passenger on a school bus may ride or stand in a position as to
interfere with the driver's view ahead or to the side or to the rear, or to
interfere with his control of the driving mechanism of the bus.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1406) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.098 OPENING VEHICLE DOORS.
   No person shall open the door of a vehicle on the side available to moving
traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, and can be done
without interfering with the movement of other traffic, nor shall any person
leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic for a
period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1407) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.099 COASTING.
   (A)   The driver of any motor vehicle when traveling upon a down grade shall
not coast with the gears or transmission of the vehicle in neutral.
   (B)   The driver of a truck or bus when traveling upon a down grade shall
not coast with the clutch disengaged.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1410) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.100 FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS; DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business shall
not follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than
500 feet or stop the vehicle within 500 feet of any fire apparatus stopped in
answer to a fire alarm.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1411)
   (B)   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of a fire
department when laid down on any street, private road, or driveway to be used
at any fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the fire department
official in command.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1412) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.101 DRIVING UPON SIDEWALK.
   (A)   No person shall drive any vehicle upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area
except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any vehicle moved exclusively by human
power nor to any motorized wheelchair.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1412.1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.102 USE OF ROLLER SKATES, COASTERS, OR SIMILAR DEVICES.
   No person upon roller skates or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy
vehicle, skateboard, or similar device shall go upon any roadway except while
crossing a street on a crosswalk and except upon streets set aside as play
streets when authorized by the traffic authority.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.103 PUTTING GLASS OR OTHER HAZARDOUS MATERIALS ON HIGHWAY P ROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall throw, spill or deposit upon any highway any bottle,
glass, nails, tacks, wire, cans, or any litter, as defined in the Litter
Control Act, ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 3.
   (B)   Any person who violates division (A) upon any highway shall
immediately remove the material or cause it to be removed.
   (C)   Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a highway shall
remove any glass or other debris, except any hazardous substance as defined in
ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, § 3.14, hazardous waste as defined in ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5,
§ 3.15, and potentially infectious medical waste as defined in ILCS Ch. 415,
Act 5, § 3.81, dropped upon the highway from such vehicle.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1413) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.104 OBSTRUCTING PERSON IN HIGHWAYS.
   No person shall willfully and unnecessarily hinder, obstruct, or delay, or
willfully and unnecessarily attempt to delay, hinder, or obstruct any other
person in lawfully driving or traveling along or upon any highway within this
city, or offer for barter or sale merchandise on the highway so as to interfere
with the effective movement of traffic.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1416) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.105 FARM TRACTOR OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall operate a farm tractor on a highway in this city
unless the tractor is being used as an implement of husbandry in connection
with farming operations.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the use of a farm tractor as an
implement of husbandry in connection with farming operations shall be deemed to
include use of the tractor in connection with the transportation of
agricultural products and of farm machinery, equipment, and supplies, as well
as the transportation of the implement of husbandry from its place of purchase
to its place of storage, in connection with the obtaining of repairs of the
implement of husbandry, and the towing of a registered truck of not more than
8,000 pounds for use as return transportation after the tractor is left at the
place of work or repair.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1418) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.106 TRUCK AND WEIGHT LIMITATION.
   Trucks whose combined body and load weight exceeded 30,000 pounds and whose
body and load length exceeded 30 feet are prohibited from being operated upon
Roath Street between Bluff Street and Washington Street in either direction.
(Ord. 957, passed 12-2-98)
PARADES
§ 71.120 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CRUISING. The repeated operation of two or more vehicles in a continuous or
nearly continuous flow through a parking lot.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant, or
procession of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk,
park, or other public place in the city, or CRUISING as defined above.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
   PARKING LOT. Any paved or unpaved area used by a place of business or
shopping center for the parking of vehicles of their customers, but shall not
include those operated for hire.
§ 71.121 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage or participate in, aid, form, or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the Chief of
Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions;
      (2)   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities, provided the conduct is under the immediate direction
and supervision of the proper school authorities;
      (3)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.122 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the Chief of Police or other authorized city official on forms provided by such
officer.
   (A)   Filing period. The application for a parade permit shall be filed not
less than five days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade.
   (B)   The application for a parade permit shall set forth the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals, and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park, or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)    The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any such assembly area or areas;
      (11)    The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)    If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his behalf;
      (13)    Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should be issued.
   (C)   There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a parade
permit a fee in an amount as established by the City Council.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.123 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall issue a permit
when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire;
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route;
   (G)   The parade is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising any
product, goods, or event, and is not designated to be held purely for private
profit;
   (H)   The parade, if it takes the form of cruising, has the approval in
writing of the owner or an authorized agent of the owner for the use of the
parking lot which is the site of the parade.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.124 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT APPLICATION.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall act on the
application for a parade permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after filing thereof. If he disapproves the application, he
shall mail to the applicant within the three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after the date on which the application was filed, a notice
of his action stating the reasons for his denial of the permit.
§ 71.125 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Council. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial. The City Council shall act on the appeal within 30 days after
its receipt.
§ 71.126 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time, or over a route different than that named by
the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall conform to
the requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit under this
subchapter.
§ 71.127 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the Mayor.
§ 71.128 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park, or other public place to
be traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof;
   (G)   Such other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement
of this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.129 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The parade chairperson or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his
person during the conduct of the parade.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.130 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede,
or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle, or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle except a police car or
other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising
a parade when such vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
   (C)   Parking on parade route. The Chief of Police or other authorized city
official shall have the authority, when reasonably necessary, to prohibit or
restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or other public thoroughfare or
part thereof constituting a part of the route of a parade. Signs shall be
posted to such effect, and it shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave
unattended any vehicle in violation thereof. No person shall be liable for
parking on a street or other public thoroughfare unless signs have been posted
in accordance with this section.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.131 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Method of Parking
   
72.01   General parking regulations
   
72.02   Unattended motor vehicles
Restrictions on Stopping, Standing, and Parking
   
72.10   Parking prohibited generally
   
72.11   Stopping, standing, or parking prohibited in specified places
   
72.12   Unauthorized use of parking spaces reserved for handicapped
   
72.13   Loading zones
Snow Emergencies
   
72.25   Snow route restrictions
Violations
   
72.40   Officers authorized to remove vehicles
   
72.41   Duty of lessor of vehicle on notice of violation of this chapter
 
   
72.99   Penalty
METHOD OF PARKING
§ 72.01 GENERAL PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every vehicle stopped or
parked upon a two-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked with the right-hand
wheels parallel to and within 12 inches of the right-hand curb or as close as
practicable to the right edge of the right-hand shoulder.
   (B)   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a one-way roadway shall be so
stopped or parked parallel to the curb or edge of the roadway, in the direction
of authorized traffic movement, with its right-hand wheels within 12 inches of
the right-hand curb or as close as practicable to the right edge of the right-
hand shoulder, or with its left-hand wheels within 12 inches of the left-hand
curb or as close as practicable to the left edge of the left-hand shoulder.
   (C)   Reserved.
   (D)   No person shall park in violation of signs placed by and under the
jurisdiction of the state Department of Transportation which prohibit, limit,
or restrict the stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles on any highway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1304) (Am. Ord. 1550, passed 6-18-14) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand
unattended without stopping the engine, locking the ignition, removing the key
from the ignition, effectively setting the brake thereon and, when standing
upon any perceptible grade, turning the front wheels to the curb or side of the
highway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1401) Penalty, see §
72.99
RESTRICTIONS ON STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING
§ 72.10 PARKING PROHIBITED GENERALLY.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand, or park any vehicle upon a street, other
than an alley, in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available
less than ten feet of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular
traffic, except that a driver may stop temporarily during the actual loading or
unloading of passengers or, when necessary, in obedience to traffic
regulations, traffic signs or a police officer.
   (B)   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or
under such conditions as to leave available less than 15 feet of the width of
the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic.
   (C)   No person operating a commercial vehicle shall stop, stand or park
upon any street, street right-of-way, alley, alley right-of-way, city parking
lot, or other city property for a longer time than 90 minutes at any time of
any day or night, unless loading or unloading from or to an actual premises on
a normal continuous basis. Notwithstanding the above, no person shall stop,
stand, or park any vehicle, commercial or otherwise, in areas where prohibited
parking is indicated by signage or is prohibited under another section of this
code. For the purpose of this section, a COMMERCIAL VEHICLE is defined to be
any truck, tractor, trailer or similar unit that is used for the transportation
of merchandise, or from which merchandise is sold.
   (D)   No trailer, boat, or snowmobile shall be allowed to stand or park upon
any street, street right-of-way, alley, alley right-of-way, city parking lot,
or other city property, with the exception of emergency circumstances, for a
longer time than 90 minutes, unless loading or unloading from or to an actual
premise on a normal continuous basis.
      (1)   Notwithstanding the above, no person shall stop, stand, or park any
trailer, boat, or snowmobile in areas where prohibited parking is indicated by
signage or is prohibited under another section of this code.
      (2)   However, a boat trailer, when attached to the vehicle that would
normally pull the same, may park in specially designated areas in a park or
city parking lot for a period not to exceed 24 hours.
      (3)   All such specifically designated areas shall be prominently posted
with this time restriction.
   (E)   No person shall stop, stand, or park any vehicle, commercial or
otherwise, upon any street, alley, or city parking lot for more than 24 hours.
   (F)   The city, with respect to highways under its jurisdiction or for the
maintenance of which it is responsible, may place signs prohibiting or
restricting the stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles on any highway
where, in its opinion, stopping, standing, or parking is dangerous to those
using the highway, or where stopping, standing, or parking vehicles would
unduly interfere with the free movement of traffic thereon.
      (1)   Any regulations adopted by the city regarding the stopping,
standing, or parking of vehicles upon any specific street, streets, or highways
become effective at the time of the erection of appropriate signs indicating
the regulations.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, no person shall stop,
stand, or park any vehicle, boat, snowmobile, commercial vehicle or otherwise
in areas where prohibited parking is indicated by signage, or is prohibited
under another section of this code.
   (G)   This section, §
72.11 and ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1304 shall not apply to the driver of any
vehicle that is disabled in such manner and to such extent that it is
impossible to avoid stopping and temporarily leaving the vehicle in that
position.
(Ord. 1550, passed 6-18-14; Am. Ord. 1568, passed 1-21-15) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer, or an official
traffic-control device, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand, or park a vehicle:
         (a)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         (b)   On a sidewalk;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   On a crosswalk;
         (e)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by signs or markings;
         (f)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (g)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure, upon a highway, or
within a highway tunnel;
         (h)   On any railroad tracks;
         (i)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
         (j)   On any controlled-access highway;
         (k)   In the area between roadways of a divided highway, including
crossovers.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge passengers:
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (d)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing signal, stop
sign, yield sign, or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
         (e)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of the entrance (when properly sign- posted);
         (f)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
      (3)   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading property or
passengers:
         (a)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
         (b)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle upon
the berm portion of the following streets within the city:
         (a)   Rutland Street;
         (b)   East Bluff Street; and
         (c)   West Bluff Street.
      For purposes of this section, the BERM portion of a street is defined to
be that portion or area of the right-of-way of a street located between the
curb of the street and the sidewalk immediately adjacent thereto; on streets
where there exists no curb or sidewalk, or both, the berm shall be defined to
be that portion of the right-of-way commencing six feet from the edge of the
improved or paved portion of the road or street.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
prohibited area or away from a curb a distance as is unlawful.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1303) (Am. Ord. 1550, passed 6-18-14) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PARKING SPACES RESERVED FOR HANDICAPPED.
   (A)   It shall be prohibited to park any motor vehicle which is not bearing
registration plates or decals issued to a handicapped person, as defined by §
70.01, pursuant to ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 3-616 or 11-1301.2, or to a disabled
veteran pursuant to ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-609, as evidence that the vehicle
is operated by or for a handicapped person or disabled veteran, in any parking
place, including any private or public off-street parking facility,
specifically reserved, by the posting of an official sign as designated under
ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-301, for motor vehicles bearing such registration
plates. An individual with a vehicle bearing a person with disabilities license
plate or parking decal or device issued to a disabled person under ILCS Ch.
625, Act 5, §§ 3-616, 11-1301.1, or 11-1301.2 is in violation of this section
if the person is not the authorized holder of a person with disabilities
license plate or parking decal or device and is not transporting the authorized
holder of a person with disabilities license plate or parking decal or device
to or from the parking location and the person uses the person with
disabilities license plate or parking decal or device to exercise any
privileges granted through the person with disabilities license plates or
parking decals or devices under this code.
   (B)   Any person or local authority owning or operating any public or
private off-street parking facility may, after notifying the Police Department,
remove or cause to be removed to the nearest garage or other place of safety
any vehicle parked within a stall or space reserved for use by the handicapped
which does not display handicapped registration plates or a special decal or
device as required under this section.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301.3)
   (C)   Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of this section
shall be fined as set forth in §
72.99 and in addition shall be liable for any costs or charges connected with
the removal or storage of any motor vehicle authorized under the Uniform Fine
Schedule in §
10.99, in addition to any costs or charges connected with the removal or
storage of any motor vehicle authorized under this section.
(Am. Ord. 1326, passed 2-20-08) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.13 LOADING ZONES.
   The following areas are designated loading zones:
   Young Street      Between Main Street and Railroad Street
(Ord. 1198, passed 5-18-05)
SNOW EMERGENCIES
§ 72.25 SNOW ROUTE RESTRICTIONS.
   The streets identified in
Ch. 78, Sch. III Snow Routes are declared snow routes and subject to
restrictions as follows:
   (A)   After a snowfall of two inches or more, it shall be unlawful for any
person to leave parked or leave standing unattended a motor vehicle, upon any
street identified by ordinance as a snow route until the street has been plowed
after the completion of snow.
   (B)   A police officer may initiate an ordinance violation for a snow route
parking violation against the owner, lessee or driver of a vehicle wrongfully
parked or left unattended on a snow route in violation of the above by issuance
of a parking ticket or otherwise serving a notice of ordinance violation. The
fine shall be in an amount of $200. The ticket or notice of violation shall
contain a statement that the violation may be resolved without a court or
administrative hearing date appearance upon payment of a pre-filing penalty
paid and received by City Hall no less than five business days before the
hearing date. The pre-filing penalty shall be one half of the minimum fine,
being $100.
   (C)   A vehicle parked or left unattended in violation of the above is
declared a nuisance and may be summarily abated, without notice, by towing as
authorized under §
72.40.
(Am. Ord. 1626, passed 1-18-16; Am. Ord. 1701, passed 2-20-19) Penalty, see §
72.99
VIOLATIONS
§ 72.40 OFFICERS AUTHORIZED TO REMOVE VEHICLES.
   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle in violation of any provisions
of §
72.11 or §
72.25, or a vehicle abandoned in violation of
Ch. 90 or in violation of the Illinois Vehicle Code or city ordinance
reasonably requiring removal of the vehicle for safety purposes from a public
right-of-way, the officer is authorized to have the vehicle towed to a location
authorized under the city’s impound ordinance (
Ch. 99, Vehicle Impound). To re-obtain possession of the vehicle, the vehicle
owner or person in charge of the vehicle shall pay all towing and storage fees
which are in addition to any fines associated with an ordinance or traffic
ticket. The vehicle owner or person in charge of the vehicle may request an
administrative hearing seeking release of a towed vehicle as covered under the
city’s impound ordinance.
(Am. Ord. 1626, passed 1-18-16)
§ 72.41 DUTY OF LESSOR OF VEHICLE ON NOTICE OF VIOLATION OF THIS CHAPTER.
   Every person in whose name a vehicle is registered pursuant to law and who
leases such vehicle to others, after receiving written notice of a violation of
this chapter involving such vehicle, shall upon request provide such police
officers as have authority of the offense, and the court having jurisdiction
thereof, with a written statement of the name and address of the lessee at the
time of such offense and the identifying number upon the registration plates
and registration sticker or stickers of such vehicle.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1305)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The following parking is prohibited and fines for violations are as
follows:
      Type of charge                      Applicable fine
      Parking in excess of time limit               $20
      Parking facing wrong direction               $20
      Parking on sidewalk                     $20
      Parking within an intersection                $20
      Parking in violation of 3:00 a.m. to 5:00 a.m.
       prohibition                         $100
      Blocking alley                         $20
      Controlled access highway violation               $20
      Parking upon a bridge                     $20
      Parking on or within 50 feet of railroad crossing         $20
      Parking in yellow or posted prohibited area            $20
      Parking on berm                     $20
      Parking in open and maintained alley               $20
      Parking in or blocking public or private driveway         $20
      Parking within 15 feet of a fire hydrant            $20
      Parking in violation of snow route regulations         $200
      Parking in handicapped zone without displayed
       authority                        $200
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided shall be fined as indicated under the Uniform
Fine Schedule in §
10.99.
   (C)   A parking fine may be satisfied by payment of a pre-filing penalty
paid to and received by the city no less than five business days before the
hearing date. The pre-filing penalty shall be one- half of the minimum fine
indicated for such violation, or if there is no stated minimum fine for such
violation, then half the minimum amount indicated in the Uniform Fine Schedule.
(Ord. 1326, passed 2-20-08; Am. Ord. 1626, passed 1-18-16; Am. Ord. 1701,
passed 2-20-19)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-1301.3(c) and (d)
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES; MOPEDS; SCOOTERS; MOTORCYCLES; SNOWMOBILES; UTILITY
TERRAIN VEHICLES AND OTHER TRANSPORTATION DEVICES
Section
Bicycles
   
73.001   Traffic laws apply to persons riding bicycles
   
73.002   Riding on bicycles
   
73.003   Clinging to vehicles
   
73.004   Riding on roadways and bicycle paths
   
73.005   Carrying articles
   
73.006   Lamps and other equipment on bicycles
   
73.007   Turn and stop signals
Powered Bicycles
   
73.015   Definitions
   
73.016   Restrictions on use of powered bicycle
Moped or Scooter
   
73.030   Definitions
   
73.031   Restrictions on use of moped or scooter
Motorcycles
   
73.045   Definition
   
73.046   Riding on motorcycles
   
73.047   Special equipment for persons riding motorcycles
   
73.048   Required equipment on motorcycles
   
73.049   Operating motorcycle on one wheel
Snowmobiles
   
73.060   Definitions
   
73.061   Enforcement and inspections
   
73.062   Registration of snowmobiles
   
73.063   Snowmobile equipment
   
73.064   Control provisions
Utility Terrain Vehicles
   
73.075   Definition
   
73.076   Required permit
   
73.077   Conditions
   
73.078   Revocation or denial of permit
   
73.079   Limitation of liability
Other Vehicles and Transportation Devices
   
73.095   Skateboard, motorized skateboard, hoverboard or other form of
transportation street use
   
73.096   Skateboard, motorized skateboard, hoverboard or other form of
transportation nighttime use
   
73.097   Restriction of ATV or recreational vehicles
 
   
73.999   Penalty
BICYCLES
§ 73.001 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY TO PERSONS RIDING BICYCLES.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a highway shall be granted all of the
rights, and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by this traffic code, except as to special regulations in this traffic
code, and except as to those provisions of this traffic code which by their
nature can have no application.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1502) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.002 RIDING ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than upon or
astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped, except that an adult rider may
carry a child securely attached to his person in a back pack or sling.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1503) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.003 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, or toy
vehicle shall attach the same or himself to any vehicle upon a roadway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1504) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.004 RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle upon a roadway at less than the normal
speed of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing
shall ride as close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the
roadway except under the following situations:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another bicycle or vehicle proceeding
in the same direction; or
      (2)   When preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private
road or driveway; or
      (3)   When reasonably necessary to avoid conditions including, but not
limited to, fixed or moving objects, parked or moving vehicles, bicycles,
pedestrians, animals, surface hazards, or substandard width lanes that make it
unsafe to continue along the right-hand curb or edge. For purposes of this
subsection, a “substandard width lane” means a lane that is too narrow for a
bicycle and a vehicle to travel safely side by side within the lane.
   (B)   Any person operating a bicycle upon a one-way highway with two or more
marked traffic lanes may ride as near the left-hand curb or edge of the roadway
as practicable.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1505)
   (C)   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two
abreast, except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for their exclusive
use. Persons riding two abreast shall not impede the normal and reasonable
movement of traffic and, on a laned roadway, shall ride within a single lane
subject to the provisions of divisions (A) and (B) above.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1505.1)  (Am. Ord. 1700, passed 2-6-19)  Penalty,
see §
70.99
§ 73.005 CARRYING ARTICLES.
    No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article
which prevents the use of both hands in the control and operation of the
bicycle. A person operating a bicycle shall keep at least one hand on the
handlebars at all times.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1506)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.006 LAMPS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp
on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
500 feet to the front, and with a red reflector on the rear of a type approved
by the department which shall be visible from all distances from 100 feet to
600 feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful lower beams of headlamps
on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of 500
feet to the rear may be used in addition to the red reflector.
   (B)   A bicycle shall not be equipped with, nor shall any person use upon a
bicycle, any siren.
   (C)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will adequately
control movement of and stop and hold the bicycle.
   (D)   No person shall sell a new bicycle or pedal for use on a bicycle that
is not equipped with a reflex reflector conforming to specifications prescribed
by the state Department of Transportation, on each pedal, visible from the
front and rear of the bicycle during darkness from a distance of 200 feet.
   (E)   No person shall sell or offer for sale a new bicycle that is not
equipped with side reflectors. The reflectors shall be visible from each side
of the bicycle from a distance of 500 feet, and shall be essentially colorless
or red to the rear of the center of the bicycle and essentially colorless or
amber to the front of the center of the bicycle. The requirements of this
division may be met by reflective materials which shall be at least 3/16 inch
wide on each side of each tire or rim to indicate as clearly as possible the
continuous circular shape and size of the tires or rims of the bicycle, and
which reflective materials may be of the same color on both the front and rear
tire or rim. The reflectors shall conform to specifications prescribed by the
state Department of Transportation.
   (F)   No person shall sell or offer for sale a new bicycle that is not
equipped with an essentially colorless front-facing reflector.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1507) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.007 TURN AND STOP SIGNALS.
   A person riding a bicycle shall signal of intention to turn right or left or
stop to not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the bicycle. A signal by
hand and arm need not be given continuously if the hand is needed in the
control or operation of the bicycle. The hand and arm signals shall be those
identified in Section 11-806 of the Illinois Vehicle Code as follows:
   (A)   Left turn. Hand and arm extended horizontally to the left side of the
bicycle.
   (B)   Right turn. Hand and arm extended horizontally and to the right side
of the bicycle.
   (C)   Stop. Hand and arm extended downward.
(Ord. 1700, passed 2-6-19)
POWERED BICYCLES
§ 73.015 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definition shall apply to this subchapter as written unless
context indicates or requires a different meaning:
   POWERED BICYCLE.
      (1)   A two- or three-wheeled device with fully operable pedals and a
gasoline motor of less than one horsepower, whose maximum speed on a paved
level surface, when powered solely by such a motor while ridden by an operator
who weighs 170 pounds, is less than 20 miles per hour; or
      (2)   A bicycle equipped with fully operable pedals and an electric motor
of less than 750 watts that meets the requirements of one of the following
classes:
         (a)   A low-speed electric bicycle equipped with a motor that provides
assistance only when the rider is pedaling and that ceases to provide
assistance when the bicycle reaches a speed of 20 miles per hour.
         (b)   A low-speed electric bicycle equipped with a motor that may be
used exclusively to propel the bicycle and that is not capable of providing
assistance when the bicycle reaches a speed of 20 miles per hour.
         (c)   A low-speed electric bicycle equipped with a motor that provides
assistance only when the rider is pedaling and that ceases to provide
assistance when the bicycle reaches a speed of 28 miles per hour.
(Ord. 1700, passed 2-6-19)
§ 73.016 RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF POWERED BICYCLE.
   An operator of a powered bicycle shall follow the same rules for bicycles
but a powered bicycle shall not be driven by any person under 16 years of age
and shall not be driven on a sidewalk.
(Ord. 1700, passed 2-6-19)
MOPED OR SCOOTER
§ 73.030 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definition shall apply to this subchapter as written unless
context indicates or requires a different meaning:
   MOPED or SCOOTER. A moped or scooter is a motor-driven cycle, with or
without optional power derived from manually operated pedals, whose speed
attainable in one mile is at least 20 mph but not greater than 30 mph, and is
equipped with a motor that produces two brake horsepower or less. If an
internal combustion engine is used, the displacement shall not exceed 50 cubic
centimeter displacement and the power drive system shall not require the
operator to shift.
(Ord. 1700, passed 2-6-19)
§ 73.031 RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF MOPED OR SCOOTER.
   A moped or scooter shall be registered and insured and shall be operated
subject to rules for operation of a motorcycle or motor driven cycle and
operated only by a person with a valid drivers license and appropriate drivers
license classification.
(Ord. 1700, passed 2-6-19)
MOTORCYCLES
§ 73.045 DEFINITION.
   The following definition shall apply to this subchapter as written unless
context indicates or requires a different meaning:
   MOTORCYCLE. Any MOTOR DRIVEN CYCLE.
   MOTOR DRIVEN CYCLE. Every motorcycle and every motor scooter with less than
150 cubic centimeter piston displacement including motorized pedalcycles which
cannot be classified under this
Chapter 73 as a powered bicycle, moped or scooter.
(Ord. 1700, passed 2-6-19)
§ 73.046 RIDING ON MOTORCYCLES.
   (A)   A person operating a motorcycle shall ride only upon the permanent and
regular seat attached thereto, and the operator shall not carry any other
person nor shall any other person ride on a motorcycle unless the motorcycle is
designed to carry more than one person, in which event a passenger may ride
upon the permanent and regular seat if designed for two persons, or upon
another seat firmly attached to the motorcycle at the rear or side of the
operator.
   (B)   A person shall ride upon a motorcycle only while sitting astride the
seat, facing forward, with one leg on each side of the motorcycle.
   (C)   No person shall operate any motorcycle with handlebars higher than the
height of the shoulders of the operator when the operator is seated in the
normal driving position astride that portion of the seat or saddle occupied by
the operator.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1403) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.047 SPECIAL EQUIPMENT FOR PERSONS RIDING MOTORCYCLES.
   (A)   The operator and every passenger of a motorcycle shall be protected by
glasses, goggles, or a transparent shield. This equipment shall meet the
requirements based upon those set forth in Vehicle Equipment Safety Commission
Regulation VESC-8, “Minimum Requirements for Motorcyclists' Eye Protection.”
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, glasses, goggles, and transparent
shields are defined as follows:
      (1)   GLASSES. Ordinary eye pieces such as spectacles or sunglasses worn
before the eye, made of shatter-resistant material. Shatter-resistant material,
as used in this section, means material so manufactured, fabricated, or created
that it substantially prevents shattering or flying when struck or broken.
      (2)   GOGGLES. A device worn before the eyes, the predominant function of
which is protecting the eyes without obstructing peripheral vision. Goggles
shall provide protection from the front and sides, and may or may not form a
complete seal with the face.
      (3)   TRANSPARENT SHIELD. A windshield attached to the front of a
motorcycle that extends above the eyes when an operator is seated in the
normal, upright riding position, made of shatter- resistant material, or a
shatter-resistant protective face shield that covers the wearer's eyes and face
at least to a point approximately to the tip of the nose.
   (C)   Contact lenses are not acceptable eye protection devices.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1404) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.048 REQUIRED EQUIPMENT ON MOTORCYCLES.
   Any motorcycle carrying a passenger, other than in a sidecar or enclosed
cab, shall be equipped with footrests for the passenger.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1405) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.049 OPERATING MOTORCYCLE ON ONE WHEEL.
   Any person who operates a motorcycle on one wheel is guilty of reckless
driving as defined in §
76.06.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1403.2) Penalty, see §
70.99
SNOWMOBILES
§ 73.060 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICATION and JURISDICTION. No portion of this subchapter shall preclude
the state or its officers or agents from enforcing the Illinois Snowmobile
Registration and Safety Act under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 40, §§ 1-1 through 11-
1 inclusive.
   DEALER. A person, partnership or corporation engaged in the business of
manufacturing, selling, or leasing snowmobiles at wholesale or retail.
   DANGEROUS DRUG. Any drug defined as a depressant or stimulant substance in
the Illinois Controlled Substance Act and cannabis as defined in the Cannabis
Control Act of the state.
   PEACE OFFICER. Any person authorized under the state statutes to make arrest
for a violation of any statute or ordinance, whether it be a total arrest power
of all statutes or a portion of any statute.
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between boundary lines of any highway, road,
street, avenue, alley or public driveway.
   INTOXICATING BEVERAGE. Any beverage enumerated in the Liquor Act of the
state.
   LOCAL AUTHORITY. The municipal board or body having authority to adopt local
police regulations under the constitution and laws of this state.
   NARCOTIC DRUG. Any substance defined as a narcotic drug in the Illinois
Controlled Substance Act.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on, other than as a passenger, use or control the
operation of a snowmobile in any manner, whether or not the snowmobile is
underway.
   OPERATOR. Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile.
   OWNER. A person other than a lien holder registered as owner of a
snowmobile.
   REGISTER. The act of assigning a registration number to a snowmobile by
state statute and by local ordinance.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway, improved, designed or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a highway
includes two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY as used in this
subchapter refers to any such roadway separately, but not to all such roads
collectively.
   SNOWMOBILE. A self-propelled device designed for travel on snow or ice or
natural terrain, steered by skis or runners and supported in part by skis,
belts or cleats.
(Ord. 678, passed 12-19-84)
§ 73.061 ENFORCEMENT AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   Enforcement. It is the duty of all sheriffs, deputy sheriffs and other
police officers to arrest any person detected in violation of any of the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Inspection. Duty authorized police officers may stop and inspect any
snowmobile at any time for the purpose of determining if the provisions of this
subchapter are being complied with. If the inspecting officer discovers any
violation of the provisions of this subchapter, the inspecting officer may
issue a summons to the operator of such snowmobile requiring that the operator
appear before the Circuit Court for the county in which the offense was
committed. Every snowmobile subject to this subchapter if under way and upon
being hailed by a designated law enforcement officer must stop immediately.
   (C)   Resistance to officers. It is unlawful for any person to resist or
obstruct any peace officer in a discharge of his duties under this subchapter.
(Ord. 678, passed 12-19-84) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.062 REGISTRATION OF SNOWMOBILES.
   Except as otherwise provided in the ILCS Chapter 625, no person shall after
the effective date of this subchapter, operate any snowmobile within the
corporate limits unless such snowmobile has been registered and numbered in
accordance with the provisions of the Illinois Snowmobile Registration and
Safety Act.
(Ord. 678, passed 12-19-84) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.063 SNOWMOBILE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Headlamp. All snowmobiles in operation shall display at least one
lighted headlamp. White in color, having a minimum candle power of sufficient
intensity to exhibit a white light plainly visible from a distance of at least
500 feet ahead during hours of darkness under normal atmospheric conditions.
   (B)   Taillights. All snowmobiles while in operation shall display at least
one read taillight having a minimum candle power of sufficient intensity to
exhibit a red light plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear
during hours of darkness under normal atmospheric conditions.
   (C)   Brakes. All snowmobiles shall have an operating brake system in good
mechanical condition.
   (D)   Mufflers. No snowmobile shall be sold or offered for sale or operated
unless it is equipped with a sound muffling device installed by the
manufacturer and under no circumstances shall this muffler device be modified
or removed by the owner or operator.
(Ord. 678, passed 12-19-84) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.064 CONTROL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   General speed restrictions. No snowmobile may be driven upon any
roadway within the corporate limits of this community and a speed which is
greater than is reasonable and proper with regard to traffic conditions and the
use of the highway, or endangers the safety of any person or property. The fact
that the speed of the snowmobile does not exceed the applicable maximum speed
limit does not relieve the driver of the snowmobile from the duty to decrease
speed when approaching and crossing an intersection, when approaching and going
around the curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when traveling upon any narrow
or winding roadway, or special hazards exist with respect to pedestrians or
other traffic or by reason of weather or highway conditions. Speed must be
decreased as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person or vehicle on
or entering the highway in compliance with legal requirements and a duty of all
persons to use due care.
   (B)   General speed limit. Unless some other speed restriction is
established by the posting of speed limit signs under the authority of the City
Council, the maximum speed limits for snowmobiles within the corporate limits
shall be 25 miles per hour in any residential or business district.
   (C)   Reckless driving. Any person who drives any snowmobile with a willful
or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property is guilty of reckless
driving.
   (D)   Racing. No person shall engage in any race on any roadway within the
corporate limits. RACE means the act of two or more individuals competing or
racing on any street or highway, in a situation in which one of the snowmobiles
is beside or to the rear of a snowmobile operated by a competing driver and the
one driver attempts to prevent the competing driver from passing or overtaking
him, either by acceleration or maneuver or one or more individuals competing in
a race against time on any street or roadway in this municipality.
   (E)   Minimum speed regulation. No person shall drive a snowmobile at such a
low speed as to impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic,
except when reduced speed is necessary for safe operation of his snowmobile or
in compliance with the direction of a peace officer.
   (F)   Driving on right side of roadway. Snowmobiles shall be operated on all
roadways as close to the right-hand side of the roadway as possible.
Snowmobiles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other to the
right and upon roadways having width for not more than one line of traffic in
each direction. Each driver shall give to the other at least one-half of the
main traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
   (G)   Limitations on overtaking on the left. No snowmobiles shall be driven
to the left side of the center of the roadway in overtaking and passing another
vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless such left side is clearly
visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to
permit such overtaking and passing to be completely made without interfering
with the safe operation of any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction
or any vehicle overtaken.
   (H)   Additional limitations of driving to the left of center of the
roadway. No snowmobile shall be driven on the left side of the roadway when
approaching or upon the crest of a grade or curve in the highway where the
driver's view is obstructed, when approaching within 100 feet of or traversing
an intersection or railroad grade crossing, or when the view is obstructed upon
approaching within 100 feet of any bridge, viaduct or tunnel, and no driver may
pass to the left where signs or markings are in place to define a no passing
zone as indicated by pavement striping or appropriate signing.
   (I)   Following too close. The operator of a snowmobile shall not follow
another vehicle more closely than is reasonable and prudent having due regard
for the speed of such vehicles and the traffic upon and condition of the
highway.
   (J)   Starting parked snowmobile. No operator shall start a snowmobile which
is stopped, standing or parked unless and until such movement can be made with
reasonable safety.
   (K)   Signals required. A signal of intention to turn right or left when
required must be given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet
traveled by the snowmobile before turning within a business or residence
district.
   (L)   Signal by hand or arm or signal device. Any stop or turn signal when
required shall be given either by means of a hand and arm or by electric turn
signal device conforming to the requirements of ILCS Chapter 625.
   (M)    Method of giving hand and arm signals. All signals required to this
subchapter shall be given from the left side of the vehicle in the following
manner:
      (1)   Left turn - hand and arm extended horizontally.
      (2)   Right turn - hand and arm extended upward.
      (3)   Stop or decrease of speed - hand and arm extended downward.
   (N)   Right-of-way. Any snowmobile approaching or entering an intersection
from a different roadway shall yield the right-of-way to a vehicle on the
opposite roadway which is entering from the right at approximately the same
time. The driver of the vehicle or snowmobile on the left must yield the right-
of-way to the vehicle on the right.
   (O)   Right-of-way turning left. The operator of a snowmobile intending to
turn to the left within an intersection or into an alley, private road or
driveway, shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction which is so close as to constitute an immediate hazard, but
said snowmobile operator having so yielded may proceed at such time as a safe
interval occurs.
   (P)   Snowmobile entering stop intersection. Except when directed to proceed
by a peace officer or traffic control signal, every operator of a snowmobile
approaching a stop intersection indicated by a stop sign shall stop at a
clearly marked stop line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the
near side of the intersection, or if none, then at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the operator has a view of approaching traffic on
the intersecting roadway before entering the intersection. After having
stopped, the operator of the snowmobile shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicle which has entered the intersection from another roadway or which is
approaching so closely on the roadway as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when the operator is moving across or within the intersection,
but said operator having so yielded may proceed at such time as a safe interval
occurs.
   (Q)   Snowmobile entering a yield intersection. The operator of a snowmobile
approaching a yield sign shall in obedience to such signs slow down to a speed
reasonable for the existing conditions and if required for safety, to stop,
shall stop at a clearly marked line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk
on the near side of the intersection, or if none, then at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the operator has a view of approaching traffic on
the intersecting roadway. After slowing or stopping, the operator shall yield
the right-of-way to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another
roadway so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time such
operator is moving across or within the intersection. If a snowmobile is
involved in a collision at an intersection or interferes with the movement of
other vehicles after driving past the yield right-of-way sign, such collision
or interference shall be deemed prima facie evidence of the driver's failure to
yield right-of-way.
   (R)   Obedience to traffic-control devices.
      (1)   The operator of any snowmobile shall obey the instructions of any
official traffic-control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with
the provisions of this subchapter and it shall be unlawful for any snowmobile
operator to leave the roadway and travel across private property to avoid an
official traffic-control device.
      (2)   Snowmobile traffic facing a steady red signal at an automatic
traffic-control device must stop at clearly marked stop line, but if none,
before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none,
then before entering the intersection, and shall remain standing until an
indication to proceed is indicated by a green light.
   (S)   Accidents. Operators of snowmobiles involved in any accident with
another snowmobile or any other motor vehicle or pedestrian shall make accident
reports in accordance with the provisions of the Illinois State Snowmobile
Registration and Safety Act, ILCS Ch. 625, Act 40, § 6-1.
   (T)   Pedestrian right-of-way. The operator of all snowmobiles shall yield
the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if need be to so yield to a
pedestrian crossing a roadway within a crosswalk, but in any case every driver
of a snowmobile shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian
and shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and shall exercise
proper precaution upon observing any child or any obviously confused,
incapacitated or intoxicated person.
   (U)   Obstruction of operator's view or driving mechanism. No person shall
operate a snowmobile when it is so loaded with passengers as to obstruct the
operator's view or his operation of the driving mechanism.
   (V)   Obstructing roadways. No operator shall willfully or unnecessarily
hinder, obstruct or delay or attempt to delay, hinder or obstruct any other
person lawfully driving or traveling along or upon any roadway within the
corporate limits.
   (W)   Horns and warning devices. All snowmobiles when operated upon a
roadway in this municipality shall be equipped with a horn in good working
order and capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a
distance of not less than 200 feet, but no horn or other warning device shall
emit an unreasonable loud or harsh sound or a whistle. No snowmobile shall be
equipped with any siren, whistle or bell.
   (X)   Reserved.
   (Y)   Operation of snowmobile on state highway. No person may operate a
snowmobile on any state highway within the limits of the municipality, except
to cross the state highway at a 90° angle yielding to all traffic and crossing
only when it is safe to do so.
   (Z)   Operation of snowmobile on certain streets prohibited. No person may
operate a snowmobile upon any street or area as set forth in
Chapter 77, Sch. VI.
   (AA)   Operation of snowmobile on any street, road or other public way. No
person shall operate a snowmobile upon any street, road, or other public way
permitted by this subchapter except for the purpose of traveling to or from the
designated “Snowmobile Trail” as provided herein.
   (BB)   “Snowmobile Trail” adopted by reference. That attached hereto and
incorporated herein by reference is the “Snowmobile Trail” of the city, which
trail shall be used exclusively for the operation of snowmobiles traveling to
or from the city, or to or from the Illinois-Michigan Canal.
(Ord. 678, passed 12-19-84; Am. Ord. 1554, passed 6-18-14) Penalty, see §
70.99
UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLES
§ 73.075 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLES subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning:
   DESIGNATED ROADWAYS. Streets and avenues under the jurisdiction of the city
not specifically excluded in this chapter. The term DESIGNATED ROADWAYS does
not include state highways or county highways.
   EXCLUDED AREAS are designated as:
      (1)   Any private property for which the operator does not have written
permission from the owner to drive on.
      (2)   Any sidewalk, paved walkway, Illinois Michigan Canal Trail, or
other area designated as a pedestrian path.
      (3)   Grass areas within any of the city's designated parks.
      (4)   Designated snowmobile trails.
   EXCLUDED STREETS are as follows:
      (1)   All areas within Riverview Cemetery.
      (2)   US Route 6 (Bluff Street) except crossing is allowed in a direct
line at the following locations:
         (a)   Glenwood Avenue/Forest Road and West Bluff;
         (b)   Sycamore/Glen Avenue and West Bluff;
         (c)   Pearl and East Bluff;
         (d)   Sherman and East Bluff; and
         (e)   Jefferson/Morris Road and East Bluff.
   UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLE or UTV. A motorized flotation-tired vehicle with at
least four but no more than six low pressure tires having an engine
displacement of less than 1,500 cubic centimeters and a total dry weight of
less than 2,000 pounds which includes a manufacturer installed roll bar and
seatbelts.
(Ord. 1700, passed 2-6-19; Am. Ord. 1815, passed 1-19-22)
§ 73.076 REQUIRED PERMIT.
   (A)   No person may operate a UTV on streets and avenues under the
jurisdiction of the city without a valid permit from the city.
   (B)   Permit applications shall be available at the City Office or the
Police Department. Permits will only be issued to person(s) that have a
Marseilles mailing address.
   (C)   Only persons at least 18 years of age and holding a valid driver's
license.
   (D)   At the time of application the applicant shall annually:
      (1)   Provide proof of insurance complying with the requirements of
Illinois State Law.
      (2)   Provide all other information as may be required by resolution of
the City Council.
      (3)   Submit payment of $50 in full of the permit fee.
   (E)   Permit applications shall be reviewed and approved by the Chief of
Police or designee. The Chief of Police may reject an application of a person
that does not satisfy permit requirements or a person who has pending or will
be receiving a driver's license suspension or revocation or a person who has
committed within the last 12 months one or more violations relevant to a UTV.
   (F)   All permits granted pursuant to this section shall expire on December
31 of the year following the yearly the permit was issued. Permits may be
renewed by complying with the requirements of this section.
(Ord. 1700, passed 2-6-19)
§ 73.077 CONDITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a UTV under this chapter:
      (1)   Except upon possessing a valid UTV permit on designated roadways.
      (2)   In inclement weather, or when visibility is impaired by weather,
smoke, fog or other conditions, or at any time when there is insufficient light
to clearly see persons in vehicles on the roadway at a distance of 500 feet;
      (3)   A UTV shall be equipped with lights, turn signals, and stop lights,
as specified in the Illinois Vehicle Code as with any other vehicle, UTV shall
have factory exhaust with zero modifications.
      (4)   A UTV shall be equipped with a rear-view mirror as per Illinois
Vehicle Code.
      (5)   Seating and eyewear requirements. Seat belts are required for
driver and passenger or passengers. Passengers must be seated on a seat
specifically designed for the transport of passengers. Eye protection is
required for riders of all ages - either in the form of glasses or goggles or
in the form of UTV windshield.
      (6)   A UTV must be equipped with a horn that must be heard from 200 feet
away.
   (B)   The operator of a UTV holding a city permit and operating on
designated roadways shall have all the rights and duties applicable to the
driver of any other vehicle under the provisions of applicable statute or
ordinance, except when those provisions cannot reasonably be applied to UTVs,
and except as otherwise specifically provided in the Illinois Vehicle Code.
   (C)   A permit holder whose UTV is garaged or stored on property abutting an
alley may operate the vehicle in that alley along the most direct route to and
from a designated roadway.
(Ord. 1700, passed 2-6-19)
§ 73.078 REVOCATION OR DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   A permit may be revoked or denied at any time by the Chief of Police
or his desgnee:
      (1)   If it is shown that the permit holder cannot safely or legally
operate, or has not safely or legally operated, the UTV within the city; or
      (2)   If it is shown that the permit holder has operated the UTV on
excluded streets or on excluded areas; or
      (3)   If the permit holder's driver's license is no longer recognized as
valid in the state.
   (B)   A permit holder may appeal any revocation or denial to the City
Council by filing notice of appeal at the City Office not later than 14 days
after the date of notice of the action to be appealed from.
(Ord. 1700, passed 2-6-19)
§ 73.079 LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as an assumption of liability by
the city for any injuries to persons or property which may result from the
operation of a UTV by a permit holder, the grant of the permit, or the failure
by the city to revoke the permit.
(Ord. 1700, passed 2-6-19)
OTHER VEHICLES AND TRANSPORTATION DEVICES
§ 73.095 SKATEBOARD, MOTORIZED SKATEBOARD, HOVERBOARD OR OTHER FORM OF
TRANSPORTATION STREET USE.
   No skateboard, motorized skateboard, hoverboard or other form of
transportation designed for use of children shall be driven on any city streets
except directly cross the street at a right angle to the street.
(Ord. 1700, passed 2-6-19)
§ 73.096 SKATEBOARD, MOTORIZED SKATEBOARD, HOVERBOARD OR OTHER FORM OF
TRANSPORTATION NIGHTTIME USE.
   No skateboard, motorized skateboard, hoverboard or other form of
transportation designed for use of children shall not be driven on any city
sidewalk during nighttime or any period of darkness when motor vehicles lights
would be required.
(Ord. 1700, passed 2-6-19)
§ 73.097 RESTRICTION OF ATV OR RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   No all terrain vehicle (ATV) or recreational vehicle except a vehicle
meeting the definition of a UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLE shall not be driven on any
city street or sidewalk.
(Ord. 1700, passed 2-6-19)
§ 73.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this
Chapter 73 shall be guilty of a City Ordinance Violation and subject to a fine
according the Uniform Fine Schedule in “§
10.99 General Penalty.”
(Ord. 1700, passed 2-6-19)
CHAPTER 74: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
74.01   Pedestrian obedience to traffic control devices and traffic regulations
   
74.02   Pedestrian right-of-way at crosswalks
   
74.03   Crossing at other than crosswalks
   
74.04   Drivers to avoid colliding with pedestrians
   
74.05   Blind, hearing impaired, or physically handicapped pedestrian right-of-
way
   
74.06   Pedestrians to use right half of crosswalks
   
74.07   Pedestrians soliciting rides or business
   
74.08   Pedestrians walking on highways
   
74.09   Right-of-way on sidewalks
   
74.10   Pedestrians yield to authorized emergency vehicles
   
74.11   Pedestrians under influence of alcohol or drugs
   
74.12   Bridge and railroad signals
   
74.13   Motorized wheelchairs
§ 74.01 PEDESTRIAN OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES AND TRAFFIC
REGULATIONS.
   (A)   A pedestrian shall obey the instructions of any official traffic-
control device specifically applicable to him, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer.
   (B)   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic and pedestrian-control signals
provided in §§
70.31 and
70.32 of this traffic code; but at all other places, pedestrians shall be
accorded the privileges and shall be subject to the restrictions stated in this
chapter.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1001)
§ 74.02 PEDESTRIAN RIGHT-OF-WAY AT CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   When traffic-control signals are not in place, or not in operation,
the driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping
if need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is
traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite
half of the roadway as to be in danger.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety,
and walk or run into the path of a moving vehicle which is so close as to
constitute an immediate hazard.
   (C)   Division (A) shall not apply under the condition stated in §
74.03 (B).
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
   (E)   Whenever stop signs or flashing red signals are in place at an
intersection or at a plainly marked crosswalk between intersections, drivers
shall yield right-of-way to pedestrians as set forth in §
71.062.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.03 CROSSING AT OTHER THAN CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk, or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection, shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (C)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
   (D)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic-control devices; and, when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic-control devices pertaining to the crossing movements.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1003) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.04 DRIVERS TO AVOID COLLIDING WITH PEDESTRIANS.
   Notwithstanding other provisions of this chapter, every driver of a vehicle
shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian, or any person
operating a bicycle or other device propelled by human power and shall give
warning by sounding the horn when necessary, and shall exercise proper
precaution upon observing any child or any obviously confused, incapacitated,
or intoxicated person.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1003.1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.05 BLIND, HEARING-IMPAIRED, OR PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED PEDESTRIAN RIGHT-OF-
WAY.
   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any blind, hearing-
impaired, or physically handicapped pedestrian carrying a clearly visible white
cane or accompanied by a support or guide dog.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1004) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.06 PEDESTRIANS TO USE RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALKS.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1005) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.07 PEDESTRIANS SOLICITING RIDES OR BUSINESS.
   (A)   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting
employment or business from the occupant of any vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting
contributions from the occupant of any vehicle, unless expressly permitted by
this code. Solicitation on highways within this city shall be allowed only at
intersections where all traffic is required to come to a full stop. Any person
engaged in the act of solicitation shall be 16 years of age or more and shall
be wearing a high visibility vest. The soliciting agency shall be:
      (1)   Registered with the Attorney General as a charitable organization
as provided by “An Act to regulate solicitation and collection of funds for
charitable purposes, providing for violations thereof, and making an
appropriation therefor,” approved July 26, 1963, as amended.
      (2)   Engaged in a statewide fund raising activity.
      (3)   Liable for any injuries to any person or property during the
solicitation which is casually related to an act of ordinary negligence of the
soliciting agent.
   (D)   No person shall stand on or in the proximity of a roadway for the
purpose of soliciting the watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked or
about to be parked on a street or highway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1006) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.08 PEDESTRIANS WALKING ON HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   Where a sidewalk is provided and its use is practicable, it shall be
unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where a sidewalk is not available, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall walk only on a shoulder, as far as practicable from the
edge of the roadway.
   (C)   Where neither a sidewalk nor a shoulder is available, any pedestrian
walking along and upon a highway shall walk as near as practicable to an
outside edge of a roadway, and, if on a two-way roadway, shall walk only on the
left side of the roadway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any pedestrian upon a
roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.09 RIGHT-OF-WAY ON SIDEWALKS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrians on a
sidewalk.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1008) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.10 PEDESTRIANS YIELD TO AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making use of
an audible signal and visual signals meeting the requirements of ILCS Ch. 625,
Act 5, § 12-601, or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an
audible signal only, every pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to the
authorized emergency vehicle.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1009) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.11 PEDESTRIANS UNDER INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL OR DRUGS.
   A pedestrian who is under the influence of alcohol or any drug to a degree
which renders himself a hazard shall not walk or be upon a highway, except on a
sidewalk.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1010) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.12 BRIDGE AND RAILROAD SIGNALS.
   (A)   No pedestrian shall enter or remain upon any bridge or approach
thereto beyond the bridge signal, gate, or barrier after a bridge operation
signal indication has been given.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over, or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing or bridge while the gate or
barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
   (C)    A violation of any part of this section is a petty offense for which
a $250 fine shall be imposed for a first violation, and a $500 fine shall be
imposed for a second or subsequent violation. The court may impose 25 hours of
community service in place of the $250 fine for a first violation.
   (D)   Local authorities shall impose fines as established in division (C)
for pedestrians who fail to obey signals indicating the approach or passage of
a train.
(Ord. 1326, passed 2-20-08) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1011
§ 74.13 MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIRS.
   Every person operating a motorized wheelchair upon a sidewalk or roadway
shall be granted all the rights and shall be subject to all the duties
applicable to a pedestrian.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1004.1)
CHAPTER 75: EQUIPMENT; LOADS
Section
Equipment
   
75.01   Scope and effect of equipment requirements
Loads
   
75.10   Scope and effect of size, weight, and load regulations
   
75.11   Projecting loads on passenger vehicles
   
75.12   Protruding members of vehicles
   
75.13   Spilling loads prohibited
   
75.14   Pushing of disabled vehicles
EQUIPMENT
§ 75.01 SCOPE AND EFFECT OF EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to drive or move, or for the owner to
cause or knowingly permit to be driven or moved on any highway any vehicle or
combination of vehicles which is in an unsafe condition as to endanger any
person or property, or which does not contain those parts or is not at all
times equipped with the lamps and other equipment in proper condition and
adjustment as required in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 12-100 et seq., or which is
equipped in any manner in violation of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 12-100 et seq.,
or for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act required
under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 12-100 et seq.
   (B)   The provisions of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 12-100 et seq., with respect
to equipment on vehicles shall not apply to implements of husbandry, road
machinery, road rollers, or farm tractors, or to farm-wagon type trailers
having a fertilizer spreader attachment permanently mounted thereon, having a
gross weight of not to exceed 36,000 pounds and used only for the
transportation of bulk fertilizer, or to farm-wagon type tank trailers of not
to exceed 2,000 gallons capacity, used during the liquid fertilizer season as
field-storage “nurse tanks,” supplying the fertilizer to a field applicator and
highways only for bringing the fertilizer to a field applicator from a local
source of supply to the farm or field or from one farm or field to another.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-101) Penalty, see §
70.99
LOADS
§ 75.10 SCOPE AND EFFECT OF SIZE, WEIGHT, AND LOAD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Non-designated streets. Except for designated streets identified in
this section, all streets in the city shall be considered non-designated roads
as contemplated under Illinois Vehicle Code §§ 1-126.1(d) and 15-111 with
weight limits as identified in § 15-111. The Commissioner of Street and Public
Improvements may, from time to time, establish temporary lesser weight limits
on any city street by posting appropriate regulatory signs giving notice of
reduced weight limitations.
   (B)   Truck Routes. Notwithstanding the prohibition contained in division
(A) of this section, motor vehicles, the gross weight of which does not exceed
80,000 pounds, may be operated upon the following designated truck routes:
      (1)   Commercial Street;
      (2)    Bluff Street ( also known as U.S. Route 6);
      (3)   East Broadway Street from Milton Road (2575th Road) to Gum Creek;
      (4)   Main Street;
      (5)   Milton Road (2575th Road) from Route 6 to East Broadway Street; and
      (6)   Rutland Street (also known as County Highway 15).
   (C)   Designated streets.  No combination truck tractor and semitrailer or
combination truck trailer and pole trailer as such terms are defined by the
Illinois Vehicle Code is allowed on the following designated streets:
      (1)   Broadway Street from main Street to Chicago Street;
      (2)   Chicago Street;
      (3)   Church Street;
      (4)   Howard Street; and
      (5)   Washington Street from Aurora to Jefferson Street.
   (D)   Penalties. The driver or owner of a vehicle may be charged with a
violation of this section and upon conviction shall be subject to a fine of
$1,000. In addition to the fines, a driver or owner of a vehicle shall be
liable to the city or responsible for all costs incurred that require the city
to remove spills or repair damages to the city streets.
(Ord. 742, passed 4-20-89; Am. Ord. 1414, passed 7-21-10; Am. Ord. 1474, passed
5-16-12; Am. Ord. 1632, passed 4-5-17)
Statutory reference:
   Power of city to regulate loads, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-40-1
§ 75.11 PROJECTING LOADS ON PASSENGER VEHICLES.
   No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on any street with any load
carried thereon extending beyond the line of the fenders on the left side of
the vehicle, nor extending more than six inches beyond the line of the fenders
on the right side thereof.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-105) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.12 PROTRUDING MEMBERS OF VEHICLES.
   No vehicle with boom, arm, drill rig, or other protruding component shall be
operated upon the highway unless the protruding component is fastened so as to
prevent shifting, bouncing, or moving in any manner.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-106) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.13 SPILLING LOADS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street unless the vehicle
is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from dropping,
shifting, leaking, or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand may be
dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water or other substance may
be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining the roadway.
   (B)   No person shall operate on any highway any vehicle with any load
unless the load and any covering thereon is securely fastened so as to prevent
the covering or load from becoming loose, detached, or in any manner a hazard
to other users of the highway.
   (C)   The state Department of Transportation shall adopt those rules and
regulations it deems appropriate which require the securing of steel rolls and
other objects on flatbed trucks so as to prevent injury to users of highways
and damage to property. Any person who operates a flatbed truck on any highway
in violation of the rules and regulations promulgated by the state Department
of Transportation under this division shall be punished as provided in §
70.99.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-109) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 75.14 PUSHING OF DISABLED VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful under any circumstances for any vehicle to push any other
vehicle on or along any highway outside an urban area in this city, except in
an extreme emergency, and then the vehicle shall not be pushed farther than is
reasonably necessary to remove it from the roadway or from the immediate hazard
that exists.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-114) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 76: MOTOR VEHICLE OFFENSES
Section
   
76.01   Reckless driving
   
76.02   Drag racing
   
76.03   Accidents involving death or personal injuries
   
76.04   Duty to give information and render aid
   
76.05   Accident involving damage to vehicle
   
76.06   Duty upon damaging unattended vehicle or other property
   
76.07   Duty to report accident
   
76.08   False reports
   
76.09   When driver fails to report
   
76.10   Engine brakes a/k/a jake brakes
§ 76.01 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   No person shall drive any vehicle with a willful or wanton disregard for the
safety of persons or property.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-503(a)) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.02 DRAG RACING.
   (A)   Any person who, as an operator of a motor vehicle, is convicted of
being a participant in drag racing shall be subject to the penalties provided
in this chapter.
   (B)   DRAG RACING means the act of two or more individuals competing or
racing on any street or highway in this city in a situation in which one of the
motor vehicles is beside or to the rear of a motor vehicle operated by a
competing driver, and the one driver attempts to prevent the competing driver
from passing or overtaking, either by acceleration or maneuver, or one or more
individuals competing in a race against time on any street in this city.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-504) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.03 ACCIDENTS INVOLVING DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURIES.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a motor vehicle accident
resulting in personal injury to or death of any person shall immediately stop
the vehicle at the scene of the accident, or as close thereto as possible, and
shall then forthwith return to, and in every event shall remain at the scene of
the accident until the requirements of §
76.09 have been fulfilled. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing
traffic more than is necessary.
   (B)   Any person who has failed to stop or to comply with the requirements
of division (A) shall, as soon as possible but in no case later than one hour
after the motor vehicle accident, or, if hospitalized and incapacitated from
reporting at any time during the period, as soon as possible but in no case
later than one hour after being discharged from the hospital, report the place
of the accident, the date, the approximate time, the driver's name and address,
the registration number of the vehicle driven, and the names of all other
occupants of the vehicle, at the police station or sheriff's office near where
the accident occurred. No report made as required under this division shall be
used, directly or indirectly, as a basis for the prosecution of any violation
of division (A).
   (C)   For purposes of this section, PERSONAL INJURY shall mean any injury
requiring immediate professional treatment in a medical facility or doctor's
office.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-401) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.04 DUTY TO GIVE INFORMATION AND RENDER AID.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a motor vehicle accident
resulting in injury to or death of any person or damage to any vehicle which is
driven or attended by any person shall give the driver's name, address,
registration number, and owner of the vehicle the driver is operating, and
shall upon request and if available, exhibit the driver's license to the person
struck or the driver or occupant of or person attending any vehicle collided
with, and shall render to any person injured in the accident reasonable
assistance, including the carrying or the making of arrangements for the
carrying of the person to a physician, surgeon, or hospital for medical or
surgical treatment, if it is apparent that such treatment is necessary or if
such carrying is requested by the injured person.
   (B)   If none of the persons entitled to information pursuant to this
section is in condition to receive and understand the information and no police
officer is present, the driver, after rendering reasonable assistance, shall
forthwith report the accident at the Police Department, disclosing the
information required by this section.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-403) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.05 ACCIDENT INVOLVING DAMAGE TO VEHICLE.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a motor vehicle accident
resulting only in damage to a vehicle which is driven or attended by any person
shall immediately stop the vehicle at the scene of the motor vehicle accident
or as close thereto as possible, but shall forthwith return to and in every
event shall remain at the scene of the motor vehicle accident until the
requirements of this chapter have been fulfilled. Every stop shall be made
without obstructing traffic more than is necessary.
   (B)   Upon conviction of a violation of this section, the court shall make a
finding as to whether the damage to a vehicle is in excess of $1,000, and in
such case a statement of this finding shall be reported to the Secretary of
State with the report of conviction.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-402) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.06 DUTY UPON DAMAGING UNATTENDED VEHICLE OR OTHER PROPERTY.
   The driver of any vehicle which collides with or is involved in a motor
vehicle accident with any vehicle which is unattended, or other property,
resulting in any damage to such other vehicle or property shall immediately
stop and shall then and there either locate and notify the operator or owner of
such vehicle or other property of the driver's name, address, registration
number, and owner of the vehicle the driver was operating or shall attach
securely in a conspicuous place on or in the vehicle or other property struck a
written notice giving the driver's name, address, registration number, and
owner of the vehicle the driver was driving and shall without unnecessary delay
notify the Police Department and shall make a written report of such accident
when and as required in §
76.12. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is
necessary.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-404) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.07 DUTY TO REPORT ACCIDENT.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an accident
within this city, resulting in injury to or death of any person or in which
damage to the property of any one person, including himself, in excess of $500
is sustained shall, as soon as possible but not later than ten days after the
accident, file with the Police Department a copy of the written report required
to be filed with the state under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-406(a).
   (B)   Whenever a school bus is involved in an accident in this city, caused
by a collision, a sudden stop, or otherwise, resulting in any property damage,
personal injury, or death, and whenever an accident occurs within 50 feet of a
school bus in this city resulting in personal injury to or the death of any
person while awaiting or preparing to board the bus or immediately after
exiting the bus, the driver shall as soon as possible, but not later than ten
days after the accident, file with the Police Department a copy of the written
report required to be filed with the state under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-406
(b). If a report is also required under division (A) above, that report and the
report required by this division (B) shall be submitted on a single form.
   (C)   The Chief of Police may require any driver, occupant, or owner of a
vehicle involved in an accident of which report must be made as provided in
this section or §
76.14 to file supplemental reports whenever the original report is insufficient
in the opinion of the Chief of Police and may require witnesses of the accident
to submit written reports. The report may include photographs, charts,
sketches, and graphs.
   (D)   Should the Police Department learn through other reports of accidents
required by law of the occurrence of an accident reportable under §§
76.08 through
76.14 and the driver, owner, or witness has not reported as required under (A)
through (C) above or §
76.14 within the time specified, the person is not relieved of the
responsibility and the Police Department shall notify the person by first class
mail directed to his last known address of his legal obligation. However, the
notification is not a condition precedent to impose the penalty for failure to
report as provided in (E) below.
   (E)   The Secretary of State shall suspend the driver's license or any
nonresident's driving privilege of any person who fails or neglects to make
report of a traffic accident as herein required or as required by any other law
of this state.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-406)
Statutory reference:
   Authorization for city to require accident reports, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5,
§ 11-415
§ 76.08 FALSE REPORTS.
    Any person who provides information in an oral or written report required
by §§
76.08 through
76.14 with knowledge or reason to believe that the information is false shall
be fined under the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99.
(Am. Ord. 1326, passed 2-20-08)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §11-409
§ 76.09 WHEN DRIVER FAILS TO REPORT.
   Whenever the driver of a vehicle is physically incapable of making a
required written accident report and if there was another occupant in the
vehicle at the time of the motor vehicle accident capable of making a written
report, the occupant shall make or cause the written report to be made. If the
driver fails for any reason to make the report the owner of the vehicle
involved in the motor vehicle accident shall, as soon as practicable, make the
report to the Police Department.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-410)
§ 76.10 ENGINE BRAKES A/K/A JAKE BRAKES.
   No driver shall engage the use of engine brakes a/k/a jake brakes within the
city limits of the city.
(Ord. 1199, passed 5-18-05) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 77: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   One-way streets
   
III.   Through streets
   
IV.   Stop intersections
   
V.   Turn restrictions
   
VI.   Snowmobiles prohibited
   VII.   Yield signs
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to operate a motor vehicle upon the
streets or public ways in excess of the speed indicated herein.
Street Miles Per Hour Ord. No. Date Passed
Street                                      Miles Per Hour Ord. No. Date Passed
Bluff Place                                 25             646      10-13-82
Catalpa Street                              25             646      10-13-82
Clark Street                                25             646      10-13-82
Glenwood Avenue                             25             646      10-13-82
Lewis Avenue                                25             646      10-13-82
Magnolia Street                             25             646      10-13-82
Main Street                                 25             934      5-6-98
Oakdale Avenue                              25             646      10-13-82
West Commercial Street from the city limits
east to a point 1,500 feet west of the      45             1257     9-6-06
intersection of West Commercial Street and
Spicer Lane
West Commercial Street from 1,500 feet west
of the intersection of West Commercial      35             1257     9-6-06
Street and Spicer Lane east to said
intersection
2389th Road, Walbridge Creek Estates        25             1764     8-5-20
2397th Road, Walbridge Creek Estates        25             1764     8-5-20
 
   (B)   Penalty. Any person violating any provision of this schedule shall be
fined according to the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99.
(Ord. 646, passed 10-13-82; Am. Ord. 1257, passed 9-6-06; Am. Ord. 1326, passed
2-20-08; Am. Ord. 1764, passed 8-5-20)
SCHEDULE II. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   When signs are erected indicating the direction of travel, no person shall
drive a vehicle on any of the following streets contrary to the direction of
travel indicated:
Street Location Direction Ord. No. Date Passed
Street          Location                        Direction  Ord. No. Date Passed
Alley           Between Clark Street and        Southbound          
                Pacific Street
Aberdeen Street South from Union Street         Southbound          
Aberdeen Street North from Union Street         Northbound          
Bluff Place     From Lewis Avenue to Glenwood   Eastbound  1096     5-7-03
                Avenue
Howard Street   From Washington Street to Bluff Northbound          
                Street
Liberty Street                                 Southbound          
Pacific Street  From First Street to  Main      Eastbound  1441     6-1-11
                Street
Pearl Street                                   Southbound          
Rose Street     From Bluff Street to Washington Southbound          
                Street
 
(‘72 Code, § 41.03) (Am. Ord. 1615, passed 9-7-16)
SCHEDULE III. THROUGH STREETS.
   The following streets are hereby designated as through streets:
 
Through Street  Description                               Ord. No. Date Passed
Chicago Street  From the north line of Broadway Street to          
                the south line of Bluff Street
Illinois Street At the intersection of Peoria Street and  552      4-19-76
                Illinois Street
 
SCHEDULE IV. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Intersections at which a stop is required before entering:
Intersection Ord. No. Date Passed
Intersection                                               Ord. No. Date Passed
Andrew Lane at Tenth Street                                1321     12-19-07
Aurora Street at Broadway Street                           813      8-3-94
Aurora Street at Lincoln Street                            1552     6-18-14
Aurora Street at Illinois Street (northbound only)         1552     6-18-14
Best Street at Glen Avenue                                 670      1-18-84
Best Street at Pomeroy Street                              1552     6-18-14
Bratton Avenue at Rutland Street                           1552     6-18-14
Bratton Avenue at Tenth Street                             798      6-23-93
Bratton Avenue at Eleventh Street                          670      1-18-84
Broadway Street at Chicago Street (westbound only)         1552     6-18-14
Broadway Street at Grant Street                            1157     3-17-04
Broadway Street at Main Street                             1552     6-18-14
Carter Street at Eleventh Street                           938      6-3-98
Carter Street at Tenth Street                              1552     6-18-14
Chicago Street at Broadway Street (northbound only)        982      9-15-99
Church Street at Washington Street                         1552     6-18-14
Clark Street at Glenwood Avenue                            1552     6-18-14
Clark Street at Lewis Street                               1552     6-18-14
Clark Street at Main Street                                1552     6-18-14
Clark Street at Oakdale Street                             1552     6-18-14
Clark Street at Second Street                              1552     6-18-14
Clark Street at Sycamore Street                            1552     6-18-14
Clark Street at Third Street                               1552     6-18-14
Clayton Street at Glen Avenue                              1552     6-18-14
Cole Street at Washington Street                           1552     6-18-14
Colorado Street at Eighth Street                           1004     6-7-00
Commercial Street at Main Street                           1552     6-18-14
Commercial Street at Spicer Street (eastbound only)        1552     6-18-14
Commercial Street at Sycamore Street                       1101     6-4-03
Eighth Street at Colorado Street                           933      4-15-98
Eighth Street at Prairie Street                            1552     6-18-14
Eleventh Street at Carter Street (eastbound only)          938      6-3-98
Eleventh Street at Rutland Street                          1552     6-18-14
Fillebrown Street at Gray Street                           937      5-6-98
First Street at Clark Street                               1552     6-18-14
Glen Avenue at Illinois Street                             1552     6-18-14
Grant Avenue at Illinois Street                            1552     6-18-14
Grant Street at Broadway Street                            813      8-3-94
Grant Street at Wallace Street                             1591     11-18-15
Gray Street at Fillebrown Street                           937      5-6-98
Gray Street at Orange Avenue                               1193     12-15-04
Howard Street at Washington Street                         813      8-3-94
Illinois Street at Aurora Street                           1552     6-18-14
Indiana Street at Union Street                             1291     8-15-07
Jefferson Street at Washington Street (southbound only)    947      9-2-98
LaSalle Street at Washington Street                        1552     6-18-14
Lewis Street at Catalpa Street                             1552     6-18-14
Liberty Street at Broadway Street                          813      8-3-94
Liberty Street at Illinois Street                          1552     6-18-14
Liberty Street at Wallace Street                           1552     6-18-14
Lincoln Street at Aurora Street                            1649     12-20-17
Lincoln Street at Main Street                              679      1-2-85
Magnolia Street at Glenwood Avenue                         1552     6-18-14
Magnolia Street at Lewis Street                            1552     6-18-14
Magnolia Street at Oakdale Street                          1552     6-18-14
Main Street at Broadway Street (northbound only)           1552     6-18-14
Morris Road at Sherman Street                              1552     6-18-14
North Street at Rutland Street                             1552     6-18-14
Oakley Street at Rutland Street                            1552     6-18-14
Orange Avenue at Gray Street                               1193     12-15-04
Orange Avenue at Schumacher Street (southbound only)       938      6-3-98
Pacific Street at Main Street                              1552     6-18-14
Pearl Street at Broadway Street                            813      8-3-94
Pearl Street at Lincoln Street                             813      8-3-94
Pearl Street at Union Street                               1552     6-18-14
Peoria Street at Broadway Street                           813      8-3-94
Peoria Street at Illinois Street                           1552     6-18-14
Peoria Street at Wallace Street                            1552     6-18-14
Perry Street at Clark Street                               1552     6-18-14
Pine Street at Washington Street                           1552     6-18-14
Prairie Court at Prairie Street                            1309     12-5-07
Prairie Street at Seventh Street                           1174     8-4-04
Prairie Street at Tenth Street                             1309     12-5-07
Pomeroy Street at North Street                             1552     6-18-14
Riverfront Drive at Main Street                            1085     11-6-02
Roath Street at Washington Street                          813      8-3-94
Rose Street at Washington Street                           813      8-3-94
Ryall Street at First Street                               1552     6-18-14
Ryall Street at Sycamore Street                            1552     6-18-14
Schumacher Street at Orange Avenue                         938      6-3-98
Seventh Street at Colorado Street                          933      4-15-98
Seventh Street at Prairie Street                           1552     6-18-14
Spicer Street at Commercial Street                         1552     6-18-14
State Street at Washington Street                          813      8-3-94
Third Street at Clark Street (eastbound and westbound)     949      10-21-98
Third Street at Ryall Street                               1552     6-18-14
Timbers Edge Drive at N2553rd Road                         1739     2-5-20
Tolin Street at Aurora Street                              1552     6-18-14
Union Street at Church Street                              1552     6-18-14
Union Street at Day Street                                 1552     6-18-14
Union Street at Jefferson Street                           1552     6-18-14
Union Street at Sherman Street                             1552     6-18-14
Wallace Street at Liberty Street                           1673     6-6-18
Walnut Street at BelAire Avenue                            1552     6-18-14
Washington Street at Aurora Street                         1158     3-17-04
Water Street at Broadway Street                            1552     6-18-14
Water Street at Illinois Street                            1552     6-18-14
Water Street at Wallace Street                             1591     11-18-15
Young Street at Main Street                                679      1-2-85
2389th Road southbound at intersection with 2959th Road  1763     8-5-20
 
   (B)   Penalty. Any person violating the provisions contained in this
schedule shall be fined according to the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99.
(Ord. 670, passed 1-18-84; Am. Ord. 679, passed 1-2-85; Am. Ord. 798, passed 6-
23-93; Am. Ord. 813, passed 8-3-94; Am. Ord. 933, passed 4- 15-98; Am. Ord.
937, passed 5-6-98; Am. Ord. 938, passed 6-3-98; Am. Ord. 947, passed 9-2-98;
Am. Ord. 949, passed 10-21-98; Am. Ord. 982, passed 9-15-99; Am. Ord. 1004,
passed 6-7-00; Am. Ord. 1085, passed 11-6-02; Am. Ord. 1101, passed 6-4-03; Am.
Ord. 1157, passed 3-17-04; Am. Ord. 1158, passed 3-17-04; Am. Ord. 1174, passed
8-4-04; Am. Ord. 1193, passed 12-15-04; Am. Ord. 1326, passed 2-20-08; Am. Ord.
1591, passed 11-18-15; Am. Ord. 1615, passed 9-7-16; Am. Ord. 1739, passed 2-5-
20; Am. Ord. 1763, passed 8-5-20)
SCHEDULE V. TURN RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Turns shall be restricted as follows:
 
Location                      Turn Restriction             Ord. No. Date Passed
Between Roath and Main        Backing across the center of
Streets                       Main Street or the center of 747      3-21-90
                              Washington Street
Main Street (except at an     No left turn                 747      3-21-90
intersection)
Washington Street between
Roath Street and Main Street  No left turn                 747      3-21-90
(except at an intersection)
Main Street at Riverfront     Western-most lane of traffic 1084     11-6-02
Drive                         reserved for right turn
 
   (B)   Penalty. Violation of this schedule shall be punishable by a fine
according to the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99.
(Ord. 747, passed 3-21-90; Am. Ord. 1084, passed 11-6-02; Am. Ord. 1326, passed
2-20-08 )
SCHEDULE VI. SNOWMOBILES PROHIBITED.
   No person may operate a snowmobile upon any of the streets, roads, public
ways or areas as set forth in this schedule:
 
Street                       Description                   Ord. No. Date Passed
Corn Street                                                678      12-19-84
Main Street                  From Broadway Street to Bluff 678      12-19-84
                             Street
Rutland Street               From Bluff Street to Drew     678      12-19-84
                             Street
The Footbridge               Across Gum Creek north of     678      12-19-84
                             LaSalle Street
Private property without the
consent of the owners                                      678      12-19-84
thereof
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   For provisions concerning snowmobiles, see §§
73.35 through
73.39
SCHEDULE VII. YIELD SIGNS.
   Intersections at which a yield sign must be obeyed:
Intersection Ord. No. Date Passed
Intersection                                              Ord. No. Date Passed
Barr going west at the intersection with Timbers Edge Dr. 1742     2-19-20
Day going South at intersection with Washington           1742     2-19-20
LaSalle going North at intersection with Union            1742     2-19-20
Madison Blvd. going South at the intersection with Barr   1742     2-19-20
Ave.
Madison Blvd. going North at the intersection with Jaret  1742     2-19-20
Ave.
Morris going West at intersection with Wilson             1742     2-19-20
Pomeroy going North at intersection with North            1742     2-19-20
Pearl going South at intersection with Lincoln            1742     2-19-20
Prairie going North at intersection of Second             1742     2-19-20
Sherman going South at intersection with Washington       1742     2-19-20
Sycamore going South at intersection with Young           1742     2-19-20
Washington Street East and West at intersection of Pearl  1742     2-19-20
 
CHAPTER 78: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Parking prohibited
   
II.   Limited parking
   
III.   Parking on snow routes
   
IV.   Handicapped parking
SCHEDULE I. PARKING PROHIBITED.
   Parking shall be prohibited at the following locations:
Street Side Description Ord. No. Date
Street            Side           Description                  Ord. No. Date
Aberdeen Street   East                                       653      1-19-83
Aurora Street     West           From Washington Street to    1466     1-18-12
                                 Wallace Street
Barr Avenue       South                                      1644     10-18-17
Bluff Street      Both                                                
Bratton Avenue    Both           Between Rutland Street and   781      7-2-92
                                 Tenth Street                 1539     5-7-14
Bratton Avenue    West           Tenth Street to north end of 1432     1-5-11
                                 Bratton Avenue
                                 West from the west edge of
Broadway Street   North          Aurora Street to the east    518      4-15-74
                                 edge of Chicago Street
Chicago Street    Both           From Illinois Street to      983      9-15-99
                                 Broadway Street
Chicago Street    West           From Illinois Street to U.S. 1466     1-18-12
                                 Route 6
                                 Between Main Street and
                                 alley which runs through
Clark Street      Both           Block 5 in Clark and                  
                                 Underhill's Addition to the
                                 city
Clark Street      South          Between Perry Street and              
                                 Glen Avenue
Clayton Street    East                                       1563     11-19-14
Cole Street       West           Union Street to Washington   1597     1-20-16
                                 Street
Colorado Street   East           From Orange Avenue to Tenth  1036     2-7-01
                                 Street
Commercial Street Both           Between Long Creek Bridge             
                                 and west city limits
                                 From the intersection of
                                 Commercial Street and Main
Commercial Street North          Street for a distance of 300 756      12-19-90
                                 feet west on Commercial
                                 Street
Eighth Street     South          From Colorado Street to      1034     1-17-01
                                 Prairie Street               1102     6-4-03
First Avenue      Both           East to Chicago Street       696      2-5-86
First Street      East           From West Bluff Street to    1438     4-6-11
                                 Pacific Street               1441     6-1-11
Glen Avenue       Both           From south of Bluff Street   731      7-20-88
                                 to Commercial Street
Glen Avenue       Both           Between Bluff Street and     862      4-3-96
                                 Oakley Street
Grant Street      East           Between Wallace Street and   1772     11-18-20
                                 Broadway Street
Grant Street      West           From Broadway Street to      1787     4-21-21
                                 Illinois Street
Greenley Street   North                                      1563     11-19-14
Howard Street     East           Between Bluff Street and              
                                 Washington Street
Howard Street     East                                       653      1-19-83
Illinois Street   North                                      659      6-1-83
Indiana Street    Both                                       1438     4-6-11
Jaret Avenue      South                                      1644     10-18-17
Lakin Avenue      East                                       1644     10-18-17
Lawrence Avenue   North                                      1394     11-18-09
Liberty Street    Both           Between Broadway Street and  1542     6-4-14
                                 Illinois Street
Lincoln Street    North          Between Aurora Street and             
                                 LaSalle Street
Lincoln Street                  142 Lincoln Street           1251     6-7-06
Lincoln Street    South          209 Lincoln                  1772     11-18-20
Madison Blvd      West                                       1644     10-18-17
Oakley Street     East                                       1563     11-19-14
                  Both           From East Bluff Street to    1394     11-18-09
Orange Avenue                    Shumaker Street
                  East           From Shumaker Street to      1394     11-18-09
                                 Colorado Street
Orange Street     South and East From Scott Street to         1036     2-7-01
                                 Colorado Street
Pearl Street      Both           From north of Bluff Street   696      2-5-86
                                 to First Avenue
Peoria Street     West           From Broadway Street to      1380     6-17-09
                                 River Street
Pine Street       East           From Washington Street to    1466     1-18-12
                                 Bluff Street
Prairie Street    West           From Second Avenue to Tenth  1310     12-5-07
                                 Street                       1455     10-5-11
Rose Street       West                                       653      1-19-83
Rose Street       West           Between Bluff Street and              
                                 Washington Street
Ryall Street      North                                      551      4-19-76
Sample Street     Both           Between Glen Avenue and               
                                 Armstrong Street
                                 From the intersection of
                                 Orange Avenue and Schumacher
Schumacher St.    North          Street easterly a distance   856      12-6-95
                                 of approximately 140 feet to
                                 the intersection of Aberdeen
                                 and Schumacher Streets
Seventh Street    South          From Colorado Street and     1034     1-17-01
                                 Prairie Street               1102     6-4-03
Sherman Street    Both           Bluff Street and Morris Road 715      7-15-87
                                 40 feet south of the center
                                 line of Bluff Street and
State Street      West           terminates at a point 84     961      3-3-99
                                 feet south of said center
                                 line
Tenth Street      North          Between Bratton Avenue and   960      1-20-99
                                 Carter Street
Tenth Street      South          From Colorado Street to      1036     2-7-01
                                 Carter Street
Union Street      North          Between Church Street and    1438     4-6-11
                                 Sherman Street
Wallace Street    North                                      731      7-20-88
                                 Between Main Street and
Wallace Street    Both           Raceway (except for          1017     7-19-00
                                 residents)
Walnut Street     Both           Between Bratton Avenue and   781      7-2-92
                                 Rutland Street
                                 Between State Street and
                                 alley which runs through
Washington Street North          Block 4 in Clark and                  
                                 Underhill's Addition to the
                                 city
Washington Street North          Between Rose Street and               
                                 Howard Street
Washington Street North          Between Main Street and               
                                 State Street
                                 West of Perry Street
Young Street      South          extended to the Illinois and          
                                 Michigan Canal
Young Street      South          Between Main Street and      1198     5-18-05
                                 Railroad Street
Young Street      North          Between Main Street and               
                                 Perry Street
                                 From Main Street to west
                                 line of Lot 5 in Block 18 in
Young Street      North          Marseilles Land and Water             
                                 Power Company's addition as
                                 extended southerly
                                                                    
 
('72 Code, Schedule A)
   (B)   Penalty. Any person violating any provision of this schedule shall be
fined according to the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99.
(Ord. 754, passed 11-21-90; Am. Ord. 960, passed 1-20-99; Am. Ord. 961, passed
3-3-99; Am. Ord. 983, passed 9-15-99; Am. Ord. 1017, passed 7-19-00; Am. Ord.
1034, passed 1-17-01; Am. Ord. 1036, 2-7-01; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 6-4-03; Am.
Ord. 1147, passed 12-17-03; Am. Ord. 1251, passed 6-7-06; Am. Ord. 1326, passed
2-20-08; Am. Ord. 1343, passed 8-6-08; Am. Ord. 1551, passed 6-18-14; Am. Ord.
1597, passed 1-20-16)
SCHEDULE II. LIMITED PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to park or
permit any vehicle to remain at the following location for more than the amount
of time indicated.
Street Location Side Time Limit Ord. No. Date
Street            Location           Side  Time Limit          Ord. No. Date
                  200 feet west from       During normal
                  the west edge of         elementary school
Broadway Street   Chicago Street at        operating hours and 1343     8-6-08
                  the locations            during school
                  marked for parking       functions
                  Between the              Between 3:00 a.m.
Lincoln Street    intersections of         and 5:00 a.m., on   673      6-6-84
                  Main Street and          each and every
                  Aurora Street            Friday
                                           Between 8:30 a.m.
                  Between Bluff            and 6:00 p.m., for
Main Street       Street and the     Both  any period of time  623      6-3-81
                  headrace                 in excess of two
                                           hours
                  Between the              Between 3:00 a.m.
Main Street       intersections of         and 5:00 a.m., on   673      6-6-84
                  Bluff Street and         each and every
                  Broadway Street          Friday
                  Between the              Between 3:00 a.m.
Washington Street intersections of        and 5:00 a.m., on   673      6-6-84
                  Main Street and          each and every
                  Roath Street             Friday
                  Between Main
Washington Street Street and State   North Ten minutes         684      5-1-85
                  Street
                  100 Block, in
                  front of the
Washington Street Illinois River           One hour            1029     12-6-00
                  Area Chamber of
                  Commerce (4
                  spaces)
 
   (B)   Any motor vehicle parked or located upon any portion of the streets as
prohibited in this Schedule II, may be towed and removed by the city without
notice to the owner thereof and at the expense of the owner thereof.
   (C)   Penalty. Any person violating any provision of this schedule shall be
fined according to the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99.
(Ord. 673, passed 6-6-84; Am. Ord. 1326, passed 2-20-08; Am. Ord. 1343, passed
8-6-08 )
SCHEDULE III. PARKING ON SNOW ROUTES.
   (A)   The streets described in this schedule are hereby declared to be snow
routes and parking on the streets described in this schedule is prohibited any
time a snowfall of two inches or more has occurred, until the snow has been
plowed off or otherwise removed.
Street Ord. No. Date Passed
Street                          Ord. No. Date Passed
All east-west streets           601      1-7-80
Colorado Street                 1320     12-19-07
Lakin Drive, east side          1534     2-5-14
LaSalle Street, east side, from 1534     2-5-14
US Route 6 to Morris Road                
Liberty Street, east side       1432     1-5-11
Madison Street, west side       1534     2-5-14
Main Street                     996      1-19-00
Orange Avenue                   1394     11-18-09
Prairie Street                  1311     12-5-07
Timber Edge Drive, east side    1534     2-5-14
 
   (B)   Penalty. Any person, firm or corporation violating this schedule shall
be fined according to the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99.
(‘72 Code, § 41.18) (Am. Ord. 746, passed 3-7-90; Am. Ord. 1326, passed 2-20-
08; Am. Ord. 1626, passed 1-18-16)
SCHEDULE IV. HANDICAPPED PARKING.
   (A)   The following locations shall be reserved for motor vehicles bearing
registration plates or decals issued to a handicapped person.
 
Street            Side  Description                            Ord. No. Date
Main Street       East  First parking stall south of the Clark 1699     1-16-19
                        Street crosswalk
Washington Street South Opposite the post office in the first  1699     1-16-19
                        parking stall
 
   (B)   Penalty. Any person parking an unauthorized motor vehicle in a parking
space reserved for the handicapped shall be fined according the Uniform Fine
Schedule in “§
10.99 General Penalty” and in addition be liable for costs or charges connected
with the removal or storage of the motor vehicle.
(Ord. 1699, passed 1-16-19; Am. Ord. 1761, passed 7-15-20)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
90.   ABANDONED AND INOPERABLE VEHICLES
   
91.   ANIMALS
   
92.   FIRE PREVENTION
   
93.   HEALTH AND SAFETY
   
94.   LIBRARY
   
95.   NUISANCES
   
96.   PARKS AND RECREATION
   
97.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   
98.   FAIR HOUSING POLICY
   
99.   VEHICLE IMPOUND
   
100.   VACANT BUILDINGS
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED AND INOPERABLE VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Abandonment of vehicles prohibited
   
90.03   Leaving wrecked or inoperable vehicles on streets prohibited
   
90.04   Inoperable vehicles deemed nuisance; disposal of vehicles upon notice
   
90.05   Impoundment of vehicles
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.  
      (1)   A vehicle parked or otherwise located on the public way and:
         (a)   Is in such a state of despair that it is incapable of being
driven.
         (b)   Has been unmoved for a period of at least seven days and from
its condition, the period during which it has not been moved or some other
circumstance appears to have been abandoned by its owner.
      (2)   Vehicles parked in a public parking lot without consent of the lot
owners, proprietor, or agent of the property, which person has requested that
the vehicle be towed.
      (3)   A vehicle defined as abandoned, or capable of being towed, by any
other ordinances of the city, and which does not fall into the categories of
"hazardous vehicles" or "unlawful vehicles", and therefore is not subject to an
immediate tow.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle from which, for a period of at
least seven days, the engine, wheels or other parts have been removed, or on
which the engine, wheels or other parts have been altered, damaged or otherwise
so treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its own motor
power. INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE shall not include a motor vehicle which has
been rendered temporarily incapable of being driven under its own motor power
in order to perform ordinary service or repair operations, not a motor vehicle
that is kept within a building when not in use; nor an operable restored
vehicle over 25 years of age; nor a motor vehicle on the premises of a place of
business engaged in the wrecking or junking of motor vehicles.
   PROPERTY. Any real property within the city which is not a street or
highway.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   UNREGISTERED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle that does not display, in the
location required by the Illinois Motor Vehicle Code, indicia of its current
registration with the State of Illinois or such other state as may have legally
registered said vehicle.
   VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power other than human power designed to
travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners, or slides and
transport persons or property or pull machinery and shall include, without
limitation, automobile, truck, trailer, motorcycle, tractor, buggy and wagon.
('72 Code, § 12.06(a)) (Ord. 876, passed 9-18-96; Am. Ord. 1156, passed 3-17-
04)
§ 90.02 ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall abandon any vehicle within the city and no person shall
leave any vehicle at any place within the city for such time and under such
circumstances as to cause such vehicle reasonably to appear to have been
abandoned.
('72 Code, § 12.06(b)) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 LEAVING WRECKED OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES ON STREETS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall leave any partially dismantled, inoperable, wrecked, junked
or unregistered vehicle on any street or highway in the city.
('72 Code, § 12.06(c)) (Ord. 1156, passed 3-17-04) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 INOPERABLE VEHICLES DEEMED NUISANCE; DISPOSAL OF VEHICLES UPON NOTICE.
   (A)   Inoperable or unregistered motor vehicles, whether on public or
private property and in view of the general public, are hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
   (B)   All persons are required to dispose of any inoperable or unregistered
motor vehicles under their control upon the receipt of written notice received
from the corporate authorities or from the Chief of Police or any member of his
or her Department designated by him or her commanding such disposition of the
inoperable or unregistered motor vehicle. Notice shall be given to the property
owner, vehicle owner or other person in control of said vehicle in writing, and
may be served personally or by certified mailing. A person owning, or in
possession of, an unregistered vehicle may comply with this section by properly
registering said vehicle with the State of Illinois.
('72 Code, § 12.06(d)) (Ord. 876, passed 9-18-96; Am. Ord. 1156, passed 3-17-
04)
§ 90.05 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES.
   The Chief of Police or any member of his Department designated by him is
hereby authorized to remove or have removed any vehicle left at any place
within the city which reasonably appears to be in violation of this subchapter
or which reasonably appears to be lost, stolen, or unclaimed, or which is an
inoperable or unregistered vehicle. Such vehicle shall be impounded until
lawfully claimed or disposed of in accordance with ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-201
et seq.
('72 Code, § 12.06(e)) (Ord. 1156, passed 3-17-04)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
    Any person who fails to obey a notice received from the city under the
provisions of this chapter which states that said person is to dispose of any
inoperable or unregistered vehicle under his or her control, within seven days
of receiving said notice, shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine
according to the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99.
('72 Code, § 12.06(f)) (Ord. 876, passed 9-18-96; Am. Ord. 1156, passed 3-17-
04; Am. Ord. 1326, passed 2-20-08 )
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Domestic animals allowed
   
91.03   Dog licenses
   
91.04   Non-domestic animals
   
91.05   Cruelty to animals prohibited
   
91.06   Harboring loud animals prohibited
   
91.07   Clean up
   
91.08   Infectious domestic animals
   
91.09   Dangerous animal restrictions
   
91 10   Animals running at large
   
91.11   Domestic animal bite
   
91.12   Impoundment procedure
   
91.13   Interference with enforcement
   
91.14   Animal fighting prohibited
   
91.15   Hunting prohibited
   
91.16   Exceptions
   
91.17   Chicken and coop requirements
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BITE. With teeth, to cut or break the skin of a person, other than the owner
or keeper, or to cut or break the skin of an animal owned or kept by another
party.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. An animal shall be deemed a DANGEROUS ANIMAL if it meets
one or more of the following conditions:
      (1)   It attacked a person or animal one or more times without
provocation; or
      (2)   It manifests a disposition to attack, snap or bite without
provocation.
   DOG. Any animal, male and female of the canine species.
   DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Dogs, cats, small aquatic animals, small amphibians or
small caged animals.
   FIGHT. A prearranged conflict between two or more animals but does not
include a conflict that is unorganized or accidental.
   KENNEL. Any property of a keeper or owner where more than five dogs or more
than five cats are kept.
   NIP. With teeth, to pinch or squeeze the skin of a person, other than the
owner or keeper, or to pinch or squeeze the skin of an animal owned or kept by
another party.
   OWNER or KEEPER.  Any person who shall harbor, feed, or otherwise provide
care for domestic animals on his or her property or on public property.
   TAKE. Hunt, shoot, pursue, lure, kill, destroy, capture, gig or spear, trap
or ensnare.
   TRAP.  To capture, or attempt to capture, by setting or placing a leg hold
trap, body-gripping trap, cage, snare or any other similar device to hold,
capture, or kill an animal.
(Ord. 1327, passed 2-20-08)
§ 91.02 DOMESTIC ANIMALS ALLOWED.
   Any person may own or keep domestic animals. However, the following
restrictions apply to any owner or keeper of domestic animals.
   (A)   An owner or keeper may not own or keep more than four dogs and not
more than four cats, at any one time, on any one residential property.
   (B)   The restrictions set forth in above division (A) shall not apply in
the following circumstances:
      (1)   A litter of dogs or cats may be kept for a period of time not
exceeding six months from birth; or
      (2)   The keeping of dogs or cats on property for which a kennel permit
has been issued by the City of Marseilles Plan Commission or Zoning Board of
Appeals.
(Ord. 1327, passed 2-20-08)
§ 91.03 DOG LICENSES.
   (A)   License required. Any owner or keeper who harbors or keeps a dog in
the City of Marseilles shall obtain a license for each such dog. Any newborn
dog shall be licensed no later than 12 months after birth.
   (B)   Date. Licenses shall be issued and renewed in May of each year.
Licenses shall be issued without cost.
   (C)   Requirement for license. The applicant for a license shall provide
proof from a licensed veterinarian that the dog is currently inoculated for
rabies. Each license shall have a renewal date in May. If the rabies
vaccination extends for more than one year, the renewal date may extend more
than one year provided the vaccination period extends to the renewal date. The
applicant shall provide his or her name, address, name of the dog, the breed,
sex, color and any other identifying characteristics of the dog. The applicant
shall also provide a telephone number where someone may be called in the event
the dog is running at large, is impounded, or has bitten or threatened to bite
someone.
   (D)   Tag. All dogs must wear a tag issued by the City of Marseilles or
supplied by the owner or keeper identifying the registration number of the
license issued by the City of Marseilles.
   (E)   Lost tag. The city will issue a lost tag at a cost of $10.
(Ord. 1327, passed 2-20-08)
§ 91.04 NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   No person may keep an animal that is not defined as a domestic animal except
as authorized by the Marseilles Zoning Ordinance in an A2 General Agricultural
District or as authorized by a conditional use in an A3 Rural Residential
District.
(Ord. 1327, passed 2-20-08; Am. Ord. 1656, passed 2-7-18) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall cruelly treat any animal in the city or abandon, underfeed,
or treat any domestic animal inhumanely.
(Ord. 1327, passed 2-20-08) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 HARBORING LOUD ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall keep any animal which disturbs the peace by loud or
disturbing noises.
(Ord. 1327, passed 2-20-08) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 CLEAN UP.
   Any person owning or keeping any animal shall promptly remove and dispose of
all feces left by such animal on any public property or on private property not
owned or possessed by such person. The foregoing shall not apply to a blind
person while walking his or her guide dog. No person shall cause or allow any
place where any animal is or may be kept to become unclean, or unwholesome.
(Ord. 1327, passed 2-20-08)
§ 91.08 INFECTIOUS DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   An owner or keeper of a domestic animal afflicted with a contagious or
infectious disease shall not allow such animal to run at large, or to be
exposed in any public place whereby the health of human or animal may be
affected.
(Ord. 1327, passed 2-20-08)
§ 91.09 DANGEROUS ANIMAL RESTRICTIONS.
   No owner or keeper of a domestic animal shall possess a dangerous animal
unless the animal is confined in accordance with this section.
   (A)   Exterior confinement area. No owner or keeper shall allow a dangerous
animal outside unleashed unless contained within a secure pen or restrained by
a chain or other secure device.
   (B)   Confinement on leash. No owner or keeper shall permit a dangerous
animal to go outside an exterior confinement area or house unless the animal is
securely restrained with a leash no longer than four feet in length. No owner
or keeper shall permit a dangerous animal to be kept on a leash unless an owner
or keeper is in personal physical control of the leash.
   (C)   Sign required. All owners or keepers possessing a dangerous animal
shall display in a prominent place on the premises where a dangerous animal is
to be kept a sign which is readable by the public from a distance of not less
than 50 feet warning of the presence of a dangerous animal. A similar sign
shall be posted next to any exterior confinement area.
   (D)   Removal of dangerous animal. No dangerous animal may be kept in a
residential area where the dangerous animal has repeatedly nipped, bitten, or
otherwise caused injury to others or has escaped from confinement.
   (E)   Police authority. It is lawful for any police officer to kill any
unrestrained dangerous animal.
(Ord. 1327, passed 2-20-08)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.10 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (C)   While on the premises of an owner or keeper, all dogs not contained by
a fence or other enclosure shall be restrained on a leash or tether that
prevents the dog from being closer than ten feet to the property line of the
owner or keeper, or to a public sidewalk or right-of-way. The leash or tether
shall be under the control of a capable person, and shall be of sufficient
strength and connection to the dog to prevent its escape.
   (D)   Any person injured, or who may be in danger of being injured, either
in person or property. by reason of the unlawful running at large within this
city of any domestic animal, may either drive or convey the same to the Police
Department, whereupon it shall be the duty of the police to take and impound
the same; or the person may take up and confine such domestic animal in some
safe and convenient place and notify the police, as soon as practical, and the
officer so notified shall take charge of such domestic animal and impound it.
(Ord. 1327, passed 2-20-08; Am. Ord. 1546, passed 6-18-14) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.11 DOMESTIC ANIMAL BITE.
   Whenever any domestic animal bites a person other than the owner or keeper
of said animal, the owner or keeper of said animal shall immediately notify the
City of Marseilles police. The owner or keeper shall upon the request of the
Police Department impound the animal for such period of time and at such
location as requested by the Police Department to assure the animal is free
from any disease which may be injurious to the person bitten. The owner or
keeper shall be liable for the cost of impoundment. Any animal not redeemed at
the end of the confinement period may be destroyed.
(Ord. 1327, passed 2-20-08)
§ 91.12 IMPOUNDMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   A police officer shall restrain and impound domestic animals in a
place or pound as may be designated and set apart for that purpose.
   (B)   The police officer or veterinarian receiving such domestic animal
pursuant to this section shall record the breed, color, sex and if known, the
name of such domestic animal and the name and address of the owner. Notice of
any impounded annual shall be filed with the office of the City Clerk. Notice
shall also be given to the owner or keeper of such animal, if known. Any
domestic animal so impounded shall be retained and shall receive proper care
for a period of no less than 72 hours after notice shall have been given as
provided herein or posted at the City Hall by the City Clerk. At the expiration
of said 72 hours if the domestic animal has not been redeemed, it shall be
destroyed.
   (C)   At any time within the 72-hour period the owner or keeper of such
domestic animal impounded shall have the right to recover the possession of
such animal by paying all expenses of the impounded animal. Any dog impounded
may be released by paying all expenses, showing proof that the dog is licensed
and showing proof of a current inoculation for rabies current rabies. If the
dog is not licensed, it must be licensed at a late license fee of $75.
(Ord. 1327, passed 2-20-08)
§ 91.13 INTERFERENCE WITH ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to break open or assist in breaking open
any such pound, or to let out or assist in letting out or in the escape of any
animal impounded therein, or to interfere with, obstruct or prevent any officer
or agent of the city in the performance of his or her duties under this
chapter.
(Ord. 1327, passed 2-20-08)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.14 ANIMAL FIGHTING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall fight or bait, conspire to fight or bait, or keep, train, or
transport for the purpose of fighting or baiting any animal.
(Ord. 1327, passed 2-20-08)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.15 HUNTING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation, or association shall take or trap any
animal within the corporate limits of the city outside of the A2 Agricultural
District unless authorized in writing by the City of Marseilles Police
Department.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   The use of any trap specifically designed to kill rats, mice,
gophers or moles; or
      (2)   The use of cage type live traps employed for the control of
nuisance animals, as long as approved by the Police Department and so long as
the traps are tended each 12 hours.
(Ord. 1327, passed 2-20-08)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.16 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to any police dog kept or maintained by the
City of Marseilles Police Department or other police authority.
(Ord. 1327, passed 2-20-08)
§ 91.17 CHICKEN AND COOP REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose. This section shall only apply to an R2 District under the
city Zoning Ordinance, and is created for the purpose of allowing an R2
resident to keep laying chickens for personal egg consumption or to keep
chickens as pets. The purpose of this section is not to create regulations for
the commercial sale or distribution of chickens or eggs. For the purposes of
this section, the term CHICKEN includes only hens because the keeping of any
rooster is prohibited in an R2 District.
   (B)   Conditions for keeping chickens.  The keeping of chickens in an R2
District is prohibited without a permit, and unless compliance with all of the
conditions required by this section are maintained. A permit shall allow a
maximum of five chickens with no roosters.
      (1)   A chicken coop and chicken run shall be required where chickens are
kept. All chicken coops shall provide both an inside covered enclosure and an
adjacent outside fenced area, or chicken run, of not less than 32 square feet.
The chicken run shall be appropriately fenced to prevent the chickens from
leaving the run.
      (2)   The chicken coop and chicken run shall accommodate all chickens
permitted on the property, may only be located in the rear yard, and must be
outside of the minimum street setback requirements for accessory structures in
the R2 District.
      (3)   The chicken coop and chicken run shall be a minimum distance of ten
feet from the nearest property line.
      (4)   The chicken coop shall be 200 square feet or less, with side
dimensions of no more than 20 feet;
      (5)   One or more chickens may only be located on a lot containing at
least one residence that is occupied.
      (6)   Free range chickens are not permitted. For the purpose of this
section, FREE RANGE CHICKENS are defined as chickens that are not restrained by
a chicken coop or chicken run, as permitted and approved pursuant to this
section.
      (7)   Chicken feed shall be kept in a predator-proof/rodent- proof
container.
      (8)   Waste material must be disposed of in a manner that will not cause
odor, or attract flies or vermin.
      (9)   All areas where chickens are kept shall be maintained to be neat
and clean and free of undue accumulation of waste such as to prevent odors
detectable on adjacent property.
      (10)   No chicken(s) shall be maintained that produce noise loud enough
to disturb the peace of persons in surrounding properties.
      (11)   The owner or occupant of the lot where chickens are located shall
ensure that their birds are cared for properly when ill, and disposed of in a
manner that does not endanger the public health and safety when their hens or
chicks die.
      (12)   The slaughtering of chickens in the R2 District is hereby
prohibited.
      (13)   No chickens may be kept or maintained to be used for the purpose
of fighting.
      (14)   The Zoning Enforcement Officer and Police Department may inspect
the conditions where the chickens are kept at any time.
      (15)   The construction of the chicken coop and/or run is subject to the
city Zoning Code and the review of the Zoning Enforcement Officer.
   (C)   Application procedures for acquiring chickens.
      (1)   The applicant shall submit to the City Clerk a chicken registration
application and a $25 application fee. The chicken registration application
shall include a drawing, illustrating the location and layout of the proposed
chicken coop and chicken run, and indicating the number of chickens to be
allowed.
      (2)   The Police Department shall review the chicken registration
application.
         (a)   If the application and proposed plans are satisfactory, the
Police Department shall inform the Zoning Enforcement Officer, who shall
approve the site of the coop and run prior to construction.
         (b)   If the application is not complete or the proposed plans for the
chicken coop and run are found to be unsatisfactory, the applicant will be
informed of defects and given an opportunity to rectify defects.
      (3)   The permit holder shall be required to annually renew their permit
by June 1.
         (a)   An annual permit fee of $25 shall be required.
         (b)   Failure to timely renew could result in the city’s revocation of
the permit.
   (D)   Fines and penalties. Any person, firm, or corporation that violates
any provision of this section, shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine
according the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99, and their license shall be revoked for a period of one year.
(Ord. 1546, passed 6-18-14)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined according to the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99.
(Ord. 1327, passed 2-20-08)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Reserved
   
92.02   Emission of dense smoke prohibited
   
92.03   Burning of leaves and garbage
   
92.04   Fireworks
   
92.05   Permitted burning
Fire Prevention Code
   
92.15   Adoption of code by reference
   
92.16   Enforcement authorities
   
92.17   Definitions
   
92.18   Limits of districts in which storage of explosives and blasting agents,
storage of flammable liquids in outside aboveground tanks and bulk storage of
liquefied petroleum gases are to be restricted
   
92.19   Establishment of motor vehicle routes for vehicles transporting
explosives and blasting agents
   
92.20   Establishment of motor vehicle routes for vehicles transporting
hazardous chemicals or other dangerous articles
   
92.21   Establishment of fire lanes on private property devoted to public use
   
92.22   Modifications
   
92.23   Appeals
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 RESERVED.
§ 92.02 EMISSION OF DENSE SMOKE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to cause or permit the emission of dense smoke from any
fire, chimney, engine, oil burner or any other agency in the city so as to
cause annoyance or discomfort to the residents thereof.
('72 Code, § 44.13(b)) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 BURNING OF LEAVES AND GARBAGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn any leaves, paper or other
permitted substances upon any of the public streets, sidewalks or alleys in the
city. It shall be unlawful to build or light any open fire or conduct burning
within ten feet of a structure, vehicle, trailer or any combustible material.
Any open fire or burning shall be at least two feet away from any public
street, sidewalk, and concrete curb or guttering.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn any rubbish or garbage at
any time within the city.
(‘72 Code, § 44.14) (Am. Ord. 1549, passed 6-18-14) Penalty, see §
92.99
Cross-reference:
   Burning of landscape waste, refuse and garbage, see §
50.13
§ 92.04 FIREWORKS.
   No person shall sell, offer for sale, use or explode any fireworks in the
city except the City Council may grant a permit for a public display of
fireworks under such conditions as it may impose under the provisions of ILCS
Ch. 425, Act 35, § 2.
('72 Code, § 44.04)
§ 92.05 PERMITTED BURNING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to build or light any open fire or conduct
burning within ten feet of a structure, vehicle, trailer or any combustible
material. Any open fire or burning shall be at least two feet away from any
public street, sidewalk, and concrete curb or guttering. Open fires and burning
within the city limits are permitted for the following purposes:
      (1)   Recreational campfires. Recreational campfires (including bonfires)
of less than three feet in diameter, burning untreated wood only, within a
contained area, from the hours of 10:00 a.m. until 10:00 p.m. on Sunday through
Thursday, and from the hours of 10:00 a.m. on Friday and Saturday through 1:00
a.m. the following day.
      (2)   Festive/ceremonial burnings. Festive and/or ceremonial burnings in
excess of three feet in diameter can be allowed through a permit issued by City
Hall. The Police Chief, the Fire Chief, or his or her designee shall review the
permit request and may approve a permit with certain conditions, or deny the
request on the grounds of public safety when appropriate. Permitted burning
hours shall be from the hours of 10:00 a.m. until 10:00 p.m. on Sunday through
Thursday, and from the hours of 10:00 a.m. on Friday and Saturday through 1:00
a.m. the following day.
      (3)   Cooking. Open fires used for cooking food at public or private
gatherings are allowed, provided that such fires are exclusively for said
purposes between the hours of 7:00 a.m. until 10:00 p.m. on Sunday through
Thursday, and from the hours of 10:00 a.m. on Friday and Saturday through 1:00
a.m .the following day.
      (4)   City staff attended. Fires started and attended by the personnel of
the city’s Fire Protection District.
   (B)   All fires must be outside any building and enclosed in a container,
pit, or other manner. All fires must be maintained by a person 18 years or
older present at all times of burning, and must be completely extinguished
beyond permitted burning times.
(Ord. 1412, passed 5-19-10; Am. Ord. 1549, passed 6-18-14) Penalty, see §
92.99
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
§ 92.15 ADOPTION OF CODE BY REFERENCE.
   There is hereby adopted by the City Council for the purpose of prescribing
regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or
explosion, that certain code known as the Fire Prevention Code recommended by
the American Insurance Association, being particularly the 1970 edition thereof
and the whole thereof, save and except such portions as are hereinafter
deleted, modified or amended, of which code not less than three copies have
been and now are filed in the office of the City Clerk and the same are hereby
adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein, and the
provisions thereof shall be controlling within the limits of the city.
('72 Code, § 24.01)
§ 92.16 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITIES.
   The code hereby adopted shall be enforced by the Chief of Police of the City
of Marseilles.
('72 Code, § 24.02)
§ 92.17 DEFINITIONS.
   Terms used in the Fire Prevention Code mean as follows:
   MUNICIPALITY. City of Marseilles.
   CORPORATION COUNSEL. City Attorney.
('72 Code, § 24.03)
§ 92.18 LIMITS OF DISTRICTS IN WHICH STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES AND BLASTING AGENTS,
STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS IN OUTSIDE ABOVEGROUND TANKS AND BULK STORAGE OF
LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GASES ARE TO BE RESTRICTED.
   The limits referred to in Section 53 (b) of the Fire Prevention Code hereby
adopted in which storage of explosives and blasting agents are prohibited, the
limits referred to in Section 74 (a) of the code hereby adopted in the storage
of Class I liquids in which outside aboveground tanks are prohibited, and the
limits referred to in Section 114 of the code hereby adopted in which bulk
storage of liquefied petroleum gas is restricted, are hereby established as
follows: The city limits.
('72 Code, § 24.04)
§ 92.19 ESTABLISHMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLE ROUTES FOR VEHICLES TRANSPORTING
EXPLOSIVES AND BLASTING AGENTS.
   The routes referred to in Section 55 (i) of the Fire Prevention Code for
vehicles transporting explosives and blasting agents are hereby established as
follows: Federal and state highways.
('72 Code, § 24.05)
§ 92.20 ESTABLISHMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLE ROUTES FOR VEHICLES TRANSPORTING
HAZARDOUS CHEMICALS OR OTHER DANGEROUS ARTICLES.
   The routes referred to in Section 109.1 (b) of the Fire Prevention Code for
vehicles transporting hazardous chemicals and other dangerous articles are
hereby established as follows: Federal and state highways.
('72 Code, § 24.06)
§ 92.21 ESTABLISHMENT OF FIRE LANES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY DEVOTED TO PUBLIC USE.
   The fire lanes referred to in Section 169.2 (a) of the Fire Prevention Code
are hereby established as follows: None.
('72 Code, § 24.07)
§ 92.22 MODIFICATIONS.
   The Council shall have power to modify any of the provisions of Fire
Prevention Code (“the Code”) upon application in writing by the owner or
lessee, or his authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in the
way of carrying out the strict letter of the Code, provided that the spirit of
the Code shall be observed, public safety secured, and substantial justice
tone. The particulars of such modifications when granted or allowed and the
decision of the City Council thereon shall be entered upon the city records and
a signed copy shall be furnished the applicant.
('72 Code, § 24.08)
§ 92.23 APPEALS.
   Whenever the enforcing officer shall disapprove an application or refuse to
grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that provisions of the Fire
Prevention Code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the Code
have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from
such decision to the City Council within 30 days from the date of the decision
appealed.
('72 Code, § 24.09)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
92.02 and
92.03 shall be fined according to the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
92.15 through
92.23, or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply with
any order made thereunder, or who shall build in violation of any detailed
statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any
certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been
taken, or who shall fail to comply with such an order as confirmed or modified
by the Council or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time fixed
herein, shall severally for each and every such violation and noncompliance
respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor and punishable by a fine according to
the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99. The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the
violation or permit it to continue, and all such persons shall be required to
correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable time; and when
not otherwise specified, each ten days that prohibited conditions are
maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   The application of the above penalty in division (B)(1) of this
section shall not be held to prevent the enforced removal of prohibited
conditions.
      (3)   In addition to the foregoing, any person who shall violate any of
the provisions of §§
92.02 through
92.23 and cause a response from the Marseilles Fire Protection District, or any
other fire district or ambulance service pursuant to a mutual aid call from the
Marseilles Fire Protection District shall be required to make restitution to
the agency for the costs of that emergency response. The restitution may not
exceed $1,000 per public agency for each emergency response.
(‘72 Code, § 24.10) (Am. Ord. 1326, passed 2-20-08; Am. Ord. 1412, passed 5-19-
10)
CHAPTER 93: HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Pollution of air and water prohibited
   
93.02   “911” Emergency number
   
93.03   Barbed wire fences
Regional Pollution Control Facility
   
93.15   Establishment of procedures
   
93.16   Definitions
   
93.17   Application
   
93.18   City review
   
93.19   Submission for the record
   
93.20   Public hearing
   
93.21   Written public comment
   
93.22   Record
   
93.23   Site approval decision
   
93.24   Administration of fees and costs
   
93.25   Enforceability
   
93.26   Effective date and applicability
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 POLLUTION OF AIR AND WATER PROHIBITED.
   No person shall pollute the air or any water course by excessive discharge
of waste products or foreign matter.
('72 Code, § 44.11) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 “911” EMERGENCY NUMBER.
   (A)   The telephone number “911” is hereby designated and established as the
primary emergency telephone number for use in this city.
   (B)   The telephone number “911” shall be used exclusively for emergency
situations for individuals seeking police, fire, medical, rescue, and other
emergency services of the city.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to call the telephone number “911”
for any reason other than for the seeking of emergency services.
(Ord. 700, passed 3-5-86) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 BARBED WIRE FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or maintain any barb wire
fence or fence of which barb wire is a part, along any street, alley, public
walk or sidewalk, or through, along or around any public park unless the barb
wire is at least six feet above the ground.
('72 Code, § 6.13) Penalty, see §
93.99
REGIONAL POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITY
§ 93.15 ESTABLISHMENT OF PROCEDURES.
   The following procedures are hereby established with respect to requests for
site approval for new Regional Pollution Control Facilities.
(Ord. 737, passed 12-7-88)
§ 93.16 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. P.A. 82-682 entitled “An act relating to the location of sanitary
landfills and hazardous waste disposal sites” with amended the “Environmental
Protection Act (ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, §§ 1 et seq.)
   APPLICANT. Any person who files a request approval pursuant to this
subchapter.
   HEARING OFFICER. The person appointed by the Council whose function is to
attend and officiate over public hearings on requests for site approval,
recommend factual findings, and make recommendations regarding approval or
denial of the requests for site approval to the city.
   IEPA. The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   MEETING. The meaning set forth in ILCS Ch. 5, Act 120, § 1.02.
   (B)   In addition, all other words used in this subchapter and defined in
the Act shall have the same meaning as in the Act.
(Ord. 737, passed 12-7-88)
§ 93.17 APPLICATION.
   (A)   A minimum of 12 complete copies of requests for site approval,
including 12 copies of all site plans, exhibits and maps, shall be filed in the
Office of the City Clerk. Upon receipt of any such request for site approval,
the Clerk shall date stamp same and immediately deliver one copy to each member
of City Council, one copy to the office of the City Attorney, and otherwise as
directed by the Mayor.
   (B)   (1)   At least one copy (the “reproduction copy”) of the request for
site approval shall be submitted in a form that is readily reproducible by
common photocopy methodology. The reproduction copy shall include photographs,
mylars, or other readily reproducible accurate portrayals of all exhibits,
models, charts, maps, drawings or other items submitted which are not on
standard or legal size paper.
      (2)   A copy of the request for site approval shall be bade available far
public inspection in the Office of the Clerk and members of the public shall be
allowed to obtain a copy of the request for site approval or any part thereof
upon payment of the actual cost of reproduction. All copying requests shall be
fulfilled by the Clerk within a reasonable time from the time of the request.
   (C)   In order to be deemed complete, requests for site approval shall
include at least the following, provided that the request may contain such
additional data and information as the applicant deems appropriate to
demonstrate that the request for site approval should be granted:
      (1)   A typewritten or printed petition on 8½-inch by 11-inch paper which
sets forth:
         (a)   The identification of the applicant and owner, and if the
proposed site is owned in trust, the beneficiaries of the trust;
         (b)   The legal description of the proposed site and a street address
or some other reasonable description of where the proposed site is located;
         (c)   A description of the proposed facility, its operation and its
expected longevity;
         (d)   The area to be served by the proposed facility and a statement
of the needs of such area for such a facility;
         (e)   A list of the existing regional pollution control facilities
within the area proposed to be served and, with respect to each such facility,
the following information, location, size, owner and operator, type of
pollution control facility, remaining capacity, and types of wastes received;
         (f)   The expected types, amounts and methods of treatment or storage
of all wastes proposed for the site and the origins of these wastes;
         (g)   A description of the geologic and hydrogeologic character of the
site including core samples, and monitoring plans, including any existing or
planned background analyses for ground water, surface water and air;
         (h)   Reasons supporting approval of the application, including at a
minimum, a description of all measures proposed to protect the public health,
safety and welfare;
         (i)   A prayer for site approval; and
         (j)   The name or names of individual(s) authorized to represent the
applicant in all proceedings by the city.
      (2)   The request for permit made to the IEPA if any such request has
been made.
      (3)   A site plan showing details of the proposed facility including but
not limited to:
         (a)   Cross sections;
         (b)   All existing wells within 500 feet of the site;
         (c)   All monitoring wells;
         (d)   Fences, buildings and other structures;
         (e)   Roads, entrances, and driveways; and
         (f)   Core sample locations on and within 200 feet of the site.
      (4)   A detailed topographic survey of the subject site and a map of the
surrounding area within 1000 feet which indicates land use and, if the property
is within the 100-year flood plain the boundary of the 100-year flood plain as
determined by the State Department of Transportation.
      (5)   A statement of the plan of operation for the proposed facility,
including but not limited to the following:
         (a)   Method of land filling, incineration, resource recovery or other
process;
         (b)   Hours of operation;
         (c)   Personnel;
         (d)   Litter, vector, dust, odor, and leachate control;
         (e)   Surface drainage and erosion control;
         (f)   Fire control;
         (g)   Corrective actions for spills and other operational accidents;
         (h)   If applicable, the stages of development or use;
         (i)   An end use plan.
      (6)   A statement or report of traffic information regarding the proposed
site including the anticipated number of vehicles and their size, weight,
timing and direction of movement.
      (7)   All studies, maps, reports, permits or other information reasonably
available at the time of filing the application which the applicant desires the
city to consider at the public hearing.
      (8)   A description of the liability insurance policies carried by the
applicant to cover environmental liabilities, including without limitation,
accidental releases (including sudden releases and nonsudden releases which
were not intended nor reasonably expected) of pollutants or contaminants. If
the applicant is partly or entirely self-insured for such liability, a
description of the financial resources available in the event of such
liability.
      (9)   A signed, written statement by the applicant certifying that the
requirements of Section 39.2(b) of the Act have been fully complied with,
attaching a copy of the published notice and a list of all property owners
notified in person or by registered mail.
      (10)   If the site is a proposed hazardous waste facility, a copy of its
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act Contingency Plan.
      (11)   A $30,000 application fee to cover reasonable and necessary costs
of the city, including without limitation, notice costs, court reporter costs,
transcription costs, consultant costs, Hearing Officer costs, and other
expenses incurred by the city in conducting the review of the request for site
approval, the subsequent public hearing, and the site approval decision,
provided however, that any portion of the application fee that remains
unexpended at the conclusion of the site approval decision process shall be
returned to the applicant. Should there be any additional reasonable and
necessary costs incurred by the city, over the amount paid by the applicant in
the application fee, the applicant shall bear any and all such costs. Such
additional costs shall be due and payable by 30 days following the date a
statement is submitted to the applicant. A late fee of 1½% per month shall be
added to all overdue amounts.
   (D)   No application for site approval shall be deemed to have been filed or
accepted for filing unless all of the requirements of this subchapter
applicable thereto, shall have been met. Within a reasonable period of time
after delivery of an application, the City Clerk shall advise the applicant:
      (1)   Either that the application is complete and that it has been
accepted for filing, designating the date of filing; or
      (2)   That the application is not complete, specifying wherein it is
deficient.
(Ord. 737, passed 12-7-88)
§ 93.18 CITY REVIEW.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be responsible for coordinating review of the request
for site approval by the Departments and consultants to the city, and is
authorized to coordinate interdepartmental conferences and set deadlines for
the submittal of reports and recommendations. These meetings shall be
executive/administrative in nature, and within the exemption from the Illinois
Open Meetings Act for Article 4 municipalities.
   (B)   Authorized representatives of the city may attend the public hearings
and may ask such questions as needed to assist in reaching their
recommendations, and may give testimony.
   (C)   All final reports prepared by city departments and retained
consultants summarizing and analyzing the request for site approval, reports,
studies, exhibits and other documents to be referred to in testimony by such
city departments or consultants concerning the appropriateness of the proposed
site, shall be filed with the City Clerk no later than ten working days in
advance of the last date set for hearing, or at such other time as may be
allowed by the Hearing Officer, provided that there is adequate and fair
opportunity for participants to review, respond or otherwise submit responsive
evidence or comment thereon. Copies of such reports shall be available for
public inspection in the office of the Clerk. Members of the public shall be
allowed to obtain copies of the reports upon payment of the actual cost of
reproduction.
(Ord. 737, passed 12-7-88)
§ 93.19 SUBMISSION FOR THE RECORD.
   All reports, studies, exhibits, test results or other evidence or copies
thereof, other than testimony, which the applicant desires to submit for the
record shall be submitted by the first day of the public hearing, and any such
evidence which the city and any other person desires to submit for the record
at the public hearing at least ten days before the last scheduled public
hearing. All such evidence shall be filed with the City Clerk, or, if the
hearings have commenced, then with the Hearing Officer, labeled as proposed
hearing record material, and shall be available for public inspection in the
office of the Clerk. In the event that the tenth day prior to the date set for
public hearing falls on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday, the next working day
shall be considered the day that reports, studies, and exhibits must be filed.
The Clerk shall date stamp any such reports, studies, exhibits or other
evidence upon receipt. In the case of documentary evidence, members of the
public shall be allowed to obtain copies of the documents upon payment of the
actual cost of reproduction. The Hearing officer may waive such time limit(s)
in his discretion, if no undue prejudice of any participant or difficulty in
the hearing process or schedule is thereby created.
(Ord. 737, passed 12-7-88)
§ 93.20 PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   No sooner than 90 days but no longer than 120 days from the date of
filing of the request for site approval with the city, a public hearing shall
be held.
   (B)   Within ten working days of the date upon which a request for site
approval is deemed filed, the Council shall designate a Hearing Officer to
officiate at the public hearing. The Hearing Officer shall be an attorney
licensed to practice law in the State of Illinois with expertise on
environmental issues.
   (C)   Within 15 working days of the date a request for site approval is
deemed filed, the Hearing Officer shall determine the date, time and location
upon which such public hearing shall be held, but in any event the initial
public hearing must be scheduled no sooner than 90 days but no later than 120
days from the date the request for site approval was filed with the city.
   (D)   The Hearing Officer shall notify the City Clerk of the date upon which
such hearing shall be held and shall request the Clerk to cause notice of such
hearing to be made as follows:
      (1)   Published legal notice in a newspaper of general circulation
published in LaSalle County at least three weeks prior to the date set for
hearing. Such notice shall consist of the following:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant requesting site location
approval.
         (b)   The owner of the site, and in case ownership is in a land trust,
the names of the beneficiaries of said trust.
         (c)   The legal description of the site.
         (d)   The street address of the property, and if there is no street
address applicable to the property, a description of the site with reference to
location, ownership or occupancy or in some other manner that will reasonably
identify the property to residents of the community.
         (e)   The nature and size of thee proposed development.
         (f)   The nature of the activity proposed.
         (g)   The probable life of the proposed activity.
         (h)   The time and date of the public hearing.
         (i)   The location of the public hearing.
         (j)   A statement that all copies of evidence other than testimony to
be submitted at the public hearing must be filed with the Clerk at least ten
days before the public hearing.
      (2)   Certified mail, return receipt requested, to all members of the
General Assembly from the district in which the proposed site is located.
      (3)   Certified mail, return receipt requested, to the IEPA.
   (E)   The Hearing Officer shall preside over the public hearing and shall
make any rulings concerning the admission of evidence and the conduct of the
hearing pursuant to this subchapter. The Hearing Officer shall make all
decisions and rulings in accordance with fundamental fairness. The rules of
evidence shall not strictly apply, but hearsay and other testimony not
admissible in a civil trial may be admitted by the Hearing Officer, if more
reliable evidence does not appear to be available, provided it is of the sort
which a responsible person might rely upon in the conduct of serious affairs.
The Hearing Officer may exclude irrelevant, immaterial, incompetent or unduly
repetitious testimony or other evidence. No ruling of the Hearing Officer shall
be appealable to the Council.
   (F)   The applicant for site location approval shall have the burden of
going forward with evidence of the suitability of the site location for the
proposed use.
   (G)   Any person appearing at such public hearing shall have the right to
give testimony and comment on the suitability of the site location for the
proposed use. Any person shall have the right to be represented by an attorney
at said public hearing. Opportunity for any persons appearing at such public
hearing to cross examine any witness may be reasonably limited in time and
duration by the Hearing Officer. The Hearing Officer may propound questions to
any witness or to the Applicant to clarify the record established by the
participants at the hearing, and to bring out relevant information.
   (H)   Conduct of the public hearing shall be substantially as follows:
      (1)   Call to order.
      (2)   Introduction of the Hearing Officer.
      (3)   Recognition of the applicant and identification of the request for
site approval.
      (4)   Recognition of fees, notices, and date of filing of the request for
site approval.
      (5)   Recognition of the city and other persons wishing to testify, and
any other reports, exhibits, maps, or documents of record as filed pursuant to
this subchapter. All persons, including members of the public, intending to
testify or cross-examine must sign in or submit written notification of said
intent to the Hearing Officer (c/o the Clerk) on or before the first day of the
public hearing. Should the public hearing extend beyond one day, additional
persons or members of the public, not of record as of the first day of the
public hearing will only be allowed to present testimony or cross examine
witnesses, at the discretion of the Hearing Officer. The Hearing Officer may on
the first day and at appropriate later times confer with the participants and
issue orders to govern, schedule and continue the proceedings.
      (6)   The applicant and other persons may make an opening statement. The
Hearing Officer may limit the duration of such statements.
      (7)   Unless otherwise ordered, the Hearing Officer shall then hear
testimony from the applicant and/or any witnesses the applicant may wish to
call. Upon the close of the Applicants testimony, other persons may offer
expert witnesses and evidence they may wish to present. These other persons may
or may not be represented by counsel. Upon the close of the applicants and
other persons' testimony and evidence it wishes to present. Members of the
public, of record, as set forth in division (H)(5) of this section, may then
present oral comment.
      (8)   If the city has employed an independent consulting engineering
firm, a competent representative of the firm shall be available to offer
testimony of the request of the city, the Applicant, or any participant, before
the close of the hearing, at a time scheduled by the Hearing Officer. Such
engineering firm also may file comments or recommendations, if any, at the time
of filing summary statements, and may file a rebuttal statement.
      (9)   All witnesses shall testify under oath. Testimony may include the
use of prepared statements and exhibits. All witnesses shall be subject to
reasonable examination as follows: director, cross examination, redirect and
recross. After all persons have presented testimony, reasonable rebuttal shall
be allowed, and surrebuttal may be allowed at the discretion of the Hearing
Officer.
      (10)   Should any issues, facts, data or other evidence arise during the
course of the public hearing, which were not apparent or reasonably foreseeable
by a participant from the request for site approval as filed with the city,
such situation may constitute grounds for a recess in the public hearing. All
recesses of the public hearing shall be at the discretion and direction of the
Hearing Officer. If such evidence is tendered by the applicant, the applicant
must waive the decisional deadline so as to accommodate a recess.
      (11)   Hearing closed.
      (12)   Summary closing statements, in writing, together with proposed
findings of facts, to be submitted by any person.
      (13)   Rebuttal statements, by any person.
      (14)   Draft findings and recommendations of the Hearing Officer.
      (15)   Within five days, comments from participants upon the draft
findings and recommendations.
(Ord. 737, passed 12-7-88)
§ 93.21 WRITTEN PUBLIC COMMENT.
   (A)   The Hearing Officer, in care of the City Clerk, shall receive written
comment from any person concerning the appropriateness of the proposed site.
Upon receipt of any such written comment the Clerk shall date stamp sa;ne and
shall file written comment and the postmarked envelope in which comment is
received.
   (B)   Copies of such written comments shall be made available for public
inspection in the offices of the Clerk, and members of the public shall be
allowed to obtain a copy of any written comment upon payment of the actual cost
of reproduction.
   (C)   Any written comment received by the Clerk or postmarked not later than
30 days after the date of the last public hearing shall be made part of the
record as hereinafter described, and the city shall consider any such timely
written comments in making its final determination concerning said request. in
the event that the 30th day falls on a Sunday or a federal or state holiday,
the next day on which mail is delivered shall be considered the 30th day for
purposes of this division (C).
(Ord. 737, passed 12-7-88)
§ 93.22 RECORD.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall be responsible for keeping the official record of
said hearing.
   (B)   The official record shall consist of the following:
      (1)   The request for site location approval as described in §
93.17(C).
      (2)   Proof of notice as described in §
93.20(D).
      (3)   Proof of notice given by applicant pursuant to Section 39.2(b) of
the Act.
      (4)   Written comments filed by the public and received by the Clerk or
postmarked within 30 days of the last public hearing date.
      (5)   All reports, studies, exhibits or documents allowed into evidence
by the Hearing Officer at the public hearing, and related closing and rebuttal
statements and comments of participants.
      (6)   The transcript of the public hearing, and of any meeting of the
Hearing Officer and the City Council.
      (7)   Recommended findings of fact and other recommendations of the
Hearing Officer.
      (8)   The Resolution containing the final decision of the city.
   (C)   The Clerk shall be responsible for certifying all copies of the record
of the public hearing.
(Ord. 737, passed 12-7-88)
§ 93.23 SITE APPROVAL DECISION.
   (A)   From time to time the City Council may schedule meetings with the
Hearing Officer to discuss questions relevant to the proceedings. These shall
be meetings which, while transcribed and open to the public, are intended for
council deliberation and discussion only, and shall not involve public
participation. Individual Council members may also attend public hearings and
may individually confer with the Hearing Officer.
   (B)   After the close of testimony and comment at the public hearing and any
continuation thereof, the Hearing Officer shall recommend findings of fact and
a recommendation for disposition of the request for site approval supported by
the record, and shall submit same to the full Council no later than 165 days
from the date of filing of the site approval request. Within five days
thereafter, participants may file comment upon the recommendations of the
Hearing Officer.
   (C)   The Hearing Officer shall base his recommendation only on the
following criteria:
      (1)   The facility is necessary to accommodate the waste needs of the
area it is intended to serve;
      (2)   The facility is so designed, located and proposed to be operated
that the public health, safety and welfare will be protected;
      (3)   The facility is located so as to minimize incompatibility with the
character of the surrounding area and to minimize the effect on the value of
the surrounding property;
      (4)   The facility is located outside the boundary of the 100-year flood
plain, or the site is flood proofed.
      (5)   The plan of operations for the facility is designed to minimize the
danger to the surrounding area from fire, spills or other operational
accidents; and
      (6)   The traffic patterns to or from the facility are so designed as to
minimize the impact on existing traffic flows.
      (7)   If the facility will be treating, storing or disposing of hazardous
waste, an emergency response plan exists for the facility which includes
notification, containment and evacuation procedures to be used in case of an
accidental release.
      (8)   If the facility will be located within a regulated recharge area,
any applicable requirements specified by the Board for such areas have been
met.
      (9)   If the facility is to be located in a county where the county board
has adopted a solid waste management plan, the facility is consistent with that
plan.
   (D)   The Council shall consider the record from the public hearing and the
recommendations of the Hearing Officer and shall make a determination
concerning a site approval request at least within 180 days from the date of
filing of the site approval request. The city may impose conditions which are
reasonable and necessary to accomplish the purposes of Section 39.2 of the Act,
provided such conditions are not inconsistent with regulations promulgated by
the Illinois Pollution Control Board. Any determination by the city shall be in
writing, supported by the record, based solely on the criteria set forth in
Section 39.2 of the Act, and shall contain the city's reasons for making such
determination. The Hearing Officer may assist the Council with the development
of the final decision document.
   (E)   The decision of the majority of the Council shall be final. No
determination by the city of a site approval request may be reconsidered,
except as necessary in accordance with further proceedings under the
Environmental Protection Act.
   (F)   The deadlines herein shall be deemed directory and not mandatory, and
discretion of the Council or Hearing Officer may be exercised in the interest
of fairness, provided that there can be no extension of the final decisional
deadline unless a written waiver thereof is filed by the applicant or the
applicant's attorneys.
   (G)   No application may be withdrawn after the commencement of the public
hearings without permission of the City Council, unless the withdrawal is with
prejudice. The Council may permit withdrawal without prejudice only for good
cause shown, and may condition such withdrawal upon payment of reasonable fees
and expenses of the participants (and the city).
(Ord. 737, passed 12-7-88)
§ 93.24 ADMINISTRATION OF FEES AND COSTS.
   (A)   All reasonable and necessary costs incurred by the city in conducting
the review of the request for site approval, the subsequent hearing, and the
site approval decision shall be paid by the applicant as provided herein.
   (B)   Upon termination of any proceedings under this subchapter, a final
accounting and summary of all fees and costs of the Hearing Officer, city
consultants, the City Attorney and all other authorized expenditures and
reimbursements shall be prepared by the Clerk and presented to the Council.
   (C)   Any portion of an application fee not required for reimbursement to
the city for authorized costs or expenses incurred by the city under the
hearing process shall be returned to the applicant. Should there be costs and/
or expenses in excess of the amount paid by the applicant, the applicant shall
be liable for and pay any and all additional costs.
   (D)   During the course of the proceeding the Council may direct that bills;
may be paid from the application fee. No bill shall be paid from such fee
unless authorized by the Council.
(Ord. 737, passed 12-7-88)
§ 93.25 ENFORCEABILITY.
   The city may enforce this subchapter in a court of law, or before the
Pollution Control Board. If a decision is made which approves the siting of a
regional pollution control facility, any and all conditions imposed by the city
upon the approval shall be binding upon an applicant, its employees,
contractors, agents, successors and assigns and shall be enforceable by action
filed in the Circuit Court or by complaint before the Illinois Pollution
Control Board.
(Ord. 737, passed 12-7-88)
§ 93.26 EFFECTIVE DATE AND APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall become effective upon adoption. This subchapter shall
apply to all applications then on file or filed thereafter.
(Ord. 737, passed 12-7-88) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter, for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine according to the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of a condition may be punishable by a civil penalty not to
exceed $10,000 per violation, and the city shall be entitled to an order of
injunction or remediation to conform the pollution control facility and its
operations to the condition, and to such other relief as may be necessary or
appropriate to protect the public health, safety or welfare.
(Ord. 700, passed 3-5-86; Ord. 737, passed 12-7-88; Am. Ord. 1326, passed 2-20-
08 )
CHAPTER 94: LIBRARY
Section
   
94.01   Establishment of public library
   
94.02   Defacement of books and other things of value of public library
prohibited
   
94.03   Injury to building, grounds or furniture
   
94.04   Failure to return books
   
94.05   Library patron parking
§ 94.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF PUBLIC LIBRARY.
   There shall be established and maintained in the city a free public library
and reading room to be known and called by the name of the “Marseilles Public
Library.” The establishing of such public library and reading room shall be in
accordance with the provisions of the “Local Library Act,” ILCS Ch. 75, Act 5,
Articles 1 through 5.
('72 Code, § 3.16(a))
§ 94.02 DEFACEMENT OF BOOKS AND OTHER THINGS OF VALUE OF PUBLIC LIBRARY
PROHIBITED.
   No person shall intentionally cut, tear, deface or injure, or write upon any
book, newspaper, plate, engraving or other thing of value belonging to the
public library.
('72 Code, § 3.16(b)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.03 INJURY TO BUILDING, GROUNDS OR FURNITURE.
   No person shall commit any injury upon any building or buildings of any
public library of the city, or upon the grounds, furniture, fixtures or other
property thereof.
('72 Code, § 3.16(c)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.04 FAILURE TO RETURN BOOKS.
   No person shall fail to return any book, periodical or paper, or fail to pay
the penalty for injury to any book, periodical or paper belonging to the public
library of the city according to the requirements of the bylaws in force for
the government of such library.
('72 Code, § 3.16(d))
§ 94.05 LIBRARY PATRON PARKING.
   The city has designated the northernmost four parking spots located on the
west side of State Street as parking spots reserved only for library patron
parking. Said parking spots shall be designated by the posting of signage. Any
vehicle owner not using said parking spots as a patron of the library shall be
subject to impoundment and/or a fine as authorized under the Uniform Fine
Schedule in §
10.99.
(Ord. 1518, passed - -)
CHAPTER 95: NUISANCES
Section
Public Nuisances
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Public nuisances prohibited
   
95.03   Complaint
   
95.04   Inspection
   
95.05   Notice
   
95.06   Service of notice
   
95.07   Abatement procedure
   
95.08   Cost of city abatement
   
95.09   Claim of lien
Noise
   
95.20   Noise control regulation
   
95.21   Recreational ATV and dirt bike regulation
Littering
   
95.35   Littering on public or private property; covering of materials
susceptible to blowing
   
95.36   Obligations or liability of other rules and regulations
Partial Invalidity
   
95.50   Partial invalidity
Violation of an Executive Order
   
95.60   Purpose
   
95.61   Violation of an Executive Order
Criminal Public Nuisance Property
   
95.70   Declaration of public nuisance
   
95.71   Prohibition of criminal public nuisance; abatement
   
95.72   Definitions
   
95.73   Pre-abatement procedure
   
95.74   Judicial abatement procedure
   
95.75   Abatement remedy; penalty
   
95.76   Penalty; fine
 
   
95.99   Penalty
PUBLIC NUISANCES
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   BUILDING. Any walled or roofed structure including mobile homes, commercial
establishments, factories, warehouses, dwellings, any structures, and any
building excavations.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING.  Any building or structure which has any of the
following defects or is in any of the conditions described shall be deemed a
DANGEROUS BUILDING and any of the following described conditions shall be
deemed unsafe:
      (1)   Any building, shed, fence or other manmade structure which is
dangerous to the public health because of its construction or condition, or
which may cause or aid in the spread of disease or cause injury to the health
of the occupants of it or of neighboring structures;
      (2)   Any building, shed, fence or other man-made structure which,
because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair or any other cause,
is especially liable to fire, and constitutes or creates a fire hazard;
      (3)   Any building, shed, fence or other man-made structure which, by
reason of faulty construction, age or lack of proper repair or any other cause,
is liable to cause injury or damage by collapsing or by a collapse or fall on
any part of such structure;
      (4)   Any building, shed, fence or other man-made structure which is
unsecured due to lack or failure of doors or windows, is available to or
frequented by persons who are not lawful occupants of such structure;
      (5)   Any building damaged by fire, storm or other casualty where the
percentage of damage equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure
before the damage occurred regardless of any actual repair work performed.
   DUMPSTER. A metal container of one cubic yard or more in volume with an
attached lid for handling by mechanical means.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable matter resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, consumption and storage of food; and any other matter of
any nature whatsoever subject to decay which may putrefy or generate noxious or
offensive odors, be a food source for rodents, or serve as a breeding or
feeding place for insects or vermin.
   JUNK, TRASH AND REFUSE. Shall include any and all waste matter, whether
reusable or not, which is offensive to the public health and safety,
specifically including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Worn out, wrecked and/or junk vehicles or machinery of any kind or
any parts thereof;
      (2)   Used and waste tires;
      (3)   Old, inoperable or unused appliances including refrigerators,
stoves, iceboxes, televisions and electronic equipment;
      (4)   Household furniture and other items of household personal property
or refuse not properly contained within closed or sealed trash receptacles.
Refuse contained within’ trash bags or other non-rigid trash containers shall
not be considered to be contained within closed or sealed trash receptacles.
   JUNK VEHICLE.
      (1)   A vehicle that requires registration and/or licensure to operate on
public roadways which is not located within a fully enclosed garage and is
without a current valid vehicle registration from the state of Illinois; or
      (2)   A vehicle, which, for a period of at least seven days, is incapable
of being driven under its own power and is not located within a fully enclosed
garage.
   LITTER. Garbage and rubbish.
   NUISANCE GREENERY. Any of the following shall be considered NUISANCE
GREENERY.
      (1)   Weeds. Any weeds such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle,
cocklebur or other weeds of a like kind.
      (2)   Bushes. Any bush of the species of Tall, Common, or European
Barberry, further known as Barberries Vulgis, or its horticultural varieties.
      (3)   Heights. Any weeds, grass, or plants, other than trees, bushes,
flowers, garden plants or other ornamental plants that grow to a height
exceeding ten inches.
      (4)   A tree, or a portion thereof, on private property which:
         (a)   Is infected or infested with Dutch elm disease, oak wilt
disease, Asian long horned beetles, emerald ash borer, gypsy moths or any other
disease or infestation which is deemed a nuisance by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture or the United States Department of Agriculture;
         (b)   Is dead or partially dead and such dead portion, if fallen,
would endanger improvements to neighboring property, users of public right of
ways, or improvements of public utilities and service providers; or
         (c)   Is living and growing into, damaging or endangering improvements
located on the subject property or nearby public right of ways, or neighboring
property.
      (5)   Any and all vegetation coming up from foundations.
   OWNER. Any agent, firm, corporation, or person who, alone, jointly or
severally with others, has a legal or equitable interest in the property.
   PERSON. Person means any individual, corporation, firm or any other group
acting as a unit.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any of the following identified as a public nuisances per
se shall constitute a public nuisance. In addition to any public nuisance per
se, a PUBLIC NUISANCE may also be a thing, act, occupation, condition or use of
property, which shall continue for such length of time as to:
      (1)   Substantially annoy, injure or endanger the comfort, health, repose
or safety of the public;
      (2)   In any way render the public insecure in life or in the use of
property;
      (3)   Greatly offend the public morals or decency; or
      (4)   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct or tend to
obstruct or render dangerous for passage any street, alley, highway, navigable
body of water or other public way.
(‘72 Code, § 12.02(a))
   PUBLIC NUISANCE PER SE. The following, nuisances affecting health, nuisances
offending morals and decency, nuisances affecting peace and safety, and
nuisance greenery are declared NUISANCES PER SE.
      (1)   NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH. The following acts, omissions, places,
conditions and things are hereby specifically declared to be public health
nuisances:
         (a)   All decayed, harmfully adulterated or unwholesome food or drink
sold or offered for sale to the public;
         (b)   Carcasses of animals, birds or fowl not buried or otherwise
disposed of in a sanitary manner within 24 hours after death;
         (c)   Accumulations of decayed animal or vegetable matter, trash,
rubbish, rotting lumber, bedding, packing material, scrap metal or any material
in which flies, mosquitoes, disease-carrying insects, rats or other vermin may
breed, or which may constitute a fire hazard;
         (d)   All stagnant water in which mosquitoes, flies or other insects
can multiply;
         (e)   Garbage cans, which are not fly-tight;
         (f)   The escape of smoke, soot, cinders, noxious acids, fumes, gases,
fly ash or industrial dust within the city limits in such quantities as to
endanger the health of persons of ordinary sensibilities or to threaten or
cause substantial injury to property;
         (g)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, river,
lake, canal or body of water or the obstruction of any watercourse, drainage
ditch or ravine;
         (h)   Any use of property, substances or things within the city
emitting or causing any foul, offensive, noise some, nauseous, noxious or
disagreeable odors, effluvia or stenches extremely repulsive to the physical
senses of ordinary persons which annoy, discomfort, injure or inconvenience the
health of any appreciable number of persons within the city;
         (i)   Any well not securely covered or secured from the public or not
properly abandoned;
         (j)   Any accumulation of junk, trash and refuse on any premises
unless related to a business use permissible on such premises;
         (k)   The storage of any junk vehicle on public or private property or
on a street or highway, except when housed in a fully enclosed building and not
visible from any point outside the building where such storage is not otherwise
authorized by the city; and
         (l)   The storage of any partially dismantled junk vehicle on public
or private property or on a street or highway, except when housed in a fully
enclosed building and not visible from any point outside said building, where
such storage is not otherwise authorized by the city.
      (2)   NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY. The following acts,
omissions, places, conditions and things are hereby declared to be public
nuisances.
         (a)   All unauthorized signs, signals, markings or devices which
purport to be or may be mistaken as official traffic control devices placed or
maintained upon or in view of any public highway or railway crossing;
         (b)   All trees, hedges, billboards or other obstructions which
prevent persons driving vehicles on public streets, alleys or highways from
obtaining a clear view of traffic when approaching an intersection or
pedestrian crosswalk;
         (c)   All limbs of trees which project over a public sidewalk less
than eight feet above the surface thereof or less than ten feet above the
surface of a public street;
         (d)   All use or display of fireworks except as provided by the laws
of the state, any applicable provisions of this code and other ordinances of
the city;
         (e)   Any dangerous building as defined above;
         (f)   All wires over streets, alleys or public grounds which are
strung less than 15 feet above the surface of the street or ground;
         (g)   All loud and discordant noises or vibrations of any kind;
         (h)   All obstructions of streets, alleys, sidewalks or crosswalks and
all excavations in or under the same, except as permitted by the any applicable
provisions of this code and other ordinances of the city or which, although
made in accordance with such code provisions or ordinances, are kept or
maintained for an unreasonable length of time after the purpose thereof has
been accomplished;
         (i)   All open and unguarded pits, wells, excavations or unused
basements freely accessible from any public street, alley or sidewalk;
         (j)   All abandoned refrigerators or iceboxes or any closed container
from which the doors and other covers have not been removed or which are not
equipped with a device for opening from the inside by pushing with the strength
of a small child; and
         (k)   Any structure, material or condition which constitutes a fire
hazard or will impair extinguishing a fire.
         (l)   The placing of any obstruction, including but not limited to,
greenery, landscape waste, debris or other fill in a city storm sewer, or city
maintained waterway, or a nonpublic waterway providing drainage which connects
to a natural drain outlet lying between Oakdale Street on the west side of
Marseilles, Milton Road on the east side of Marseilles, Twelfth Street on the
north side of Marseilles and River Street on the south side of Marseilles.
         (m)   The discharge of storm water into a sanitary sewer by any means
including the discharge of water into a sanitary sewer from a roof, sump pump
or foundation drain.
      (3)   NUISANCE GREENERY. Any of the following shall be considered
nuisance greenery:
         (a)   Weeds. Any weeds such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, cocklebur or
other weeds of a like kind.
         (b)   Bushes. Any bush of the species Tall, Common, or European
Barberry, further known as Barberries Vulgis, or its horticultural varieties.
         (c)   Heights. Any weeds, grass, or plants, other than trees, bushes,
flowers, garden plants or other ornamental plants that grow to a height
exceeding eight inches.
         (d)   A tree, or a portion thereof, on private property which:
            1.   Is infected or invested with Dutch elm disease, oak wilt
disease, Asian long horned beetles, emerald ash borer, gypsy moths or any other
disease or infestation or invasive species which is deemed a nuisance by the
Illinois Department of Agriculture or the United States Department of
Agriculture.
            2.   Is dead or partially dead and such dead portion, if fallen,
would endanger improvements to neighboring property, users of public right-of-
ways, or improvements of public utilities and service providers.
            3.   Is living and growing into, damaging or endangering
improvements located on the subject property or nearby public right-of-ways, or
neighboring property.
      (4)   NUISANCES OFFENDING MORALS AND DECENCY. The following acts,
omissions, places, conditions and things are hereby specifically declared to be
public nuisances:
         (a)   Any place or premises kept or resorted to for the purpose of
prostitution or gambling;
         (b)   All gambling devices and slot machines not otherwise licensed by
the State of Illinois and approved by the City of Marseilles; and
         (c)   All places where intoxicating liquor or fermented malt beverages
are sold, possessed, stored, brewed, bottled, manufactured or rectified without
a permit or license as provided for by this code.
   PUBLIC PLACE or WAY. Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys,
public grounds or public buildings.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a street or highway improved, designed, or
ordinarily used for vehicular traffic.
   RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid waste consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible waste, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, metal
cans, yard clippings, dead trees, tree limbs, wood, glass, discarded furniture,
concrete, bricks, crockery, and similar materials. However, rubbish shall not
include wood and other materials that are stored and commonly used for fuel.
(Ord. 1417, passed 6-16-10; Am. Ord. 1579, passed 9-2-15; Am. Ord. 1628, passed
3-15-17; Am. Ord. 1670, passed 6-6-18; Am. Ord. 1682, passed 9-19-18)
§ 95.02 PUBLIC NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   No owner or keeper of real or personal property including the owner or
keeper of a vehicle shall allow and no person shall erect, contrive, cause,
continue, maintain or permit to exist any public nuisance per se within the
city.
(Ord. 1417, passed 6-16-10; Am. Ord. 1628, passed 3-15-17) Penalty, see §
10 .99
§ 95.03 COMPLAINT.
   (A)   Citizen initiated complaint. Any person who observes a public nuisance
may file a complaint affidavit with the city at its Police Department, setting
forth the violation in detail, its location and, if known, the name of the
owner and occupant of the property on which such violation is alleged to exist.
   (B)   City initiated complaint. Any city employee, including any police
officer, zoning officer, code enforcement officer or other employee, who
observes a public nuisance may initiate the complaint procedure.
(Ord. 1417, passed 6-16-10)
§ 95.04 INSPECTION.
   Whenever complaint is made that a public nuisance exists within the city,
the Health Officer, Chief of Police, or Building Inspector or some other city
official whom the Commissioner of Public Health and Safety shall designate
shall forthwith inspect or cause to be inspected the premises and shall make a
written report of his or her findings. Whenever practicable, the inspection
officer shall cause photographs to be made of the premises.
(Ord. 1417, passed 6-16-10)
§ 95.05 NOTICE.
   If the inspecting officer shall determine that a public nuisance exists they
shall serve notice on the owner and or person causing, permitting or
maintaining such nuisance. The notice shall contain a reference to the
provision of the city code violated, contain such other information as will
reasonably inform a person of the nature of the violation and contain steps
needed to abate or remove such nuisance. If the public nuisance poses a present
danger or emergency to the public health, safety, peace, notice shall demand
abatement within 24 hours and shall state that unless such nuisance is so
abated, the city may cause the same to be abated in which case they shall be
charged with the abatement costs. In all other circumstances, the notice shall
demand abatement within a reasonable time, not less than ten days.
(Ord. 1417, passed 6-16-10)
§ 95.06 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   (A)   A notice to abate may be given a property owner or occupant or person
to whom was sent the most current tax bill in any one of the following ways:
      (1)   Personal delivery of the notice upon any person of age 14 years or
older found at the subject property or residence or place of business of the
owner;
      (2)   By certified mail return receipt requested addressed to the subject
property owner or occupant or the address used for mailing of property taxes to
the person to whom was sent the most current tax bill. The date of service
shall be the day following the date upon which the notice is delivered to the
United States Post Office. Notice shall be deemed provided regardless if the
person to whom the notice was sent signs the return receipt or actually
receives the mailing; or
      (3)   Posting in a conspicuous place near the main entrance to the
subject property or improvement on the subject property.
   (B)   As an alternative to the notice of abatement and service procedure
prescribed above, for any weeds, grass, or plants (other than trees, bushes,
flowers, garden plants or other ornamental plants) that grow to a height
exceeding ten inches, any officer of the city may cause to be published in a
newspaper of general circulation within the city limits once each week for two
consecutive weeks during the spring or summer months of each year a notice
informing all owners and persons in control of any vacant lot or any lot with
an unoccupied structure that the growth of weeds, grasses or plants to a height
or length of more than ten inches on any such lot is contrary to the ordinances
of the city. The notice shall further inform the public that should the weeds,
grasses or plants ever grow to more than ten inches in length or height, the
city may cut the weeds, grasses or plants without further notice and the owner
or person in control shall be liable to the city for such costs. This notice
shall be a display of advertisement.
(Ord. 1417, passed 6-16-10)
§ 95.07 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Abatement by city. If the nuisance is not abated within the time
provided, the Health Officer, Chief of Police or the Building Inspector, or
some other city official whom the Commissioner shall designate, may cause the
abatement or removal of such public nuisance.
   (B)   Abatement by court action. As an alternative to abatement by the city,
particularly when the public nuisance does not pose a present danger or
emergency to the public health, safety, peace, the Commissioner of Public
Health and Safety may direct the City Attorney to file an ordinance complaint
in the appropriate court.
(Ord. 1417, passed 6-16-10)
§ 95.08 COST OF CITY ABATEMENT.
   After performing abatement of nuisance greenery, or other public nuisance,
the city shall serve a notice personally or by certified mail to the person to
whom was sent the tax bill for the general taxes on the property for the
taxable year immediately preceding the removal activities and may also serve
the notice on any owner or occupant of the subject property. The notice must:
   (A)   State the nature municipal ordinance;
   (B)   Identify the subject property by common description;
   (C)   Describe the removal activity; and
   (D)   Identify the city’s cost incurred in abating the nuisance.
(Ord. 1417, passed 6-16-10)
§ 95.09 CLAIM OF LIEN.
   After providing post abatement notice, the city may file a claim of lien
with the Office of the LaSalle County Recorder within one year after the
removal cost are incurred. If for any one parcel the city, more than one time,
abates nuisance greenery, the city may combine any or all of the costs of each
of those activities into a single notice of lien. The claim of lien shall be a
sworn statement setting out:
   (A)   A description of the subject property sufficient to identify the
subject property;
   (B)   The amount of the abatement costs; and
   (C)   The date or dates when abatement took place.
(Ord. 1417, passed 6-16-10)
NOISE
§ 95.20 NOISE CONTROL REGULATION.
   No person shall disturb the peace and quiet of any other person by creating
or allowing excessive noise on his, her or any property. The regulation of
noise control shall be as follows:
   (A)   Definitions. All terminology used in this section shall be in
conformance with applicable publications of the American National Standard
Institute (ANSI) or its successor body. WEIGHTED SOUND LEVEL means the sound
pressure level decibels as measured on a sound level meter using the “A”
weighing network. The level so read is designated dB(A) or dBA.
   (B)   Day hours.  No person shall cause or allow the emission of sound
during daytime hours (7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.) from any noise source to any
receiving residential land that exceeds 60 dBA, when measured at any point
within the receiving residential land, provided, however, that the point of
measurement shall be on the property line of the complainant.
   (C)   Night hours. No person shall cause or allow the emission of sound
during nighttime hours (10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.) from any noise source to any
receiving residential land that exceeds 55 dBA, when measured at any point
within the receiving residential land, provided, however, that the point of
measurement shall be on the property line of the complainant.
   (D)   Variance permits.
      (1)   Variance permits may be issued by the Chief of Police, or his or
designee, to exceed the noise standards set forth in this section as follows:
         (a)   A temporary variance permit may be issued upon request, provided
that the work producing the noise is necessary to promote the public health
and/or welfare, and reasonable steps are taken to keep the noise at the lowest
possible practical level.
         (b)   A permanent variance permit may be issued upon request,
following an investigation into the source of the noise, including what, if
any, measures can be taken to reduce or eliminate the noise; the cost of any
such measure; and an overall evaluation of the request, including the severity
of the problem weighted against the cost of remedial measures; the benefit of
the public; and the impact on the noise source.
      (2)   Any permanent variance may be revoked by the Chief of Police, or
his or her designee, if there is a significant change in the facts from the
time the original variance was granted, and if, following the same procedures
involved in issuing the original permit, the Chief of Police, or his or her
designee, should conclude it is in the best interest of the public to revoke
the permit.
   (E)   Exemptions.
      (1)   Governmental and emergency operations.  All activities of the city
and all emergency, short-term operations that are necessaiy to protect the
health and welfare of its citizens, such as emergency utility and street
repair, fallen tree removal or emergency fuel oil delivery, shall be exempt,
provided that reasonable steps shall be taken by those in charge of such
operations to minimize noise emanating from the same.
      (2)   Noises required by law.  The provisions of this section shall not
apply to any noise required specifically by law for the protection or safety of
people or property.
      (3)   Powered equipment.  Powered equipment, such as lawn mowers, small
lawn and garden tools, riding tractors and snow removal equipment necessary for
the maintenance of property, that is kept in good repair and maintenance, and
that, when new, would not comply with the standards set forth in this section,
shall be exempted. This exemption shall only apply between the hours of 6:00
a.m. and 8:00 p.m., Monday through Friday; between 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.,
Saturdays; and between 9:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m., Sundays.
      (4)   Community events. The term COMMUNITY EVENTS shall include such
things as parades, festivals, drum corps shows, sports events, Fourth of July
celebrations, sanctioned or sponsored in whole or in part by the city, schools,
or charitable or service organizations.
      (5)   Private parties.  Upon application, a permit may be issued
hereunder by the Chief of Police, or his or her designee, for a temporaiy
exemption to this section for a set period of time for private parties. The
permit may be denied if, at the discretion of the Chief of Police, the event
would constitute a safety hazard (due to, including but not limited to, excess
amounts of people in attendance, insufficient parking, prior violations by
applicant of city ordinances, and the like). The Chief of Police, or his or her
designee, may further set reasonable limitations or conditions on the grant of
the permit.
      (6)   Construction trades.  The term CONSTRUCTION TRADES shall mean any
type of home repair, including but not limited to, construction, repair, and/or
maintenance of a new or existing structure and its appurtenances. This term
shall also cover landscaping construction, but not landscaping maintenance.
This exemption shall only apply between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.,
Monday through Friday; between 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m., Saturdays; and between
9:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m., Sundays.
(Ord. 1548, passed 6-18-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.21 RECREATIONAL ATV AND DIRT BIKE REGULATION.
   (A)   Intention. This section is intended to regulate the recreational use
of ATVs and dirt bikes in residential and business zoning districts.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ALL TERRAIN VEHICLE (ATV).  Any motorized, off-road recreational vehicle
capable of cross-country travel on land, snow, ice, marsh, swampland or other
natural terrain, including but not limited to, a multi-track, multi-wheel or
low-pressure-tire vehicle, or related two-wheel, three-wheel, four-wheel or
belt-driven vehicle, or an amphibious machine. The definition of ATV includes
golf carts and snowmobiles. ATV does not include construction machines, utility
vehicles used for business operations, agriculture, yard work, landscaping,
snow removal or otherwise being used for their intended purpose.
      DIRT BIKE.  A motorcycle-type vehicle designed and built with special
tires and suspension for riding on unpaved roads and over rough terrain.
      OCCUPANT.  A person who regularly resides on the property in question.
      OPERATE.  To use in any manner within the jurisdiction of the city.
      OWNER.  Any person who has legal or equitable title to the property on
which the ATV or dirt bike is being operated.
      PERSON.  An individual, group of individuals, partnership, firm,
association or any other entity.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY.  Any land, rights-of-way, roads or other real property
owned, maintained, or otherwise under the control of any persons or entity
other than the city, and not available for general use by the public.
   (C)   Operation and use.
      (1)   Owner or occupant.  Only the owner or an occupant or their guests
or invitees shall be permitted to operate an ATV or dirt bike on private
property.
      (2)   Access limitation.  No person shall go on or cross the land of
another to operate an ATV or dirt bike without the written permission of the
landowner, which written permission shall be carried on the person of the
operator. No person shall use state or city roads to gain access to the land
used for ATV or dirt bike vehicle operation.
      (3)   Setback requirements.  A person operating an ATV or dirt bike must
remain at least 100 feet from any adjoining or adjacent property line, and must
remain at least 150 feet from an off-site residential dwelling.
      (4)   Maximum numbers, facilities and events.
         (a)   The operation of more than four ATVs and/or dirt bikes at one
time requires an event permit from the city, provided the event is otherwise a
permitted use under applicable city zoning and other ordinances.
         (b)   Where one or more structures, a track, a course, or one or more
obstacles, including dirt mounds, are installed or arranged for use by ATVs
and/or dirt bikes regulated under this section, a permit shall be obtained from
the city, where the permit would not otherwise be in violation of city
ordinances. Proper erosion and sedimentation controls shall be installed prior
to use by the vehicles governed under this section.
      (5)   Time limitations.  It shall be unlawful for any person,
corporation, partnership or any other entity to operate an ATV or dirt bike for
recreational purposes between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Operation of
ATVs and dirt bikes will be limited to a one-hour session with a three-hour
rest before the next operation of the vehicle. The rest period must he provided
to prohibit disturbance of the peace within the city. Operation within this
prohibited time period shall be considered a disturbance of the peace with the
city.
      (6)   Noise limitation.  No person shall operate an ATV or dirt bike
without an effective and suitable muffling device on its engine which
efficiently deadens or muffles the noise of the exhaust. At no point shall the
sound intensity produced by an ATV or dirt bike exceed the noise control
regulation standards defined in §
95.20.
      (7)   Speed limitation.  No person shall operate an ATV or dirt bike at a
speed greater than that is reasonable and prudent considering the existing
conditions.
      (8)   Dust limitation.  No person shall operate any ATV or dirt bike in
any manner that creates dust that crosses onto any adjoining or adjacent
property. Visible dust, mud or debris shall not leave the property boundaries
of the parcel where vehicles governed by this section are operated.
      (9)   Livestock area restriction. No person shall operate, allow, or
permit the operation of an ATV or dirt bike within 300 feet of any type of
livestock.
      (10)   Environmentally sensitive area limitation.  No person shall
operate, allow or permit the operation of an ATV or dirt bike within a stream,
creek, waterway, drainage way, wetland, or erosion-sensitive area, floodplain,
or within 50 feet of such an environmentally sensitive area.
   (D)   Penalties for violation. A violation of this section shall be subject
to a fine according the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99. A violation shall also be deemed a public nuisance and subject to
remedies provided for public nuisances. A violation shall revoke any permit
issued under this section for a period of one year.
(Ord. 1553, passed 6-18-14)
LITTERING
§ 95.35 LITTERING ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY; COVERING OF MATERIALS
SUSCEPTIBLE TO BLOWING.
   (A)   No person shall litter any public or private property with paper or
other debris or foreign matter. Any stored or transportable materials
susceptible to blowing or scattering shall be adequately covered or protected
to prevent littering.
   (B)   The fact that litter remains on any occupant’s premises in the city in
violation of this chapter shall be prima facie evidence that the occupant of
such premises is responsible for the violation of such chapter. However, if the
property on which the litter is located is vacant, it shall be prima facie
evidence that the owner of such property is responsible for the violation of
such chapter.
(‘72 Code, § 44.10) (Am. Ord. 1628, passed 3-15-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Littering foreign matter or grass clippings on streets or sidewalks
prohibited, see §
97.006
§ 95.36 OBLIGATIONS OR LIABILITY OF OTHER RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall affect or modify the obligations or
liability of any person under any other rules and regulations of the city,
federal law, or state law, for injuries, damages or losses resulting from the
circumstances leading to city action.
(Ord. 776, passed 6-3-92)
PARTIAL INVALIDITY
§ 95.50 PARTIAL INVALIDITY.
   Should any section of this chapter be declared invalid or unconstitutional,
or conflict with the Illinois Environmental Protection Act, ILCS Ch. 415, Act
5, §§ 1 et seq., or conflict with any other section of this code, such
invalidity shall not affect any other section or provision of this chapter, and
shall be in full force and effect.
(Ord. 1628, passed 3-15-17)
VIOLATION OF AN EXECUTIVE ORDER
§ 95.60 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Executive Orders in furtherance of the public health, safety, and
welfare lawfully issued by the Governor of the State of Illinois by the powers
vested in Article 5 of the Illinois Constitution and Section 7 of the Illinois
Emergency Management Agency Act (ILCS Ch. 20, Act 3305, § 7), and consistent
with the powers in public health laws, shall be observed and obeyed by the
citizens of the City of Marseilles. Executive Orders in furtherance of the
public health, safety, and welfare lawfully issued by the Mayor of the City of
Marseilles pursuant to the authority vested in the Mayor by ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5,
§ 11-1-6, the Illinois Emergency Management Agency Act (ILCS Ch. 20, Act 3305,
§ 11) and
Chapter 38: Civil Defense of the Code of Marseilles, shall be observed and
obeyed by the citizens of the City of Marseilles.
   (B)   Violations of these lawful Executive Orders are hereby declared a
public nuisance.
(Ord. 1755, passed 5-28-20)
§ 95.61 VIOLATION OF AN EXECUTIVE ORDER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to violate any Executive
Order of the Governor of the State of Illinois issued pursuant to the
Governor's powers under Article 5 of the Illinois Constitution and Section 7 of
the Illinois Emergency Management Agency Act (ILCS Ch. 20, Act 3305, § 7).
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to violate Executive
Orders issued by the Mayor of the city pursuant to the authority vested in the
office of Mayor by the Illinois Municipal Code (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-1-6,
the Illinois Emergency Management Agency Act (ILCS Ch. 20, Act 3305, § 11) and
Chapter 38: Civil Defense of the Code of Marseilles.
(Ord. 1755, passed 5-28-20) Penalty, see §
95.99
CRIMINAL PUBLIC NUISANCE PROPERTY
§ 95.70 DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Any property at, in, or upon which three or more of the offenses described
in the definition of CRIMINAL PUBLIC NUISANCE PROPERTY in §
95.72 have occurred within a one year period is declared to be a public
nuisance.
(Ord. 1719, passed 9-18-19)
§ 95.71 PROHIBITION OF CRIMINAL PUBLIC NUISANCE; ABATEMENT.
   No person shall intentionally, knowingly, recklessly or negligently permit
any property owned by them or subject to their control within the corporate
limits of the city to become, exist as or be used as a criminal public nuisance
property.
(Ord. 1719, passed 9-18-19)
§ 95.72 DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms, when used in §§
95.70 et seq. of this code, have the meanings set forth below:
   CRIMINAL PUBLIC NUISANCE PROPERTY. Any property upon which two or more of
the offenses set forth below, have occurred or have been alleged to have
occurred within any one year period, as determined by authorized sworn
personnel of the city Police Department or by any authorized members of a law
enforcement agency lawfully exercising jurisdiction within the city. The
criminal offenses which may be considered in determining whether a property is
a criminal public nuisance property shall be as follows:
      (1)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Article 9 (Homicide) of the
Criminal Code of 1961, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 9-1 et seq.;
      (2)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Article 10 (Kidnapping and
Related Offenses) of the Criminal Code of 1961, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 10-1 et
seq.;
      (3)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Section 11-14 (Prostitution),
Section 11-15 (Soliciting for a Prostitute), Section 11-16 (Pandering), Section
11-17 (Keeping a Place of Prostitution), Section 11-20 (Obscenity), Section 11-
20.1 (Child Pornography), or Section 11-21 (Harmful Material to Minors) of the
Criminal Code of 1961, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 11-14, 11-15, 11-16, 11-17, 11-
20, 5/11-20.1, and 11-21;
      (4)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Article 12 (Bodily Harm) of
the Criminal Code of 1961, ILCS Chapter 720, Act 5, §§ 12-1 et seq.;
      (5)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Article 16 (Theft and Related
Offenses) of the Criminal Code of 1961, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 16-1 et seq.;
      (6)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Section 20-2 (Possession of
Explosives or Incendiary Devices) of the Criminal Code of 1961, ILCS Ch. 720,
Act 5, §§ 20-2 et seq.;
      (7)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Article 24 (Deadly Weapons)
of the Criminal Code of 1961, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 24-1 et seq., of similar
city ordinance.
      (8)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Article 25 (Mob Action) of
the Criminal Code of 1961, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 25-1 et seq.;
      (9)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Article 26-1 (Disorderly
Conduct) of the Criminal Code of 1961, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 26-1; SMC Ch. 14,
sec. 14-111;
      (10)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Article 28 (Gambling) of the
Criminal Code of 1961, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 28-1 et seq.; SMC Ch. 14, sec.
14-01 et seq.;
      (11)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Article 31 (Interference
with Public Officers) of the Criminal Code of 1961, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 31-
1 et seq. SMC Ch. 14, Sec.14-113;
      (12)   Any offense defined and prohibited by Section 6-16 (Prohibited
Sales and Possession) or Section 6-20 (Purchase or Acceptance of Gift of Liquor
by Persons Under Age 21) of the Liquor Control Act of 1934, ILCS Ch. 235, Act
5, §§ 6-16 and 6-20. SMC Ch. 3, sec. 3-1 et seq.;
      (13)   Any offense defined and prohibited by the Illinois Controlled
Substances Act, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 570, §§ 100 et seq.;
      (14)   Any offense defined and prohibited by the Cannabis Control Act,
ILCS Ch. 720, Act 550, §§ 1 et seq.;
      (15)   Any inchoate offense defined and prohibited by Article 8 (Inchoate
Offenses) of the Criminal Code of 1961, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 8-1 et seq.,
which is relative to the commission of any of the aforesaid principal offenses.
   OCCUPANT. Any person in actual or constructive possession of any real
property within the corporate limits of the city, or any of the buildings,
structures, fixtures or improvements located thereon.
   OWNER. Any person having a legal or equitable interest in a criminal public
nuisance property or any person who has the ability, authority or right to
regulate, restrain, control, direct or affect the conduct of persons present
property upon a criminal public nuisance property.
   PERMIT. To allow, approve, consent to, acquiesce in, agree to, suffer, or
fail to prevent.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, corporation, firm, partnership, limited
liability company, unincorporated association, land trust or any other group,
enterprise or entity.
   PROPERTY. Any real property, together with any buildings, structures,
improvements or fixtures located thereon or affixed thereto, located within the
city.
(Ord. 1719, passed 9-18-19)
§ 95.73 PRE-ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   Whenever the Chief of the Police Department, or their designee, shall
receive a certified copy of two or more court adjudications or two or more
police reports generated in the ordinary course of the business of the Police
Department, or any reports from sworn personnel of any other law enforcement
agency lawfully exercising jurisdiction in the city, which describe the
commission of an offenses set forth in §
95.72 in the definition of CRIMINAL PUBLIC NUISANCE PROPERTY upon the same
property within a year, the Chief may take the following action:
   (A)   Notify by registered mail, return receipt request or by personal
service, the owners or any occupant of the property that such property may be
in danger of becoming a criminal public nuisance property under the provisions
of §§
95.70 et seq. of the city code of ordinances, which notice shall:
      (1)   Identify the property by either street address, LaSalle County
assessor property identification number or legal description, and
      (2)   Describe the acts or conduct which have occurred on the property
that could be the basis for determining that the property constitutes a
criminal public nuisance property, and direct the owner or occupant contact the
Chief within 14 days of the date of the letter to determine and implement a
plan of action which will protect the property from becoming a criminal public
nuisance property.
   (B)   After complying with the notification procedure set forth in division
(A) above, if within 12 months of the notification issued in accordance with
division (A) the Chief receives an additional certified copy of a court
adjudication or police report describing the commission of an offense set forth
in division (A) upon the property described in the division (A) notice, the
Chief may seek judicial abatement procedures identified below or by procedures
identified above demand an updated plan of action to protect the property from
becoming a criminal public nuisance property.
(Ord. 1719, passed 9-18-19)
§ 95.74 JUDICIAL ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   In the event that neither the owner nor the occupant of the property
complies with §
95.73(A) or (B), the Chief of Police shall notify the City Attorney to initiate
judicial proceedings in the circuit court of LaSalle County, Illinois, to abate
the criminal public nuisance, and to seek the penalties and remedies set forth
in §
95.75.
(Ord. 1719, passed 9-18-19)
§ 95.75 ABATEMENT REMEDY; PENALTY.
   In any proceeding instituted under §
95.74, the court shall, in addition to any other powers granted by the
provisions of this code or applicable law, have the power to enter an order
restraining the owner and occupant from using the property for one or more
specified purposes for a period of not more than one year, which order may
further provide that the owner or occupant post a bond or other security
payable to the city and approved by the court in an amount between $1,000 and
$5,000, which bond or security shall be forfeited over to the city by the
obligor thereof in the event that an offense set forth in §
95.72 is committed upon the property within the period of time set forth by the
court.
(Ord. 1719, passed 9-18-19)
§ 95.76 PENALTY; FINE.
   Any owner or occupant of any property who intentionally, knowingly,
recklessly or negligently permitted such property to become, be used, as or
exist as a criminal public nuisance property shall be subject to a fine
according the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99.
(Ord. 1719, passed 9-18-19)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter,
for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall, upon conviction,
be subject to a fine according the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99. Each day a violation occurs or continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 1755, passed 5-28-20)
CHAPTER 96: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
96.01   Application of provisions
   
96.02   Closing hours
   
96.03   Authority of Playground and Recreational Board to extend closing time
   
96.04   Permits for special events or extension of closing hours; application;
compliance with rules and regulations
   
96.05   Special regulations for Shehorn Park
   
96.06   Special regulations for Stevenson-Danielson Park
   
96.07   Special regulations for Public Park and School Corridor
 
   
96.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Playground and Recreation Board, see §§
33.25 and
33.26
§ 96.01 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   The provisions contained herein for closing hours of parks and other
recreational areas, the use thereof and enforcement shall apply in all parks
and other recreational areas under the jurisdiction of the city including, but
not limited to, the following locations:
   (A)   All ball diamonds located on Commercial Street.
   (B)   Swimming pool located on Commercial Street.
   (C)   All other recreational facilities of the city located on Commercial
Street.
   (D)   Broadway Park located on Broadway Street.
   (E)   Lincoln Street Park.
   (F)   Any and all other city-owned properties designated as parks or
recreational areas.
(Ord. 663, passed 9-7-83)
§ 96.02 CLOSING HOURS.
   All parks and other recreational areas shall be closed from the hours of
dusk until 6:00 a.m. the following day. No person shall be in any park or other
recreational area during the hours said park or areas are closed, except as
otherwise provided herein.
(Ord. 663, passed 9-7-83; Am. Ord. 1138, passed 11-5-03) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.03 AUTHORITY OF PLAYGROUND AND RECREATIONAL BOARD TO EXTEND CLOSING TIME.
   The Playground and Recreational Board, as established in §
33.25, may, in its discretion, extend the closing time of any park or
recreational area to provide for special events, or to permit the completion of
an event which commenced prior to the closing hours provided for herein.
(Ord. 663, passed 9-7-83)
§ 96.04 PERMITS FOR SPECIAL EVENTS OR EXTENSION OF CLOSING HOURS; APPLICATION;
COMPLIANCE WITH RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Permits for special events or for an extension of the closing hours shall be
obtained by application to the Playground and Recreation Board or its designee
in accordance with the following procedure:
   (A)   Any person or group seeking issuance of a permit hereunder shall file
an application stating:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The day and hours for which the permit is desired;
      (3)   The park for which the permit is desired; and
      (4)   The proposed activity for which the park will be used.
   (B)   Within three days after receipt of an application, the Playground and
Recreation Board or its designee shall either grant or deny said application,
and if said application is denied the reason therefore shall be stated.
   (C)   A permittee shall be bound by all park rules and regulations and all
applicable provisions of this code and other ordinances of the city fully as
though the same were inserted in said permits.
(Ord. 663, passed 9-7-83) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.05 SPECIAL REGULATIONS FOR SHEHORN PARK.
   The following regulations shall apply to the use of that park located along
the Illinois River just west of the bridge and currently known as Shehorn Park:
   (A)   Park hours.
      (1)   From November 1 to February 28 or 29 (whichever is the last day of
the month in that particular year), the park shall be open from 7:00 a.m. to 5:
00 p.m.
      (2)   From March 1 to October 31, the park shall be open from 5:00 a.m.
to 9:00 p.m.
      (3)   At all other times, the park shall be closed, and no person shall
enter or remain in the park during those times except for those who are
visiting the Middle East Memorial Wall.
   (B)   Additional regulations.
      (1)   There shall be no alcoholic beverages allowed in the park.
      (2)   There shall be no swimming or wading into the river from the park.
      (3)   There shall be no open fires allowed in the park.
      (4)   There shall be no air guns or firearms allowed in the park.
      (5)   There shall be no overnight camping allowed in the park.
      (6)   There shall be no littering allowed in the park. All trash must be
placed into available receptacles or, if there are no available receptacles,
must be placed in appropriate containers until it can be removed from the park
by the person or persons creating it.
      (7)   All pets must be kept on a leash and all pet excrement shall be
removed and disposed of properly.
      (8)   There shall be no shore fishing from any location within the park.
(Ord. 1212, passed 8-17-05; Am. Ord. 1378, passed 6-3-09)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.06 SPECIAL REGULATIONS FOR STEVENSON-DANIELSON PARK.
   Within the city’s property located in the south 100 feet of Lot 24 in
Clark’s Second Addition to Marseilles, a playground shall be established and
known as Stevenson-Danielson Park. City Ordinance number 1283 is amended to the
extent that no less than 75% of funds derived from the city’s lease with
Verison Wireless shall be placed into a newly established Stevenson-Danielson
Park Fund dedicated for development of the Stevenson-Danielson Park. The City
Treasurer, Engineer, Commissioner of Public Property, and Recreation Board
shall annually appropriate money from the Stevenson-Danielson Park Fund for
improvement of the park.
(Ord. 1377, passed 5-20-09)
6§ 96.07 SPECIAL REGULATIONS FOR PUBLIC PARK AND SCHOOL CORRIDOR.
   (A)   The corridor from the Marseilles Elementary School at the east and
going west along the Broadway Street right-of-way and continuing west on the
Commercial Street right-of-way to the 10 Acre Disc Golf Park is designated the
"Public Park and School Corridor" and granted public park status in recognition
that said corridor heavily utilized by the youth of Marseilles and their family
members as a walking, biking and vehicle corridor connecting various public
venues designed for education, park and recreation purposes which include the
Marseilles Elementary School District #150 School and corresponding
recreational facilities, Broadway Park, the City of Marseilles Swimming Pool,
the Guthrie Park Recreation Area, and to 10 Acre Park including Disc Golf Park.
   (B)   The Playground and Recreational Board shall as part of their annual
budget request shall include recommendations and financial requests for
improvements of the Public Park and School Corridor.
(Ord. 1788, passed 5-5-21)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
    Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined according
to the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99.
(Ord. 663, passed 9-7-83; Am. Ord. 1326, passed 2-20-08 )
CHAPTER 97: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
97.001   Use of city streets, alleys and other city-owned real estate
   
97.002   Names of streets
   
97.003   Numbering of buildings
   
97.004   Moving buildings; permit required; bond
   
97.005   Damaging or defacing streets, public property or signs prohibited
   
97.006   Littering foreign matter or grass clippings on streets or sidewalks
prohibited; liability for cost of removal; abatement by city
   
97.007   Spilling of load from vehicles prohibited
   
97.008   Removal of snow and ice
   
97.009   Painting or posting signs or bills on streets and sidewalks prohibited
   
97.010   Advertising and selling on streets restricted
   
97.011   Playing ball and flying kites restricted
   
97.012   Use of skateboards prohibited
Obstructions and Encroachments
   
97.020   Obstruction in streets and sidewalks prohibited; exceptions
   
97.021   Encroachments on streets; permit required
   
97.022   Building materials on streets and sidewalks restricted; permit
required
   
97.023   Awnings and overhanging trees
   
97.024   Vegetation obstructing vision prohibited
Excavations
   
97.035   Permit required
   
97.036   Application for permit; fees
   
97.037   Issuance and term of permit
   
97.038   Licensed persons to be responsible for acts of agents or employees
   
97.039   Clerk to notify Commissioner of Improvements; records to be kept
   
97.040   Sewer connections
   
97.041   Restoration of surface; remedy of inequalities in surface
   
97.042   Safety requirements
   
97.043   Closing street for repairs or improvements
   
97.044   Datum plane and street grades
Sidewalk and Curb Construction
   
97.055   Grades
   
97.056   Material specifications
   
97.057   Manner of construction
   
97.058   Special ordinance or resolution for sidewalk or curb ordered laid by
Council
   
97.059   Sidewalk and curb replacement program
Vacation of Public Streets and Alleys
   
97.070   Vacation to be done by ordinance
   
97.071   Votes required for passage of ordinance
   
97.072   Notice and hearing required
   
97.073   Petition required; contents
   
97.074   Payment of fee required by ordinance becomes effective
   
97.075   Owners of property abutting vacated street or alley may be required to
pay compensation before ordinance becomes effective
   
97.076   Other terms of conditions
Public Demonstrations
   
97.100   Area restricted
   
97.101   Obstruction of pedestrian or vehicular traffic prohibited
   
97.102   Written notice required; contents of notice
   
97.103   Marching or assembling prohibited during peak traffic periods;
exception
Construction of Utility Facilities in the Rights-of-Way
   
97.115   Purpose and scope
   
97.116   Definitions
   
97.117   Annual registration required
   
97.118   Permit required; applications and fees
   
97.119   Action on permit applications
   
97.120   Effect of permit
   
97.121   Revised permit drawings
   
97.122   Insurance
   
97.123   Indemnification
   
97.124   Security
   
97.125   Permit suspension and revocation
   
97.126   Change of ownership or owner’s identity or legal status
   
97.127   General construction standards
   
97.128   Traffic control
   
97.129   Location of facilities
   
97.130   Construction methods and materials
   
97.131   Vegetation control
   
97.132   Removal, relocation, or modifications of utility facilities
   
97.133   Clean-up and restoration
   
97.134   Maintenance
   
97.135   Variances
 
   
97.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 97.001 USE OF CITY STREETS, ALLEYS AND OTHER CITY-OWNED REAL ESTATE.
   All streets, alleys, rights-of-way and all other real estate owned by the
city may be subject to the construction, reconstruction, location, operation
and maintenance of the municipal water and sewer distribution systems of the
city and subject to standards for construction of facilities on the rights-of-
way found starting at §
97.115 of this code.
(Ord. 656, passed 2-16-83; Am. Ord. 1581, passed 9-16-15)
§ 97.002 NAMES OF STREETS.
   All streets of the city shall be known and designated by the names applied
thereto on the map of the city kept on file in the office of the City Clerk,
and such names shall continue to be the names of streets unless and until
changed by the City Council.
('72 Code, § 6.01)
§ 97.003 NUMBERING OF BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Buildings located along the streets of the city shall be numbered by
the City Clerk in accordance with the following Master Street Addressing Guide
(hereinafter “MSAG”). Owners of buildings shall comply with building numbers
assigned by the City Clerk according to the MSAG.
   (B)   Master Street Addressing Guide.
      (1)   For the purpose of creating, establishing and maintaining an MSAG
and a new addressing grid within the city, the following is hereby approved and
established.
         (a)   The “0" point of the present addressing grid is at the
intersection of the centerline of Main Street and the centerline of the
Illinois River.
         (b)   The point for the new addressing grid shall be at a point
located 1489.5 feet east and 396.0 feet south of the present “0" point.
         (c)   The east-west “0" line of the new addressing grid shall be the
centerline of Rutland Street. The north-south “0" line of the new addressing
grid shall be a line perpendicular to and intersecting the east-west “0" line
at the “0" point.
         (d)   For the purpose of determining future addresses, a new
addressing grid system using 900 feet blocks and 66 feet wide streets as a
standard shall be used. This will establish a grid system with a 966 feet
centerline to centerline distance in an east-west and a north-south direction.
         (e)   Future addresses that lie within the area bounded on the north
by the 1200 N. grid line, on the south by the 0 grid line, on the east by the
1500 E grid line, and on the west by the 1500 W grid line, shall conform to the
numbering system that is in use in that area on Jan. l, 2001, except for that
area known as Glenwood Farms Campground, which shall have its own, unique
addressing system.
         (f)   All new addresses that lie outside of the territory described by
division (e) of this section shall be assigned numbers that conform to the new
grid system. New addresses that are on east-west streets within the new grid
system shall have even numbers on the north side of the street if they are east
of the “0" line, and even numbers on the south side of the street if they are
west of the “0” line. This pattern conforms to the pattern established by the
original numbering system of the city.
         (g)   New addresses that are on north-south streets within the new
grid system shall have even numbers on the west side of the street regardless
of where the street is located. This pattern conforms to the pattern
established by the original numbering system of the city.
      (2)   The assignment of all future addresses by the City Clerk pursuant
to this §
97.003 of the Code of Marseilles shall conform to the provisions and
requirements of the MSAG. Written notification of all such assignments shall be
provided to the ETSB and the Marseilles Telephone Company.
      (3)   (a)   The addresses of several buildings and/or lots do not conform
to the MSAG because of recent changes to street names, duplicate numbering, use
of half addresses, lack of address, incorrect numbering of odd and even
addresses, and other reasons.
         (b)   The ETSB shall provide written notification to all persons
owning, occupying or possessing any building requiring an address change of the
necessity of the change and the appropriate or assigned street address. Such
notice shall be mailed by the ETSB to the owner of such building or lot, and if
the owner is unknown, to the occupant thereof and to the person in whose name
the general real estate taxes are assessed.
         (c)   All addresses within the city which require change pursuant to
this section shall be changed to the address as designated and assigned by the
ETSB no later than one year following adoption of this section.
         (d)   All buildings shall display reflective numerals which are not
less than four inches high at or near the main entrance thereof so that such
numerals are clearly visible from the street. Said numerals shall be of a color
which is contrasting to the background color.
      (4)   A copy of all preliminary subdivision plats filed with the city
shall be referred to the Lasalle County ETSB for its consideration and review
for the of inclusion in the MSAG and the provision of street addresses. No
final subdivision plat shall be approved by the city unless and until street
addresses have been assigned in conformity with this section and the MSAG.
Approval of any such plat by the ETSB shall be prima facia evidence of such
conformity.
      (5)   Maintenance of the MSAG shall be the responsibility of the Lasalle
County ETSB.
      (6)   All data, updated and other information, including annexation, new
streets, street vacation, etc. necessary to maintain a current MSAG shall be
transmitted by the City Clerk to the local telephone exchange and to all other
appropriate entities.
      (7)   Any person who fails to comply with the MSAG or directions with the
City Clerk as to the assignment of a building number shall be fined according
to the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99.
(Ord. 1767, passed 8-5-20)
§ 97.004 MOVING BUILDINGS; PERMIT REQUIRED; BOND.
   (A)   No person shall remove, or cause to be removed, any building through
or along any street or alley of the city without a written permit from the
Commissioner of Streets and Public Improvements therefor, nor shall, in
removing such building, unnecessarily encumber or obstruct any street or alley,
nor for a longer time than may be necessary in the prompt and diligent removal
thereof.
   (B)   Any owner or any contractor or house mover who may be about to remove,
or cause to be removed through or along said street or alley of the city,
shall, before commencing the work, execute an indemnifying bond to the city in
such reasonable sum of not less than $1,000 and with such surety or sureties as
may be fixed by the Commissioner to answer and pay all damages for any injury
that may result to persons or property from any such interference with or
obstruction to such street, alley, or sidewalk thereon or to any public utility
having a franchise for the use of such streets and alleys, and to indemnify and
save the city harmless for any injury or damage to any crossing, sewer, gutter,
pavement, curbing, bridge, fire plug, water pipe or sidewalk on such street or
alley.
('72 Code, § 6.10) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.005 DAMAGING OR DEFACING STREETS, PUBLIC PROPERTY OR SIGNS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall damage or deface any street, alley, sidewalk, public way,
park or other public property, or any post, wire, lamp, street sign, traffic
sign, tree, grass, vegetation, gutter, drain, manhole or any other appurtenance
thereon, except as may be authorized by the city.
('72 Code, § 6.04) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.006 LITTERING FOREIGN MATTER OR GRASS CLIPPINGS ON STREETS OR SIDEWALKS
PROHIBITED; LIABILITY FOR COST OF REMOVAL; ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   (A)   No person shall litter or deposit any foreign matter on any street,
alley, sidewalk, park or public place, except building materials and
merchandise as permitted under this chapter, or as may be permitted by the City
Council.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall discharge or permit the discharge of grass
clippings upon any public street or alley in the city. Any grass clippings
which may be so discharged shall be immediately removed by the person causing
or permitting such discharge.
      (2)   Since any such clippings left unremoved for more than one day on
any city street or alley might cause clogging of the city's sewer system, such
clippings shall be deemed to be abandoned. The City Street Department is hereby
empowered to pick up such abandoned clippings and the cost shall be paid by the
owner of the property. Such cost shall be based upon the time consumed by the
pick-up crew and shall be in addition to any penalty provided for violation of
this code.
   (C)   Any person violating this section shall be liable for the cost of
removal of the foreign matter in addition to the penalty provided for violation
of this code.
('72 Code, § 6.12) (Am. Ord. 674, passed 6-20-84) Penalty, see §
97.999
Cross-reference:
   Littering on public or private property, see § 95.45
   Nuisance abatement procedure, see §
95.06
§ 97.007 SPILLING OF LOAD FROM VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   No vehicle shall be so loaded that any part of its load spills or drops on
any street or alley.
('72 Code, § 44.12) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.008 REMOVAL OF SNOW AND ICE.
   The person occupying the ground floor of any building, the user of any lot
without a structure thereon, and the owner of any vacant building or other
premises shall remove the snow and ice accumulating on the abutting sidewalks
within 24 hours after any snowfall has ceased. If snow or ice cannot be
removed, the surface shall be sanded or otherwise treated to lessen the hazard
for pedestrians until the climate permits removal.
('72 Code, § 6.20) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.009 PAINTING OR POSTING SIGNS OR BILLS ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
PROHIBITED.
   No person shall paint or post any signs or bills on any streets, poles or
other structures in any street or on the surface of any street or sidewalk.
('72 Code, § 6.11) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.010 ADVERTISING AND SELLING ON STREETS RESTRICTED.
   (A)   No person shall, by himself or by his agent or employee, upon any
street, alley or sidewalk within the city, advertise by outcry or the ringing
of any bell or the blowing of any horn or similar means, the sale of any goods
or services.
   (B)   No person shall sell or erect or occupy any stand or vehicle for the
purpose of making sales, upon any of the streets, alleys, sidewalks, or other
public places in the city; excepting, however, unless the same shall be
authorized pursuant to the provisions of §
97.021(E).
('72 Code, § 6.15) (Am. Ord. 759, passed 6-5-91) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.011 PLAYING BALL AND FLYING KITES RESTRICTED.
   No person shall play at ball or fly any kite in any street or alley in the
city unless the street or alley has been posted and approved by the Chief of
Police for such play.
('72 Code, § 6.16) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.012 USE OF SKATEBOARDS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall operate or use skateboards and/or sidewalk surfboards of any
type on the sidewalks, streets, alleys or municipal property within the city.
('72 Code, § 6.17) Penalty, see §
97.999
OBSTRUCTIONS AND ENCROACHMENTS
§ 97.020 OBSTRUCTION IN STREETS AND SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall obstruct or endanger the free passage or proper use of
the public of any street, sidewalk, alley or public place, except as may be
permitted by this chapter.
   (B)   Goods, wares and merchandise may be placed on sidewalks for such
reasonable time as may be necessary while loading and unloading, provided
pedestrian traffic is not obstructed.
('72 Code, § 6.05) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.021 ENCROACHMENTS ON STREETS; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Permit. No person shall encroach upon the sidewalk adjacent to the
property owned or controlled by them either above, upon or under the same or
shall cause or knowingly permit the same to be done, without first obtaining a
permit from the City Council so to do. Any person wishing to set or hang out
over or upon or in any sidewalk, any goods, wares or merchandise, poles for
signs, stands or any other article, or wishing to place, erect or suspend any
flag, sign, banner, show case or other fixture projecting into or hanging over
any sidewalk from the buildings or premises owned or occupied by him or who
wishes to excavate or remove any earth or other materials under any sidewalk,
for use of space under said sidewalk, shall first apply to and obtain a written
permit from the Council therefor.
   (B)   Application for permit. Every person desiring such a permit shall file
with the City Clerk an application in writing giving his name and the location
of his place of business, stating the specific purpose for which the permit is
desired, the size and height of the article, if suspended above the street, the
manner in which the same is to be suspended or attached and the depth, width
and length of the opening if under the sidewalk and the construction of the
same.
   (C)   Conditions of permit; bond.  
      (1)   Any person making such application shall agree to construct the
same according to the terms, manner and provisions to safeguard same, as
directed by the Commissioner of Streets and Public Improvements and shall file
his bond in a sum to be fixed by the Council of not less than $1000, with two
sureties to be approved by the Mayor, conditioned upon the faithful performance
of the duties required by ordinance, rule or regulation of the Council, and to
defend, save, keep harmless and indemnify the city of and from all actions,
suits, costs, damages and expenses, including attorneys fees, which shall or at
any time may happen to come to it for or on account of any injuries or damages
received or sustained by any party caused by any negligence on account of and
from any negligence or in any inadequate structure built, or on account of said
structure, constructed or excavated under or by virtue of his permit and to
remove the encroachment within 30 days after being so notified by the
Commissioner.
      (2)   In lieu of filing a bond as required herein, an applicant may
submit with his application, a certificate of liability insurance designating
the city as an additional insured, thereunder, which certificate shall be in an
amount of not less than $100,000, and shall not be cancelled or terminated
without prior written notice to the city.
   (D)   Issuance and term of permit. Upon compliance with the requirements of
this section the Council shall issue a permit to such applicant. No such permit
shall be granted for a longer period of time than five years.
   (E)   Scope of permit. No permit issued under the provisions of this section
shall authorize the occupation or use of the public sidewalks, streets, alleys
or other public places for the purpose of sale of merchandise or other products
and materials; except, however, the city may authorize the occupation and use
of the public sidewalks, streets, alleys or other public places for the purpose
of sale of merchandise therefrom during a city sponsored or approved
celebration, and in such event the use or occupation of the sidewalks, streets,
alleys and other public places shall be pursuant to regulation and rule as
promulgated by the City Council.
('72 Code, § 6.07) (Am. Ord. 612, passed 8-6-80; Am. Ord. 759, passed 6-5-91)
§ 97.022 BUILDING MATERIALS ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS RESTRICTED; PERMIT
REQUIRED.
   (A)   Permit required. No person shall encumber or obstruct any public
street, alley or sidewalk in control of the City of Marseilles with building or
other materials without a written permit. No person shall request a permit to
encumber or obstruct more than one-third of any street or alley or one-half of
any sidewalk except under emergency conditions. A separate additional permit
shall be required in the event that the contemplated work involves the cutting,
altering, or damaging of any such public street, alley, or sidewalk.
   (B)   Permit duration. The permit request and issued permit shall state the
period of time the permit is in effect, which shall not continue for longer
than 30 days. Any request for further encumbrance or obstruction may be made
through a new permit application and granted only upon a finding that the
applicant has acted diligently and the delay was due to unforeseen
circumstances.
   (C)   Protection plan.  The permit shall identify a protection plan as to
how the encumbrance or obstruction will be protected. Unless waived by both the
Commissioner of Streets and Public Improvements and the Commissioner of Public
Health and Safety, protection plans shall be approved as evidenced by the
signature of the City Engineer. The city reserves the right to modify the
required protection plans as future circumstances may suggest to be
appropriate. In any area of high vehicle or pedestrian traffic, the protection
plan shall include lights at night and physical barriers such as caution tape,
barricades, plywood, temporary chain link fencing as required to protect the
public from the construction zone.
   (D)   Consideration factors. To be approved, the permit must be signed by
the Commissioner of Streets and Public Improvements and the Commissioner of
Public Health and Safety. The following factors shall be considered for the
issuance or denial of any permit:
      (1)   The suitability of the protection plan;
      (2)   The number and location of other current obstruction permits;
      (3)   Calendar of community event;
      (4)   Calendar of public work improvements;
      (5)   Impact on adjoining property owners; and
      (6)   Amount of activity in the area to be encumbered or obstructed.
   (E)   Insurance. No permit shall issue absent a showing the applicant or the
applicant's agent performing the work has adequate public liability insurance.
In any area of high vehicle or pedestrian traffic, the city may require that
insurance name the city as an additional insured party.
   (F)   Fees. An application for a permit shall be accompanied by the
applicable fee. The fee for an application up to seven days in length shall be
a flat fee of $100. The fee for an application more than seven days in length
shall be a base fee of $100 for the first seven days and $10 per day for each
day the permit is to be in effect. In addition to such base fee, the City
Engineer may require the posting of a cash bond if the engineer believes there
is a likelihood of damage to a street, sidewalk, or other city property. The
amount of such bond shall be determined by the City Engineer and shall be based
upon an estimate of the cost to remedy possible damage to a street, sidewalk or
other property. At the termination of the permit, the cash bond shall be
returned to the applicant if there is no damage to a street, sidewalk, or other
property. In the event of any damage to a street, sidewalk, or other property,
the applicant shall be liable for the repair costs of such damage and the cash
bond shall be applied to the cost of repair.
   (G)   Fine. Whoever violates any provision of this section shall upon
conviction be subject to fine according to the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99.
('72 Code, § 6.06) (Am. Ord. 1323, passed 1-16-08; Am. Ord. 1326, passed 2-20-
08) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.023 AWNINGS AND OVERHANGING TREES.
   (A)   Awnings may be placed over sidewalks without permit from the city,
provided there is a clearance of at least seven feet above the surface of the
sidewalk.
   (B)   No person shall permit any tree on his property to overhang any
sidewalk by less than eight feet above the surface of the sidewalk or to
overhang any street pavement so as to impede traffic on the street.
('72 Code, § 6.18) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.024 VEGETATION OBSTRUCTING VISION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to suffer or permit any shrubs,
bushes, or plants, other than trees which are trimmed of low growing branches,
to grow to a height in excess of 30 inches on the berm adjoining the property
of such person or on the property of such person if the shrubs, bushes, or
plants are so located as to interfere with a clear vision for motorists at
intersections of streets and alleys.
   (B)   All shrubs, bushes or plants existing in violation of this section are
hereby declared to be a nuisance, and it shall be the duty of every person
owning or controlling the premises where such nuisance exists to abate the
same.
('72 Code, § 6.14) Penalty, see §
97.999
EXCAVATIONS
§ 97.035 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person, unless authorized by the City Council, shall make any excavation
in any street, alley, sidewalk or public grounds within the city without first
obtaining a permit therefor. The term EXCAVATION shall include the cutting or
removal of any street curb.
('72 Code, § 6.08(a)) (Ord. 941, passed 6-17-98) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.036 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; FEES.
   (A)   Any person desiring a permit to excavate in any street, alley,
sidewalk or public ground shall file with the City Clerk an application in
writing giving his or her name and the names of any firm of which he or she may
be a member; telephone number; description of property including address of
location for curb cut; and, if a licensed plumber, a certificate from a duly
qualified Board of Examiners in this state authorizing him or her to engage in
or carry on the business of plumbing whether as a master plumber or an
employing plumber or drain layer.
(Ord. 941, passed 6-17-98)
   (B)   A fee of $1,000 shall be required for any excavation in a public
street. All applications shall be accompanied by a sketch showing the width of
the proposed excavation along with dimensions to the nearest lot lines. The
applicant shall have three days from the date the application is made and
deposit paid to complete the excavation and repair the street as noted herein.
After excavation, the applicant shall place 12 inches of sand over the entire
section of exposure. Then the applicant shall fill the excavation with flowable
fill to a level eight inches below the crown of a brick or concrete street
surface or ten inches below the crown of an asphalt street surface. The
applicant shall then install Ca-6 to fill the rest of the excavation to the top
of the road surface. When the applicant has finished this work, he or she shall
notify the city of such fact. The city shall then wait three days to allow for
settlement. After which the City Superintendent of Streets and Water shall
inspect the excavation site. If the Superintendent determines that the
excavation repairs are not in compliance with this section, then the applicant
shall make whatever corrections are deemed necessary by the Superintendent.
When the Superintendent deems the repairs to conform to the requirements of
this section, he or she shall sign on the application at the appropriate
location. Thereafter, the applicant may present the application at City Hall
for a refund of one-half of the application fee. Once the applicant has
received his or her refund, the city shall assume all maintenance of the
excavation. If the applicant fails to comply with the terms of this section, he
or she may, at the discretion of the Commissioner of Streets and Improvements,
forfeit some, or all, of the refundable portion of the application fee.
   (C)   A fee of $6 per square foot shall be required for any excavation in a
public sidewalk. All applications shall be accompanied by a sketch showing the
width of the proposed excavation along with dimensions to the nearest lot
lines. The applicant shall have three days from the date the application is
made and deposit paid to complete the excavation and repair the sidewalk as
noted herein. After excavation, the applicant shall place sand or flowable fill
in the entire excavation area up to the height sufficient to allow the
replacement sidewalk to be poured on top (four inches for regular sidewalk, six
inches for driveway). When the applicant has finished this work, he or she
shall notify the city of such fact. The city shall then wait three days to
allow for settlement. After which the City Superintendent of Streets and Water
shall inspect the excavation site. The City Superintendent may thereafter
require the applicant to perform one or more of the following: make corrections
deemed necessary by the Superintendent; construct a temporary sidewalk with Ca-
6; leave the excavation as is to allow the city to construct a permanent
replacement sidewalk. When the Superintendent deems the repairs to conform to
the requirements of this section, he or she shall sign on the application at
the appropriate location. Thereafter, the applicant may present the application
at City Hall for a refund of one-half of the application fee. Once the
applicant has received his or her refund, the city shall assume all maintenance
of the sidewalk. If the applicant fails to comply with the terms of this
section, he or she may, at the discretion of the Commissioner of Streets and
Improvements, forfeit some, or all, of the refundable portion of the
application fee.
   (D)   A fee of $24 per lineal foot shall be required for an excavation in a
public curb. The applicant shall have three days from the date the application
is made and deposit paid to complete the excavation and repair the curb as
noted herein. A curb cut shall be accomplished by either removing the existing
curb and gutter pan in its entirety and replacing the section with a new
depressed curb or by saw-cutting the existing curbing to the proper shape of
the depressed type curb. Removal of a curb section by breaking or hammering of
the curb back is not permissible. All applications shall be accompanied by a
sketch showing the width of the proposed curb cut along with dimensions to the
nearest lot lines. All curb cuts must be approved and completed prior to
starting construction at a site. No heavy equipment, construction equipment,
and/or concrete trucks shall be allowed to cross over a curb prior to it being
properly cut and/or installed. After excavation, the applicant shall place
flowable fill in the entire excavation area up to the height sufficient to
allow the replacement curb. When the applicant has finished this work, he or
she shall notify the city of such fact. The city shall then wait three days to
allow for settlement. After which the City Superintendent of Streets and Water
shall inspect the excavation site. The City Superintendent may thereafter
require the applicant to perform one or more of the following: make corrections
deemed necessary by the Superintendent; construct a temporary curb with Ca-6;
leave the excavation as is to allow the city to construct a permanent
replacement curb. When the Superintendent deems the repairs to conform to the
requirements of this section, he or she shall sign on the application at the
appropriate location. Thereafter, the applicant may present the application at
City Hall for a refund of one-half of the application fee. Once the applicant
has received his or her refund, the city shall assume all maintenance of the
curb. If the applicant fails to comply with the terms of this section, he or
she may, at the discretion of the Commissioner of Streets and Improvements,
forfeit some, or all, of the refundable portion of the application fee.
   (E)   Failure to apply, pay for, and obtain, the necessary permits before
excavating in any street, alley, sidewalk or public ground, shall result in the
imposition of a fee that is three times the fee provided for herein. Further,
the person, company, corporation or other entity failing to obtain the proper
permit shall pay all costs and fees of the city in enforcing this section,
including attorney fees, court costs, publication fees and any other fees
associated with the enforcement action.
(Ord. 941, passed 6-17-98; Am. Ord. 1155, passed 3-17-04; Am. Ord. 1234, passed
1-18-06)
§ 97.037 ISSUANCE AND TERM OF PERMIT.
   Upon compliance with the requirements of this subchapter, the Mayor shall
issue a permit to such applicant. No such permit shall be granted for a longer
period of time than one year or the unexpired portion thereof so that all
permits shall expire on the first Monday of May in each year. No permit shall
be transferable.
('72 Code, § 6.08(d))
§ 97.038 LICENSED PERSONS TO BE RESPONSIBLE FOR ACTS OF AGENTS OR EMPLOYEES.
   All licensed plumbers, firms and corporations shall be held responsible for
all acts of their agents or employees done by virtue of their permit and if two
or more persons shall become partners, a permit shall be issued in the name of
the firm.
('72 Code, § 6.08(e))
§ 97.039 CLERK TO NOTIFY COMMISSIONER OF IMPROVEMENTS; RECORDS TO BE KEPT.
   It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to notify the Commissioner of Streets
and Public Improvements of all permits issued under this subchapter and to keep
a record of all such permits, the date of issue and the date when the work
thereon permitted was completed.
('72 Code, § 6.08(f))
§ 97.040 SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   Any person wishing to connect or to have connected any private drains or
sewer with any public sewer or sewers built or owned by the city shall first
apply to and obtain a written permit from the Mayor therefor. It shall be the
duty of the Commissioner of Streets and Public Improvements to prescribe the
mode of tapping the public sewers, the size of the opening therein, if it is
necessary to make any, and the materials to be used in such connections. All
work done under the authority of such permit shall be under the direction of
the Commissioner, and subject to such reasonable regulations as he may
prescribe.
('72 Code, § 6.08(b)) Penalty, see §
97.999
Cross-reference:
   Building sewer and connections, see §§
51.035 through
51.044
   Sewer connection fees, see §
52.31
§ 97.041 RESTORATION OF SURFACE; REMEDY OF INEQUALITIES IN SURFACE.
   (A)   The person making sewer or drain connections or taking up, laying,
relaying or connecting any gas or water pipe or main under the permit shall
leave the public streets in as good condition as before work was commenced and
in a condition satisfactory to the Commissioner of Streets and Public
Improvements. He shall level off the surface and when possible, water settle
the fill and if not, then thoroughly tamp the fill so as to avoid settling.
   (B)   Such person shall also at any time within one year after the date of
obtaining permit to do such work, upon receiving written notification from the
Commissioner, remedy any inequality in the surface of the street at the place
where such excavation was made and conform with the directions of the
Commissioner in relation thereto. In the event of any person refusing to obey
the directions of the Commissioner in regard thereto, it shall be the duty of
the Commissioner to immediately notify the Mayor, and the Mayor shall thereupon
refuse to issue any more permits for street work or plumbing until such notice
of the Commissioner shall have been complied with; and the Commissioner shall
cause necessary repairs to be made in the street and report to the Council the
cost of said repairs and suit shall be brought upon the bond as provided herein
for damages and the amount of the cost of such repairs.
('72 Code, § 6.08(g))
§ 97.042 SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
   Suitable barriers, guards, warning lights and red lanterns shall be erected
and maintained around any opening, excavation or obstruction in any street or
sidewalk under any permit that may be granted under the provisions of this
subchapter by the person so obtaining the permit.
('72 Code, § 6.08(h))
§ 97.043 CLOSING STREET FOR REPAIRS OR IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever any public street, alley, bridge, culvert or sidewalk in the
city is being built or repaired, or any public street or alley oiled, the
Commissioner of Streets and Public Improvements or other public officials
having such work in charge shall, when they deem it necessary, erect or cause
to be erected at such points as they may deem desirable, suitable barriers,
with signs thereon, stating that such street or alley is closed, and by whose
order such street or alley has been closed. The officials shall erect or cause
to be erected at such places as they may deem necessary or best, detour signs
directing travel around such construction or repair work.
   (B)   Whenever a street or alley has been closed as provided herein, it
shall be unlawful for any person to remove such barrier or signs, or to deface
or injure the same, or to walk, ride or drive upon any part of said street so
closed, except such persons duly authorized to do so.
('72 Code, § 6.09) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.044 DATUM PLANE AND STREET GRADES.
   (A)   Bench mark established. The datum plane of all grade elevations in and
for the city shall be and the same is hereby declared to be a plane on the same
level as the top of the southwest corner of the south concrete abutment of the
bridge over the Illinois & Michigan Canal on Main Street in the city, which is
hereby declared to be the bench mark for said purpose and said datum plane
shall be known as 66.373 for all elevations.
   (B)   Grade for Main Street. Commencing at a point 15 feet north of the
south line of Bluff Street in the city which is 17.627 feet above the datum
plane heretofore established in division (A); thence south along the centerline
of Main Street to the intersection of said Main Street with the south line of
Clark Street, at a grade of 2.8%; thence south along the centerline of Main
Street on the south line of Washington Street at a grade of 3.1%; thence south
along the centerline of Main Street to the north track of the Chicago, Rock
Island and Pacific Railroad at a grade of 3.7%; thence south along the
centerline of Main Street to the south end of the bridge over the Illinois &
Michigan Canal at a grade of 0.25%; thence south along the centerline of Main
Street to the north end of the north race bridge at a grade of 1.8%; thence
south along the centerline of Main Street to the north line of River Street, at
a grade of 0.6%; thence south along the centerline of Main Street to the north
end of the bridge over the Illinois River at a grade of 4%.
   (C)   Other grades. All other grades established in any of the streets of
the city shall conform with and be established from the datum plane herein
established.
('72 Code, § 6.03)
SIDEWALK AND CURB CONSTRUCTION
§ 97.055 GRADES.
   Whenever any sidewalk or curb is to be laid upon or along any street or
other public place within the city, the person about to build or lay such walk
or curb shall ascertain from the City Engineer the correct grade of such walk
or curb, which grade shall be established by ordinance or resolution before the
construction of such sidewalk or curb, and such sidewalk or curb shall be then
laid to such grade as established.
(‘72 Code, § 6.19(a)) (Am. Ord. 1826, passed 9-21-22)
§ 97.056 MATERIAL SPECIFICATIONS.
   All sidewalks and curbs constructed upon or along any street or other public
place within the city shall be constructed of concrete unless otherwise
directed by the City Council by an ordinance or resolution adopted for such
purpose.
(‘72 Code, § 6.19(b)) (Am. Ord. 1826, passed 9-21-22)
§ 97.057 MANNER OF CONSTRUCTION.
   All sidewalks and curbs which may hereafter be constructed of concrete shall
conform to specifications of the city. Such walk or curb shall have an
inclination toward the gutter of at least one- fifth of an inch to each foot in
width, with the inner line thereof one foot from the property line unless
otherwise provided for by ordinance. No sidewalk or curb shall be constructed
except under the supervision of the Street Supervisor. No sidewalk or curb
shall hereafter be constructed in any other manner unless it is so authorized
by the City Council by ordinance or resolution.
(‘72 Code, § 6.19(c)) (Am. Ord. 1826, passed 9-21-22)
§ 97.058 SPECIAL ORDINANCE OR RESOLUTION FOR SIDEWALK OR CURB ORDERED LAID BY
COUNCIL.
   When any sidewalk or curb shall be ordered laid by the City Council a
special ordinance or resolution shall be passed prescribing in what manner the
cost of such improvement shall be paid, which shall be either by general
taxation, special taxation or special assessment, and such ordinance or
resolution shall conform to the statute prescribing the method of procedure
under the manner of payment adopted.
(‘72 Code, § 6.19(d)) (Am. Ord. 1826, passed 9-21-22)
§ 97.059 SIDEWALK AND CURB REPLACEMENT PROGRAM.
   (A)   The City Council may from time to time institute a sidewalk and curb
replacement program whereby property owners will be reimbursed for the
replacement of adjoining sidewalks and/or curbs.
   (B)   The terms, conditions and procedures for any such replacement program
shall be approved by a majority of the Council and such terms, conditions and
procedures shall be placed on file with the City Clerk.
   (C)   The institution or discontinuance of any such sidewalk and curb
replacement program shall be at the discretion of the Council and the cost of
said program or any part thereof shall be paid in whole or part by general
revenues of the city.
(Am. Ord. 648, passed 11-3-82; Am. Ord. 1826, passed 9-21-22)
VACATION OF PUBLIC STREETS AND ALLEYS
§ 97.070 VACATION TO BE DONE BY ORDINANCE.
   The vacation of any street or alley, or part thereof, within the
jurisdiction of the city shall be by ordinance.
(Ord. 609, passed 5-21-80)
§ 97.071 VOTES REQUIRED FOR PASSAGE OF ORDINANCE.
   Such ordinance shall be passed by the affirmative vote of at least three-
fourths of the Commissioners then holding office; such vote shall be taken and
entered on the records of the corporate authority.
(Ord. 609, passed 5-21-80)
§ 97.072 NOTICE AND HEARING REQUIRED.
   No such ordinance shall be passed vacating any street or alley under the
jurisdiction of the city and within an unincorporated area without notice
thereof and a hearing thereon. At least 15 days prior to such hearing, notice
of its time, place and subject matter shall be published in a newspaper of
general circulation within the unincorporated area which the street or alley
proposed for vacation serves. At the hearing, all interested persons shall be
heard concerning the proposal for vacation.
(Ord. 609, passed 5-21-80)
§ 97.073 PETITION REQUIRED; CONTENTS.
   Any individual or other legal entity requesting the vacation of any street
or alley located within the city, shall petition the City Council, in writing.
Said petition shall be presented to the Council at a regular public meeting and
shall be signed, under oath, by the individual, or if some other entity, by its
duly authorized representative. Such a petition shall set forth the complete
legal description of the street or alley proposed to be vacated, or part
thereof, and shall have attached to said petition a plat of survey of said
street or alley, or part thereof, proposed to be vacated. Said plat of survey
shall not exceed 18 inches by 24 inches and shall be under certificate of an
Illinois Registered Land Surveyor.
(Ord. 609, passed 5-21-80)
§ 97.074 PAYMENT OF FEE REQUIRED BY ORDINANCE BECOMES EFFECTIVE.
   Any ordinance providing for the vacation of any street or alley, or part
thereof, shall not become effective until the individual or other legal entity
requesting such vacation shall pay to the city, the sum of $25, such fee shall
be used exclusively for the recording of the ordinance and the plat of survey.
(Ord. 609, passed 5-21-80)
§ 97.075 OWNERS OF PROPERTY ABUTTING VACATED STREET OR ALLEY MAY BE REQUIRED TO
PAY COMPENSATION BEFORE ORDINANCE BECOMES EFFECTIVE.
   The City Council may provide that any such ordinance vacating a public
street or alley, or part thereof, shall not become effective until the owners
of the property abutting upon the street or alley, or part thereof, so vacated,
pay compensation in an amount which, in the judgment of the Council, shall be
equal to the benefits which will accrue to such owners by reason of the
vacation, and if there are any public service facilities in such street or
alley, or part thereof, the ordinance may also reserve to the municipality or
to the public utility, as the case may be, owning such facilities, such
property rights of way and easements as, in the judgment of the Council, are
necessary or desirable for continuing public service by means of those
facilities and for the maintenance, renewal and reconstruction thereof.
(Ord. 609, passed 5-21-80)
§ 97.076 OTHER TERMS OF CONDITIONS.
   Any such ordinance may provide such other terms of conditions which, in the
judgment of the City Council, are necessary or desirable to subserve the public
interest.
(Ord. 609, passed 5-21-80)
PUBLIC DEMONSTRATIONS
§ 97.100 AREA RESTRICTED.
   It is unlawful for any person, group or organization to conduct or
participate in any march, assembly, meeting or gathering on any roadway or
sidewalk in more than one specific area or location in the city on any given
day unless it is acting under authority of this subchapter, and have complied
with the provisions of §
97.102, below.
(Ord. 728, passed 5-18-88) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.101 OBSTRUCTION OF PEDESTRIAN OR VEHICULAR TRAFFIC PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any group or organization or any individual acting
with such group or organization, to conduct or participate in any march,
assembly, meeting or gathering on any roadway or sidewalk within the city
unless such march, assembly, meeting or gathering is limited to such numbers
as, in the opinion of the Chief of Police, will not obstruct pedestrian or
vehicular traffic in an unreasonable manner.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall, within 12 hours of receiving the notice
required by §
97.102 below, inform the group or organization as to the limitation on the
number of persons allowed to participate.
(Ord. 728, passed 5-18-88) Penalty, see §
97.999
  § 97.102 WRITTEN NOTICE REQUIRED; CONTENTS OF NOTICE.
   It is unlawful for any group or organization or individual to conduct or
participate in any march, assembly, meeting or gathering on roadways or
sidewalks unless the Chief of Police has been given written notice of the
location, the maximum number of persons participating, the names and address of
the organizers of any such march, assembly, meeting or gathering, its route,
its time of inception and duration, at least 24 hours prior to inception, and
the names of all participants.
(Ord. 728, passed 5-18-88) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.103 MARCHING OR ASSEMBLING PROHIBITED DURING PEAK TRAFFIC PERIODS;
EXCEPTION.
   It is unlawful for any group, organization, or any individual to conduct or
participate in any march, assembly, meeting or gathering on roadways or
sidewalks within the city during peak traffic periods unless authorized by the
Chief of Police, for the area in which the march, assembly, meeting or
gathering is to be held. Peak traffic periods are for the purposes of this
subchapter, declared to 7:30 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. in the morning, and from 4:30
p.m. to 6:00 p.m. in the afternoon, Monday through Saturday.
(Ord. 728, passed 5-18-88) Penalty, see §
97.999
CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN THE RIGHTS-OF-WAY
§ 97.115 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights-of-way within the city's
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage, and visual qualities of the city
rights-of-way and the city as a whole.
   (B)   Intent. In enacting this section, the city intends to exercise its
authority over the rights-of-way in the city and, in particular, the use of the
public ways and property by utilities, by establishing uniform standards to
address issues presented by utility facilities, including without limitation:
      (1)   Prevent interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parkways and other public ways and places;
      (2)   Prevent the creation of visual and physical obstructions and other
conditions that are hazardous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
      (3)   Prevent interference with the facilities and operations of the
city's utilities and of other utilities lawfully located in rights-of-way or
public property;
      (4)   Protect against environmental damage, including damage to trees,
from the installation of utility facilities;
      (5)   Protect against increased storm-water run-off due to structures and
materials that increase impermeable surfaces;
      (6)   Preserve the character of the neighborhoods in which facilities are
installed;
      (7)   Preserve open space, particularly the tree-lined parkways that
characterize the city's residential neighborhoods;
      (8)   Prevent visual blight from the proliferation of facilities in the
rights-of-way; and
      (9)   Assure the continued safe use and enjoyment of private properties
adjacent to utility facilities locations.
   (C)   Facilities subject to this subchapter. This subchapter applies to all
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights-
of-way within the jurisdiction of the city. A facility lawfully established
prior to the effective date of this subchapter may continue without immediate
change as a result of the city adoption of this subchapter, but unless
otherwise expressly prohibited in any present franchise, license or similar
agreement all future maintenance, repairs and replacement shall comply with
this subchapter.
   (D)   Franchises, licenses, or similar agreements. The city, in its
discretion and as limited by law, may require utilities to enter into a
franchise, license or similar agreement for the privilege of locating their
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the city
rights-of-way. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the city enter into such an agreement. In such an
agreement, the city may provide for terms and conditions inconsistent with this
subchapter.
   (E)   Effect of franchises, licenses, or similar agreements.
      (1)   Utilities other than telecommunications providers. In the event
that a utility other than a telecommunications provider has a franchise,
license or similar agreement with the city, such franchise, license or similar
agreement shall remain in effect but become subject to this subchapter unless
otherwise expressly prohibited in such franchise, license or similar agreement.
      (2)   Telecommunications providers. In the event of any conflict with, or
inconsistency between, the provisions of this subchapter and the provisions of
any franchise, license or similar agreement between the city and any
telecommunications provider, the provisions of such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall remain in effect but become subject to this subchapter
unless otherwise expressly prohibited in such franchise, license or similar
agreement.
      (3)   Conflicts with other sections. This subchapter supersedes all
sections or parts of sections adopted prior hereto that are in conflict
herewith, to the extent of such conflict.
   (F)   Conflicts with state and Federal laws. In the event that applicable
Federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
subchapter, the utility shall comply with the requirements of this subchapter
to the maximum extent possible without violating Federal or state laws or
regulations.
   (G)   Sound engineering judgment. The city shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this subchapter and may vary the standards,
conditions, and requirements expressed in this subchapter when the city so
determines. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the city
to regulate its rights-of-way for the protection of the public health, safety
and welfare.
(Ord. 1580, passed 9-16-15)
§ 97.116 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter and unless the context clearly requires
otherwise, the words and terms listed shall have the meanings ascribed to them
in this subchapter. Any term not defined in this subchapter shall have the
meaning ascribed to it in 92 Ill. Adm. Code § 530.30, unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
   AASHTO. American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
   ANSI. American National Standards Institute.
   APPLICANT. A person applying for a permit under this section.
   ASTM. American Society for Testing and Materials.
   BACKFILL. The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a
trench or pit.
   BORE or BORING. To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the
insertion of a pipe or electrical conductor.
   CABLE OPERATOR. That term as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(5).
   CABLE SERVICE. That term as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(6).
   CABLE SYSTEM. That term as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(7).
   CARRIER PIPE. The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be
transported.
   CASING. A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as:
carrier pipes, electrical conductors, and fiberoptic devices.
   CITY. The City of Marseilles.
   CLEAR ZONE. The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a non-recoverable slope, and a clear run-out
area. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and
on the roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO Roadside Design
Guide.
   COATING. Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
   CODE. The Municipal Code of the City of Marseilles.
   CONDUCTOR. Wire carrying electrical current.
   CONDUIT. A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
   CONSTRUCTION or CONSTRUCT. The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
   COVER. The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
   CROSSING FACILITY. A facility that crosses one or more right-of-way lines of
a right-of-way.
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS. The City Director of Public Works or his or her
designee.
   DISRUPT THE RIGHT-OF-WAY. For the purposes of this section, any work that
obstructs the right-of-way or causes a material adverse effect on the use of
the right-of-way for its intended use. Such work may include, without
limitation, the following: excavating or other cutting; placement (whether
temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment, devices, or structures; damage
to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of the soil, and shall not include
the parking of vehicles or equipment in a manner that does not materially
obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
   EMERGENCY. Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety
of the public using or in the vicinity of the right-of-way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
   ENCASEMENT. Provision of a protective casing.
   ENGINEER. The City Engineer or his or her designee.
   EQUIPMENT. Materials, tools, implements, supplies, and/or other items used
to facilitate construction of facilities.
   EXCAVATION. The making of a hole or cavity by removing material, or laying
bare by digging.
   EXTRA HEAVY PIPE. Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
   FACILITY. All structures, devices, objects, and materials (including, but
not limited to, track and rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cables, antennas,
vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, cabinets, pedestals, poles, conduits,
grates, covers, pipes, cables, and appurtenances thereto) located on, over,
above, along, upon, under, across, or within rights-of-way under this section.
For purposes of this subchapter, the term facility shall not include any
facility owned or operated by the city.
   FREESTANDING FACILITY. A facility that is not a crossing facility or a
parallel facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump, or meter station.
   FRONTAGE ROAD. Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent
to the highway where it is precluded by control of access to a highway.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location, or other characteristics, is determined by the
City Engineer to pose an unreasonable and imminent risk to the life, health or
safety of persons or property or to the ecological balance of the environment,
including, but not limited to explosives, radioactive materials, petroleum or
petroleum products or gases, poisons, etiology (biological) agents, flammables,
corrosives or any substance determined to be hazardous or toxic under any
Federal or state law, statute or regulation.
   HIGHWAY. A specific type of right-of-way used for vehicular traffic
including rural or urban roads or streets. HIGHWAY includes all highway land
and improvements, including roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges,
drainage structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances
necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
   HIGHWAY CODE. The Illinois Highway Code, 605 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq., as
amended from time to time.
   HOLDER. A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or
provide cable or video service from the ICC pursuant to the Illinois Cable and
Video Competition Law, 220 ILCS 5/21-401.
   ICC. Illinois Commerce Commission.
   IDOT. Illinois Department of Transportation.
   JACKING. Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means
with or without boring.
   JETTING. Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to
create a cavity ahead of the pipe.
   JOINT USE. The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two or
more utilities.
   J.U.L.I.E. The joint utility locating information for excavators utility
notification program.
   MAJOR INTERSECTION. The intersection of two or more major arterial highways.
   OCCUPANCY. The presence of facilities on, over or under right-of-way.
   PARALLEL FACILITY. A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to
the centerline of a right-of-way.
   PARKWAY. Any portion of the right-of-way not improved by street or sidewalk.
   PAVEMENT CUT. The removal of an area of pavement for access to facility or
for the construction of a facility.
   PERMITTEE. That entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to §§
97.118 and
97.119 of this chapter.
   PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES. Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane, or coal-slurry.
   PRACTICABLE. That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than
that which is simply convenient.
   PRESSURE. The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
   PROMPT. That which is done within a period of time specified by the city. If
no time period is specified, the period shall be 30 days.
   PUBLIC ENTITY. A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, state or Federal level.
   RESTORATION. The repair of a right-of-way, highway, roadway, or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHTS-OF-WAY. Any street, alley, other land or waterway,
dedicated or commonly used for pedestrian or vehicular traffic or other public
purposes, including utility easements, in which the city has the right and
authority to authorize, regulate or permit the location of facilities other
than those of the city. RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHTS-OF-WAY shall not include any
real or personal city property that is not specifically described in the
previous two sentences and shall not include city buildings, fixtures and other
structures or improvements, regardless of whether they are situated in the
right-of-way.
   ROADWAY. That part of the highway that includes the pavement, shoulders and
adjoining drainage improvements.
   SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL. The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
   SECURITY FUND. That amount of security required pursuant to §
97.124.
   SHOULDER. A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
   SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT. A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices and experience.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. This term includes, but is not limited to, messages or
information transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone
service, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer
exchange service, private line services, mobile radio services, cellular mobile
telecommunications services, stationary two-way radio, paging service and any
other form of mobile or portable one-way or two-way communications, and any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. PRIVATE LINE means a dedicated non-traffic
sensitive service for a single customer that entitles the customer to exclusive
or priority use of a communications channel, or a group of such channels, from
one or more specified locations to one or more other specified locations.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include value added services in which computer
processing applications are used to act on the form, content, code and protocol
of the information for purposes other than transmission. TELECOMMUNICATIONS
shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a telecommunications
service provider for use as a component part of the service provided by such
provider to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or terminates the end-
to-end communications. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include the provision of
cable services through a cable system as defined in the Cable Communications
Act of 1984 (47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq.), as now or hereafter amended, or cable
or other programming services subject to an open video system fee payable to
the city through an open video system as defined in the Rules of the Federal
Communications Commission (47 C.F.R. §§ 76.1500 et seq.), as now or hereafter
amended.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER. Any person that installs, owns, operates or
controls facilities in the right-of-way used or designed to be used to transmit
telecommunications in any form.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER. Includes every person engaged in making sales
of telecommunications at retail as defined herein.
   TRENCH. A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
   UTILITY. The individual or entity owning or operating any facility as
defined in this section.
   VENT. A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
   VIDEO SERVICE. That term as defined in § 21-201(v) of the Illinois Cable and
Video Competition Law of 2007, 220 ILCS 21-201(v).
   WATER LINES. Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
   WET BORING. Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material.
(Ord. 1580, passed 9-16-15)
§ 97.117 ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   Every utility that occupies right-of-way within the city shall in January of
each year register with the City Clerk providing any change in the utility's
name, address and regular business telephone and telecopy numbers, the name of
one or more contact persons who can act on behalf of the utility in connection
with emergencies involving the utility's facilities in the right-of-way and a
24-hour telephone number for each such person, and evidence of insurance as
required in §
97.122 of this chapter, in the form of a certificate of insurance. A fee of
$100 shall accompany any new or substantially modified registration.
(Ord. 1580, passed 9-16-15)
§ 97.118 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATIONS AND FEES.
   (A)   Permit required. 
      (1)   No person shall construct (as defined in this section) any facility
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within any city right-of-way
which:
         (a)   Changes the location of the facility;
         (b)   Adds a new facility;
         (c)   Disrupts the right-of-way (as defined in this subchapter); or
         (d)   Materially increases the amount of area or space occupied by the
facility on, over, above, along, under across or within the right-of-way,
without first filing an application with the City Engineer and obtaining a
permit from the city therefor, except as otherwise provided in this subchapter.
      (2)   No permit shall be required for installation and maintenance of
service connections to customers’ premises where there will be no disruption of
the right-of-way.
   (B)   Permit application. All applications for permits pursuant to this
section shall be filed on a form provided by the city and shall be filed in
such number of duplicate copies as the city may designate. The applicant may
designate those portions of its application materials that it reasonably
believes contain proprietary or confidential information as “proprietary” or
“confidential” by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly.
   (C)   Minimum general application requirements. The application shall be
made by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at
a minimum, the following:
      (1)   The utility’s name and address and telephone and telecopy numbers;
      (2)   The applicant’s name and address, if different than the utility,
its telephone, telecopy numbers, e-mail address, and its interest in the work;
      (3)   The names, addresses and telephone and telecopy numbers and e-mail
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application;
      (4)   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
      (5)   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the city:
         (a)   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the Illinois Manual
on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
         (b)   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the city and shall promote
protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with ICC
regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with this
subchapter unless the city finds that additional information or assurances are
needed;
      (6)   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of an engineer that such drawings, plans, and
specifications comply with applicable codes, rules, and regulations;
      (7)   Evidence of insurance as required in §
97.122 of this chapter;
      (8)   Evidence of posting of the security fund as required in §
97.124 of this chapter;
      (9)   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
subchapter (see §
97.135); and
      (10)   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
city.
   (D)   Supplemental application requirements for specific types of utilities.
In addition to the requirements of division (C) of this section, the permit
application shall include the following items, as applicable to the specific
utility that is the subject of the permit application:
      (1)   In the case of the installation of a new electric power,
communications, telecommunications, cable television service, video service or
natural gas distribution system, evidence that any “Certificate of Public
Convenience and Necessity” or other regulatory authorization that the applicant
is required by law to obtain, or that the applicant has elected to obtain, has
been issued by the ICC or other jurisdictional authority;
      (2)   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class, and operating pressures;
      (3)   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, Division of Public Water Supplies,
have been satisfied;
      (4)   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency,
Division of Water Pollution Control and the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District [other local or state entities with jurisdiction], have been
satisfied; or
      (5)   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or
types of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure, and the
design standard to be followed.
   (E)   Applicant’s duty to update information. Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility in writing to the city within 30 days after the change
necessitating the amendment.
   (F)   Application fees. Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license, or
similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant to this subchapter
shall be accompanied a preliminary fee no less than the amount of $1,000. Said
fee amount may vary based on the project size but in all cases shall be a fee
of no less than $1,000. The applicant will be expected to sign a fee agreement
agreeing to pay all costs incurred by the City of Marseilles including, but not
limited to, publication fees, zoning fees, permit fees, inspection fees,
Engineering and Attorney fees plus an administrative a personnel charge of 30%
of the Engineering and Attorney fees. An applicant assessed a fee beyond the
preliminary fee may request modification or elimination of such additional fee
by application to the city to be considered by the City Council. The City
Council retains authority to modify any additional final fee if it finds that
the additional requested final fees are not attributable to the applicant's
project.
   (G)   The City Council may approve a waiver of an application fee where the
city otherwise receives revenue from the applicant sufficient to offset the
city's actual costs identified above.
(Ord. 1580, passed 9-16-15)
§ 97.119 ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   City review of permit applications. Completed permit applications,
containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the City Engineer
within a reasonable time after filing. If the application does not conform to
the requirements of applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules, and regulations,
the City Engineer shall reject such application in writing, stating the reasons
therefor. If the City Engineer is satisfied that the proposed work conforms to
the requirements of this section and applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules,
and regulations, the City Engineer shall issue a permit therefor as soon as
practicable. In all instances, it shall be the duty of the applicant to
demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the City Engineer, that the construction
proposed under the application shall be in full compliance with the
requirements of this section.
   (B)   Additional city review of applications of telecommunications
retailers.
      (1)   Pursuant to Section 4 of the Telephone Company Act, 220 ILCS 65/4,
a telecommunications retailer shall notify the city that it intends to commence
work governed by this section for facilities for the provision of
telecommunications services. Such notice shall consist of plans,
specifications, and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the purpose
and intent of the facilities, and shall be provided by the telecommunications
retailer to the city not less than ten days prior to the commencement of work
requiring no excavation and not less than 30 days prior to the commencement of
work requiring excavation. The City Engineer shall specify the portion of the
right-of-way upon which the facility may be placed, used and constructed.
      (2)   In the event that the City Engineer fails to provide such
specification of location to the telecommunications retailer within either:
         (a)   Ten days after service of notice to the city by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work not involving excavation for
new construction; or
         (b)   Twenty-five days after service of notice by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work involving excavation for new
construction, the telecommunications retailer may commence work without
obtaining a permit under this section.
      (3)   Upon the provision of such specification by the city, where a
permit is required for work pursuant to §
97.118 of this subchapter the telecommunications retailer shall submit to the
city an application for a permit and any and all plans, specifications and
documentation available regarding the facility to be constructed. Such
application shall be subject to the requirements of division (A) of this
section.
   (C)   Additional city review of applications of holders of state
authorization under the Cable and Video Competition Law of 2007. Applications
by a utility that is a holder of a state-issued authorization under the Cable
and Video Competition Law of 2007 shall be deemed granted 45 days after
submission to the city, unless otherwise acted upon by the city, provided the
holder has complied with applicable city codes, ordinances, and regulations.
(Ord. 1580, passed 9-16-15)
§ 97.120 EFFECT OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Authority granted; no property right or other interest created. A
permit from the city authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this subchapter on city rights-of-way, and does
not create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon
the rights of others who may have an interest in the rights-of-way.
   (B)   Duration. No permit issued under this subchapter shall be valid for a
period longer than six months unless construction is actually begun within that
period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion.
   (C)   Pre-construction meeting required. No construction shall begin
pursuant to a permit issued under this chapter prior to attendance by the
permittee and all major contractors and subcontractors who will perform any
work under the permit at a pre-construction meeting. The pre-construction
meeting shall be held at a date, time and place designated by the city with
such city representatives in attendance as the city deems necessary. The
meeting shall be for the purpose of reviewing the work under the permit, and
reviewing special considerations necessary in the areas where work will occur,
including, without limitation, presence or absence of other utility facilities
in the area and their locations, procedures to avoid disruption of other
utilities, use of rights-of-way by the public during construction, and access
and egress by adjacent property owners.
   (D)   Compliance with all laws required. The issuance of a permit by the
city does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of
the city and applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations.
(Ord. 1580, passed 9-16-15)
§ 97.121 REVISED PERMIT DRAWINGS.
   In the event that the actual locations of any facilities deviate in any
material respect from the locations identified in the plans, drawings and
specifications submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall
submit a revised set of drawings or plans to the city within 90 days after the
completion of the permitted work. The revised drawings or plans shall
specifically identify where the locations of the actual facilities deviate from
the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation from the permit also
deviates from the requirements of this subchapter, it shall be treated as a
request for variance in accordance with §
97.135. If the city denies the request for a variance, then the permittee shall
either remove the facility from the right-of-way or modify the facility so that
it conforms to the permit and submit revised drawings or plans therefor.
(Ord. 1580, passed 9-16-15)
§ 97.122 INSURANCE.
   (A)   Required coverages and limits. 
      (1)   Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license, or similar
agreement, each utility occupying right-of-way or constructing any facility in
the right-of-way shall secure and maintain the following liability insurance
policies insuring the utility as named insured and naming the city, and its
elected and appointed officers, officials, agents, and employees as additional
insureds on the policies listed in divisions (1) and (2) below:
         (a)   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse, and underground hazard (commonly referred to
as "X," "C," and "U" coverages) and products-completed operations coverage with
limits not less than:
            1.   Five million dollars for bodily injury or death to each
person;
            2.   Five million dollars for property damage resulting from any
one accident; and
            3.   Five million dollars for all other types of liability;
         (b)   Automobile liability for owned, non-owned and hired vehicles
with a combined single limit of $1,000,000 for personal injury and property
damage for each accident;
         (c)   Worker's compensation with statutory limits; and
         (d)   Employer's liability insurance with limits of not less than
$1,000,000 per employee and per accident.
      (2)   If the utility is not providing such insurance to protect the
contractors and subcontractors performing the work, then such contractors and
subcontractors shall comply with this section.
   (B)   Excess or umbrella policies. The coverages required by this section
may be in any combination of primary, excess, and umbrella policies. Any excess
or umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following-form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   (C)   Copies required. The utility shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this subchapter to the city within ten days following
receipt of a written request therefor from the city.
   (D)   Maintenance and renewal of required coverages. 
      (1)   The insurance policies required by this section shall contain the
following endorsement:
         "It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be
canceled nor the intention not to renew be stated until 30 days after receipt
by the city, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, of
a written notice addressed to the City [President] [Mayor] [Manager]
[Administrator] of such intent to cancel or not to renew."
      (2)   Within ten days after receipt by the city of said notice, and in no
event later than ten days prior to said cancellation, the utility shall obtain
and furnish to the city evidence of replacement insurance policies meeting the
requirements of this section.
   (E)   Self-insurance. A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by division (A) of this
section. A utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such
self-insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional
insureds under division (A), or the requirements of divisions (B), (C) and (D)
of this section. A utility that elects to self-insure shall provide to the city
evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required under division (A) of this
section, such as evidence that the utility is a "private self-insurer" under
the Workers Compensation Act.
   (F)   Effect of insurance and self-insurance on utility's liability. The
legal liability of the utility to the city and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
   (G)   Insurance companies. All insurance provided pursuant to this section
shall be effected under valid and enforceable policies, issued by insurers
legally able to conduct business with the licensee in the State of Illinois
(all insurance carriers and surplus line carriers shall be rated "A-" or better
and of a class size "X" or higher by A.M. Best Company).
(Ord. 1580, passed 9-16-15)
§ 97.123 INDEMNIFICATION.
   By occupying or constructing facilities in the right-of-way, a utility shall
be deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the city and its elected and
appointed officials and officers, employees, agents and representatives
harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims, demands, judgments,
damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney's fees and costs of
suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise out of or
result from the negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to
act or misconduct of the utility or its affiliates, officers, employees,
agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction of facilities or
occupancy of the rights-of-way, and in providing or offering service over the
facilities, whether such acts or omissions are authorized, allowed or
prohibited by this subchapter or by a franchise, license, or similar agreement;
provided, however, that the utility's indemnity obligations hereunder shall not
apply to any injuries, claims, demands, judgments, damages, losses or expenses
arising out of or resulting from the negligence, misconduct or breach of this
section by the city, its officials, officers, employees, agents or
representatives.
(Ord. 1580, passed 9-16-15)
§ 97.124 SECURITY.
   (A)   Purpose. The permittee shall establish a security fund in a form and
in an amount as set forth in this section. The security fund shall be
continuously maintained in accordance with this section at the permittee's sole
cost and expense until the completion of the work authorized under the permit.
The security fund shall serve as security for:
      (1)   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements
of this section;
      (2)   Any expenditure, damage, or loss incurred by the city occasioned by
the permittee's failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations, orders,
permits and other directives of the city issued pursuant to this section; and
      (3)   The payment by permittee of all liens and all damages, claims,
costs, or expenses that the city may pay or incur by reason of any action or
non-performance by permittee in violation of this section including, without
limitation, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this section to perform that the city must perform itself or have
completed as a consequence solely of the permittee’s failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the city from the permittee pursuant to
this section or any other applicable law.
   (B)   Form. The permittee shall provide the security fund to the city in the
form, at the permittee’s election, of cash, a surety bond in a form acceptable
to the city, or an unconditional letter of credit in a form acceptable to the
city. Any surety bond or letter of credit provided pursuant to this section
shall, at a minimum:
      (1)   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
city and the permittee;
      (2)   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by
the city of any amounts covered by it; and
      (3)   Shall provide a location convenient to the city and within the
State of Illinois at which it can be drawn.
   (C)   Amount. The dollar amount of the security fund shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right-of-way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the City Engineer, and may also include reasonable,
directly related costs that the city estimates are likely to be incurred if the
permittee fails to perform such restoration. Where the construction of
facilities proposed under the permit will be performed in phases in multiple
locations in the city, with each phase consisting of construction of facilities
in one location or a related group of locations, and where construction in
another phase will not be undertaken prior to substantial completion of
restoration in the previous phase or phases, the City Engineer may, in the
exercise of sound discretion, allow the permittee to post a single amount of
security which shall be applicable to each phase of the construction under the
permit. The amount of the security fund for phased construction shall be equal
to the greatest amount that would have been required under the provisions of
this division (C) for any single phase.
   (D)   Withdrawals. The city, upon 14 days’ advance written notice clearly
stating the reason for, and its intention to exercise withdrawal rights under
this section, may withdraw an amount from the security fund, provided that the
permittee has not reimbursed the city for such amount within the 14 day notice
period. Withdrawals may be made if the permittee:
      (1)   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
      (2)   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due and
unpaid;
      (3)   Fails to reimburse the city for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the city has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or non-performance by the permittee; or
      (4)   Fails to comply with any provision of this subchapter that the city
determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the security fund.
   (E)   Replenishment. Within 14 days after receipt of written notice from the
city that any amount has been withdrawn from the security fund, the permittee
shall restore the security fund to the amount specified in division (C) of this
section.
   (F)   Interest. The permittee may request that any and all interest accrued
on the amount in the security fund be returned to the permittee by the city,
upon written request for said withdrawal to the city, provided that any such
withdrawal does not reduce the security fund below the minimum balance required
in division (C) of this section.
   (G)   Closing and return of security fund. Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the security fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the city for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
section or other applicable law. In the event work authorized under the permit
included any open road cuts, an amount determined by the City Engineer may be
retained for up to 12 months for any potential road repairs arising from post
work settling in the area of the road cut(s). In the event of any revocation of
the permit, the security fund, and any and all accrued interest therein, shall
become the property of the city to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable
costs, loss or damage incurred by the city as a result of said revocation,
provided that any amounts in excess of said costs, loss or damage shall be
refunded to the permittee.
   (H)   Rights not limited. The rights reserved to the city with respect to
the security fund are in addition to all other rights of the city, whether
reserved by this section or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to said security fund shall affect
any other right the city may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the city
shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any of its
rights which may be infringed or otherwise violated.
(Ord. 1580, passed 9-16-15)
§ 97.125 PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   City right to revoke permit. The city may revoke or suspend a permit
issued pursuant to this section for one or more of the following reasons:
      (1)   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting, or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      (2)   Non-compliance with this subchapter;
      (3)   Permittee’s physical presence or presence of permittee’s facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights-of-way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety, or welfare;
or
      (4)   Permittee’s failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   (B)   Notice of revocation or suspension. The city shall send written notice
of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this section
stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the
alternatives available to permittee under division (C).
   (C)   Permittee alternatives upon receipt of notice of revocation or
suspension. Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the city, the permittee shall have the following options:
      (1)   Immediately provide the city with evidence that no cause exists for
the revocation or suspension;
      (2)   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the city, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the city within five working days after receipt of the written
notice of revocation; or
      (3)   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above, along,
upon, under, across, or within the rights-of-way and restore the rights-of-way
to the satisfaction of the city providing written proof of such removal to the
city within ten days after receipt of the written notice of revocation. The
city may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend the time periods
provided in this division.
   (D)   Stop work order. In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the city may issue a stop work order immediately upon discovery
of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within division (A) of this
section.
   (E)   Failure or refusal of the permittee to comply. 
      (1)   If the permittee fails to comply with the provisions of division
(C) of this section, the city or its designee may, at the option of the city:
         (a)   Correct the deficiencies;
         (b)   Upon not less than 20 days’ notice to the permittee, remove the
subject facilities or equipment; or
         (c)   After not less than 30 days’ notice to the permittee of failure
to cure the non-compliance, deem them abandoned and property of the city.
      (2)   The permittee shall be liable in all events to the city for all
costs of removal.
(Ord. 1580, passed 9-16-15)
§ 97.126 CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OR OWNER'S IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS.
   (A)   Notification of change. A utility shall notify the city no less than
30 days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the right-of-way
or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility or the
facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the former
owner under the permit, if any, and applicable laws, ordinances, rules and
regulations, including this subchapter, with respect to the work and facilities
in the right-of-way.
   (B)   Amended permit. A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the city’s right-of-
way.
   (C)   Insurance and bonding. All required insurance coverage or bonding must
be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer.
(Ord. 1580, passed 9-16-15)
§ 97.127 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Standards and principles. All construction in the right-of-way shall
be consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws rules and regulations,
and commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction
principles, sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the principles
and standards set forth in the following IDOT publications, as amended from
time to time:
      (1)   Standard specifications for road and bridge construction;
      (2)   Supplemental specifications and recurring special provisions;
      (3)   Highway design manual;
      (4)   Highway standards manual;
      (5)   Standard specifications for traffic control items;
      (6)   Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (92 Ill. Adm.
Code § 545);
      (7)   Flagger's Handbook; and
      (8)   Work Site Protection Manual for Daylight Maintenance Operations.
   (B)   Interpretation of municipal standards and principles. If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
section, the City Engineer shall determine, in the exercise of sound
engineering judgment, which principles apply and such decision shall be final.
If requested, the City Engineer shall state which standard or principle will
apply to the construction, maintenance, or operation of a facility in the
future.
(Ord. 1580, passed 9-16-15)
§ 97.128 TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   (A)   Minimum requirements. The city’s minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT's Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices and this Code.
   (B)   Warning signs, protective devices, and flaggers. The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting applicable Federal, state, and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility's workers when
performing any work on the rights-of-way.
   (C)   Interference with traffic. All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Notice when access is blocked. At least 48 hours prior to beginning
work that will partially or completely block access to any residence, business
or institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business or institution
of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work; provided, however,
that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to §
97.134 of this subchapter, the utility shall provide such notice as is
practicable under the circumstances.
   (E)   Compliance. The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility's attention by the city.
(Ord. 1580, passed 9-16-15)
§ 97.129 LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   General requirements. In addition to location requirements applicable
to specific types of utility facilities, all utility facilities, regardless of
type, shall be subject to the general location requirements of this section.
      (1)   No interference with city facilities. No utility facilities shall
be placed in any location if the City Engineer determines that the proposed
location will require the relocation or displacement of any of the city's
utility facilities or will otherwise interfere with the operation or
maintenance of any of the city's utility facilities.
      (2)   Minimum interference and impact. The proposed location shall cause
only the minimum possible interference with the use of the right-of-way and
shall cause only the minimum possible impact upon, and interference with the
rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin said right-of-
way.
      (3)   No interference with travel. No utility facility shall be placed in
any location that interferes with the usual travel on such right-of-way.
      (4)   No limitations on visibility. No utility facility shall be placed
in any location so as to limit visibility of or by users of the right-of-way.
      (5)   Size of utility facilities. The proposed installation shall use the
smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals, and/or
cabinets then in use by the facility owner, regardless of location, for the
particular application.
   (B)   Parallel facilities located within highways.
      (1)   Overhead parallel facilities. An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         (a)   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right-of-way
line and as nearly parallel to the right-of-way line as reasonable pole
alignment will permit;
         (b)   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable
from the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (0.6 meters) behind the face
of the curb, where available;
         (c)   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement
edge as practicable with minimum distance of four feet (1.2 meters) outside the
outer shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
         (d)   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
         (e)   Any ground-mounted appurtenance is located within one foot (0.3
meters) of the right-of-way line or as near as possible to the right-of-way
line.
      (2)   Underground parallel facilities. An underground parallel facility
may be located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         (a)   The facility is located as near the right-of-way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet (2.4 meters) from and parallel to the
right-of-way line;
         (b)   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
highway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
         (c)   In the case of an underground power or communications line, the
facility shall be located as near the right-of-way line as practicable and not
more than five feet (1.5 meters) from the right-of-way line and any above-
grounded appurtenance shall be located within one foot (0.3 meters) of the
right-of-way line or as near as practicable.
   (C)   Facilities crossing highways.
      (1)   No future disruption. The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of city highways may
require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement or
additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      (2)   Cattle passes, culverts, or drainage facilities. Crossing
facilities shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts, or drainage
facilities.
      (3)   Ninety degree crossing required. Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a 90 degree angle to the centerline as practicable.
      (4)   Overhead power or communication facility. An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         (a)   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ICC's
rules entitled, “Construction of Electric Power and Communication Lines” (83
Ill. Adm. Code 305);
         (b)   Poles are located within one foot (0.3 meters) of the right-of-
way line of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
         (c)   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
      (5)   Underground power or communication facility. An underground power
or communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         (a)   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance-free service life; and
         (b)   Capacity for the utility's foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
      (6)   Markers. The city may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right-of-way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility, and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current Federal regulations (49 C.F.R. § 192.707
(1989)).
   (D)   Facilities to be located within particular rights-of-way. The city may
require that facilities be located within particular rights-of-way that are not
highways, rather than within particular highways.
   (E)   Freestanding facilities.
      (1)   The city may restrict the location and size of any freestanding
facility located within a right-of-way.
      (2)   The city may require any freestanding facility located within a
right-of-way to be screened from view.
   (F)   Facilities installed above ground. 
      (1)   Above ground facilities may be installed only if:
         (a)   No other existing facilities in the area are located
underground;
         (b)   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
         (c)   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety.
      (2)   Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting
armless, single-pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and
cable. Existing utility poles and light standards shall be used wherever
practicable; the installation of additional utility poles is strongly
discouraged.
   (G)   Facility attachments to bridges or roadway structures.
      (1)   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive, or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk and such installations are not
permitted.
      (2)   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
         (a)   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
         (b)   The type, length, value, and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
         (c)   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
         (d)   The proposed method of attachment;
         (e)   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
         (f)   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
         (g)   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
         (h)   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved.
   (H)   Appearance standards.
      (1)   The city may prohibit the installation of facilities in particular
locations in order to preserve visual quality.
      (2)   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the right-of-way user or to adjacent residents and property owners, and if it
does not impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed.
(Ord. 1580, passed 9-16-15)
§ 97.130 CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS.
   (A)   Standards and requirements for particular types of construction
methods.
      (1)   Boring or jacking.
         (a)   Pits and shoring. Boring or jacking under rights-of-way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the City
Engineer from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring or jacking shall be
excavated no more than 48 hours in advance of boring or jacking operations and
backfilled within 48 hours after boring or jacking operations are completed.
While pits are open, they shall be clearly marked and protected by barricades.
Shoring shall be designed, erected, supported, braced, and maintained so that
it will safely support all vertical and lateral loads that may be imposed upon
it during the boring or jacking operation.
         (b)   Wet boring or jetting. Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
         (c)   Borings with diameters greater than six inches. Borings over six
inches (0.15 meters) in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and
following pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside
diameter of the following pipe by more than one inch (25 millimeters).
         (d)   Borings with diameters six inches or less. Borings of six inches
or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with auger,
or auger and following pipe method.
         (e)   Tree preservation. Any facility located within the drip line of
any tree designated by the city to be preserved or protected shall be bored
under or around the root system.
      (2)   Trenching. Trenching for facility installation, repair, or
maintenance on rights-of-way shall be done in accord with the applicable
portions of Section 603 of IDOT’s “Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction.”
         (a)   Length. The length of open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipe-line testing. Only
one-half of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless special
permission is obtained from the City Engineer.
         (b)   Open trench and excavated material. Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by chapter 6 of the Illinois
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where right-of-way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off-road location.
         (c)   Drip line of trees. The utility shall not trench within the drip
line of any tree designated by the city to be preserved.
      (3)   Backfilling.
         (a)   Any pit, trench, or excavation created during the installation
of facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth, and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT’s “Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction.” When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
         (b)   For a period of three years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore
any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the Engineer, the utility, at its expense, shall remove any pavement
and backfill material to the top of the installed facility, place and properly
compact new backfill material, and restore new pavement, sidewalk, curbs, and
driveways to the proper grades, as determined by the Engineer [Director of
Public Works].
      (4)   Pavement cuts. Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall be permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed
to traffic. If a variance to the limitation set forth in this division (4) is
permitted under §
97.135, the following requirements shall apply:
         (a)   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled and compacted
as soon as practicable with granular material of CA-6 or CA-10 gradation, as
designated by the Engineer.
         (b)   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as soon
as practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the city.
         (c)   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
         (d)   For all rights-of-way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last seven years, or resurfaced in the last three
years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to be an
emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before the
time of the reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a
J.U.L.I.E. locate.
      (5)   Encasement.
         (a)   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one-piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
city.
         (b)   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot (0.3 meters) of the right-of-way line. No above-ground vent pipes shall be
located in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of
the highway.
         (c)   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall
be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or city approved jointed
pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is installed
prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or mechanical
joints are of a type approved by the city. Bell and spigot type pipe shall be
encased regardless of installation method.
         (d)   In the case of gas pipelines of 60 psig or less, encasement may
be eliminated.
         (e)   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines
with installations of more than 60 psig, encasement may be eliminated only if:
            1.   Extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or
repair; and
            2.   Cathodic protection of the pipe is provided.
         (f)   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right-of-way.
      (6)   Minimum cover of underground facilities. Cover shall be provided
and maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for
minimum cover for the type of facility:
 
TYPE OF FACILITY                         MINIMUM COVER
Electric lines                           30 inches (0.8 meters)
Communication, cable or video service    18 to 24 inches (0.6 meters, as
lines                                    determined by the city)
Gas or petroleum products             30 inches (0.8 meters)
Water line                               Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                         protection
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer, or drainage Sufficient cover to provide freeze
line                                     protection
 
   (B)   Standards and requirements for particular types of facilities.
      (1)   Electric power or communication lines.
         (a)   Code compliance. Electric power or communications facilities
within city rights-of-way shall be constructed, operated, and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Ill. Adm. Code Part 305 (formerly General
Order 160 of the Illinois Commerce Commission) entitled “Rules for Construction
of Electric Power and Communications Lines,” and the National Electrical Safety
Code.
         (b)   Overhead facilities. Overhead power or communication facilities
shall use single pole construction and, where practicable, joint use of poles
shall be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the
installation so guys and braces will not be needed. Variances may be allowed if
there is no feasible alternative and if guy wires are equipped with guy guards
for maximum visibility.
         (c)   Underground facilities.
            1.   Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing, provided that
special consideration is given to boring in order to minimize damage when
crossing improved entrances and side roads.
            2.   If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement
shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated
only if:
               A.   The crossing is installed by the use of “moles,” “whip
augers,” or other approved method which compress the earth to make the opening
for cable installation; or
               B.   The installation is by the open trench method which is only
permitted prior to roadway construction.
            3.   Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the National
Electrical Safety Code.
         (d)   Burial of drops. All temporary service drops placed between
November 1 of the prior year and March 15 of the current year, also known as
snowdrops, shall be buried by May 31 of the current year, weather permitting,
unless otherwise permitted by the city. Weather permitting, utilities shall
bury all temporary drops, excluding snowdrops, within ten business days after
placement.
      (2)   Underground facilities other than electric power or communication
lines. Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         (a)   The use of “moles,” “whip augers,” or other approved methods
which compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         (b)   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
         (c)   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines
or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
         (d)   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is
not possible by other means.
      (3)   Gas transmission, distribution and service. Gas pipelines within
rights-of-way shall be constructed, maintained, and operated in a city approved
manner and in conformance with the Federal Code of the Office of Pipeline
Safety Operations, Department of Transportation, Part 192—Transportation of
Natural and Other Gas by Pipeline: Minimum Federal Safety Standards (49 CFR §
192), IDOT’s “Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction,” and
all other applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
      (4)   Petroleum products pipelines. Petroleum products pipelines within
rights-of-way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI Standard Code
for Pressure Piping (Liquid Petroleum Transportation Piping Systems ANSI-
B 31.4).
      (5)   Waterlines, sanitary sewer lines, storm water sewer lines or
drainage lines. Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines, and
drainage lines within rights-of-way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of
the current "Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in
Illinois."
      (6)   Ground mounted appurtenances. Ground mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right-of-way, shall
be provided with a vegetation-free area extending one foot (305 millimeter) in
width beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation-free area may
be provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or
similar material approved by the Engineer. With the approval of the Engineer,
shrubbery surrounding the appurtenance may be used in place of vegetation-free
area. The housing for ground-mounted appurtenances shall be painted a neutral
color to blend with the surroundings.
   (C)   Materials.
      (1)   General standards. The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights-of-way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT’s “Standards
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction,” the requirements of the
Illinois Commerce Commission, or the standards established by other official
regulatory agencies for the appropriate industry.
      (2)   Material storage on right-of-way. No material shall be stored on
the right-of-way without the prior written approval of the City Engineer. When
such storage is permitted, all pipe, conduit, wire, poles, cross arms, or other
materials shall be distributed along the right-of-way prior to and during
installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public or an obstacle to
right-of-way maintenance or damage to the right-of-way and other property. If
material is to be stored on right-of-way, prior approval must be obtained from
the city.
      (3)   Hazardous materials. The plans submitted by the utility to the city
shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the construction
of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
   (D)   Operational restrictions.
      (1)   Construction operations on rights-of-way may, at the discretion of
the city, be required to be discontinued when such operations would create
hazards to traffic or the public health, safety, and welfare. Such operations
may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when conditions are such
that construction would result in extensive damage to the right-of-way or other
property.
      (2)   These restrictions may be waived by the Engineer when emergency
work is required to restore vital utility services.
      (3)   Unless otherwise permitted by the city, the hours of construction
are those set forth in this code.
   (E)   Location of existing facilities. Any utility proposing to construct
facilities in the city shall contact J.U.L.I.E. and ascertain the presence and
location of existing above-ground and underground facilities within the rights-
of-way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The city will make its permit
records available to a utility for the purpose of identifying possible
facilities. When notified of an excavation or when requested by the city or by
J.U.L.I.E., a utility shall locate and physically mark its underground
facilities within 48 hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in accordance with
the Illinois Underground Facilities Damage Prevention Act (220 ILCS 50/1 et
seq.)
(Ord. 1580, passed 9-16-15)
§ 97.131 VEGETATION CONTROL.
   (A)   Electric utilities—compliance with state laws and regulations. An
electric utility shall conduct all tree-trimming and vegetation control
activities in the right-of-way in accordance with applicable Illinois laws and
regulations, and additionally, with such local franchise or other agreement
with the city as permitted by law.
   (B)   Other utilities—tree trimming permit required. Tree trimming that is
done by any other utility with facilities in the right-of-way and that is not
performed pursuant to applicable Illinois laws and regulations specifically
governing same, shall not be considered a normal maintenance operation, but
shall require the application for, and the issuance of, a permit, in addition
to any other permit required under this section.
      (1)   Application for tree trimming permit. Applications for tree
trimming permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by
competent workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning
practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the
interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
      (2)   Damage to trees. Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The city will require
compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed without
authorization. The formula developed by the International Society of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The city may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
   (C)   Specimen trees or trees of special significance. The city may require
that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of special
significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side arm
extensions, covered wire or other means.
   (D)   Chemical use.
      (1)   Except as provided in the following division, no utility shall
spray, inject or pour any chemicals on or near any trees, shrubs or vegetation
in the city for any purpose, including the control of growth, insects or
disease.
      (2)   Spraying of any type of brush-killing chemicals will not be
permitted on rights-of-way unless the utility demonstrates to the satisfaction
of the Engineer that such spraying is the only practicable method of vegetation
control.
(Ord. 1580, passed 9-16-15)
§ 97.132 REMOVAL, RELOCATION, OR MODIFICATIONS OF UTILITY FACILITIES.
   (A)   Notice. Within 90 days following written notice from the city, a
utility shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or permanently
disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any utility
facilities within the rights-of-way whenever the corporate authorities have
determined that such removal, relocation, change or alteration, is reasonably
necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance, or installation of any
city improvement in or upon, or the operations of the city in or upon, the
rights-of-way.
   (B)   Removal of unauthorized facilities. Within 30 days following written
notice from the city, any utility that owns, controls, or maintains any
unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the rights-of-way shall,
at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or appurtenances
from the rights-of-way. A facility is unauthorized and subject to removal in
the following circumstances:
      (1)   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee’s license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      (2)   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior
grant of a license or franchise, if required;
      (3)   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this subchapter; or
      (4)   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee's license or franchise.
   (C)   Emergency removal or relocation of facilities. The city retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights-of-
way of the city, as the city may determine to be necessary, appropriate or
useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If circumstances
permit, the municipality shall attempt to notify the utility, if known, prior
to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if known, after
cutting or removing a facility.
   (D)   Abandonment of facilities. Upon abandonment of a facility within the
rights-of-way of the city, the utility shall notify the city within 90 days.
Following receipt of such notice the city may direct the utility to remove all
or any portion of the facility if the City Engineer determines that such
removal will be in the best interest of the public health, safety and welfare.
In the event that the city does not direct the utility that abandoned the
facility to remove it, by giving notice of abandonment to the city, the
abandoning utility shall be deemed to consent to the alteration or removal of
all or any portion of the facility by another utility or person.
(Ord. 1580, passed 9-16-15)
§ 97.133 CLEAN-UP AND RESTORATION.
   The utility shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and
terrain and other property within ten days after any portion of the rights-of-
way are disturbed, damaged or destroyed due to construction or maintenance by
the utility, all to the satisfaction of the city. This includes restoration of
entrances and side roads. Restoration of roadway surfaces shall be made using
materials and methods approved by the City Engineer. Such cleanup and repair
may be required to consist of backfilling, regrading, reseeding, re-sodding, or
any other requirement to restore the right-of-way to a condition substantially
equivalent to that which existed prior to the commencement of the project. The
time period provided in this subchapter may be extended by the City Engineer
for good cause shown.
(Ord. 1580, passed 9-16-15)
§ 97.134 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   General. Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or
within rights-of-way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the city and at the utility's expense.
   (B)   Emergency maintenance procedures. Emergencies may justify non-
compliance with normal procedures for securing a permit:
      (1)   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right-of-way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right-of-way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
      (2)   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
City Engineer or his or her duly authorized agent of the emergency, informing
him or her as to what steps have been taken for protection of the traveling
public and what will be required to make the necessary repairs. If the nature
of the emergency is such as to interfere with the free movement of traffic, the
city police shall be notified immediately.
      (3)   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to
complete repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to
the traveling public.
   (C)   Emergency repairs. The utility must file in writing with the city a
description of the repairs undertaken in the right-of-way within 48 hours after
an emergency repair.
(Ord. 1580, passed 9-16-15)
§ 97.135 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Request for variance. A utility requesting a variance from one or more
of the provisions of this section must do so in writing to the City Engineer as
a part of the permit application. The request shall identify each provision of
this section from which a variance is requested and the reasons why a variance
should be granted.
   (B)   Authority to grant variances. The City Engineer shall decide whether a
variance is authorized for each provision of this section identified in the
variance request on an individual basis.
   (C)   Conditions for granting of variance. The City Engineer may authorize a
variance only if the utility requesting the variance has demonstrated that:
      (1)   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such
as terrain features or an irregular right-of-way line) create a special
hardship that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the
public purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
      (2)   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that
would conform with the provision from which a is requested are impracticable in
relation to the requested approach.
   (D)   Additional conditions for granting of a variance. As a condition for
authorizing a variance, the City Engineer may require the utility requesting
the variance to meet reasonable standards and conditions that may or may not be
expressly contained within this section but which carry out the purposes of
this section.
   (E)   Right to appeal. Any utility aggrieved by any order, requirement,
decision or determination, including denial of a variance, made by the City
Engineer under the provisions of this subchapter shall have the right to appeal
to the City Council, or such other board or commission as it may designate. The
application for appeal shall be submitted in writing to the City Clerk within
30 days after the date of such order, requirement, decision or determination.
The City Council shall commence its consideration of the appeal at the
Council's next regularly scheduled meeting occurring at least seven days after
the filing of the appeal. The City Council shall timely decide the appeal.
(Ord. 1580, passed 9-16-15)
§ 97.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter, for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine according to the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during which
a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   Any person, group, or organization guilty of violating any provision
of §§
97.100 through
97.103 shall be punishable by a fine according to the Uniform Fine Schedule in
§
10.99.
   (C)   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to
comply with any of the provisions of §§
97.115 et seq. shall be subject to fine in accordance with the penalty
provisions of this code. There may be times when the city will incur delay or
other costs, including third party claims, because the utility shall bear the
city’s costs of damages and its costs of installing, maintaining, modifying,
relocating, or removing the facility that is the subject of the permit. No
other administrative agency or commission may review or overrule a permit
related cost appointment of the city. Sanctions may be imposed upon a utility
that does not pay the costs apportioned to it.
(Ord. 728, passed 5-18-88; Am. Ord. 1326, passed 2-20-08; Am. Ord. 1580, passed
9-16-15)
CHAPTER 98: FAIR HOUSING POLICY
Section
   
98.01   Declaration of policy
   
98.02   Definitions
   
98.03   Prohibited acts
 
   
98.99   Penalty
§ 98.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   (A)   In furthering the policy of the state as expressed in its Constitution
and other laws; in order that the safety and general welfare, peace and health
of all the inhabitants of the city may be ensured, it is hereby declared the
policy of the city, to assure equal opportunity to all resident, regardless of
race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or physical or
mental handicap to live in decent, sanitary, healthful, standard living
quarters.
   (B)   It is the policy of the city that no owner, lessee, sublessee,
assignee, managing agent, or other person, firm or corporation having the right
to sell, rent, lease (or otherwise control) any housing accommodation and/or
real property with the city, or any agent of these shall refuse to sell, rent,
lease or otherwise deny to or withhold form any person or group of persons such
housing accommodations and/or real property because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or physical or mental handicap of such
person or persons or discriminate against any person or persons because of
race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or physical or
mental handicap in the conditions, terms, privileges of the sale, rental or
lease of any housing accommodation and/or real property or in the furnishing of
facilities and/or services in connection therewith.
   (C)   Relocation shall be carried out in a manner that will promote maximum
choice within the community's total housing supply; lessen racial, ethnic, and
economic concentrations; and facilitate desegregation and racially inclusive
patterns of occupancy and use of public and private facilities.
(Ord. 770, passed 3-4-92)
§ 98.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DECENT, SANITARY, HEALTHFUL STANDARD LIVING QUARTERS. Housing which is in
sound, clean, and weathertight condition in conformance with applicable local,
state and national codes.
   DISCRIMINATE or DISCRIMINATION. Any difference expressed in any way toward a
person or persons in the terms of the sale, exchange, lease, rental or
financing for, housing accommodation and/or real property in regard to such
sale, exchange, rental, lease or finance because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or physical or mental handicap of such
person.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATION. Includes any building, structure, or portion thereof
which is used or occupied, maintained, arranged or designed to be used or
occupied as a home, residence or sleeping place of one or more human beings, or
any real estate so used, designed or intended for such use.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. Any person, institution or business entity of any
kind which loans money to persons and receives as security for the loans a
secured interest of any kind in the real property of the borrower.
   OWNER. Any person/persons who hold legal or equitable title to, or owns any
beneficial interest in any real property or who hold legal or equitable title
to shares of, or hold any beneficial interest in any real estate cooperative
which owns any real property and/or housing accommodations.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER. Any person, partnership, association, corporation and/or
agent thereof, who for a fee or other valuable consideration offers sells,
purchases, exchanges or rents, or negotiates, for the sale, purchase, exchange
or rental of a housing accommodation and/or real property of another, or
collects rental for the use of a housing accommodation and/or real property of
another.
   REAL PROPERTY. Any real estate, vacant land, building, structure or housing
accommodations within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 770, passed 3-4-92)
§ 98.03 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner of real estate, lessee, sub-lessee,
real estate broker or salesperson, financial institution or employee of the
financial institution, advertiser, or agent of any or all of the foregoing, to
discriminate against any person or persons because of their race, color,
religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or physical or mental
handicap with regard to the sale, exchange or rental, or any dealing concerning
any housing accommodation and/or real property.
   (B)   In addition to the foregoing, it shall be unlawful for any real estate
broker or employee thereof, owner or other person, or financial institution
dealing with housing or real property in the city:
      (1)   To discriminate against any person in the availability of or the
price, terms, conditions or privileges of any kind relating to the sale,
rental, lease or occupancy of any housing accommodation or real property in the
city or in furnishing of any facilities or services in connection therewith.
      (2)   To publish or circulate, or cause to be published or circulated,
any notice, statement or advertisement, or to announce a policy, or to use any
form of application, for the purchase, lease, rental or financing of real
property, or to make any record of inquiry in connection with the prospective
purchase, rental or lease of such real estate, which expresses directly or
indirectly any discrimination as to race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed or physical or mental handicap of any person.
      (3)   To discriminate in connection with lending money, guaranteeing
loans, accepting mortgages or otherwise obtaining or making available funds for
the purchase, acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair or maintenance
of any housing accommodation and/or real property.
      (4)   To solicit for sale, lease, or listing for the sale or lease, of
any housing accommodation and/or real property on the ground of loss of value
because of the present or prospective entry into any neighborhood of any person
or persons of any particular race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed, or physical or mental handicap.
      (5)   To distribute or cause to be distributed, written material or
statements designed to induce any owner or any housing accommodation and/or
real property to sell or lease his or her property because of any present or
prospective change in the race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry,
sex, creed, or physical or mental handicap of persons in the neighborhood.
      (6)   To make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale or
the anticipated listing for sale or the sale of any housing accommodation and/
or real property for the purpose of inducing or attempting to induce the sale
or listing for sale of any housing accommodation and/or real property by
representing that the presence or anticipated presence of persons of any
particular race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or
physical or mental handicap in the area will or may result in the lowering of
property values in the block, neighborhood or area in which the property is
located.
      (7)   For an owner to solicit any real estate broker to sell, rent or
otherwise deal with such owner's housing accommodations and/or real property
with any limitation on its sale based on race, color, religion, national origin
or ancestry, sex, creed, physical or mental handicap.
      (8)   For an owner to refuse to sell, rent, or otherwise deal with any
housing accommodation and/or real property because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or physical or mental handicap of the
proposed buyer or tenant.
(Ord. 770, passed 3-4-92) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
    Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be punished by a fine according to the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99. Each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation.
This section shall in no way abrogate or impair the right of the city to
specifically enforce, by any legal means, any of the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 770, passed 3-4-92; Am. Ord. 1326, passed 2-20-08 )
CHAPTER 99: VEHICLE IMPOUND
Section
   
99.01   Definitions
   
99.02   Conduct prohibited
   
99.03   Seizure and impoundment
   
99.04   Initial notice
   
99.05   Follow-up notice
   
99.06   Fees for release of vehicle
   
99.07   Hearings
   
99.08   Abandoned vehicles
   
99.09   Monies deposited
   
99.10   Notice of ordinance by signs
§ 99.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled, including, but not
limited, to all automobiles, trucks, vans, motorcycles, and motor scooters.
   OWNERS OF RECORD. The record title holders of the vehicle.
   TO ENGAGE IN CONDUCT KNOWINGLY. A person ENGAGES IN CONDUCT KNOWINGLY if,
when a person engages in conduct, the person is aware of a high probability
that he or she is doing so.
(Ord. 1312, passed 12-19-07; Am. Ord. 1613, passed 8-17-16)
§ 99.02 CONDUCT PROHIBITED.
   To deter the following prohibited conduct in the city, any motor vehicle
used in the commission of the following proscribed conduct is subject to
seizure and impoundment under this section.
   (A)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, any misdemeanor or felony offense in violation of the
Criminal Code of 1961, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5.
   (B)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of or in the
attempt to commit a felony.
   (C)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of the Illinois Controlled
Substances Act.
   (D)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle while soliciting, possessing, or
attempting to solicit or possess a controlled substance, as defined by the
Illinois Controlled Substances Act.
   (E)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle while soliciting, possessing, or
attempting to solicit or possess cannabis or otherwise violate the Cannabis
Control Act provided such violation of the Cannabis Control Act is subject to a
penalty of more than a civil law violation.
   (F)   Driving under the influence of alcohol, another drug or drugs, an
intoxicating compound or compounds, or any combination thereof, in violation of
ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-501 or this code.
   (G)   Driving while a driver’s license, permit, or privilege to operate a
motor vehicle is suspended or revoked pursuant to ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-303,
except that vehicles shall not be subjected to seizure or impoundment if the
suspension is for an unpaid citation (parking or moving) or due to failure to
comply with emission testing.
   (H)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle with an expired driver’s license,
in violation of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-101, if the period of expiration is
greater than one year.
   (I)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle without ever having been issued a
driver’s license or permit, in violation of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-101, or
operating a motor vehicle without ever having been issued a driver’s license or
permit due to a person’s age.
   (J)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle by a person against whom a warrant
has been issued by a circuit clerk in Illinois for failing to answer charges
that the driver violated ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 6-101, 6-303, or 11-501.
   (K)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense for which a motor vehicle may be seized and
forfeited pursuant to § 36-1 of the Criminal Code of 1961, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5,
§ 36-1.
(Ord. 1472, passed 4-18-12; Am. Ord. 1613, passed 8-17-16)
§ 99.03 SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT.
   Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a vehicle is
subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this chapter, the police officer
shall provide for the towing of the vehicle to a facility controlled by the
city or its agents. This section shall not apply if the vehicle was used in the
violation of §
99.02 was stolen at the time of the alleged violation and the theft was
reported to the appropriate police authorities within 72 hours after the theft
was discovered or reasonably should have been discovered. For any towing
company or storage facility to become approved by the city, such must provide
proof of insurance coverage to cover loss by fire, theft or other risks and be
open or available for business as required by the Police Department.
(Ord. 1312, passed 12-19-07; Am. Ord. 1472, passed 4-18-12; Am. Ord. 1613,
passed 8-17-16)
§ 99.04 INITIAL NOTICE.
   At the time the vehicle is towed, the Police Department shall notify or make
a reasonable attempt to notify the owner, lessee, or person identifying himself
or herself as the owner or lessee of the vehicle, or any person who is found to
be in control of the vehicle at the time of the alleged offense as follows:
   (A)   The fact of the seizure of the vehicle;
   (B)   The vehicle owner’s or lessee’s right to an administrative hearing;
and
   (C)   The vehicle will remain impounded pending the completion of an
administrative hearing, unless the owner or lessee of the vehicle or a
lienholder posts with the city a bond equal to the administrative fees as
provided by ordinance and pays for all towing and storage charges.
(Ord. 1472, passed 4-18-12; Am. Ord. 1613, passed 8-17-16)
§ 99.05 FOLLOW UP NOTICE.
   Within ten days after a vehicle is impounded, the Police Department shall
provide further notice by personal service or by first class mail to interested
parties (including the registered owner or lessee of the vehicle and any
lienholder of record) to the address(es) of the interested parties as
registered with the Secretary of State. Such further notice shall contain the
date, time, and location of the administrative hearing. An initial hearing
shall be scheduled and convened no later than 45 days after the date of the
mailing of the notice of hearing.
(Ord. 1472, passed 4-18-12; Am. Ord. 1613, passed 8-17-16)
§ 99.06 FEES FOR RELEASE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   The registered owner of an impounded motor vehicle or the agents of
that owner shall be liable to the city for an administrative penalty of $500
plus the costs of towing and storage fees as established by the city or an
approved towing and storage contractor of the city.
   (B)   If the owner or agent of the owner does not seek a hearing, they shall
pay the required fee and sign a waiver of hearing. If the owner or agent of the
owner seeks a hearing, they shall pay the required fee and costs which the City
Treasurer shall hold as a bond pending the results of the administrative
hearing as initially scheduled by the Police Department.
(Ord. 1472, passed 4-18-12; Am. Ord. 1588, passed 11-4-15; Am. Ord. 1613,
passed 8-17-16)
§ 99.07 HEARINGS.
   (A)   Administrative hearings shall be conducted by an administrative
hearing officer being the City Attorney or other attorney as time to time
appointed by the city who is an attorney licensed to practice law in Illinois
for a minimum of three years.
   (B)   The date and time of the initial hearing shall be scheduled by the
Police Department and notice of such shall be provided by the above mentioned
follow-up notice. An interested party may request a change to the date and time
of the initial hearing by contacting the City Clerk. The initial hearing shall
be conducted no later than 45 days after the date of the follow-up notice.
   (C)   At the hearing, the administrative hearing officer shall determine by
a preponderance of the evidence whether or not the police officer directing the
impoundment of the vehicle had cause to believe that the vehicle was subject to
impoundment under this chapter. The party seeking return of the vehicle shall
bear the burden of proof. Formal rules of evidence shall not be applicable to
the hearing. The party seeking return of the vehicle fails to appear at the
hearing, the hearing officer shall enter a default order sustaining the
impoundment.
   (D)   At the conclusion of the administrative hearing, the hearing officer
shall issue a written decision either sustaining or overruling the vehicle
impoundment. If the administrative hearing officer overrules the impoundment,
the vehicle shall be released (if not already released) and any bond posted
shall be refunded to the party posting the bond. If the administrative hearing
officer sustains the vehicle impoundment, any bond posted to secure the release
of the vehicle shall be forfeited to the municipality. If no bond was posted,
the vehicle shall remain impounded until all fees are paid or the vehicle is
deemed abandoned. Fees owed the city may be collected and enforced in the same
manner as a judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction unless such
collection action is stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction. All final
decisions of the administrative hearing officer shall be subject to review
under the provisions of the Administrative Review Law.
(Ord. 1472, passed 4-18-12; Am. Ord. 1613, passed 8-17-16)
§ 99.08 ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   Vehicles not retrieved from the towing facility or storage facility within
35 days after the administrative hearing officer issues a written decision
shall be deemed abandoned and disposed of in accordance with the provisions of
Article II of Chapter 4 of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 1472, passed 4-18-12; Am. Ord. 1613, passed 8-17-16)
§ 99.09 MONIES DEPOSITED.
   All fees collected and retained by the city for a violation of this chapter,
after payment of towing and storage charges, shall be deposited with the City
Treasurer. The funds will be directed for the Police Department.
(Ord. 1472, passed 4-18-12; Am. Ord. 1613, passed 8-17-16)
§ 99.10 NOTICE OF ORDINANCE BY SIGNS.
   Signs shall be posted at the main entrances to the city stating as follows:
“Vehicles subject to seizure in the City of Marseilles for violation of
Chapter 99 of the Code of Marseilles.”
(Ord. 1613, passed 8-17-16)
CHAPTER 100: VACANT BUILDINGS
Section
   
100.01   Findings and intent
   
100.02   Definitions
   
100.03   Declaration of vacant buildings
   
100.04   Registration of vacant buildings
   
100.05   Maintenance requirements for vacant buildings
 
   
100.99   Enforcement and penalties
§ 100.01 FINDINGS AND INTENT.
   (A)   The City Council finds that vacant buildings have caused significant
problems for the city including but not limited to frozen pipes, leaks in water
lines and utilities, building becoming dilapidated and unsafe, building
becoming attractive nuisances, and negative impacts on nearby property values.
The City Council finds that boarded up windows and doors should only be a
temporary solution to prevent unauthorized entry into a building. The City
Council finds that windows and doors boarded up for extended time negatively
impact on the property values and serves as a notice that the building is
vacant. The city finds that it has authority to adopt this chapter based upon
the city's general police powers in protection of the public health, safety,
and welfare of city residents.
   (B)   The intent of this chapter is to protect the public health safety and
welfare by:
      (1)   Establishing a program for identification registration and
maintenance of buildings which are or become vacant on and after the effective
date of this chapter;
      (2)   Determining the responsibilities of the owners of record of vacant
buildings; and
      (3)   Providing for additional means of avoidance and abatement of public
nuisances.
(Ord. 1683, passed 9-19-18)
§ 100.02  DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms shall apply to this chapter as written unless context
indicates or requires different meanings:
   OWNER. Any person, agent, operator, partnership, corporation or entity
having a legal or equitable interest in a Vacant Building; or recorded in the
official records of the state, county, or municipality as holding title to the
same; or otherwise having control of the same, including the guardian of the
estate of any such person, and the executor or administrator of the estate or a
mortgage holder in possession or a mortgage holder after the entry of an order
for foreclosure and sale.
   VACANT BUILDING. 
      (1)   A building with one or more of the following conditions:
         (a)   A building or portion thereof which lacks the habitual presence
of human beings who have a legal right to be on the premises; or
         (b)   A building within which substantially all lawful residential or
business activity has ceased.
         (c)   A building substantially devoid of contents.
         (d)   A building which lacks active utility services such as water,
sewer, electric or natural gas.
         (e)   A building having open doors or windows.
         (f)   A building without functioning doors or windows or with boarded
up doors or windows.
         (g)   A building subject of a mortgage foreclosure action for one year
or longer or held by lender following a foreclosure action for one year or
longer.
         (h)   A building which has been entered as an attractive nuisance.
         (i)   A building located on a property show signs a lack of any
regular maintenance with the presence nuisance greenery.
      (2)   A VACANT BUILDING does not include a building:
         (a)   That is listed for sale provided the buildings has not been
listed for sale for more than six consecutive months within the past 24 months.
         (b)   That is listed for rent provided the property has not been
listed for rent for more than six months within the past 24 months.
         (c)   That is subject to an active building permit provided the
building permit has not been in effect for more than six months and provided
the total of all building permits for the property has not exceed six months
within the last 24 months.
(Ord. 1683, passed 9-19-18; Am. Ord. 1688, passed 10-17-18)
§ 100.03 DECLARATION OF VACANT BUILDINGS.
   (A)   The Building Inspector or their designee shall determine in writing if
a building is vacant. A copy of such a written determination shall sent to the
person designated by the County of LaSalle as receiving the real estate tax
bill regarding said premises. The written determination shall be sent by
certified mail, return receipt requested, or by personal or substitute service,
and posted on a conspicuous location on the building. Proof of mailing shall be
prima facie evidence of receipt of the notice. The written determination shall
include the following:
      (1)   The street address of the building or a description sufficient for
identification;
      (2)   A statement requiring the proper owner to register the building
with the City Clerk within 30 days of the mailing of the notice;
      (3)   A statement identifying any maintenance work required for the
building.
      (4)   A vacant building registration form.
      (5)   A form to be completed to appeal the determination that the
property is vacant.
   (B)   An appeal of the declaration finding a building vacant may be made to
the Commissioner of Public Health and Safety. The appeal must be made in
writing and shall be filed with the City Cleric within 30 days of the date of
mailing, service or posting of the notice of declaration. The appeal shall
contain a complete statement of the reasons the owner disputes the declaration,
shall set forth specific facts in support thereof, shall include all evidence
the owner relies upon to support the appeal, and shall provide means for making
immediate contact with the owner. The filing of an appeal stays the owner's
obligation to register the building. The City Clerk shall set the matter for
hearing before the Commissioner of Public Health and Safety and provide at
least ten days written notice to the owner of the date of said hearing. The
burden is upon the owner to present sufficient evidence to show that the
building is not vacant. The Commissioner of Public Health and Safety shall
decide the appeal after a hearing. If the owner is not present at the hearing,
the City Clerk shall send written notice of the decision to the owner within
ten days after the hearing.
(Ord. 1683, passed 9-19-18)
§ 100.04 REGISTRATION OF VACANT BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Whenever any building is declared vacant, then the owner of such
building shall within 30 days complete and file with the City Clerk a vacant
building registration and pay the vacant Building registration fee. The form
shall include, as a minimum:
      (1)   The names of all owners which shall include the principals of any
partnership, corporation, trust or other entity and their contact information
include mailing address, telephone number and/or e-mail including contact
information for emergency purposes. A post office box is not an acceptable
address.
      (2)   The case name and number of any litigation pending concerning or
affecting the vacant building, including bankruptcy cases; and the name, street
address, email address, and telephone number of all persons with any legal
interest in the vacant building or the premises.
      (3)   Provide a certificate of insurance indicating proof of general
liability insurance. The minimum coverage amount shall be $20,000 per person
and $100,000 per occurrence.
      (4)   Provide a certificate from a licensed pest inspector stating that
the building is not subject to any pest infestation or is subject to active
treatment.
      (5)   Identify building and repair plans to comply with maintenance
requirements for vacant buildings.
      (6)   Identify if the building is intended to be demolished and if so the
intended time frame and contractor for demolition.
      (7)   Identify if the building is intended to be sold and if so when the
building will be place on the market for sale any the identity of a licensed
realtor or other means for listing the property for sale.
   (B)   Renewal registration requirements. The owner of a vacant building
shall renew the vacant building registration annually.
   (C)   Fees. The initial registration fee for a building shall be $300. The
building shall be re-registered annually. The annual registration fee for each
renewal shall increase by $100 each year from the prior year but shall not
exceed $1,000.
   (D)   Amendment to registration. An amended registration form shall be filed
within 30 days of any change of information provided on the registration form
or if the owner requests that the building no longer be declared vacant. The
burden is on the owner to illustrate that the building is no longer vacant.
There is no charge to amend the owner's registration information or to request
a city finding that the building is no longer vacant.
   (E)   Registration does not exonerate the owner from compliance with all
applicable codes and ordinances adopted by the city including this chapter or
found elsewhere in the Code of Marseilles or Marseilles Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 1683, passed 9-19-18)
§ 100.05 MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR VACANT BUILDINGS.
   Any owner of vacant building shall maintain such building to comply with the
following minimum standards.
   (A)   Any vacant building shall contain secure windows, doors, and have a
functioning roof to protect the building from weather conditions and be
protected from entry by binds and other animals.
   (B)   Any vacant building shall be maintained to prevent nuisance greenery.
   (C)   Any vacant building shall be protected from rodents or other pests.
   (D)   Garbage, debris, and graffiti shall be removed from the building
within 60 days of any required vacant building registration or within 60 days
from any demand for repairs made by the Building Inspector or police officer
charged with ordinance enforcement.
   (E)   Any boarded up windows or doors shall be improved with functioning
doors and windows within 60 days of any required vacant building registration
or within 60 days from any demand for repairs made by the Building Inspector or
police officer charged with ordinance enforcement.
   (F)   Any failed roof or building condition not protecting the building from
weather conditions or from entry by binds and other animals shall be corrected
within 60 days of any required vacant building registration or within 60 days
from any demand for repairs made by the Building Inspector or police officer
charged with ordinance enforcement.
   (G)   Utility connections including water, electricity and gas shall be
disconnected from any vacant building remaining or declared by the city to be
vacant for a year.
(Ord. 1683, passed 9-19-18)
§ 100.99 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   The failure to comply with any requirement of this
Chapter 100, Vacant Buildings shall be subject to a fine according the Uniform
Fine Schedule in “§
10.99, General Penalty.” A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each
day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   The failure to abide by this
Chapter 100, Vacant Buildings shall be considered a bases for the city
requesting and obtaining an administrative search warrant to enter a building
for health safety and general welfare purposes, to inspect for ordinance
violations and nuisance conditions to treat and remediate any nuisance
conditions or as a basis to seek any equitable remedy.
   (C)   The failure to abide by this
Chapter 100, Vacant Buildings shall be a considered a basis for the city filing
an action to remediate a nuisance as defined in
Chapter 95: Nuisances of the Code of Marseilles.
   (D)   Any violation of this chapter also constituting a violation of any
other section of the Code of Marseilles or Marseilles Zoning Ordinance may be
enforced by any means otherwise authorized by the Code of Marseilles or
Marseilles Zoning Ordinance.
   (E)   The Building Inspector may grant an extension of time to time limits
established in this
Chapter 100: Vacant Buildings if made in writing and incorporated into the
terms of building permit or demolition permit.
   (F)   The listing for sale of a vacant property shall not be an affirmative
defense against the City enforcing the requirements of this
Chapter 100: Vacant Buildings.
(Ord. 1683, passed 9-19-18)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
110.   GENERAL BUSINESS LICENSING
   
111.   ADVERTISING
   
112.   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR
   
113.   AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
   
114.   AUCTIONEERS; JUNK DEALERS
   
115.   MERCHANTS PROVIDING PRODUCTS OR SERVICES
   
116.   PEDDLERS; ITINERANT MERCHANTS; SOLICITORS
   
117.   TAXICABS
   
118.   CABLE TELEVISION
   
119.   HOME BUSINESSES
   
120.   CANNABIS, TOBACCO, AND SMOKING PRODUCTS
   
121.   SPECIAL EVENTS PERMITS
   
122.   SIDEWALK CAFÉ PERMITS
   
123.   MOTORIZED VEHICLES SELLING EDIBLE NOVELTIES
   
124.   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL BUSINESS LICENSING
Section
   
110.01   Licenses or permit required
   
110.02   Application for licenses or permits
   
110.03   Payment of fees
   
110.04   Bond and insurance
   
110.05   Approval or denial of licenses or permits
   
110.06   Certificates; contents
   
110.07   Term of licenses and permits
   
110.08   Exhibition of certificate
   
110.09   Transference of license or permit
   
110.10   Renewals
   
110.11   Revocation
   
110.12   Hearings
   
110.13   Right of entry upon premises for purpose of inspection
§ 110.01 LICENSES OR PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in any trade, profession, business or privilege as a
contractor and no person or business entity shall operate a business open to
the public in the city without first obtaining such license or permit from the
city in the manner provided in this chapter or by other ordinance of the city.
(‘72 Code, § 31.01) (Am. Ord. 1757, passed 6-3-20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSES OR PERMITS.
   Unless otherwise provided, application for a license or permit shall be made
in writing to the City Clerk upon forms provided by the city, and applicant
shall state the location of the proposed activity and such other facts as may
be required for or be applicable to the granting of such a license or permit.
(‘72 Code, § 31.02) (Am. Ord. 1757, passed 6-3-20)
§ 110.03 PAYMENT OF FEES.
   The fees required for any license or permit shall be paid at the office of
the City Clerk before the granting of the license or permit. No fee paid shall
be refunded unless the license or permit is denied.
Where over half the license year has expired the license fee for the remainder
of the license year shall be one-half of the annual license fee. Fees include
as follows:
   (A)   Contractor License            $100
   (B)   Retail or Service Business License   $ 25
   (C)   Home Occupation License         $ 25
   The foregoing shall not limit any applicable fees for work to be performed
on a city property or right-of-way.
(‘72 Code, § 31.03) (Am. Ord. 1757, passed 6-3-20)
§ 110.04 BOND AND INSURANCE.
   All required bonds shall be executed by two sureties, residents of the city,
or a surety company, and be subject to the approval of the City Attorney. Where
policies of insurance are required, such policies shall be approved as to
substance and form by the Attorney. Satisfactory evidence of coverage by bond
or insurance shall be filed with the city before the license or permit is
issued.
(‘72 Code, § 31.04) (Am. Ord. 1757, passed 6-3-20)
§ 110.05 APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF LICENSES OR PERMITS.
   (A)   Where the approval of any city officer or state officer is required
prior to the issuance of any license or permit, such approval must be presented
to the city before any license or permit is issued.
   (B)   No license or permit shall be approved by any city officer or issued
by the city if it appears that the conduct of the activity for which a license
or permit is sought will be contrary to the health, safety or welfare of the
public or any regulation, law or ordinance applicable to such activity.
('72 Code, § 31.05)
   (C)   No license or permit shall be approved by any city officer or issued
by the city if it appears:
      (1)   From city maintained records that the applicant has an outstanding
balance in any city account and such account is more than 60 days past due; or
      (2)   From county or other governmental record that the city is a
judgment holder or creditor against the applicant and such judgment remains
unpaid more than 60 days after entry of said judgment.
(Am. Ord. 1757, passed 6-3-20)
§ 110.06 CERTIFICATES; CONTENTS.
   Licenses or permit certificates shall show the name of the licensee or
permittee, the date of issue, the activity licensed and the term of the license
or permit, and shall be signed in the name of the city by the Mayor and City
Clerk, and be impressed with the city seal. The Clerk shall keep a record of
all licenses and permits issued.
(‘72 Code, § 31.06) (Am. Ord. 1757, passed 6-3-20)
§ 110.07 TERM OF LICENSES AND PERMITS.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided, the term of the license year shall end on
May 1 of each year.
   (B)   Where the issuance of licenses for a period of less than one year is
permitted, the effective date of such license shall commence with the date of
issuance.
   (C)   Permits shall be issued for the term set forth in the permit.
('72 Code, § 31.07)  (Am. Ord. 1757, passed 6-3-20)
§ 110.08 EXHIBITION OF CERTIFICATE.
   Every licensee or permittee shall carry his license or permit certificate
upon his person at all times when engaged in the activity for which the license
or permit was granted; except that where such activity is conducted at a fixed
place or establishment, the license or permit certificate shall be exhibited at
all times in some conspicuous place in his place of business. The licensee or
permittee shall exhibit the license certificate when applying for a renewal and
upon demand of any police officer or person representing the issuing authority,
or person he deals with in such activity.
('72 Code, § 31.08) (Am. Ord. 1757, passed 6-3-20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.09 TRANSFERENCE OF LICENSE OR PERMIT.
   Unless otherwise provided, no license or permit shall be transferable or
assignable.
('72 Code, § 31.09) (Am. Ord. 1757, passed 6-3-20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.10 RENEWALS.
   Unless otherwise provided, license or permit renewals shall be issued in the
same manner and be subject to the same conditions as original licenses or
permits.
('72 Code, § 31.10) (Am. Ord. 1757, passed 6-3-20)
§ 110.11 REVOCATION.
   Any license or permit issued by the city may be suspended or revoked by the
Mayor or Council for any of the following causes:
   (A)   Fraud, misrepresentation or incorrect statement contained in the
application or made in carrying on the licensed or permitted activity.
   (B)   Conviction of any crime or misdemeanor.
   (C)   Conducting such activity in such manner as to constitute a breach of
the peace, or a menace to the health, safety or welfare of the public, or a
disturbance of the peace or comfort of residents of the city, upon
recommendation of the appropriate city official.
   (D)   Expiration or cancellation of any required bond or insurance.
   (E)   Actions unauthorized or beyond the scope of the license or permit
granted.
   (F)   Violation of any city ordinance applicable to the activity for which
the license or permit has been granted, or any regulation or law of the state
so applicable.
   (G)   Failure to continuously comply with all conditions required as
precedent to the approval of the license or permit.
(‘72 Code, § 31.11)
   (H)   Failure to pay within 60 days any and all city accounts or failure to
pay any judgment rendered by the city against license holders and which remains
unpaid for 60 days or more.
   (I)   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created
by different clauses or sections of an ordinance the prosecuting officer may
elect under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall be had
against the same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of
a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar
any other penalty being enforced.
(Am. Ord. 1757, passed 6-3-20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.12 HEARINGS.
   Any person aggrieved by the action of any city official in denying or
revoking a license or permit shall have the right to a hearing before the City
Council on any such action, provided a written request therefor is filed with
the City Clerk within ten days after receipt of the notice of such suspension
or revocation. The Council after a hearing may confirm such suspension or
revocation or reinstate any such license or permit. The action taken by the
Council after a hearing shall be final.
('72 Code, § 31.12) (Am. Ord. 1757, passed 6-3-20)
§ 110.13 RIGHT OF ENTRY UPON PREMISES FOR PURPOSE OF INSPECTION.
   City officials may enter upon the premises where any licensed or permitted
activity is being conducted for the purpose of inspection at any reasonable
time. Inspections may include, without limitation, building or maintenance code
inspections, and inspection of any license or permit issued by the city or
other regulating authority such as the County of LaSalle and/or the State of
Illinois.
(‘72 Code, § 31.13) (Am. Ord. 1757, passed 6-3-20)
CHAPTER 111: ADVERTISING
Section
Handbills or Other Advertisements
   
111.01   License required
   
111.02   License fee
   
111.03   Distributing handbills for unlicensed person prohibited
HANDBILLS OR OTHER ADVERTISEMENTS
§ 111.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall carry on the business of distributing handbills, samples or
advertisements within the city without a license therefor.
('72 Code, § 32.06(a)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.02 LICENSE FEE.
   The fee for a license under this subchapter is $15 per year, or $2 per day.
('72 Code, § 32.06(b))
§ 111.03 DISTRIBUTING HANDBILLS FOR UNLICENSED PERSON PROHIBITED.
   No person shall distribute handbills, samples or advertisements of any kind
for any other person engaged in the business described in this subchapter,
unless such other person shall have been licensed as herein required.
('72 Code, § 32.06(c)) Penalty, see §
10.99
  CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Interpretation
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Peddling alcoholic liquor prohibited
   
112.04   Drinking in public places; transportation or possession of alcoholic
liquor
Licensing
   
112.15   Classification of licenses; fees
   
112.16   Limitation on number of licenses
   
112.17   Persons ineligible to license
   
112.18   License required
   
112.19   Application for license; contents
   
112.20   Rejection or approval of application
   
112.21   Term of licenses; proration of fees
   
112.22   Refund of fee for denial of license
   
112.23   Personal nature of license; restrictions on transfer
   
112.24   Change of location
   
112.25   Posting licenses
   
112.26   Renewal of licenses
   
112.27   (Reserved)
   
112.28   Non-use of license
   
112.29   Suspension or revocation of licenses
   
112.30   Issuance of temporary licenses; limitation fee
   
112.31   Record of license to be kept
Standards of Operation
   
112.40   Sale to minors, drunkards or spendthrifts
   
112.41   Unobstructed view of premises
   
112.42   Access to dwelling quarters from licensed premises
   
112.43   Location restrictions
   
112.44   Hours of operation
   
112.45   Employment of minors
   
112.46   Gambling devices prohibited
   
112.47   Conditions for operating beer gardens
   
112.48   Carry liquor from premises of a beer garden prohibited
   
112.49   Sidewalk café supplemental liquor license
   
112.50   Shipping of alcoholic liquor
Administration and Enforcement
   
112.60   Compensation for Mayor as Local Liquor Control Commissioner
   
112.61   City Clerk to be Secretary for Commissioner
   
112.62   Appointment of Assistant Local Liquor Control Commissioners
   
112.63   Emergency closings; authority of Mayor
   
112.64   Appeals
 
   
112.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 INTERPRETATION.
   This chapter shall be liberally construed to the end that the health, safety
and welfare of the residents of the city shall be protected and temperance in
the consumption of alcoholic liquor shall be fostered and promoted.
(Am. Ord. 633, passed 7-7-82)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Unless the context shall otherwise require, terms used in this chapter
shall have the definitions given in the ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, Art. I, as amended
from time to time. Where not otherwise qualified, the term LICENSE or LICENSEE
wherever used in this chapter means a license or licensee of the city under
this chapter.
   (B)   The Mayor shall be the Local Liquor Control Commissioner and the terms
MAYOR and LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER shall be used interchangeably in
this chapter.
   (C)   BEER GARDEN shall be defined as an open, unroofed or partially roofed
area where beer and other alcoholic beverages are served or consumed by the
general public.
(Am. Ord. 633, passed 7-7-82; Am. Ord. 778, passed 7-1-92)
§ 112.03 PEDDLING ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in the city.
(Am. Ord. 633, passed 7-7-82) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 DRINKING IN PUBLIC PLACES; TRANSPORTATION OR POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC
LIQUOR.
   (A)   No person shall, within the city, drink any alcoholic liquor in any
public street, public alley, public park or other public place, in or upon any
vehicle, commonly used for the transportation of passengers or in or upon any
depot, platform or waiting room of any public place or in any passenger coach,
bus or at any public gathering.
   (B)   No person shall transport, carry, possess or have any alcoholic liquor
in or upon any public street, public alley, public park or other public place
except in the original package and with the seal unbroken.
   (C)   No person under the age of 21 may possess or consume alcoholic liquor
within the corporate limits of the city; except, however, the consumption or
possession by a person under 21 years of age of alcoholic liquor in the
performance of a religious service or ceremony, or the consumption or
possession by a person under 21 years of age under the direct supervision and
approval of the parents or parent or those persons standing in loco parentis of
such person under 21 years of age in the privacy of a home, is not prohibited
by this section.
   (D)   (1)   A person under the age of 21 who wrongfully possesses or
consumes alcoholic liquor in violation of division (C) above in the case of a
first violation shall be fined no less than $200 and no more than $750 plus
court costs.
      (2)   In the case of a second violation committed within five years of
the same particular provision, the defendant shall be fined no less than $350
and no more than $750 plus court costs.
      (3)   In the case of a third or further violation committed within five
years of the same particular provision, the defendant shall be fined $750 plus
court costs.
      (4)   Each act of violation and each day upon which a violation occurs
constitutes a separate offense.
(Am. Ord. 633, passed 7-7-82; Am. Ord. 1005, passed 6-7-00; Am. Ord. 1326,
passed 2-20-08 ) Penalty, see §
112.99
LICENSING
§ 112.15 CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES; FEES.
   (A)    Licenses to sell alcoholic liquor shall be designated as follows:
      (1)   Class “A” Retail License. The annual license fee for a Class “A”
license, for the sale of alcoholic liquors to be consumed either on or off the
premises, shall be the sum of $800, which fee may be paid semiannually, in
payments of $400 each on May 1 and November 1.
      (2)   Class “B” Club License.
         (a)   The annual license fee for a Class “B” license, for the sale of
alcoholic liquors in a club, as herein defined, and to be sold and consumed on
the premises by the members of such club and the invited guests of such
members, when such guest is personally attended by a member, shall be the sum
of $200, which license fee may be paid semiannually in payments of $100 each,
on May 1 and November 1.
         (b)   A CLUB is hereby defined to be an association of individuals or
a not-for-profit corporation, organized for a fraternal, benevolent, civic or
religious purpose; a club shall not be open to the public and the sale of
alcoholic liquor shall be limited to members of said club and their personal
guests.
      (3)   Class “C” Retail Package Liquor License. The annual license fee for
a Class “C” license, for the sale of alcoholic liquor on the premises, but not
to be consumed on the premises, shall be the sum of $600, which license fee may
be paid semiannually, in payments of $300 each, on May 1 and November 1.
      (4)   Class “D” Restaurant License.
         (a)   The annual license fee for a Class “D” license, for the sale of
alcoholic liquor to be consumed solely on the premises where the sale and
consumption of food is the primary business conducted therein, shall be the sum
of $500, which license fee may be paid semiannually, in payments of $250 each,
on May 1 and November 1.
         (b)   It shall be unlawful for a licensee holding a Class “D” retail
license to sell alcoholic liquor except to a patron who is purchasing or
consuming food on the premises.
      (5)   Class “E” Beer Garden Supplemental License.  
         (a)   The annual supplemental license fee for a Class “E” license, for
the sale of alcoholic liquor in a beer garden, as defined in §
112.01, and to be sold and consumed on the premises by the public shall be the
additional sum of $200, which license fee may be paid semi-annually, in
payments of $100 each, on May 1 and November 1.
         (b)   It shall be unlawful for a licensee holding a Class “E” beer
garden license to hold supplemental beer garden license without also holding a
valid Class “A”, “B” or “D” liquor license.
      (6)   Class “F” Outdoor Seasonal Event Retail Liquor License. The annual
license fee for a Class “F” license, for the sale of alcoholic liquors to be
consumed on the premises within a designated outdoor area during a seasonal
period of operation. The sale of alcoholic liquors shall not occur at any time
between after dusk and before dawn, nor shall alcoholic liquors be sold before
8:00 a.m. on Sundays. No packaged liquor sales are allowed. The fee shall be
the sum of $300, which shall be paid at the beginning of the season.
   (B)   Sanitary conditions. All premises, whether wholesale or retail, and
licensed under this chapter, shall be kept in sanitary condition and shall be
open to inspection by the Health Officer, Chief of Police and any other
authorized official of the city.
   (C)   Nonpayment of fee. Any licensee, or applicant for license, who does
not pay the required fee at the time required by this chapter, shall be charged
a $100 late fee, which amount shall be payable prior to the issuance or renewal
of any license hereunder.
(Am. Ord. 633, passed 7-7-82; Am. Ord. 1493, passed 10-3-12; Am. Ord. 1516,
passed 9-4-13; Am. Ord. 1740, passed 2-5-20) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.16 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF LICENSES.
   The City Council shall have the right and power to limit the number of
licenses of each class to be issued within the corporate limits of the city and
also may limit the number of each class in any locality or section or portion
of the city in accordance with the public interest.
   (A)   The number of Class “A” Retail Licenses, authorized to be issued
within the corporate limits of the city shall not exceed 13, with no more than
eight of those licenses being located on Main Street.
   (B)   The number of Class “C” Package Licenses, authorized to be issued
within the corporate limits of the city shall not exceed six.
   (C)   One Class “F” Outdoor Seasonal Event Retail Liquor Licenses is
authorized to be issued by the Liquor Commissioner within the corporate limits
of the city and additional licenses may be isued as necessary from time to time
by the City Council.
(Am. Ord. 633, passed 7-7-82; Am. Ord. 722, passed 12-2-87; Am. Ord. 942,
passed 7-1-98; Am. Ord. 1261, passed 11-1-06; Am. Ord. 1440, passed 5-4-11; Am.
Ord. 1493, passed 10-3-12; Am. Ord. 1494, passed 10-3-12; Am. Ord. 1516, passed
9-4-13)
§ 112.17 PERSONS INELIGIBLE TO LICENSE.
   No liquor license shall be issued to:
   (A)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community;
   (B)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
   (C)   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal law or
the laws of the State of Illinois, or the laws of any other state;
   (D)   A person who has been convicted of a crime or misdemeanor opposed to
decency and morality;
   (E)   A person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked for
cause;
   (F)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder would not be eligible for a license upon a first application;
   (G)   A co-partnership, unless all of the members of such co-partnership
shall be qualified to obtain a license;
   (H)   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than 5% of the stock
of such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder.
   (I)   A corporation unless it is incorporated in the state, or unless it is
a foreign corporation which is qualified under the Illinois Business Corporate
Act to transact business in the state;
   (J)   A person whose place of business in conducted by a manager or agent
unless said manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required for the
licensee;
   (K)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor
subsequent to January 31, 1934, or shall have forfeited his bond to appear in
court to answer charges for any such violation;
   (L)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is sought,
or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the license is
to be issued;
   (M)   Any law enforcing public official, Mayor or member of the City
Council; and no such official shall be interested in any way, either directly
or indirectly in the manufacture, sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor;
   (N)   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be operated
by the licensee;
   (O)   Any person, association or corporation not eligible for a state retail
liquor dealer's license.
(Am. Ord. 633, passed 7-7-82)
§ 112.18 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall sell or offer for sale or possess with intention to
sell within the corporate limits of the city, any alcoholic liquor without
having first obtained a license to do so as provided in this chapter, and
having paid to the City Clerk the license fee for such license. No person shall
sell or offer for sale in the city any alcoholic liquor in violation of any
provision of this chapter or any provision of the Illinois Liquor Control Act.
   (B)   The requirement that a city license be procured shall not apply to
physicians, dentists, pharmacists, hospitals or churches when these persons or
institutions possess or dispense alcoholic liquor in accordance with the
provisions of the ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 2-1, as amended from time to time.
   (C)   No person shall hereafter keep, maintain, conduct or operate any beer
garden without first obtaining a license therefor.
(Am. Ord. 633, passed 7-7-82; Am. Ord. 778, passed 7-1-92) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.19 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; CONTENTS.
   (A)   Application for a liquor license shall be made to the Mayor in writing
upon blanks prepared and furnished by the city, signed by the applicant, if an
individual, or by at least two members of a partnership, if the applicant is a
partnership, or if the applicant is a corporation, then by the president and
secretary thereof, verified by oath or affidavit of the signers, and shall
contain the following information and statement:
      (1)   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of a co-partnership, the persons entitled to share in
the profits thereof, and in the case of a corporation, for profit, or a club,
the date of the incorporation, the objects for which it was organized, the
names and addresses of the officers and directors, and if a majority interest
of the stock of such corporation is owned by one person or his nominees, the
name and address of such person;
      (2)   The citizenship of the applicant, his place of birth and if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of his naturalization;
      (3)   The character of business of the applicant; and in case of a
corporation the objects for which it was formed;
      (4)   The length of time that applicant has been in business of that
character, or in the case of a corporation, the date on which its charter was
issued;
      (5)   The amount of goods, wares and merchandise on hand at the time
application is made;
      (6)   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license, including both street address and
legal description of premises;
      (7)   A statement whether applicant has made similar application for a
similar or other license on premises other than described in this application;
      (8)   A statement that the applicant has never been convicted of a felony
and is not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter of thing
contained in this chapter ar any ordinance or statute;
      (9)   Whether a previous license by any state or political subdivision
thereof or by the federal government has been revoked, and the reasons
therefore;
      (10)   The date of incorporation, if an Illinois corporation, or the date
of becoming qualified under the Illinois Business Corporation Act to transact
business in Illinois, if a foreign corporation;
      (11)   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of
the State of Illinois or of the United States or any ordinance of the city in
the conduct of his business;
      (12)   That he has not received or borrowed money or anything else of
value, and that he will not receive or borrow money or anything else of value,
except as permitted by ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, directly or indirectly from any
manufacturer, importing distributor or distributor;
      (13)   A statement that the applicant, upon the issuance of the license
for which this application is made, will conduct the business continuously
during the term of said license, and upon the cessation of business for a
period of 60 consecutive days will surrender said license to the city.
   (B)   The application, addressed to the mayor as aforesaid, shall be filed
with the City Clerk with the appropriate fees as set forth herein.
   (C)   The Clerk shall deliver said fee to the City Treasurer for deposit in
the General Corporate Fund and present the application to the Mayor within
seven calendar days after the Clerk receives the application, except if the
application is one for a full year's license, then the filing procedure will be
the same as used in “Renewal of License” as set forth herein.
   (D)   (1)   Application for a supplemental beer garden license shall be made
in the same manner by an applicant who either currently holds a Class “A”, “B”
or “D” liquor license or has made a contemporaneous application for a Class
“A”, “B” or “D” license.
      (2)   A person licensed under this chapter shall be entitled to such
privilege, upon the payment of such additional fee, provided, however, that
where one-half of the buildings wholly within a distance of 300 feet from the
property boundaries of such persons licensed premises are used for residence or
apartment house purposes, such person shall first obtain and file with the City
Clerk the written consent of a majority of the legal voters residing within
such area. It shall be the duty of the city to cause an investigation to be
made and to endorse on the application for such privilege whether or not one-
half of the buildings wholly within such area are used for residence or
apartment house purposes.
      (3)   A majority of the legal voters residing within a distance of 300
feet from the property boundaries of a location, place or premises licensed
pursuant to this division (D) may file a petition with the City Clerk
requesting the Mayor, as Local Liquor Control Commissioner, to revoke the
privilege which allows for the sale or consumption of alcoholic liquor in any
unenclosed or partially enclosed area on the property or adjacent to the
property of an existing licenses location, place or premises. Upon the filing
of such a petition the Mayor shall hold a hearing thereon pursuant to
appropriate statutory and ordinance procedure.
(Am. Ord. 633, passed 7-7-82; Am. Ord. 778, passed 7-1-92)
§ 112.20 REJECTION OR APPROVAL OF APPLICATION.
   The Mayor shall investigate the statements in each application, and within
30 days after such application has been made to the City Clerk, as aforesaid,
the Mayor shall either approve or reject such application. In the event the
Mayor approves such application and grants such license applied for, the Clerk
shall issue such license to such applicant upon the payment in advance of the
license fee required and the execution of such penal bond as aforesaid.
(Am. Ord. 633, passed 7-7-82)
§ 112.21 TERM OF LICENSES; PRORATION OF FEES.
   Each such license issued hereunder shall terminate at midnight on April 30,
next following the date of issuance. In the event an application is made for
the issuance of a license after May 1, but prior to November 1, the fee to be
paid shall be the same as if the license is issued May 1. In the event an
application is made for the issuance of a license on November 1 or thereafter
only one-half of the annual fee shall be paid.
(Am. Ord. 633, passed 7-7-82)
§ 112.22 REFUND OF FEE FOR DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   In the event the license applied for is denied, the fee shall be returned to
the applicant.
(Am. Ord. 633, passed 7-7-82)
§ 112.23 PERSONAL NATURE OF LICENSE; RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER.
   (A)   (1)   A license issued hereunder shall be purely a personal privilege,
valid until midnight of April 30 following its issuance, unless sooner revoked
as herein provided, and shall not constitute property, nor shall it be subject
to the attachment, garnishment or execution or subject to be encumbered or
hypothecated.
      (2)   Such license shall not descend by the laws of testate or intestate
devolution, but it shall cease upon the death of the licensee, provided that
executors or administrators of the estate of any deceased licensee, and the
trustee of any insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when such estate consist in part
of alcoholic liquor, may continue the business of the sale of alcoholic liquor
under order of the appropriate court, and may exercise the privileges of the
deceased or insolvent or bankrupt licensee after the death of such decedent, or
such insolvency or bankruptcy until the expiration of such license but not
longer than six months after the death, bankruptcy or insolvency of such
licensee.
      (3)   No refund shall be made of any portion of the licensee fee paid,
but in the event the licensee shall be prevented from operating under such
license in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter prior to November
1, he shall not be required to pay the second half of the annual fee as
provided for herein.
   (B)   A license may be transferred by a licensee to another party but only
if the transferee files a proper application and bond and meets all the
requirements for a license as herein set forth. All requests for transfer must
be in writing and be approved by the Mayor. The fee for such transfer shall be
as in the case of an original application for license.
(Am. Ord. 633, passed 7-7-82)
§ 112.24 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   All licenses issued pursuant to the authority of this chapter shall permit
the sale of alcoholic liquor only in the premises described in the application
and license. Once a license has been granted for a particular premises, the
Local Liquor Control Commissioner, upon application by the licensee, may
endorse upon the license permission to abandon the premises therein described
and to remove the license to another premises approved by him and described in
the endorsement. The application for transfer shall be in writing, under oath
and shall fully describe the premises. The reasons for transfer shall be given
and it shall be shown that the new premises comply in all respects with the
requirements of this chapter and the statutes of the state. If the bond
previously filed by the licensee does not apply to the new location, a new bond
will have to be filed and approved pursuant to the terms of this chapter.
(Am. Ord. 633, passed 7-7-82)
§ 112.25 POSTING LICENSES.
   Every person licensed under this chapter shall immediately post and keep
posted while in force, in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises, the
license so issued. Whenever such license shall be lost or destroyed, a
duplicate in lieu thereof shall be issued by the City Clerk, upon payment of a
fee of $15.
(Am. Ord. 633, passed 7-7-82) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.26 RENEWAL OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Applications for renewal of liquor licenses shall be filed with the
City Clerk on or before the last Monday in March each year. The Clerk shall
report the names of all applicants for renewals of licenses to the Mayor at the
first regular April meeting of the City Council of such year, together with the
location of the place of business of each applicant and the amount of license
fees payable upon the renewal of such licenses, and whether or not any written
complaint has been filed as to the manner in which any applicant for such
renewal of a license has carried on the business authorized thereby.
   (B)   All applications for renewals of licenses shall be referred by the
Clerk to the Mayor, as in the case of applications for original licenses, and
procedure for renewal thereof shall be as in the case of applications for
original licenses.
   (C)   Any licensee may renew his license at the expiration thereof, provided
he is then qualified to receive a license and the premise for which such
renewal license is sought are suitable for such purpose; and provided, further
that the renewal privilege herein provided for shall not be construed as a
vested right which shall in any case prevent the City Council from decreasing
the number of licenses to be issued within its jurisdiction.
(Am. Ord. 633, passed 7-7-82)
§ 112.27 (RESERVED.)
§ 112.28 NON-USE OF LICENSE.
   In the event a licensee does not use his license to operate an establishment
for the sale of liquor for a period of 60 consecutive days, the Mayor shall
revoke the license and require its immediate surrender. The licensee shall not
be entitled to a refund of any portion of the licensee fee paid, but if the
revocation occurs before November 1 he shall not be required to pay the second
half of the annual fee as required hereby.
(Am. Ord. 633, passed 7-7-82)
§ 112.29 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSES.
   Any license issued under this chapter may be suspended or revoked by the
Mayor (Local Liquor Control Commissioner) for any one or more of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Violation of the laws of the State of Illinois or of any of the
provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   The making of any false statement as to a material fact in application
for a license; or
   (C)   Permitting any illegal, disorderly or immoral practices upon licensed
premises.
(Am. Ord. 633, passed 7-7-82)
§ 112.30 ISSUANCE OF TEMPORARY LICENSES; LIMITATION FEE.
   (A)   The Mayor shall have the power to issue temporary licenses for the
sale at retail of beer only at any banquet, picnic, fair, game, bazaar or
similar assembly. Such temporary permits shall be only issued to a benevolent,
charitable, religious or civic organization organized not for pecuniary profit
and shall be for a period not to exceed three days.
   (B)   No more than two such temporary permits shall be granted to any such
organization in any one period of seven days.
   (C)   Such permit shall not permit the sale of alcoholic liquor in any place
where the same is otherwise prohibited by law.
   (D)   The fee shall be $150 for each temporary permit.
(Am. Ord. 633, passed 7-7-82; Am. Ord. 1450, passed - -11)
§ 112.31 RECORD OF LICENSE TO BE KEPT.
   The Mayor shall keep or cause to be kept a complete record of all such
licenses issued by him and shall furnish the City Clerk, City Treasurer and
Chief of Police with a copy thereof. Upon the issuance of any new license or
the revocation of any existing license, the Mayor shall notify each of the said
officers thereof within one week of such action. (Ord. 633, passed 7-7-82)
STANDARDS OF OPERATION
§ 112.40 SALE TO MINORS, DRUNKARDS OR SPENDTHRIFTS.
   (A)   Sales of alcoholic liquor are subject to all prohibitions and
penalties set forth in the ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, §§ 6-16 and 6-20 as amended
from time to time.
   (B)   Any person under the age of 21 years who misrepresents his or her age
for the purpose of purchasing and receiving alcoholic liquors in any tavern, or
other place in the city where alcoholic liquors are sold, shall upon conviction
thereof be fined as set forth herein
   (C)   Every place in the city where alcoholic liquor is sold shall display
in a prominent place, a printed card which shall read substantially as follows:
“WARNING
Persons Under 21 Years of Age
Your are subject to a fine up to  $750  under Ordinance of the City of
Marseilles if you purchase alcoholic liquor or misrepresent your age for the
purpose of purchasing or obtaining alcoholic liquor.”
(Am. Ord. 633, passed 7-7-82 ; Am. Ord. 1326, passed 2-20-08 ) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.41 UNOBSTRUCTED VIEW OF PREMISES.
   The provisions of ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § , as amended from time to time,
shall apply to premises upon which the sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption
on the premises is licensed.
(Am. Ord. 633, passed 7-7-82)
§ 112.42 ACCESS TO DWELLING QUARTERS FROM LICENSED PREMISES.
   There shall be no access from licensed premises to dwelling quarters except
as permitted under ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-13, as amended from time to time.
(Am. Ord. 633, passed 7-7-82) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.43 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
within 100 feet of any church, school, hospital, home for aged or indigent
persons or for veterans, their surviving spouses or children, or any military
or naval stations; provided, that this provision shall not apply to hotels
offering restaurant service, regularly organized clubs, or to restaurants, food
shops or other places where sale of alcoholic liquors is not the principal
business.
(Am. Ord. 633, passed 7-7-82; Am. Ord. 892, passed 2-5-97)
§ 112.44 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   No person licensed to sell alcoholic liquors under this chapter shall
permit his establishment to be open for business except during the following
periods of times:
      (1)   From 6:00 a.m. until 2:00 a.m. the following morning on Monday,
Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday;
      (2)   From 6:00 a.m. to 3:00 a.m. the following morning on Friday and
Saturday; and
      (3)   From 6:00 a.m. until 1:00 a.m. the following morning on Sunday.
   (B)   The only persons or individuals permitted to remain after closing
hours in an establishment which has been issued a Class “A” Retail Liquor
License, shall be the owner, bartender and janitor.
(Am. Ord. 633, passed 7-7-82; Am. Ord. 665, passed 9-21-83; Am. Ord. 1516,
passed 9-4-13; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 12-19-18) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.45 EMPLOYMENT OF MINORS.
   No person, firm or corporation having a local license issued under this
chapter shall employ any minor to sell, draw, pour or mix any alcoholic liquor.
(Am. Ord. 633, passed 7-7-82) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.46 GAMBLING DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   No gambling device of any kind shall be kept or used for the purpose of
gambling in any such establishment store or club, to barter, sell, exchange or
give away alcoholic liquors as defined herein except when operated in
compliance with the rules and requirements of the Video Gaming Act, ILCS Ch.
230, Act 40, §§ 1 et seq.
(Am. Ord. 633, passed 7-7-82; Am. Ord. 1535, passed 3-5-14) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.47 CONDITIONS FOR OPERATING BEER GARDEN.
   No beer garden shall be permitted, maintained or operated except in
conformity with the following regulations:
   (A)   The beer garden area shall be particularly described and adjacent to,
and operated as part of, premises licensed to sell beer or alcoholic beverages
for consumption on the premises.
   (B)   Beer gardens shall be no greater in area than one and one-half the
other floor space of the licensed premises.
   (C)   Beer gardens shall be limited to one person for each ten square feet
and shall have separately posted the maximum capacity.
   (D)   At any part of the beer garden not blocked by a building, there shall
be maintained or constructed a hedge or fence not less that three feet high
surrounding the beer garden area. The fence shall contain the required fire
exit or exits. Each gate or exit shall be not less than three feet high, shall
swing to egress, shall be equipped with proper hardware, and shall swing free
and clear of public sidewalks. The beer garden fence shall comply with all city
ordinances regarding vision clearance and required distances from corners.
   (E)   All electrical wiring shall comply with the national, state and city
electrical codes.
   (F)   All combustible rubbish shall be stored in noncombustible covered
containers.
   (G)   The noise emanating from any beer garden shall not violate any
regulations of the Municipal Code or ordinances pertaining to noise.
   (H)   The licensee or his agent shall be responsible for preventing
violations of the section.
   (I)   No license shall be granted that violates any other provisions of the
liquor code including but not limited to location restrictions, days of
restricted sales, and other standards of operation.
(Am. Ord. 778, passed 7-1-92) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.48 CARRY LIQUOR FROM PREMISES OF A BEER GARDEN PROHIBITED.
   No person holding a Class “E” liquor license shall permit any patron to
carry liquor from the premises of the beer garden onto any street, roadway,
boulevard, avenue, parking lot or sidewalk in the city or onto any grounds
under the control of a public school district within the city.
(Am. Ord. 778, passed 7-1-92) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.49 SIDEWALK CAFÉ SUPPLEMENTAL LIQUOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Application. The holder of a sidewalk café permit under
Ch. 122 that also holds a Class “A”, “B”, or “D” liquor license for the
building immediately adjacent to a permitted sidewalk café permit may make
application to the Liquor Control Commissioner to allow liquor to be served in
the permitted sidewalk café area. An application for a sidewalk café
supplemental liquor license shall be made similar to the application for a
Class “E” Beer Garden Supplemental License and must include proof of issuance
of a sidewalk café permit.
   (B)   Conditions for operation. The applicant for a sidewalk cade
supplemental liquor license shall comply with the following conditions for
operation:
      (1)   The sidewalk café area shall be particularly described and adjacent
to, and operated as part of, the premises licensed to sell beer or alcoholic
beverages for consumption on the premises.
      (2)   The serving of any liquor shall be limited to the consumption of
such while a customer is consuming food at the sidewalk café. No liquor shall
be served to a customer unless the customer is consuming food. No person shall
be allowed to consume liquor other than such purchased at the premises. No
customer shall be allowed to leave the sidewalk café area with liquor purchased
for consumption at the sidewalk café.
      (3)   No liquor shall be served in any glass container.
      (4)   The licensee shall be responsible for assuring compliance with the
above requirements, requirements for the application of a sidewalk café, and
general compliance by customers with this Code and criminal statutes.
      (5)   The sidewalk café supplemental liquor license shall automatically
terminate upon the termination of the required sidewalk café permit. A liquor
control hearing shall be conducted for all other violations.
   (C)   Applicant shall provide proof of liquor liability (dramshop) insurance
for the sidewalk café, in no less than statutory amounts and the insurance
shall name the city as an additional insured on a primary, non-contributory
basis.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this section shall run concurrently with the
applicant’s liquor license and shall require an annual fee of $25.
   (E)   A sidewalk café supplemental liquor license shall be for the exclusive
use of the licensed premises and cannot be assigned.
(Ord. 1482, passed 6-6-12; Am. Ord. 1490, passed 7-18-12)
§ 112.50 SHIPPING OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.
   (A)   Shipping authorized. The holder of retailer's liquor licenses issued
by the city is authorized to perform shipping of alcoholic liquor from the
retailer to a consumer through one of the following methods:
      (1)   Delivery within licensed retailer's parking lot, including
curbside, for pickup by the consumer;
      (2)   Delivery by an owner, officer, director, shareholder, or employee
of the licensed retailer; or
      (3)   Delivery by a third-party contractor, independent contractor, or
agent with whom the licensed retailer has contracted to make deliveries of
alcoholic liquors.
   (B)   Delivery outside of parking lot or curbside. Any person delivering
alcoholic liquor outside of the parking lot or curbside for the holder of a
retailer's liquor license shall register their identity with the Marseilles
Police Department and agree to delivery terms including as follows:
      (1)   The delivery person shall be 21 years of age or older and within
the past year have completed a BASSET training program approved by the Illinois
Liquor Commission.
      (2)   The delivery shall be made within 12 hours from the time the
alcoholic liquor leaves the premises of the holder of a retailer's liquor
license any may be delivered only within hours authorized under §
112.44.
      (3)   No delivery may be made to person under 21 years of age and the
person accepting delivery shall sign a receipt for such on a receipt form
approved by the Marseilles Police Department.
      (4)   The holder of a retailer's liquor license shall hold liquor
delivery receipts for a period no less than 12 months and upon request shall
provide copies to the Marseilles Police Department.
(Ord. 1814, passed 1-19-21)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 112.60 COMPENSATION FOR MAYOR AS LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER.
   The annual compensation for the services of the Mayor as Local Liquor
Control Commissioner shall be $1,200 payable in equal monthly payments.
(Am. Ord. 633, passed 7-7-82)
§ 112.61 CITY CLERK TO BE SECRETARY FOR COMMISSIONER.
   The City Clerk shall be the Secretary for the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner and assist in keeping the necessary records pertaining or
incidental thereto.
(Am. Ord. 633, passed 7-7-82)
§ 112.62 APPOINTMENT OF ASSISTANT LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONERS.
   The Mayor shall appoint two Assistant Local Liquor Control Commissioners to
assist the Local Liquor Control Commissioner. The two Assistants shall be the
Commissioner of Finance and the Commissioner of Pubic Health and Safety, either
of whom shall exercise the duties of Local Liquor Control Commissioner in his
absence or at his direction. Each such Assistant shall be entitled to
reimbursement for all expenses incurred while exercising the duties of the
Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
(Am. Ord. 633, passed 7-7-82)
§ 112.63 EMERGENCY CLOSINGS; AUTHORITY OF MAYOR.
   In all cases where in the opinion of the Mayor, the public peace is likely
to be endangered by the keeping open of premises licensed hereunder, it shall
be lawful for the Mayor to issue his proclamation, under the seal of the city
commanding and enjoining all persons licensed by said city to sell any of said
liquors, and their servants and agents, to close their shops and places of
business for such time as the Mayor shall deem necessary; and neither to sell,
give away, or suffer to be drawn, any of said liquors in or about their
premises during the time mentioned in said proclamation.
(Am. Ord. 633, passed 7-7-82)
§ 112.64 APPEALS.
   All appeals from decisions of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner to
revoke or suspend any license issued by him, or the imposition of any fine
imposed by him, shall be in accordance with the provisions of Section 7-9 of
the Illinois Control Act (ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 7-9). All such appeals shall
be limited to a review of the official record of the proceedings before the
Liquor Control Commissioner.
(Ord. 964, passed 4-7-99)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter for which
another penalty is not provided shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine
according to the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on
which a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   The penalty described in above division (A) shall not limit the
authority of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner to take action against a
responsible party under the Liquor Control Act of 1934, being ILCS Ch. 235, Act
5, to impose any penalty authorized under ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 7-5 or other
applicable section of said Act.
(Am. Ord. 633, passed 7-7-82; Am. Ord. 1326, passed 2-20-08 )
CHAPTER 113: AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   License required
   
113.02   License fees
Skating Rinks
   
113.15   License required
   
113.16   Qualifications and investigation of applicant
   
113.17   License fee
   
113.18   Exits
   
113.19   Prohibited activities
Billiards and Pool Tables
   
113.30   License required
   
113.31   License fee
   
113.32   Hours of operation
   
113.33   Use by minors
Bowling Alleys
   
113.45   License required
   
113.46   License fee
   
113.47   Hours of operation
Table Games
   
113.60   Definitions
   
113.61   License required
   
113.62   License fees
   
113.63   Application for license; contents
   
113.64   Issuance and display of license
   
113.65   Use by minors
   
113.66   Location of machines
   
113.67   Use for gambling prohibited
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No circus, carnival, theater, concert, exhibition, show, entertainment or
amusement of any kind for the witnessing of which an admission fee is charged,
unless given under the auspices and for the benefit of an association or
society or church or charitable purpose, shall be given, exhibited, or
performed within the city without a license therefor.
('72 Code § 32.08(a)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.02 LICENSE FEES.
   There shall be charged and collected for each license granted under this
subchapter the following fees:
Type of License Fees
Type of License                                                            Fees
Circus or carnival, per day                                                $ 25
Concert, theater, entertainment, either under canvas or in a hall
   Per day                                                              $ 5
   Per week                                                             $25
(Provided, however, the owner, lessee, or manager of any theater, hall or
other place for the giving of any entertainment, may upon the payment of
$25 procure a license which will entitle him to the privilege of giving or
permitting others to give in such theater, hall or other place, any and
all entertainments sanctioned by the provisions of this subchapter for a
period of one year in lieu of all license fees for such entertainment.)
Every other show or exhibition requiring a license
   Per day                                                              $ 5
   Per week                                                             $25
 
('72 Code § 32.08(b))
SKATING RINKS
§ 113.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to operate or conduct a public skating rink in the city
without a license therefor.
('72 Code, § 32.09(a)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.16 QUALIFICATIONS AND INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT.
   No license shall be issued to a person who is not a person of good moral
character nor to a corporation or organization which is not represented in the
city by a person of good moral character. It shall be the duty of the Chief of
Police to make or cause to be made an investigation into the character of each
applicant and report the results of such investigation to the City Clerk.
('72 Code, § 32.09(b))
§ 113.17 LICENSE FEE.
   The annual license fee for public skating rinks is $50 for each rink.
('72 Code, § 32.09(c))
§ 113.18 EXITS.
   It shall be unlawful to conduct a public skating rink in any hall or
building which is not equipped with sufficient and adequate exits and no hall
or building which is not provided with at least two exits of four feet or more
in width shall be used for such purpose.
('72 Code, § 32.09(d)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.19 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to indulge in or permit any improper conduct at
any public skating rink.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to permit music at any public skating rink after
11:00 p.m.
('72 Code, § 32.09(e)) Penalty, see §
10.99
BILLIARDS AND POOL TABLES
§ 113.30 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall keep any billiard or pool table to be used or placed upon by
others for hire or game in the city without a license therefor.
('72 Code, § 32.11(a)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.31 LICENSE FEE.
   The fee for a license under this subchapter is $25 per year, for each table.
('72 Code, § 32.11(b))
§ 113.32 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   All billiard and pool rooms within this city shall close games at 11:00 p.m.
(12:00 p.m. Friday and Saturday only), and shall not be opened before 7:00 a.m
except that if the room is within a business licensed to sell alcoholic liquor,
the hours of operation shall correspond with the hours authorized to sell
alcoholic liquor.
(‘72 Code, § 32.11(c)) (Am. Ord. 605, passed 3-19-80; Am. Ord. 1536, passed 4-
2-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.33 USE BY MINORS.
   No keeper of any billiard or pool room where liquor is served or consumed on
the premises shall permit any person under the age of 18 years to play at any
game upon any table kept by him, nor shall he permit any such person to
frequent his place of business, or to loiter or remain therein unless such
person shall be accompanied by a parent or legal guardian.
('72 Code, § 32.11(c)) (Am. Ord. 605, passed 3-19-80) Penalty, see §
10.99
BOWLING ALLEYS
§ 113.45 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate or maintain a bowling alley open to the public in
the city without a license therefor.
('72 Code, § 32.12(a)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.46 LICENSE FEE.
   No fee shall be required for such license.
(‘72 Code, § 32.12(b)) (Am. Ord. 1536, passed 4-2-14)
§ 113.47 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No person operating or maintaining a bowling alley shall permit his
establishment to be open for business except during the following period of
time: from 6:00 a.m. of each day until 12:00 p.m., except on Saturday night
when the closing hour shall be 1:00 a.m., and except that if the alley is
within a business licensed to sell alcoholic liquor, the hours of operation
shall correspond with the hours authorized to sell alcoholic liquor.
(‘72 Code, § 32.12(c)) (Am. Ord. 1536, passed 4-2-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
TABLE GAMES
§ 113.60 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPERATOR. Any person who sets up for operation by another, or leases or
distributes for the purpose of operation by another, any table game for his own
use or profit, or owns any table game as herein defined, whether such setting
up for operation, leasing or distributing be for a fixed charge or rental or on
the basis of a division of the income derived from such table games, or
otherwise, or if an owner, whether or not he is entitled to full amount of
revenue derived therefrom.
   PROPRIETOR. Any person who is the distributee or lessee of any table game
placed in the establishment of such person in or at which such table game is
placed for use or play, or in the exhibition for the purpose of use or play,
such table game not being owned by such person.
   TABLE GAME. Any device, whether controlled by skill or chance, for the
operation of a game, pastime or contest by the manipulation of a marble,
sphere, or of objects or figures, or by controlling the movements of the same
or setting them in motion by mechanical means. The term TABLE GAME shall
include pinball machines.
('72 Code, § 32.13(a))
§ 113.61 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to conduct, own, operate, maintain or expose for public
use any table games or amusement device operated with a slug or coin for the
use of which a fee is charged, without a license therefor.
('72 Code, § 32.13(a)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.62 LICENSE FEES.
   No person shall engage in the business of an operator or proprietor as
hereinabove defined, without a license therefor. The license fee for each
proprietor and operator shall be $25 per year for each machine used or played,
or exhibited for use or play, payable May 1 of each year. For any license
issued on or after November 1 of any calendar year, the license fee shall be
one-half of the annual amount specified in this section, but there shall be no
further fractional division of license fees payable under this chapter.
('72 Code, § 32.13(b)) (Am. Ord. 605, passed 3-19-80)
§ 113.63 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; CONTENTS.
   (A)   Application for license hereunder shall be filed in writing with the
City Clerk and shall specify:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant and, if a firm, corporation,
partnership or association, the principal officers thereof and their addresses.
      (2)   Whether the applicant is a citizen of the United States.
      (3)   The place where the business of the applicant is to be carried on.
      (4)   The name of the manufacturer of the game and the type of game, the
number of games to be used in the city, and the serial or factory number of
each machine.
   (B)   The application shall be referred to the Council for investigation of
the character of the applicant, the premises in which it is proposed to carry
on the business of the applicant, and the type of game to be used. Such license
shall be non-assignable and non-transferable, and in the case of a proprietor
shall apply only to the premises for which such license is issued.
('72 Code, § 32.13(c))
§ 113.64 ISSUANCE AND DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   The City Clerk shall issue to each proprietor a license hereunder, listing
the number and type of machines for which the proprietor is licensed; such
license shall be displayed in a conspicuous place on the premises for which it
is issued.
('72 Code, § 32.13(d)) (Am. Ord. 605, passed 3-19-80)
§ 113.65 USE BY MINORS.
   No proprietor of an establishment where liquor is to be served or consumed
on the premises shall permit any person under the age of 18 years to operate,
use or place such machine unless accompanied by a parent or legal guardian.
('72 Code, § 32.13(e)) (Am. Ord. 605, passed 3-19-80) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.66 LOCATION OF MACHINES.
   All machines shall at all times be kept and placed in plain view of all
persons who may be in or frequent any place of business or other place where
such machines are kept or used.
('72 Code, § 32.13(f)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.67 USE FOR GAMBLING PROHIBITED.
   Nothing in this subchapter authorizes any table game to be used for gambling
purposes.
('72 Code, § 32.13(f))
CHAPTER 114: AUCTIONEERS; JUNK DEALERS
Section
Auctioneers
   
114.01   License required
   
114.02   Bond
   
114.03   License fee
   
114.04   Deceiving bidders
Junk Dealers
   
114.15   License required
   
114.16   Granting of license; fee
   
114.17   Inspections
   
114.18   Purchase of articles from minors
   
114.19   Records to be kept
   
114.20   Resale of articles
   
114.21   Stolen goods
AUCTIONEERS
§ 114.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No sale of personal property, except sales made under legal process, shall
be made within this city by auctioneer or any other person, unless he shall
first obtain a license from the City Clerk therefor.
('72 Code, § 32.01(a)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.02 BOND.
   Every person desiring to sell goods at auction within this city shall
execute a bond to the city in the penal sum of $100, conditioned for the
observance of all provisions of this code and other ordinances of the city
respecting auctions and auctioneers, which bond shall be filed with the
application of such person for license.
('72 Code, § 32.01(b))
§ 114.03 LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   There shall be charged for every license granted to any auctioneer
under the provisions of this subchapter:
      (1)   For one year, $50.
      (2)   For six months, $35.
      (3)   For three months, $20.
      (4)   For one day, $3.
   (B)   No license shall issue for any term except as above provided, except
that a license may be issued for any number of days upon the payment of the sum
of $3 for every day such license is desired.
('72 Code, § 32.01(c))
§ 114.04 DECEIVING BIDDERS.
   No person shall exhibit and offer for sale at auction any article and induce
its purchase by any bidder, and shall afterward substitute any other article
for the one so exhibited with the intent to deceive and defraud such bidder.
('72 Code, § 32.01(d)) Penalty, see §
10.99
JUNK DEALERS
§ 114.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall within this city keep any shop, store or other place, or
shall engage in the business of transient junk dealers, for the purchase, sale
or barter of junk, old metal and second-hand articles, without first having
obtained a license therefor.
('72 Code, § 32.02(a)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.16 GRANTING OF LICENSE; FEE.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Clerk are hereby authorized to grant a license
under this subchapter to any person of good moral character upon such applicant
paying the license fee therefor, and entering into a bond in the penal sum of
$100 to the city, conditioned that the applicant will observe all ordinances of
the city regulating such activity and will pay all fines and damages incurred
on account of his failure in that behalf.
   (B)   The license fee is $35 per year for a junk shop, and $5 per day for a
transient junk dealer with a vehicle only.
('72 Code, § 32.02(b))
§ 114.17 INSPECTIONS.
   Every junk shop within this city and all articles contained therein, may at
any time be examined by the Mayor, Chief of Police or any commissioner of the
city. No person shall interfere or attempt to interfere with any such
examination.
('72 Code, § 32.02(c))
§ 114.18 PURCHASE OF ARTICLES FROM MINORS.
   No junk dealer shall at any time purchase or receive any article or thing
from any minor without the consent in writing of the parent or guardian of such
minor child for the sale or disposition of such article or thing.
('72 Code, § 32.02(d)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.19 RECORDS TO BE KEPT.
   Every junk dealer shall keep a book in which shall be fairly written in the
English language in ink at the time of each purchase or receipt, an accurate
description of each article or thing purchased or received, the time of
purchasing or receipt of it, and the name, place of residence and occupation of
the seller. No entry made in such book shall be erased, obliterated or defaced.
Such book shall be open at all times to the inspection of the Mayor, Chief of
Police, or any member of the police force, or commissioner, or other person
authorized by them to inspect such book.
('72 Code, § 32.02(e))
§ 114.20 RESALE OF ARTICLES.
   No article purchased or received by any junk dealer shall be sold or
otherwise disposed of until at least one week from the date of its purchase or
receipt shall have elapsed.
('72 Code, § 32.02(f)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.21 STOLEN GOODS.
   Any junk dealer who shall receive or be in possession of any goods, articles
or things which have been lost or stolen, or alleged to have been lost or
stolen, shall, upon demand to view and examine the same, produce such goods or
articles or things to the Chief of Police or any member of the police force.
('72 Code, § 32.02(g))
CHAPTER 115: MERCHANTS PROVIDING PRODUCTS OR SERVICES
Section
Scavengers
   
115.01   License required; fee
   
115.02   Application for license
   
115.03   Specifications for vehicles
   
115.04   Disposal or storage of refuse
Shooting Galleries
   
115.15   License required
   
115.16   License fee
   
115.17   Hours of operation
Transient Photographers
   
115.30   License required
   
115.31   License fee
   
115.32   Bond; agent for purpose
SCAVENGERS
§ 115.01 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of scavenger,
or the collection or disposal of animal, human or vegetable refuse, or offal,
without a license therefor. The fee for such license is $5 per year.
('72 Code, § 32.07(a)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Applications for such license shall be made to the City Clerk, and shall be
referred by him to the City Council. No such license shall be issued except on
order of the Council.
('72 Code, § 32.07(b))
§ 115.03 SPECIFICATIONS FOR VEHICLES.
   Any vehicle used by such scavenger in his business shall be watertight, and
equipped with airtight covers for such portions as are used for the
transportation of refuse.
('72 Code, § 32.07(c))
§ 115.04 DISPOSAL OR STORAGE OF REFUSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any scavenger to dispose of or store any refuse in
any place within the city limits excepting with the permission of the City
Council.
('72 Code, § 32.07(d)) Penalty, see §
10.99
SHOOTING GALLERIES
§ 115.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall within the city keep any shooting gallery to be used by
others for hire or gain, without a license therefor.
('72 Code, § 32.10(a)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.16 LICENSE FEE.
   The fee for such license is $24 per year or $1 per day.
('72 Code, § 32.10(b))
§ 115.17 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   All shooting galleries within the city shall remain closed on Sunday, and on
weekdays shall close at 10:00 p.m. and shall not be opened before 8:00 a.m.
('72 Code, § 32.10(c)) Penalty, see §
10.99
TRANSIENT PHOTOGRAPHERS
§ 115.30 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of resident,
transient or itinerant portrait or commercial photography, or in the enlarging,
copying, coloring or portrait finishing of photographs, or to solicit or offer
for sale any of such goods or services verbally, by telephone, by mail, or by
means of printed advertising in the city, without a license therefor.
('72 Code, § 32.04(a)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.31 LICENSE FEE.
   The fee for a license under this subchapter is $25 per year or any fraction
thereof, and in addition a license fee of $5 per day or any fraction thereof
shall be paid by the licensee for each outside solicitor or salesperson,
including solicitors or salespersons so employed but operating from their own
temporary or permanent residences or telephones and whether paid on a salary or
commission basis, contracted with or employed by each person, for the purposes
of selling, distributing or securing orders for portrait or commercial
photographs, or for the enlarging, copying, coloring or portrait finishing
thereof, or for the selling or distribution of coupons or tokens, or other
printed or similar offers or advertising literature pledged or used in the sale
of portrait or commercial photographs or the enlarging, copying, coloring or
portrait finishing thereof.
('72 Code, § 32.04(b))
§ 115.32 BOND; AGENT FOR PURPOSE.
   (A)   Before the City Clerk shall issue any license under this subchapter,
the applicant shall execute an indemnity bond in the amount of $500 to the city
for the use and benefit of the patrons of said person who are residents of the
city. The bond shall have as surety either a regularly licensed corporate
surety company or a resident and real property owner of LaSalle County,
Illinois, who shall be worth at least the sum of $1,000 above his debts and
exemptions in property subject to execution and sale, and who shall make an
affidavit to that effect before signing as surety. In lieu of surety, $500 in
cash may be deposited with the Clerk, to be returned without interest by the
Clerk to the applicant within 30 days after the end of the license period or
any renewal period thereof.
   (B)   The applicant shall further appoint the Clerk as his process agent in
all matters connected with or arising out of the applicant's business. It shall
be the duty of the Clerk immediately to advise the applicant by registered
mail, addressed to the applicant at his place of business at the address
furnished in the indemnity bond, of the nature and pendency of any action
brought against the applicant wherein process is served on the Clerk.
('72 Code, § 32.04(c))
CHAPTER 116: PEDDLERS; ITINERANT MERCHANTS; SOLICITORS
Section
Hawkers, Peddlers, Itinerant Merchants and Transient Vendors
   
116.01   License required
   
116.02   Application for license
   
116.03   License fee
   
116.04   When license not required
   
116.05   Scope of license
   
116.06   Certificate of registration
Solicitors and Canvassers
   
116.15   Permit required
   
116.16   Application; contents
   
116.17   Issuance of permit; duration
   
116.18   Revocation of permit
   
116.19   Time limit on soliciting and canvassing
   
116.20   Solicitor and canvasser permit fee
HAWKERS, PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND TRANSIENT VENDORS
§ 116.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, whether for himself or an agent for another, shall engage in the
pursuit or business of hawker, peddler, itinerant merchant or transient vendor
of merchandise without a license to do so.
('72 Code, § 32.03(a)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Application for such license shall state the name and residence of the
person desiring the license, the period of time for which it is desired and the
particular articles, things or merchandise to be sold, and whether it is
desired to pass from place to place in the city or locate at a fixed point or
place; and, if it is desired to locate at a fixed point or place, the location
shall be stated.
('72 Code, § 32.03(b))
§ 116.03 LICENSE FEE.
   The fee for a license under this subchapter is $30 for each month of
operation due at the time of application.
(‘72 Code, § 32.03(c)) (Ord. 909, passed 8-6-97; Am. Ord. 1511, passed 6-5-13)
§ 116.04 WHEN LICENSE NOT REQUIRED.
   No license shall be required from any civic, benevolent, charitable,
educational or not-for-profit organization or corporation.
('72 Code, § 32.03(d)) (Ord. 909, passed 8-6-97)
§ 116.05 SCOPE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   No person whether or not required to be licensed under the provisions
of this subchapter, shall occupy or use the public sidewalks, streets, alleys
or other public places while engaged in the pursuit or business of hawker,
peddler, itinerant merchant or transient vendor of merchandise; excepting,
however, unless authorized pursuant to the provisions of §
97.021(E).
   (B)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, no license shall
be issued to any person for a fixed point or location unless the applicant is
the owner or lessee of said location, and provides written evidence thereof
with the application for license.
   (C)   Transient vendors shall only be authorized to sell merchandise, food
or non-alcoholic beverages on a seasonal basis not to exceed six consecutive
months. Transient vendors shall not sell merchandise, food, or non-alcoholic
beverages out of a moving vehicle, but shall conduct business out of a
permanent or stationary structure.
(Am. Ord. 759, passed 6-5-91; Am. Ord. 909, passed 8-6-97; Am. Ord. 1511,
passed 6-5-13)
Cross-reference:
   Encroachments on streets; permit required, see §
97.021
§ 116.06 CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   No person, whether for himself or an agent for another, shall engage in the
pursuit of business of hawker, peddler, itinerant merchant or transient vendor
of merchandise without a current certificate of registration issued under the
Retailers Occupation Tax Act.
(Ord. 909, passed 8-6-97) Penalty, see §
10.99
SOLICITORS AND CANVASSERS
§ 116.15 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to go in or upon any private residence,
apartment or premises in the city for the purpose of soliciting from the
occupants thereof, or to canvass for orders for goods, wares, merchandise or
services of any character or description, or for the purpose of offering to
give or to furnish or giving or furnishing any goods, wares, merchandise or
services to any such occupants to induce or invite such orders, without having
first received from the Chief of Police a solicitor's permit to do so.
('72 Code, § 32.05(a)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.16 APPLICATION; CONTENTS.
   (A)   Any person desiring to secure such a solicitor's permit shall apply
therefor in writing over his signature to the Chief of Police on forms provided
by the city. Such application shall state:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The name and address of the person by whom employed;
      (3)   The length of service of such applicant with such employer;
      (4)   The place of residence and nature of employment of the occupant
during the last preceding year;
      (5)   The nature or character of the goods, wares, merchandise or service
to be offered by the applicant;
      (6)   The personal description and complete identification of the
applicant.
   (B)   Such application shall be accompanied by such credentials and other
evidence of the good moral character and identity of the applicant, as may be
reasonably required by the Chief of Police.
('72 Code, § 32.05(b))
§ 116.17 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; DURATION.
   If the Chief of Police shall determine after reasonable investigation that
the applicant is of good moral character and proposes to engage in a lawful and
legitimate commercial or professional enterprise, he shall then issue the
permit applied for, which permit shall expire on December 31 of the year
issued.
('72 Code, § 32.05(c))
§ 116.18 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   Any such permit may be revoked by the Chief of Police for violations by the
holder thereof of this code or any other ordinances of the city or of any state
or federal law, or whenever the holder of such permit shall cease to possess
the character and qualifications required by this subchapter for the issuance
of such permit.
('72 Code, § 32.05(d))
§ 116.19 TIME LIMIT ON SOLICITING AND CANVASSING.
   It is unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any person whether
registered under this subchapter or not, to go upon any premises for the
purpose of engaging in soliciting or canvassing prior to 8:30 a.m. or after 5:
30 p.m.
('72 Code, § 32.05(e)) (Am. Ord. 568, passed 4-3-78) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.20 SOLICITOR AND CANVASSER PERMIT FEE.
   The fee for a solicitor or canvasser permit under this subchapter is $30 for
each month of operation.
(Ord. 1511, passed 6-5-13)
CHAPTER 117: TAXICABS
Section
   
117.01   Definition
   
117.02   Taxicab service license required
   
117.03   Applications
   
117.04   Character of applicant
   
117.05   City Council action
   
117.06   Taxicab license fee
   
117.07   Vehicle requirements
   
117.08   Taxicab driver requirements
   
117.09   Insurance requirements, traffic rules, unlawful acts
   
117.10   Passengers
   
117.11   Rates
   
117.12   Posting of rates
   
117.13   Transfers and new drivers
   
117.14   Suspension or revocation
   
117.15   Effective date
 
   
117.99   Penalty
§ 117.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TAXICAB. Any vehicle used to carry passengers for hire but not operating on
a fixed route.
(Ord. 1471, passed 4-4-12)
§ 117.02 TAXICAB SERVICE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of operating a
taxicab service in the City of Marseilles without first having a valid license
approved by the City Council and issued by the City Clerk.
(Ord. 1471, passed 4-4-12) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.03 APPLICATIONS.
   An application for a license to operate a taxicab service shall be made in
writing to the City Clerk and shall state thereon the name of the applicant,
the intended place of business, the number of taxicabs to be operated, and the
rates to be charged. If the applicant is a business entity other than a sole
proprietorship, all principal parties of the business entity shall be
identified by name, address and such other identifying information required for
a background investigation.
(Ord. 1471, passed 4-4-12)
§ 117.04 CHARACTER OF APPLICANT.
   No license shall be issued to or held by any person who is not a person of
good character and reputation, or who has been convicted of a felony, nor shall
such license be issued to or held by any entity if any principal thereof would
be ineligible for a license under the foregoing conditions. The Chief of
Police, or their designee, is responsible for conducting a background
investigation on each applicant and each principal of a business entity. An
applicant shall cooperate with such investigation or the application shall be
denied.
(Ord. 1471, passed 4-4-12)
§ 117.05 CITY COUNCIL ACTION.
   The Council shall consider the report of the Chief of Police and may make
such additional investigation, as it deems advisable and shall determine
whether or not the public convenience and necessity requires the proposed
taxicab service and whether or not such license shall be granted and upon what
terms and conditions and shall cause the applicant to be notified accordingly.
(Ord. 1471, passed 4-4-12)
§ 117.06 TAXICAB LICENSE FEE.
   The annual fee, payable in advance, for a license shall be $100 for the
first taxicab and for one driver and $35 for each subsequent taxicab and $35
for each additional driver. The City Clerk shall issue suitable tags or
stickers for the number of taxicabs covered by each license. Such tag or
sticker shall be displayed in a prominent place on each taxicab while it is in
use. The licensee shall notify the City Clerk of the vehicle’s serial number
and state license number. The license fees herein provided shall be payable on
or before January 15 of each calendar year.
(Ord. 1471, passed 4-4-12)
§ 117.07 VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS.
   No taxicab tag or sticker shall be issued for a vehicle to be used as a
taxicab until written approval is obtained from the Chief of Police or
designee. To be approved, the vehicle shall bear a duly issued state license
and be equipped with proper working brakes, horn, muffler, rear vision mirror,
and windshield wipers. At the time of license application and on or before
January 15 of each and every calendar year thereafter while the license remains
in effect, the holder of the license shall provide the Chief of Police or
designee with a statement from a certified mechanic that the respective
taxicabs operated under the license are in good condition and repair. The Chief
of Police, or designee may request a recertification for good cause.
(Ord. 1471, passed 4-4-12)
§ 117.08 TAXICAB DRIVER REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall drive a taxicab or be hired or permitted to do so unless he
or she is duly licensed by the State of Illinois and has obtained a written
approval by the Chief of Police or designee. Any driver convicted of a felony
shall be disqualified but a variance may be requested from the Chief of Police
or designee who shall consider the lapse of time from any felony conviction,
subsequent criminal activity, current letters of reference and other
information submitted by the applicant. It shall be unlawful for any driver of
any taxicab while on duty to:
   (A)   Drink any intoxicating liquor;
   (B)   Use or be under the influence of any unlawful drugs;
   (C)   Use any profane or obscene language;
   (D)   Shout or call to prospective passengers; or
   (E)   Disturb the peace in any way.
(Ord. 1471, passed 4-4-12) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.09 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS, TRAFFIC RULES, UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   No taxicab shall be operated unless it is covered by public liability
policy as required by the laws of the State of Illinois; provided, in no event
shall such liability coverage be less than $100,000 per person, $300,000 per
occurrence limits.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of every driver of a taxicab to obey all traffic
rules established by the city and the State of Illinois.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly permit any taxicab to
be used in the perpetration of a crime or misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1471, passed 4-4-12) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.10 PASSENGERS.
   It shall be the duty of the driver of any taxicab to accept as a passenger
any person who seeks to use a taxicab, provided such person is not abusive and
conducts himself or herself in an orderly manner. No person shall be admitted
to the taxicab occupied by a passenger without the consent of that passenger.
The driver shall take his or her passenger to the destination by the most
direct available route from the place where the passenger enters the taxicab.
(Ord. 1471, passed 4-4-12)
§ 117.11 RATES.
   Rates shall only be those approved with the license. For good cause shown, a
licensee may petition the City Council for a rate change. No person operating
any metered taxicab in the city shall charge in excess of city approved meter
rates. No charge is allowed for packages that can be carried into the taxi or
placed in a taxi trunk.
(Ord. 1471, passed 4-4-12) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.12 POSTING OF RATES.
   The schedule of rates charged shall be posted in each taxicab in front of
the passenger compartment in such a position that it will be in plain view of
all passengers riding therein, and so lighted at night that it can be plainly
seen.
(Ord. 1471, passed 4-4-12)
§ 117.13 TRANSFERS AND NEW DRIVERS.
   (A)   No tag or sticker for use of a vehicle as a taxicab may be transferred
from one taxicab to another by the City Clerk except upon approval by the Chief
of Police or designee indicating compliance with vehicle, insurance, and other
requirements of this
Chapter 117. A $35 transfer fee shall be required for any transfer from one
taxicab to another.
   (B)   No new driver may take the place of an approved retiring driver except
upon approval by the Chief of Police or designee indicating compliance with
this
Chapter 117.
(Ord. 1471, passed 4-4-12) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.14 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   The Chief of Police or designee, after holding a hearing, may suspend up to
30 days or revoke written approval for a driver or written approval of a
vehicle for use as a taxicab for any violation of a requirement under this
Chapter 117 for any other ordinance of the City of Marseilles, or any statute
of the State of Illinois. The City Council, after holding a hearing, may
suspend up to 30 days or revoke a license to operate a taxicab service in the
City of Marseilles for any violation of a requirement under this
Chapter 117 for any other ordinance of the City of Marseilles, or any statute
of the State of Illinois.
(Ord. 1471, passed 4-4-12)
§ 117.15 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The ordinance codified herein may be published in pamphlet form as provided
by law and shall become effective May 1, 2012. Any existing taxicab license
holder shall comply with the ordinance codified herein effective May 1, 2012
and shall pay fees required under the ordinance codified herein being given
credit for any annual fee already paid for the year.
(Ord. 1471, passed 4-4-12)
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined according to the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99. Each day of violation shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 1471, passed 4-4-12)
CHAPTER 118: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
   
118.01   Definitions
   
118.02   Initial review of basic cable rates
   
118.04   Cable operator information
   
118.05   Automatic rate adjustments
   
118.06   Enforcement
   
118.07   Intergovernmental cooperation
§ 118.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT or CABLE ACT OF 1992. Cable Television Consumer Protection and
Competition Act of 1992.
   BASIC CABLE RATES. The monthly charges for a subscription to the basic
service tier and the equipment associated therewith.
   BASIC SERVICE TIER. A separately available service tier to which
subscription is required for access to any other tier of service, including as
a minimum, but not limited to, all must-carry signals, all PEG channels, and
all domestic television signals other than super stations.
   BENCHMARK. A per channel rate of charge for cable service and associated
equipment with the FCC has determined is reasonable.
   CABLE OPERATOR. Any person or group of persons:
      (1)   Who provide cable service over a cable system and directly or
through one or more affiliates owns a significant interest in such a cable
system within the city; or
      (2)   Who otherwise controls or is responsible for, through and
arrangement, the management and operation of such a cable system within the
city.
   CHANNEL. A unit of cable service identified and selected by a channel number
or similar designation.
   COST-OF-SERVICE. A filing in which the cable operator attempts to show that
the benchmark rate or the price cap is not sufficient to allow the cable
operator to fully recover the costs of providing the basic service tier and to
continue to attract capital.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   INITIAL BASIC CABLE RATES. The rates that the cable operator is charging for
the basic service tier, including charges for associated equipment, at the time
the city notified the cable operator of the city's qualification and intent to
regulate basic cable rates.
   MUST-CARRY SIGNAL. The signal of any local broadcast station (except a
superstation) which is required to be carried on the basic service tier.
   PEG CHANNEL. The channel or channels capacity designated for public,
educational, or governmental use, and facilities and equipment for the use of
that channel capacity.
   PRICE CAP. The ceiling set by the FCC on future increases in basic cable
rates regulated by the city, based on a formula using the GNP fixed weight
price index, reflecting general increases in the cost of doing business and
changes in overall inflation.
   REASONABLE RATE STANDARD. A per channel rate that is at, or below, the
benchmark or price cap level.
   SUPERSTATION. Any nonlocal broadcast signal secondarily transmitted by
satellite.
(Ord. 808, passed 2-2-94)
§ 118.02 INITIAL REVIEW OF BASIC CABLE RATES.
   (A)   Notice. Upon the adoption of this chapter and the certification of the
city by the FCC, the city shall immediately notify all cable operators in the
city by letter (see Appendix A of this chapter) sent by certified mail with
return receipt requested that the city intends to regulate subscriber rates
charged for the basic service tier and associated equipment as authorized by
the Act.
   (B)   Cable operator response. Within 30 days of receiving the notice from
the city pursuant to division (A) of this section, a cable operator shall file
with the city its initial basic cable rates for the basic service tier and
associated equipment and any material supporting the reasonableness of its
rates.
   (C)   Expedited determination and public hearing.
      (1)   If the City Council is able to expeditiously determine that the
cable operator's proposed rates for the basic service tier and associated
equipment are within the FCC's reasonableness rate standard, as determined by
the applicable benchmark, the city council shall:
         (a)   Hold a public hearing at which interested persons may express
their views with respect to the proposed rates; and
         (b)   Act to approve the proposed rates within 30 days from the date
the cable operator filed its initial basic cable rates with the city.
      (2)   If the City Council takes no action within 30 days from the date
the cable operator filed its initial basic cable rates with the city, the
proposed rates shall be deemed approved and will continue in effect.
   (D)   Extended review period.
      (1)   If the City Council is unable to determine whether the proposed
rates are within the FCC's reasonable rate standard based on its own
investigation and the information submitted by the cable operator, or is the
cable operator submits a cost-of-service showing, the City Council shall,
within 30 days from the date the cable operator filed its initial basic cable
rates with the city and by adoption of a formal resolution, invoke the
following additional periods of time, as applicable, within which to make a
final determination as to the reasonableness of the proposed rates:
         (a)   90 days if the City Council needs more time to ensure that a
rate is within the FCC's reasonable rate standard; or
         (b)   150 days if the cable operator has submitted a cost-of-service
showing seeking to justify a rate above the applicable benchmark.
      (2)   If the City Council has not made a decision within the 90- or 150-
day period in division (D)(1)(a) or (b) of this section, the City Council shall
issue a brief written order at the end of the period requesting the cable
operator to keep accurate account of all amounts received by reason of the
proposed rate including the amount, the date, name of payor and on whose behalf
the amounts are paid.
   (E)   Public hearing. During the extended review period and before taking
action on the proposed rate, the City Council shall hold at least one public
hearing at which interested persons may express their views on and record
objections to the proposed rates.
   (F)   Objections. An interested person who wishes to make an objection to
the proposed initial basic cable rates may bequest the City Clerk to record the
objection during the public hearing or may submit the objection in writing
anytime before the city takes final action on the proposed rates. In order for
an objection to be made part of the record, the objection must provide the City
Clerk with the objector's name and address.
   (G)   Benchmark analysis. If a cable operator submits its current basic
cable rates schedule as being in compliance with the FCC's reasonable rate
standard, the City Council shall review the rates using the benchmark analysis
in accordance with the standard form promulgated by the FCC. Based on the City
Council's findings, the initial basic cable rates shall be established as
follows:
      (1)   If the current basic cable rates are below the benchmark, those
rates shall become the initial basic cable rates and the cable operator's rates
will be capped at that level.
      (2)   If the current basic cable rates exceed the benchmark, the rates
shall be the greater of the cable operator's per channel rate on September 30,
1992, reduced by 10%, or the applicable benchmark, adjusted for inflation and
any change in the number of channels occurring between September 30, 1992, and
the initial date of regulation.
      (3)   If the current basic cable rates exceed the benchmark, but the
cable operator's per channel rate was below the benchmark on September 30,
1992, the initial basic cable rates shall be the benchmark, adjusted for
inflation.
   (H)   Cost-of-service showing. If a cable operator does not wish to reduce
the rates to the approved level, the cable operator shall have the opportunity
to submit a cost-of-service showing to justify Initial basic cable rates above
the FCC's reasonable rate standard. The City Council will review the cost-of-
service submission pursuant to FCC standards for cost-of-service review. The
City Council may approve initial basic cable rates above the benchmark if the
cable operator makes the necessary showing; however, rates based upon the cost-
of-service determination shall be the new approved rates even if they result in
rates below the benchmark or below the cable operator's September 30, 1992
rates minus 10%.
   (I)   Decision.
      (1)   Ordinance. After completion of its review of the cable operator's
proposed rates, the City Council shall adopt its decision by adoption of an
appropriate ordinance. The decision shall be either one of the following:
         (a)   If the proposal is within the FCC's reasonable rate standard or
is justified by a cost-of-service analysis, the City Council shall approve the
initial basic cable rates proposed by the cable operator; or
         (b)   If the proposal is not within the FCC's reasonable rate standard
and the cost-of-ser vice analysis, if any, does not justify the proposed rates,
the City Council shall establish initial basic cable rates that are within the
FCC's reasonable rate standard or that are justified by a cost-of-service
analysis, and it shall require a review pursuant to division (I)(2) of this
section.
      (2)   Rollbacks and refunds. If the City Council determines that the
initial basic cable rates as submitted exceed the reasonable rate standard or
that the cable operator's cost-of-service showing justifies lower rates, the
City Council may order the rates reduced in accordance with division (G) or
(H), as applicable. In addition, the City Council may order the cable operator
to pay to subscribers refunds of the excessive portion of the rates with
interest (computed at applicable rates published by the Internal Revenue
Service for tax refunds and additional tax payments), retroactive to September
1, 1993. The method for paying any refund and the interest rate will be in
accordance with FCC regulations as directed in the City Council's cable rate
ordinance.
      (3)   Statement of findings and public notice. If rates proposed by a
cable operator are disapproved in whole or in part, or if there are objections
made by other parties to the proposed rates, the cable rate ordinance must
state specific findings for the decision and the City Council must give public
notice within ten days of its decision. Public notice will be given by
publication once in a newspaper of general circulation in the city.
   (J)   Appeal. Upon adoption and publication of the cable rate ordinance, the
City Council's decision concerning rates for the basic service tier or
associated equipment, may be appealed to the FCC in accordance with applicable
federal regulations.
(Ord. 808, passed 2-2-94)
§ 118.03 REVIEW OF REQUEST FOR INCREASE IN BASIC CABLE RATES.
   (A)   Notice. A cable operator in the city that wishes to increase the rates
for the basic service tier and associated equipment shall file a request with
the city and notify all subscribers at least 30 days before the cable operator
intends for the increase to take effect. Basic cable rates may not be increased
more often than annually and no sooner than one year after the effective date
of the initial basic cable rates.
   (B)   Expedited determination and public hearing.  
      (1)   If the City Council is able to expeditiously determine that the
cable operator's rate increase request for basic cable service is within the
FCC's reasonable rate standard, as determined by the applicable price cap, the
City Council shall:
         (a)   Hold a public hearing at which interested persons may express
their views on and record objections to the proposed rates; and
         (b)   Act to approve the rate increase within 30 days from the date
the cable operator files its request with the city.
      (2)   If the City Council takes no action within 30 days from the date
the cable operator files its request with the city, the proposed rates shall be
deemed approved and will go into effect on the date indicated by the cable
operator.
   (C)   Extended review period. The following provisions shall apply in the
event of an extended review by the city:
      (1)   If the City Council is unable to determine whether the proposed
rate increase is within the FCC's reasonable rate standard based on its own
investigation and the information submitted by the cable operator, or is the
cable operator submits a cost-of-service showing, the City Council shall, by
adoption of a formal resolution, invoke the following additional period of
time, as applicable, within which to make a final determination as to the
reasonableness of the proposed rates:
         (a)   90 days if the City Council needs more time to ensure that the
requested increased is within the FCC's reasonable rate standard as determined
by the applicable price cap; and
         (b)   150 days if the cable operator has submitted cost-of-service
showing seeking to justify a rate increase above the applicable price cap.
      (2)   The proposed rate increase shall be suspended and not implemented
during the extended review period.
      (3)   If the City Council fails to reach a decision within the 90- or
150-day period, the city shall issue a written order at the end of the period
directing the cable operator to keep accurate account of all amounts received
by reason of the proposed rate increase and on whose behalf the amounts are
paid and authorizing the rates to be implemented subject to the provisions of
division (F) of this section.
   (D)   Public hearing. During the extended review period and before taking
action on the proposed rate increase, the City Council shall hold at least one
public hearing at which interested persons may express their views on and
record objections to the proposed rate increase.
   (E)   Objections. An interested person who wishes to make an objection to
the proposed rate increase may request the City Clerk to record the objection
during the public hearing or may submit the objection in writing anytime before
the cable rate ordinance is adopted. In order for an objection to be made part
of the record, the objector must provide the City Clerk with their name and
address.
   (F)   Delayed determination. If the City Council is unable to make a final
determination concerning a proposed rate increase within the extended time
period, the cable operator may put the increase into effect, subject to
subsequent refund if the City Council later issues a decision disapproving any
portion of the increase.
   (G)   Price cap analysis. If a cable operator presents its request for a
rate increase as being in compliance with the FCC's price cap, the City Council
shall review the rate using the price cap analysis in accordance with the
standard form authorized by the FCC. Based on the City Council'S findings, the
basic cable rates shall be established as follows:
      (1)   If the proposed basic cable rate increase is within the price cap
established by the FCC, the proposed rates shall become the new basic cable
rates.
      (2)   If the proposed basic cable rate increase exceeds the price cap
established by the FCC, the City Council shall disapprove the proposed rate
increase and order an increase that is in compliance with the price cap.
   (H)   Cost-of-service showing. If a cable operator submits a cost-of-service
showing in an attempt to justify a rate increase above the price cap, the City
Council shall review the submission pursuant to the FCC standards for cost-of-
service review. The City Council may approve a rate increase above the price
cap is the cable operator makes the necessary showing; however, rates based
upon the cost-of-service determination shall be the new approved rates even if
they result in a rate below the price cap or below the cable operator's then
current rate.
   (I)   Decision. The City Council's decision concerning the requested rate
increase, shall be adopted by a cable rate ordinance. If a rate increase
proposed by a cable operator is disapproved in whole or in part, or if
objections were made by other parties to the proposed rate increase, the
resolution must state the reasons for the decision. Objections may be made at
the public hearing by a person requesting the City Clerk to record the
objection or may be submitted in writing anytime before the cable rate
ordinance is adopted.
   (J)   Refunds.  
      (1)   The City Council may order refunds of subscribers' rate payments
plus interest thereon from date of payment if:
         (a)   The City Council was unable to make a decision within the
extended time period as described in division (C) of this section;
         (b)   The cable operator implemented the rate increase at the end of
the extended review period; and
         (c)   The City Council determines that the rate increase as submitted
exceeds the applicable price cap or that the cable operator failed to justify
the rate increase by a cost-of-service showing; and
         (d)   The City Council disapproves any portion of the rate increase.
      (2)   The method for paying any refund and the interest rate will be in
accordance with FCC regulations as directed in the City Council's cable rate
ordinance.
   (K)   Appeal. The City Council's decision concerning rates for the basic
service tier or associated equipment, may be appealed to the FCC in accordance
with applicable federal regulations.
(Ord. 808, passed 2-2-94)
§ 118.04 CABLE OPERATOR INFORMATION.
   (A)   City may require.
      (1)   When the cable operator has submitted initial basic cable rates or
proposed an increase that exceeds the reasonable rate standard, the City
Council may require the cable operator to produce information in addition to
that previously submitted, including proprietary information, if needed,
necessary to enable it to make a rate determination. In such cases, a cable
operator may request the proprietary information be kept confidential in
accordance with division (B) of this section.
      (2)   In cases where initial or proposed rates comply with the reasonable
rate standard, the City Council may request additional information only in
order to document that the cable operator's rates are in accord with the
standard.
   (B)   Request for confidentiality.  
      (1)   A cable operator submitting information to the City Council may
request in writing that the information not be made routinely available for
public inspection. A copy of the request shall be attached to and cover all of
the information and all copies of the information to which it applies.
      (2)   If feasible, the information to which the request applies shall be
physically separated by the cable operator from any information to which the
request does not apply and marked “confidential”. If physical separation is not
feasible, the portion of the information to which the request applies shall be
separately identified.
      (3)   Each request for confidentiality shall contain a statement of the
reasons for withholding inspection and a statement of the facts upon which
those reasons are based.
   (C)   City Council action. Confidentiality requests which comply with the
requirements of division (B) of this section hereof shall be submitted to the
City Council. The City Council will grant the request if the cable operator
presents by a preponderance of the evidence a case for nondisclosure consistent
with applicable federal regulations. If the request is granted, the ruling will
be placed in a public file in lieu of the information withheld from public
inspection. If the request does not present a case for nondisclosure and the
City Council denies the request, the City Council shall take one of the
following actions:
      (1)   If the information has been submitted voluntarily without any
request from the city, the cable operator may request that the city return the
information without considering it. Ordinarily, the city will comply with this
request. Only in the unusual instance that the public interest so requires,
will be information be made available for public inspection.
      (2)   If the information was required to be submitted by the City
Council, the information will be made available for public inspection.
   (D)   Appeal. If the City Council denies the request for confidentiality,
the cable operator may seek review of that decision from the FCC within five
working days of the City Council's decision, and the release of the information
will be stayed pending review.
(Ord. 808, passed 2-2-94) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.05 AUTOMATIC RATE ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   Annual inflation adjustment. In accordance with FCC regulations, the
cable operator may adjust its capped base per channel rate for the basic
service tier annually by the final GNP-PI index.
   (B)   Other external costs.
      (1)   The FCC regulations also allow the cable operator to increase its
rate for the basic service tier automatically to reflect certain external cost
factors to the extent that the increase in cost of those factors exceeds the
GNP-PI. These factors include retransmission consent fees, programming costs,
state and local taxes applicable to the provision of cable television service,
and costs of franchise requirements. The total cost of an increase in a
franchise fee may be automatically added to the base per channel rate, without
regard to its relation to the GNP-PI.
      (2)   For all categories of external costs other than retransmission
consent and franchise fees, the starting date for measuring changes in external
costs for which the basic service per channel rate may be adjusted will be the
date on which the basic service tier becomes subject to regulation or February
28, 1994, whichever occurs first. The permitted per channel charge may not be
adjusted for costs of retransmission consent fees or changes in those fees
incurred before October 6, 1994.
   (C)   Notification and review. The cable operator shall notify the city at
least 30 days in advance of a rate increase based on automatic adjustment
items. The city shall review the increase to determine whether the item or
items qualify as automatic adjustments. If the city makes no objection within
30 days of receiving notice of the increase, the increase may be put into
effect. If the city objects in writing to the proposed increase when it shall
be submitted for review and decision in accordance with §
118.03.
(Ord. 808, passed 2-2-94) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   The city may order the cable operator to refund to subscribers a portion of
previously paid rates under the following circumstances:
   (A)   A portion of the previously paid rates have been determined to be in
excess of the permitted tier charge or above the actual cost of equipment; or
   (B)   The cable operator has failed to comply with a valid rate order issued
by the city.
(Ord. 808, passed 2-2-94) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.07 INTERGOVERNMENTAL COOPERATION.
   The city is authorized by this chapter and pursuant to constitutional and
statutory authority to enter into an intergovernmental cooperation agreement
with other municipalities for the purpose of jointly exercising the rate
regulatory process created by this chapter and to share the costs thereof on a
pro rata basis. The Mayor and the City Clerk are authorized to execute such an
agreement on behalf of the city.
(Ord. 808, passed 2-2-94)
§ 118.99 PENALTY.
    If the cable operator fails to comply with a rate decision or refund order,
the cable operator shall be subject to a fine according to the Uniform Fine
Schedule in §
10.99 for each day the cable operator fails to comply.
(Ord. 808, passed 2-2-94; Am. Ord. 1326, passed 2-20-08 )
APPENDIX A: FORM OF NOTIFICATION LETTER TO CABLE OPERATOR
FORM OF NOTIFICATION LETTER TO CABLE OPERATOR
                                    DATE
VIA CERTIFIED MAIL
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED
Name of Operator
Address
   Re: Rate Regulation
Dear                       :
   This is to advise you, as required by applicable FCC rules, that the City of
Marseilles, Illinois is now authorized to regulate the rates [cable system]
charges for basic cable service and all equipment, installation and other
services used for basic service. The City of Marseilles, Illinois has adopted
the requisite rule regarding rate regulation and, over 30 days ago, filed its
certification form with the FCC.
   We expect, within 30 days of your receipt of this letter, to receive your
completed FCC Form 393 justifying your current rates for basic service and
related equipment, installation and other services.
                              Sincerely,
                              CITY OF MARSEILLES, ILLINOIS
                              By:                             
                                 Mayor
(Ord. 808, passed 2-2-94)
CHAPTER 119: HOME BUSINESSES
Section
   
119.01   Home occupations
   
119.02   License required
   
119.03   Application for license
   
119.04   License fee
   
119.05   Certificate of registration
§ 119.01 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   A home occupation shall be considered as a permitted accessory use in any
residence district, provided the home occupation is subject to the following
limitations:
   (A)   It shall be conducted entirely within the dwelling and only by members
of the family residing in the dwelling, and when such home occupation is
incidental and the secondary for the dwelling purposes.
   (B)   The total area for the home occupation shall not exceed more than one-
half the floor area of the user's living unit.
   (C)   There shall be no display or activity that will indicate from the
exterior of the dwelling that it is being used for anything other than a
dwelling, except one name plate, no more than one square foot area containing
only the name of the occupant in the dwelling and the home occupation conducted
therein, and is attached to the dwelling and is not illuminated.
   (D)   There shall be no exterior storage on the premises of material or
equipment used as part of the home occupation.
   (E)   There shall be no storage or use of toxic, explosive or other
dangerous or hazardous materials on the premises.
   (F)   A home occupation, including studios or rooms for instruction, shall
provide off-street parking area adequate to accommodate needs created by the
home occupation.
   (G)   The use must be in conformance with all valid covenants and
agreements, recorded with the Registrar of Deeds for the county, covering the
land underlying the dwelling.
   (H)   In no case shall a home occupation be open to the public at times
earlier than 7:00 a.m. nor later than 8:00 p.m. and no business shall be
conducted on Sunday.
   (I)   There shall be no offensive noise as defined by §
95.35 of this Code of Ordinances, nor shall there be vibrations, smoke, dust,
odors, heat or glare noticeable at or beyond the property line.
   (J)   A home occupation permit may be issued for any use allowed by the
Zoning Ordinance of the city, providing all other criteria for issuance of a
home occupation permit are met. No home occupation permit shall be issued for
any other use.
(Ord. 920, passed 12-3-97)
§ 119.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in a home occupation within a residence without a
license to do so.
(Ord. 910, passed 8-6-97; Am. Ord. 911, passed 8-20-97; Am. Ord. 920, passed
12-3-97) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 119.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Application for such license shall state the name and residence of the
person desiring the license, the name of the business and its location, and the
goods to be sold or the services to be provided by the business. Application
for such license shall be made to the City Clerk, and shall be referred by him/
her to the City Council. No such license shall be issued except on the order of
the Council.
(Ord. 910, passed 8-6-97; Am. Ord. 911, passed 8-20-97; Am. Ord. 920, passed
12-3-97)
§ 119.04 LICENSE FEE.
   There shall be charged for every license granted to any person under the
provisions of this chapter a fee of $25 per year.
(Ord. 910, passed 8-6-97; Am. Ord. 911, passed 8-20-97; Am. Ord. 920, passed
12-3-97)
§ 119.05 CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   No person, whether for himself or an agent for another, shall engage in the
pursuit of business under this chapter without a current certificate of
registration issued under the Retailers Occupation Tax Act or the Service
Occupation Tax Act.
(Ord. 910, passed 8-6-97; Am. Ord. 911, passed 8-20-97; Am. Ord. 920, passed
12-3-97)
CHAPTER 120: CANNABIS, TOBACCO, AND SMOKING PRODUCTS
Section
   
120.01   Definitions
   
120.02   Illegal distribution
   
120.03   Cannabis use prohibited in public places
   
120.04   Cannabis use prohibited in retail establishments
   
120.05   Personal cannabis cultivation prohibited
   
120.06   Unlicensed distribution of cannabis prohibited
   
120.07   Cigarette vending machines prohibited
   
120.08   Cannabis plant storage
   
120.09   Cannabis possession limits
   
120.10   Cannabis and cigarette purchase
   
120.11   Prohibition of person under 21 years of age in hookah lounge
   
120.12   Prohibition of person under 21 years of age in a cannabis business
establishment
   
120.13   Parent, guardian or caretaker
   
120.14   Conflict of law
 
   
120.99   Penalty
§ 120.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERNATE NICOTINE PRODUCT. Any product or device not consisting of or
containing tobacco that provides for the ingestion into the body of nicotine,
whether by chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling, snorting,
sniffing, or by any other means. ALTERNATE NICOTINE PRODUCT does not include
any product approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration for sale
as a tobacco cessation product, as a tobacco dependence product, or for other
medical purposes, and is being marketed and sold solely for that approved
purposes.
   CANNABIS.
      (1)   Marijuana, hashish, and other substances that are identified as
including any parts of the plant Cannabis sativa and including derivatives or
subspecies, such as indica, of all strains of cannabis, whether growing or not;
the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of the plant; and any
compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant,
its seeds, or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all other
naturally produced cannabinol derivatives, whether produced directly or
indirectly by extraction. CANNABIS also means concentrate and cannabis-infused
products.
      (2)   CANNABIS does not include the mature stalks of the plant, fiber
produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of the plant, any
other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the
mature stalks (except the resin extracted from it), fiber, oil or cake, or the
sterilized seed of the plant that is incapable of germination. CANNABIS does
not include industrial hemp as defined and authorized under the Industrial Hemp
Act.
   DISTRIBUTION. To give, sell, deliver, dispense, issue or offer to give,
sell, deliver, dispense or issue.
   ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE.
      (1)   ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE means:
         (a)   Any device that employs a battery or mechanism to heat a
solution or substance to produce a vapor or aerosol intended for inhalation;
         (b)   Any cartridge or container of a solution substance intended to
be used with or in the device or to refill the device; or
         (c)   Any solution or substance, whether or not it contains nicotine
intended for use in the device.
      (2)   ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE includes, but is not limited to, any
electronic nicotine delivery system, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo,
electronic pipe, electronic hookah, vape pen, or similar product or device, and
any components or parts that can be used to build the product or device.
      (3)   ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE does not include: any product approved by the
United States Food and Drug Administration for sale as a tobacco cessation
product, as a tobacco dependence product, or for other medical purposes, and is
being marketed and sold solely for that approved purpose; any asthma inhaler
prescribed by a physician for that condition and is being marketed and sold
solely for that approved purpose; or any therapeutic product approved for use
under the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who may be required to or directed by any employer in
consideration of direct or indirect gain or profit, to engage in any
employment, or to go, or work, or be at any time in any place of employment.
   EMPLOYER. Any person, firm, corporation, agent, manager, representative, or
other person having control or custody of any employment, place of employment,
or employee.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any physical facility operated by a commercial enterprise,
nonprofit entity, government agency or other person.
   HOOKAH LOUNGE. Any location accessible to the public where patrons share
tobacco, flavored tobacco or other substances from a communal hookah or
nargile.
   ORDINARY PUBLIC VIEW.  Within the sight line with normal visual range of a
person, unassisted by visual aids, from a public street or sidewalk adjacent to
real property, or from within an adjacent property.
   ORGANIZATION. A corporation for profit, or not-for-profit, partnership,
limited partnership, joint venture, unincorporated association, estate, trust,
or other commercial legal entity.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place where a person could reasonably be expected to be
observed by others.
      (1)   PUBLIC PLACE includes all parts of buildings owned in whole or in
part, or leased, by the state or a unit of local government as well as all
areas in a park, recreation area, wildlife area, or playground owned in whole
or in part, leased, or managed by a unit of local government.
      (2)   PUBLIC PLACE includes, but is not limited to, the grounds of any
preschool, primary or secondary school, and school buses. PUBLIC PLACE includes
any business establishment open to the general public.
      (3)   PUBLIC PLACE does not include a private residence unless the
private residence is used to provide licensed childcare, foster care, or other
similar social service care on the premises.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT.  Any product containing or made from tobacco that is
intended for human consumption, whether smoked, heated, chewed, absorbed,
dissolved, inhaled, snorted, sniffed, or ingested by any other means,
including, but not limited to, cigarettes, cigars, little cigars, chewing
tobacco, pipe tobacco, snuff, snus, and any other smokeless tobacco product
which contains tobacco that is finely cut, ground, powdered, or leaf and
intended to be placed in the oral cavity.
      (1)   TOBACCO PRODUCT includes any component, part, or accessory of a
tobacco product, whether or not sold separately.
      (2)   TOBACCO PRODUCT does not include any product that has been approved
by the United States Food and Drug Administration for sale as a tobacco
cessation product, as a tobacco dependence product, or for other medical
purposes, and is being marketed and sold solely for that approved purpose.
(Ord. 935, passed 5-6-98; Am. Ord. 1703, passed 3-6-19; Am. Ord. 1707, passed
4-17-19; Am. Ord. 1746, passed 3-4-20)
§ 120.02 ILLEGAL DISTRIBUTION.
   No manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of
cigarettes or electronic cigarettes, alternative nicotine products or tobacco
products, or any agent, employee or representative of a manufacturer, producer,
distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of cigarettes or other tobacco products
shall do any of the following:
   (A)   Give, sell or otherwise distribute to any person under 21 years of age
any cigarette or electronic cigarette or alternative nicotine product or
tobacco product.
   (B)   Give, sell or otherwise distribute any cigarettes or electronic
cigarette or alternative nicotine product or tobacco product in any place that
does not have posted in a conspicuous place a sign stating that giving, selling
or otherwise distributing any cigarettes or electronic cigarette or alternative
nicotine product or tobacco product to a person under 21 years of age is
prohibited by law.
   (C)   Give, sell or otherwise distribute any cigarettes or electronic
cigarette or alternative nicotine product or tobacco product to any person
without first verifying, via a photo identification such as a driver's license,
that the person is 21 years of age or older.
(Ord. 935, passed 5-6-98; Am. Ord. 1703, passed 3-6-19; Am. Ord. 1707, passed
4-17-19; Am. Ord. 1746, passed 3-4-20)  Penalty, see §
120.99
§ 120.03 CANNABIS USE PROHIBITED IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   Cannabis use in ordinary public view, public places, and in any vehicle in a
public place is prohibited.
(Ord. 1746, passed 3-4-20)
§ 120.04 CANNABIS USE PROHIBITED IN RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS.
   The on-premises consumption of cannabis at or in a cannabis dispensing
organization or retail tobacco store (as defined in the Smoke Free Illinois
Act) is prohibited.
(Ord. 1746, passed 3-4-20)
§ 120.05 PERSONAL CANNABIS CULTIVATION PROHIBITED.
   Cannabis cultivation for personal use is prohibited unless an Illinois
resident 21 years of age or older is a registered qualifying patient under the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act and follows the limitations
under the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act for personal use cultivation.
(Ord. 1746, passed 3-4-20)
§ 120.06 UNLICENSED DISTRIBUTION OF CANNABIS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sell, distribute, or dispense cannabis or cannabis products
without a license issued under the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act and the City
of Marseilles.
§ 120.07 CIGARETTE VENDING MACHINES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The sale or distribution of any cigarettes or electronic cigarette or
alternative nicotine product or tobacco product via the use of a vending
machine is prohibited.
      (1)   No person or business entity of any type shall permit, facilitate
or condone the sale or distribution of any cigarettes or electronic cigarette
or alternative nicotine product or tobacco product via a vending machine, at
his or her establishment.
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   An employer may provide any cigarettes or electronic cigarette or
alternative nicotine product or tobacco product vending machines for employees
at the work establishment if the vending machines are not accessible to the
public and persons under 21 years of age who are not employees of the
establishment. The employer must certify in writing to the Chief of Police that
there are no other acceptable alternatives for the sale or distribution of
tobacco products at the establishment, and that persons under 21 years of age
are not employed at the establishment.
      (2)   Licensed liquor establishments may provide vending machines for any
cigarettes or electronic cigarette or alternative nicotine product or tobacco
product if the machines are not accessible to persons under 21 years of age.
(Ord. 935, passed 5-6-98; Am. Ord. 1703, passed 3-6-19; Am. Ord. 1707, passed
4-17-19; Am. Ord. 1746, passed 3-4-20) Penalty, see §
120.
99
§ 120.08 CANNABIS PLANT STORAGE.
   Cannabis plants shall not be stored or placed in a location where they are
subject to ordinary public view, as defined in this chapter. A registered
qualifying patient who cultivates cannabis under the Cannabis Regulation and
Tax Act shall take reasonable precautions to ensure the plants are secure from
unauthorized access, including unauthorized access by a person under 21 years
of age.
(Ord. 1746, passed 3-4-20)
§ 120.09 CANNABIS POSSESSION LIMITS.
   (A)   Except if otherwise authorized by the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act,
for a person who is 21 years of age or older and a resident of this state, the
possession limit is as follows:
      (l)   Thirty grams of cannabis flower;
      (2)   No more than 500 milligrams of THC contained in cannabis-infused
product;
      (3)   Five grams of cannabis concentrate; and
      (4)   For registered qualifying patients, any cannabis produced by
cannabis plants grown under the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, provided any
amount of cannabis or its equivalent must remain secured within the residence
or residential property in which it was grown.
   (B)   For a person who is 21 years of age or older and who is not a resident
of this state, the possession limit is:
      (1)   Fifteen grams of cannabis flower;
      (2)   Two and one half grams of cannabis concentrate; and
      (3)   Two hundred fifty milligrams of THC contained in a cannabis-infused
product.
   (C)   The possession limits found in divisions (A) and (B) of this section
are to be considered cumulative.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly obtain, seek to obtain, or possess an amount
of cannabis from a dispensing organization or craft grower that would cause him
or her to exceed the possession limit under this section, including cannabis
that is cultivated by a person under the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act or
obtained under the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act.
   (E)   No person shall possess cannabis in a motor vehicle unless the
cannabis is in a reasonably secured, sealed container and reasonable
inaccessible while the vehicle is moving.
(Ord. 1746, passed 3-4-20)
§ 120.10 CANNABIS AND CIGARETTE PURCHASE.
   (A)   Cigarette purchase or possession by any person under 21 years of age
is prohibited. No person under 21 years of age shall purchase, possess or
consume in any manner or form any cigarettes or electronic cigarette or
alternative nicotine product or tobacco product.
   (B)   Cannabis and cannabis product purchase or possession by any person
under 21 years of age is prohibited and no person under 21 years of age shall
purchase, possess or consume in any manner or form any cannabis product unless
authorized under the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act or by
the Community College Cannabis Vocational Pilot Program. No person shall assist
or facilitate in a person under 21 years of age from obtaining any cannabis
product unless authorized under the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis
Program Act or by the Community College Cannabis Vocational Pilot Program.
(Ord. 935, passed 5-6-98; Am. Ord. 1703, passed 3-6-19; Am. Ord. 1707, passed
4-17-19; Am. Ord. 1746, passed 3-4-20) Penalty, see §
120.99
§ 120.11 PROHIBITION OF PERSON UNDER 21 YEARS OF AGE IN HOOKAH LOUNGE.
   No persons under 21 years of age shall be employed at or present within a
hookah lounge while smoking is taking place.
(Ord. 935, passed 5-6-98; Am. Ord. 1703, passed 3-6-19; Am. Ord. 1707, passed
4-17-19; Am. Ord. 1746, passed 3-4-20)
§ 120.12 PROHIBITION OF PERSON UNDER 21 YEARS OF AGE IN A CANNABIS BUSINESS
ESTABLISHMENT.
   No persons under 21 years of age shall be employed at or present within a
cannabis business establishment unless authorized under the Compassionate Use
of Medical Cannabis Program Act or by the Community College Cannabis Vocational
Pilot Program.
(Ord. 1746, passed 3-4-20)
§ 120.13 PARENT, GUARDIAN OR CARETAKER.
   No parent, guardian or caretaker shall permit, allow or facilitate, actively
or passively, a child for whom they are responsible under 21 years of age to
purchase, possess or consume in any manner or form any cigarettes or electronic
cigarette or alternative nicotine product or tobacco product.
(Ord. 935, passed 5-6-98; Am. Ord. 1703, passed 3-6-19; Am. Ord. 1707, passed
4-17-19; Am. Ord. 1746, passed 3-4-20) Penalty, see §
120.99
§ 120.14 CONFLICT OF LAWS.
   Any provision of this chapter in conflict with federal or state statutory
enactments shall be subordinate to said enactments; all other provisions of
this chapter being severable and remain valid.
(Ord. 935, passed 5-6-98; Am. Ord. 1746, passed 3-4-20)
§ 120.99 PENALTY.
    Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined according to the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 935, passed 5-6-98; Am. Ord. 1326, passed 2-20-08; Am. Ord. 1746, passed
3-4-20)
CHAPTER 121: SPECIAL EVENTS PERMITS
Section
   
121.01   Definitions
   
121.02   Special event fee schedule
   
121.03   Special event insurance; other standards
   
121.04   Permit denial
   
121.05   Conditions
   
121.06   Revocation of permit
   
121.07   Duties of permittee/sponsor of event
   
121.08   Violation
§ 121.01 DEFINITIONS.
   In this chapter, unless the context requires otherwise, the following
definitions apply:
   NEIGHBORHOOD BLOCK PARTY.  The closing of a street for the purpose of a
neighborhood celebration or gathering.
   PROPONENT, PROMOTER, or SPONSOR. The individual or entity sponsoring or
organizing a special event.
   SPECIAL EVENT. A gathering anticipating more than 500 persons for a public
event within the city limits, which includes but is not limited to festivals,
parades, competitions, marine events, shows, exhibitions, fairs, outdoor
dances, concerts, rodeos, swap meets, rallies, sporting events, retail sales,
or activities at which booths, stalls, concessions, food sales, rides or other
activities are allowed, using city facilities or property.
      (1)   The following exemptions, however, shall not be considered a
SPECIAL EVENT.
         (a)   Family gatherings, such as family reunions;
         (b)   Sanctioned school events;
         (c)   Sanctioned church events;
         (d)   Concerts in Knudson Park; and
         (e)   Special events sponsored in whole by the City of Marseilles.
      (2)   Exemptions to be approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 1331, passed 2-20-08; Am. Ord. 1492, passed 9-5-12)
§ 121.02 SPECIAL EVENT FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Procedures; fees. The proponent of any special event shall obtain a
special event permit following the procedures stated herein. The special event
permit will be obtained through the proponent, who will be responsible for
producing a list of all information as is deemed necessary and convenient by
the City Clerk. The fees imposed shall be $100 per event that does not include
the sale of alcohol and $200 per event that does include the sale of alcohol.
Applicants proposing the sale of alcoholic beverages must adhere to all local
and state rules and regulations, including obtaining all required permits and
or licenses. The proponent is responsible for posting the special event permit
for all days of participation at the special event.
   (B)   Permit.  Any block party involving street closure will be required to
obtain a neighborhood block party permit. There is no fee associated with the
processing and issuance of a block party permit. However, the organizer is
responsible for all fees related to renting or obtaining safety equipment,
security, and or barricades.
   (C)   Security. For the safety of your events participants, security
personnel are a necessity. Events including alcohol and minors may involve
higher risk and may require more security. Events on public property require
Marseilles Police Department personnel. Off-duty officers will be assigned with
the cost to be paid by the applicant. The hourly costs are determined by the
current union contract. The number of officers required is at the discretion of
the Chief of Police.
   (D)   City services and equipment use fees.
      (1)   Prepayment of fees. Upon approval of an application for a special
event permit or block park, the Public Works and/or Parks Director shall
provide the applicant with a statement of the estimated cost of providing city
personnel and equipment. The applicant/sponsor of the event shall be required
to prepay these estimated costs for city services and equipment ten days prior
to the special event. City services and equipment may include the use of police
officers and public works employees for traffic and crowd control, pick up and
delivery of traffic-control devices, picnic tables, extraordinary street
sweeping, and any other needed, requested or required city service and the cost
of operating city equipment to provide such services.
      (2)   Refunds or overruns. If the actual cost for city services and
equipment on the date(s) of the event is less than the estimated cost, the
applicant/sponsor will be refunded the difference by the city in a timely
manner. If the actual cost for city services and equipment on the date(s) of
the event is greater than the estimated cost, the applicant/sponsor will be
billed for the difference.
      (3)   Waiver of fees. The fees for the use of city services and
equipment, and prepayment, may be waived in part or in full by the City Council
if, in review of the application, they find that the event is of sufficient
community benefit to warrant the expenditure of city funds without
reimbursement by the applicant/sponsor. The fees for city services and
equipment may also be waived in part or in full by the City Council if the
applicant/sponsor signs a verified statement that the event’s purpose is First
Amendment expression, and that the cost of city services and equipment is so
financially burdensome that it would constitute an unreasonable burden on the
right of First Amendment expression.
(Ord. 1331, passed 2-20-08)
§ 121.03 SPECIAL EVENT INSURANCE; OTHER STANDARDS.
   (A)   The proponent of a special event will also be responsible for
providing a certificate of insurance for errors and omissions and general
liability, naming the city as an additional insured and providing coverage in
an amount not less than $1,000,000. The city reserves the right to require
evidence of coverage in excess of $1,000,000 for any special event. The
insurance company issuing the certificate of insurance must be acceptable to
the city's insurance provider. The Mayor shall determine when a proponent must
furnish a certificate of insurance evidencing coverage in excess of $1,000,000.
The certificate of insurance must be received by the City Clerk no later than
three weeks prior to the special event. This insurance will not be required if
the special event occurs on private property, or if waived by the City Council.
   (B)   The proponent of a special event must provide to the City Clerk,
copies of any and all required health permits, alcoholic beverage permits, and
any other required permits, not later than ten business days prior to the
special event.
   (C)   The proponent of a special event must file with the City Clerk a
special event application and site plan showing all utilities, buildings, and
all structures to be used or temporarily constructed, including pedestrian and
traffic access ways. This plan must be filed with the City Clerk
contemporaneously with the special event application, at least 60 days prior to
the proposed special event.
   (D)   Police, Fire Department, and Public Works inspections and/or
investigations will be conducted when necessary to enforce any local, state,
and federal laws and regulations necessary to protect the health, safety, and
welfare of the public.
   (E)   The special event application, site plan, and supporting information
shall be routed to other relevant city departments for review under applicable
city codes and standards.
   (F)   Upon showing proof of good cause, the city shall consider the
application after the filing date if there is sufficient time to process and
investigate the application and by the applicant showing that the circumstance
did not reasonably allow the participant to file within the time prescribed.
(Ord. 1331, passed 2-20-08)
§ 121.04 PERMIT DENIAL.
   The City Council may deny an application for a special event or block party
if they determine from a consideration of the application, or other pertinent
information, that:
   (A)   Information contained in the application, or supplemental information
requested from the applicant, is found to be false or nonexistent in any
material detail;
   (B)   The applicant fails to complete the application form after having been
notified of the additional information or documents required;
   (C)   The applicant refuses to agree to abide or comply with all of the
conditions and terms of the permit;
   (D)   It is found that the purpose of the event is principally devoted to
the advertising and sale of a commercial product or service or for a private
commercial process;
   (E)   The time, route, hours, location, or size of the event will
unnecessarily disrupt the movement of other traffic within the area;
   (F)   The special event is of the size or nature that requires the diversion
of so great a number of police officers of the city to properly police the
event, site and contiguous areas that allowing the special event would
unreasonably deny police protection to the remainder of the city and its
residents;
   (G)   Another special permit application has already been received, or has
already been approved to hold another event at the same time and place
requested by the applicant, or so close in time and place as to cause undue
traffic congestion, or the Police Department and/or city departments are unable
to meet the needs for police and other city services for both events;
   (H)   The location of the event would cause undue hardship for adjacent
businesses or residents;
   (I)   The location of the event will substantially interfere with any
construction or maintenance work scheduled to take place upon or along public
property or right-of-way, or a previously granted right-of-way disturbance
permit;
   (J)   The event would endanger public safety or health;
   (K)   The event would seriously inconvenience the general public’s use of
public property, services or facilities;
   (L)   The applicant fails to comply with the liability insurance
requirements, or the applicant’s insurance lapses or is cancelled;
   (M)   The event would create or constitute a public nuisance;
   (N)   The event would be likely to cause significant damage to public
property or facilities; or
   (O)   The event would engage in or encourage participants to engage in
illegal acts.
(Ord. 1331, passed 2-20-08)
§ 121.05 CONDITIONS.
   The City Council may condition the issuance of a special event or block
party permit by imposing reasonable requirements concerning the time, place,
and manner of the event, and such requirements as are necessary to protect the
safety of persons and property, and the control of traffic; provided such
conditions shall not unreasonably restrict the right of free speech. Such
restrictions may include but are not limited to:
   (A)   Alteration of the date, time, route, or location or the event proposed
on the event’s application;
   (B)   Elimination of an activity which cannot be mitigated to a point as to
ensure public safety and welfare, or which causes undue liability to the city;
   (C)   Conditions concerning the area of assembly and disbanding of a parade
or other events occurring along a route;
   (D)   Conditions concerning the accommodation of pedestrian or vehicular
traffic, including restricting the event to only a portion of a street or
right-of-way traversed;
   (E)   Requirements for the use of traffic cones or barricades;
   (F)   Requirements for the use of city personnel and equipment;
   (G)   Requirements for the provisions of first aid or sanitary facilities;
   (H)   Requirements for the use of event monitors and providing notice of
permit conditions to event participants;
   (I)   Requirements to provide notice to surrounding property owners;
   (J)   Restrictions on the number and type of vehicles, animals or structures
at the event, and inspection and approval of floats, structures, and decorated
vehicles for fire safety;
   (K)   Compliance with animal protection ordinances and laws;
   (L)   Requirement for the use of garbage containers, cleanup and restoration
of city property;
   (M)   Restrictions on the use of amplified sound and compliance with noise
ordinances, regulations and laws;
   (N)   Compliance with any relevant ordinance or law and obtaining any
legally required permit or license;
   (O)   Restrictions on the sale and/or consumption of alcohol; and
   (P)   Any other restriction or requirement deemed necessary to ensure public
safety and well-being.
(Ord. 1331, passed 2-20-08)
§ 121.06 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   Any permit issued pursuant to this chapter may be summarily revoked by the
Chief of Police at any time when, by reason of disaster, public calamity, riot
or other emergency, the Chief of Police determines that the safety of the
public or property requires such revocation. The Chief of Police may also
summarily revoke any permit issued pursuant to this chapter if he finds that
the permit has been issued based upon false information or when the permittee
exceeds the scope of the permit. Notice of such action revoking a permit shall
be delivered in writing to the permittee by personal service or certified mail
at the address specified by the permittee in his application.
(Ord. 1331, passed 2-20-08)
§ 121.07 DUTIES OF PERMITEE/SPONSOR OF EVENT.
   Each permittee/sponsor of an event shall:
   (A)   Comply with all the terms and conditions of the permit;
   (B)   Ensure that the person leading a parade or other event along a route,
or the person in charge of any other event, shall be informed of the permit
conditions and shall carry a copy of the special event permit on his person for
the duration of the event; and
   (C)   Ensure that the area used for the permitted event is cleaned and
restored to the same condition as existed prior to the event, immediately
following the completion of the event.
(Ord. 1331, passed 2-20-08)
§ 121.08 VIOLATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct a special event without
having first obtained a special event permit. Any person who violates any
provision of this chapter or violates the terms and conditions of a special
event or block party permit shall be subject to a fine according to the Uniform
Fine Schedule in §
10.99.
(Ord. 1331, passed 2-20-08)
CHAPTER 122: SIDEWALK CAFÉ PERMITS
Section
   
122.01   Definition
   
122.02   Times and hours of operation
   
122.03   Application procedure
   
122.04   Application criteria
   
122.05   Prohibited actions
   
122.06   Suspension or revocation of permit
   
122.07   No assignment
§ 122.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SIDEWALK CAFÉ. That portion of an immobile retail food establishment that is
approved by the city to be extended into a public right-of-way for outdoor
customer tables and seats.
(Ord. 1481, passed 6-6-12)
§ 122.02 TIMES AND HOURS OF OPERATION.
   A sidewalk café may only operate between the hours of 8:00 a.m. until 10:00
p.m. between (at a maximum) the months of April to October, inclusive.
Notwithstanding the above, a sidewalk café may not operate and sidewalk café
obstructions shall be removed during periods of time where the city has
approved a special event permit which conflicts with sidewalk cafés.
(Ord. 1481, passed 6-6-12)
§ 122.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   All applications for an annual sidewalk café permit shall be submitted to
the City Clerk on a form provided for the permit available from the City Clerk.
Applications shall be issued on a calendar year basis. The application, once
competed and filed with the City Clerk shall for 30 days be subject to review
by the Mayor, the Commissioner of Streets and Public Improvements, the Zoning
Enforcement Officer and the City Engineer. Said parties may object to an
application based upon failure to meet any of the criteria as set out below or
by failing to comply with reasonable health and safety standards. The City
Clerk shall issue the sidewalk café permit if no objections are made within the
30 day review period. If any objections exist, the City Clerk shall notify the
applicant who may amend and re-file the application. The denial may be appealed
to the City Council within 30 calendar days of receipt of the denial notice.
(Ord. 1481, passed 6-6-12)
§ 122.04 APPLICATION CRITERIA.
   (A)   General requirements. At a minimum, the application shall include the
application fee of $25, a certificate from LaSalle County Health Department,
and a drawing to scale illustrating the tables, seating, and garbage receptacle
locations. The drawing shall also illustrate the entire sidewalk area showing
all existing light posts, signs and other permanent improvements. The location
of improvements and personal property shall be located directly in front of the
permit holder's property. The sidewalk café area shall allow no less than an
eight foot unobstructed pedestrian walkway from that point of the sidewalk
where car bumpers no longer encroach to the closest piece of sidewalk café
furniture. The application shall provide a statement for how garbage control
will be managed. The application shall identify what beverage products will be
served.
   (B)   Insurance requirement. Each applicant for a permit shall furnish a
certificate of insurance showing commercial general liability insurance of not
less than $100,000 per person, $300,000 per occurrence. As a portion of the
sidewalk café is on a public right-of-way, the city shall be named as an
additional insured on a primary, noncontributory basis for any liability
arising from the operations of a sidewalk café. The policy of insurance shall
contain the provision requiring notice to the city prior to any cancellation.
The permit holder shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless the city from any
loss that results from the permit issuance.
   (C)   Furniture requirement. All tables and chairs shall be black in color
and cast in either aluminum or wrought iron. Tables shall measure no more than
46 inches in diameter that their widest points. Each table shall not seat more
than four chairs. The number of tables is to be determined according to the
store frontage but not to exceed four tables in total. Any umbrellas shall be
placed directly in the middle of the table and when opened shall be straight up
and shall be weighted down in a proper stand directly under the middle of the
table. All umbrellas shall be closed and/or removed when the sidewalk café is
not open for business. Security cables are only to be used when the sidewalk
café is closed, and any security cable shall be connected to one table and its
respective four chairs and shall not be connected to any other table, chairs,
trees, planters, store front, or garbage receptacle.
(Ord. 1481, passed 6-6-12; Am. Ord. 1489, passed 7-18-12)
§ 122.05 PROHIBITED ACTIONS.
   (A)   Beverage and food containers. Beverages or food shall only be served
in plastic or paper containers. No glass is allowed in the sidewalk café.
   (B)   Alcoholic liquor. A permit holder shall not serve, sell, or allow the
consumption of any alcoholic liquor at a sidewalk café unless an additional
license for such has been approved according to §
112.49 of this Code.
   (C)   Outside food. Only food prepared and served by the retail food
establishment may be consumed at the sidewalk café. Food must be prepared in
the principal building, not outside.
   (D)   Improvements. The only improvements allowed in a sidewalk café area
shall be any existing fencing, tables, seating and garbage disposal.
   (E)   Noise or other nuisance. A permit holder shall not allow garbage or
other objects outside of the designated sidewalk café area and shall remove any
patron violating any ordinance of the city. The permit holder shall be
responsible for the clearing of tables and debris within a reasonable amount of
time. A permit holder shall not allow music or noise at a level which subjects
any person in the city to a noise level that disturbs, impairs, or adversely
affects the comfort, health, or safety of another within the city. The
following are standards that may be considered in determining a noise violation
under this chapter:
      (1)   The level of the noise.
      (2)   If the noise is usual or unusual to the surrounding area.
      (3)   If the noise is a natural occurrence or an unnatural occurrence.
      (4)   The background noise judging by level and intensity.
      (5)   The origin of the noise in relation to residential areas.
      (6)   The zoning and character of the surrounding area.
      (7)   The population density of the area from which the noise emanates.
      (8)   The time, nature, and frequency of the noise.
      (9)   The number and frequency of complaints.
(Ord. 1481, passed 6-6-12)
§ 122.06 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   In the event of any complaint arising from the sidewalk café including,
without limitation, a violation of the criteria for issuance of permit or
involving a nuisance arising from the operation of the sidewalk café, the Mayor
may issue written notice of the problem, providing a reasonable time for
corrective action. In the event of any serious problem or failure of the permit
holder to undertake requested corrective action, the Mayor may issue notice of
a hearing as to suspension or revocation of the sidewalk café permit. The
hearing shall be conducted by the Mayor who may consult with the City Engineer
or any of the Commissioners. The hearing shall be conducted no earlier than
three days after service of notice of hearing. At the hearing, the permit
holder shall be allowed the opportunity to address the Mayor, present witnesses
on the permit holder's behalf and cross-examine opposing witnesses. The permit
holder shall bear the burden of proof that the sidewalk café is not in
violation of the criteria for issuance of permit and not a nuisance as defined
by this Code. A sidewalk café permit may be suspended for a period of up to 30
days or revoked.
(Ord. 1481, passed 6-6-12)
§ 122.07 NO ASSIGNMENT.
   A sidewalk café permit shall be for the exclusive use of the retail food
establishment operator. A sidewalk café permit cannot be assigned.
(Ord. 1481, passed 6-6-12)
CHAPTER 123: MOTORIZED VEHICLES SELLING EDIBLE NOVELTIES
Section
   
123.01   License required
   
123.02   Application for license
   
123.03   License fee
   
123.04   Scope of license
   
123.05   Regulations
§ 123.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, whether for himself or herself or an agent for another, shall
engage in the retail sale of edible frozen novelties out of a motorized vehicle
without a license to do so.
(Ord. 1478, passed 6-6-12; Am. Ord. 1486, passed 6-20-12)
§ 123.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Application for the license shall include the following:
   (A)   Name and residence of applicant and any agents that applicant intends
to employ;
   (B)   Make, model, year and license plate number for motorized vehicle
applicant intends to use;
   (C)   Proof of valid driver's license for applicant and all agents intending
to use the motorized vehicle;
   (D)   The particular goods to be sold;
   (E)   Proof of any necessary permits or licenses as required by the LaSalle
County Health Department, Illinois Secretary of State and any other agencies
under the state;
   (F)   No license shall be granted to any individual on the Illinois Sex
Offender Registry;
   (G)   All applicants and agents of the applicant are subject to a criminal
background check. Any applicant or agent of the applicant convicted of a felony
shall require action by the City Council as to whether a license shall be
granted; and
   (H)   Proof of valid automobile insurance.
(Ord. 1478, passed 6-6-12; Am. Ord. 1486, passed 6-20-12)
§ 123.03 LICENSE FEE.
   The fee for a license under this subchapter is $100 per year.
(Ord. 1478, passed 6-6-12; Am. Ord. 1486, passed 6-20-12)
§ 123.04 SCOPE OF LICENSE.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section, no license shall be
issued to any person for a fixed point or location.
(Ord. 1478, passed 6-6-12; Am. Ord. 1486, passed 6-20-12)
§ 123.05 REGULATIONS.
   The following rules and regulations shall be complied with by each person
using a vehicle for the sale of edible frozen novelties:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person using a vehicle for the sale of
edible frozen novelties to sell or attempt to sell:
      (1)   By any means of an outcry, sound, speaker or amplifier, or any
instrument or device which can be heard for a distance greater than 300 feet,
or when passing a hospital, church, or other place of worship during the hours
when services are being held.
      (2)   Within 500 feet of any school during the school year.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person using a vehicle for the sale of
edible frozen novelties to use, play or employ the use of any outcry, sound,
speaker or amplifier, or any instrument or device when the vehicle the person
is using is stopped for the purpose of making a sale.
   (C)   The use by any such person of an outcry, sound, speaker or amplifier,
or any instrument, or device which emits a loud sound shall be prohibited
before the hours of 9:00 a.m. on weekdays and 10:00 a.m. on Sundays, or after
7:00 p.m. on any day, and any sound at any time shall not be audible at a
distance greater than 300 feet.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person using a vehicle for the sale of
edible frozen novelties to:
      (1)   Exceed a speed of 12 miles per hour when cruising residential areas
seeking sales or when attempting to make a sale.
      (2)   Stop anywhere within 25 feet of an intersection when making a sale
or attempting to make a sale.
      (3)   Drive a vehicle backwards to make or attempt to make a sale.
      (4)   Remain standing or stopped at any place for a period of time
exceeding five minutes.
      (5)   Sell or attempt to sell on Main Street between U.S. Route 6 and
Commercial Street.
      (6)   Sell or attempt to sell on Commercial Street west of the Lion's
Club during times when concessions stands are open for any baseball activity.
(Ord. 1478, passed 6-6-12; Am. Ord. 1486, passed 6-20-12)
CHAPTER 124: SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
Section
   
124.01   Purpose and scope
   
124.02   Definitions
   
124.03   Regulation of small wireless facilities
   
124.04   Dispute resolution
   
124.05   Indemnification
   
124.06   Insurance
   
124.07   Severability
§ 124.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   The purpose of this
Chapter 124: Small Wireless Facilities is to establish regulations, standards
and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless facilities on
rights-of-way within the city’s jurisdiction, or outside the rights-of-way on
property zoned by the city exclusively for commercial or industrial use, in a
manner that is consistent with the Act. This chapter supersedes all ordinances
or parts of ordinances adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to
the extent of such conflict. In the event that applicable federal or state laws
or regulations conflict with the requirements of this chapter, the wireless
provider shall comply with the requirements of this chapter to the maximum
extent possible without violating federal or state laws or regulations.
(Ord. 1678, passed 7-3-18)
§ 124.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the
following meanings.
   ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
   APPLICABLE CODES. Uniform building, fire, electrical, plumbing, or
mechanical codes adopted by a recognized national code organization or local
amendments to those codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
   APPLICANT. Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
   APPLICATION. A request submitted by an applicant to the city for a permit to
collocate small wireless facilities, and a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such application.
   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. Cable service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(6), as
amended; information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(53), as amended; mobile
service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(53), as amended; or wireless service other
than mobile service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER. A cable operator, as defined in 47 U.S.C.
522(5), as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C.
153(24), as amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153
(51), as amended; or a wireless provider.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
   FEE. A one-time charge.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT or HISTORIC LANDMARK. A building, property, or site, or
group of buildings, properties, or sites that are either (I) listed in the
National Register of Historic Places or formally determined eligible for
listing by the Keeper of the National Register, the individual who has been
delegated the authority by the federal agency to list properties and determine
their eligibility for the National Register, in accordance with Section
VI.D.1.a.i through Section VI.D.1.a.v of the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement
codified at 47 CFR Part 1, Appendix C; or (ii) designated as a locally
landmarked building, property, site, or historic district by an ordinance
adopted by the City pursuant to a preservation program that meets the
requirements of the Certified Local Government Program of the Illinois State
Historic Preservation Office or where such certification of the preservation
program by the Illinois State Historic Preservation Office is pending.
   LAW. A federal or state statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order,
or local ordinance or resolution.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches in height
and that has an exterior antenna, if any, no longer than 11 inches.
   MUNICIPAL UTILITY POLE. A utility pole owned or operated by the city in
public rights-of-way.
   PERMIT. A written authorization required by the city to perform an action or
initiate, continue, or complete a project.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, or other entity or organization.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY. The functional division of the federal government, the
state, a unit of local government, or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within this state, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical, or other emergency services to
respond to and manage emergency incidents.
   RATE. A recurring charge.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, public sidewalk, alley, or utility easement dedicated for compatible
use. RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include city-owned aerial lines.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications: (I) each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no
more than six cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has
exposed elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within
an imaginary enclosure of no more than six cubic feet; and (ii) all other
wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole associated with the
facility is cumulatively no more than 25 cubic feet in volume. The following
types of associated ancillary equipment are not included in the calculation of
equipment volume: electric meter, concealment elements, telecommunications
demarcation box, ground-based enclosures, grounding equipment, power transfer
switch, cut-off switch, and vertical cable runs for the connection of power and
other services.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part
by a communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting,
traffic control, or a similar function.
   WIRELESS FACILITY. Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including:
(I) equipment associated with wireless communications; and (ii) radio
transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power
supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological configuration.
Wireless facility includes small wireless facilities. WIRELESS FACILITY does
not include: (I) the structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated; or (ii) wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber
optic cable that is between wireless support structures or utility poles or
coaxial, or fiber optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or
directly associated with an antenna.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the state that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the city.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER. A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES. Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless services.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE does not include a utility pole.
(Ord. 1678, passed 7-3-18)
§ 124.03 REGULATION OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES.
   (A)   Permitted use. Small wireless facilities shall be classified as
permitted uses and subject to administrative review, except as provided in
division (C)(9) of this section regarding height exceptions or variances, but
not subject to zoning review or approval if they are collocated (i) in rights-
of-way in any zoning district, or (ii) outside rights-of-way in property zoned
exclusively for commercial or industrial use.
   (B)   Permit required. An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from
the city to collocate a small wireless facility. An application shall be
received and processed, and permits issued shall be subject to the following
conditions and requirements:
      (1)   Application requirements. A wireless provider shall provide the
following information to the city, together with the city’s small cell
facilities permit application, as a condition of any permit application to
collocate small wireless facilities on a utility pole or wireless support
structure:
         (a)   Site specific structural integrity and, for a municipal utility
pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is
defined in § 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989;
         (b)   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed. This should include a depiction of the
completed facility;
         (c)   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer,
as that term is defined in § 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of
1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application as
it is proposed to be installed;
         (d)   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
         (e)   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved; and
         (f)   Certification that the collocation complies with the Collocation
Requirements and Conditions contained herein, to the best of the applicant’s
knowledge.
         (g)   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to be
attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the city, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of
the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation.
      (2)   Application process. The city shall process applications as
follows:
         (a)   The first completed application shall have priority over
applications received by different applicants for collocation on the same
utility pole or wireless support structure.
         (b)   An application to collocate a small wireless facility on an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure, or replacement of an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and shall be deemed approved if the city fails to
approve or deny the application within 90 days after the submission of a
completed application.
            1.   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the city in
writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than 75
days after the submission of a completed application.
            2.   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 90th
day after submission of the complete application or the 10th day after the
receipt of the deemed approved notice by the City. The receipt of the deemed
approved notice shall not preclude the City’s denial of the permit request
within the time limits as provided under this chapter.
         (c)   An application to collocate a small wireless facility that
includes the installation of a new utility pole shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the City fails to approve or
deny the application within 120 days after the submission of a completed
application.
            1.   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the city in
writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than
105 days after the submission of a completed application.
            2.   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 120th
day after submission of the complete application or the 10th day after the-
receipt of the deemed approved notice by the city. The receipt of the deemed
approved notice shall not preclude the city’s denial of the permit request
within the time limits as provided under this chapter.
         (d)   The city shall deny an application which does not meet the
requirements of this chapter.
            1.   If the city determines that applicable codes, ordinances or
regulations that concern public safety, or the collocation requirements and
conditions contained herein require that the utility pole or wireless support
structure be replaced before the requested collocation, approval shall be
conditioned on the replacement of the utility pole or wireless support
structure at the cost of the provider.
            2.   The city shall document the basis for a denial, including the
specific code provisions or application conditions on which the denial is
based, and send the documentation to the applicant on or before the day the
city denies an application.
            3.   The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the city
and resubmit the revised application once within 30 days after notice of denial
is sent to the applicant without paying an additional application fee. The city
shall approve or deny the revised application within 30 days after the
applicant resubmits the application or it is deemed approved. Failure to
resubmit the revised application within 30 days of denial shall require the
application to submit a new application with applicable fees, and
recommencement of the city’s review period.
            4.   The applicant must notify the city in writing of its intention
to proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, which may be
submitted with the revised application.
            5.   Any review of a revised application shall be limited to the
deficiencies cited in the denial. However, this revised application does not
apply if the cure requires the review of a new location, new or different
structure to be collocated upon, new antennas, or other wireless equipment
associated with the small wireless facility.
         (e)   Pole attachment agreement. Within 30 days after an approved
permit to collocate a small wireless facility on a municipal utility pole, the
city and the applicant shall enter into a Master Pole Attachment Agreement,
provided by the city for the initial collocation on a municipal utility pole by
the application. For subsequent approved permits to collocate on a small
wireless facility on a municipal utility pole, the city and the applicant shall
enter into a license supplement of the Master Pole Attachment Agreement.
      (3)   Completeness of application. 
         (a)   Within 30 days after receiving an application, the city shall
determine whether the application is complete and notify the applicant. If an
application is incomplete, the city must specifically identify the missing
information. An application shall be deemed complete if the city fails to
provide notification to the applicant within 30 days after all documents,
information and fees specifically enumerated in the city’s permit application
form are submitted by the applicant to the city.
         (b)   Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the city sends the
notice of incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the missing
information.
      (4)   Tolling. The time period for applications may be further tolled by:
         (a)   An express written agreement by both the applicant and the city;
or
         (b)   A local, state or federal disaster declaration or similar
emergency that causes the delay.
      (5)   Consolidated applications. 
         (a)   An applicant seeking to collocate small wireless facilities
within the jurisdiction of the city shall be allowed, at the applicant’s
discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a single permit for
the collocation of up to 25 small wireless facilities if the collocations each
involve substantially the same type of small wireless facility and
substantially the same type of structure.
         (b)   If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities,
the city may remove small wireless facility collocations from the application
and treat separately small wireless facility collocations for which incomplete
information has been provided or that do not qualify for consolidated treatment
or that are denied. The city may issue separate permits for each collocation
that is approved in a consolidated application.
      (6)   Duration of permits.
         (1)   The duration of a permit shall be for a period of not less than
five years, and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent durations unless the
city makes a finding that the small wireless facilities or the new or modified
utility pole do not comply with the applicable city codes or any provision,
condition or requirement contained in this chapter.
         (2)   If the Act is repealed as provided in § 90 therein, renewals of
permits shall be subject to the applicable city code provisions or regulations
in effect at the time of renewal.
      (7)   Means of submitting applications. Applicants shall submit
applications, supporting information and notices to the city by personal
delivery at the city’s designated place of business, by regular mail postmarked
on the date due or by any other commonly used means, including electronic mail.
   (C)   Collocation requirements and conditions.
      (1)   Public safety space reservation. The city may reserve space on
municipal utility poles for future public safety uses, for the city’s electric
utility uses, or both, but a reservation of space may not preclude the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless the city reasonably determines
that the municipal utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
      (2)   Installation and maintenance. The wireless provider shall install,
maintain, repair and modify its small wireless facilities in safe condition and
good repair and in compliance with the requirements and conditions of this
chapter. The wireless provider shall ensure that its employees, agents or
contracts that perform work in connection with its small wireless facilities
are adequately trained, and skilled in accordance with all applicable industry
and governmental standards and regulations.
      (3)   No interference with public safety communication frequencies.
         (a)   The wireless provider’s operation of the small wireless
facilities shall not interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety
agency for public safety communications.
         (b)   A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of
the type and frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a
public safety agency’s communications equipment.
         (c)   Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in
accordance with industry standards and the FCC’s regulations addressing
unacceptable interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum
licensed by a public safety agency.
         (d)   If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the
wireless provider has been given written notice of the interference by the
public safety agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall remedy
the interference in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC
including 47 CFR 22.970 through 47 CFR 22.973 and 47 CFR 90.672 through 47 CFR
90.675.
         (e)   The city may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility
based on such interference if the wireless provider is not in compliance with
the Code of Federal Regulations cited in the previous paragraph. Failure to
remedy the interference as required herein shall constitute a public nuisance.
      (4)   (a)   The wireless provider shall not locate small wireless
facilities on city utility poles that are part of an electric distribution or
transmission system within the communication worker safety zone of the pole or
the electric supply zone of the pole.
         (b)   However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless
facility may be located in the communications space on the city utility pole
and on the top of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless
provider complies with applicable codes for work involving the top of the pole.
         (c)   For purposes of this subparagraph, the terms “communications
space”, “communication worker safety zone”, and “electric supply zone” have the
meanings given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published
by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
      (5)   The wireless provider shall comply with all applicable codes and
local code provisions or regulations that concern public safety.
      (6)   The wireless provider shall comply with written design standards
that are generally applicable for decorative utility poles, or reasonable
stealth,, concealment and aesthetic requirements that are set forth in a city
ordinance, written policy adopted by the city, a comprehensive plan or other
written design plan that applies to other occupiers of the rights-of-way,
including on a historic landmark or in a historic district.
      (7)   Alternate placements.
         (a)   Except as provided in this collocation requirements and
conditions section, a wireless provider shall not be required to collocation
small wireless facilities on any specific utility pole, or category of utility
poles, or be required to collocate multiple antenna systems on a single utility
pole. However, with respect to an application for the collocation of a small
wireless facility associated with a new utility pole, the city may propose that
the small wireless facility be collocated on an existing utility pole or
existing wireless support structure within 100 feet of the proposed
collocation, which the applicant shall accept if it has the right to use the
alternate structure on reasonable terms and conditions, and the alternate
location and structure does not impose technical limits or additional material
costs as determined by the applicant.
         (b)   If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the city, the
applicant shall provide written certification describing the property rights,
technical limits or material cost reasons the alternate location does not
satisfy the criteria in this paragraph.
      (8)   Height limitations. 
         (a)   The maximum height of a small wireless facility shall be no more
than ten feet above the utility pole or wireless support structure on which the
small wireless facility is collocated.
         (b)   New or replacement utility poles or wireless support structures
on which small wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed the higher of:
            1.   Ten feet in height above the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place
on the date the application is submitted to the city, that is located within
300 feet of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless support structure
and that is in the same right-of-way within the jurisdictional boundary of the
city, provided the city may designate which intersecting right-of-way within
300 feet of the proposed utility pole or wireless support structures shall
control the height limitation for such facility; or
            2.   Forty-five (45) feet above ground level.
      (9)   Height exceptions or variances. If an applicant proposes a height
for a new or replacement pole in excess of the above height limitations on
which the small wireless facility is proposed for collocation, the applicant
shall apply for a special use permit in conformance with procedures, terms and
conditions set forth in the Marseilles Zoning Ordinance.
      (10)   Contractual design requirements. The wireless provider shall
comply with requirements that are imposed by a contract between the city and a
private property owner that concern design or construction standards applicable
to utility poles and ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way.
      (11)   Ground-mounted equipment spacing. The wireless provider shall
comply with applicable spacing requirements in applicable codes and ordinances
concerning the location of ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way
if the requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses
wireless provider requests for exception or variance and do not prohibit
granting of such exceptions or variances.
      (12)   Undergrounding regulations. The wireless provider shall comply
with local code provisions or regulations concerning undergrounding
requirements that prohibit the installation of new or the modification of
existing utility poles in a right-of-way without prior approval if the
requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses requests
to install such new utility poles or modify such existing utility poles and do
not prohibit the replacement of utility poles.
      (13)   Collocation completion deadline. Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within 180 days after issuance of the permit, unless
the city and the wireless provider agree to extend this period or a delay is
caused by make-ready work for a municipal utility pole or by the lack of
commercial power or backhaul availability at the site, provided the wireless
provider has made a timely request within 60 days after the issuance of the
permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and the additional time to
complete installation does not exceed 360 days after issuance of the permit.
Otherwise, the permit shall be void unless the city grants an extension in
writing to the applicant.
   (D)   Application fees. Application fees are imposed as follows:
      (1)   Applicant shall pay an application fee of $650 for an application
to collocate a single small wireless facility on an existing utility pole or
wireless support structure, and $350 for each small wireless facility addressed
in a consolidated application to collocate more than one small wireless
facility on existing utility poles or wireless support structures.
      (2)   Applicant shall pay an application fee of $1,000 for each small
wireless facility addressed in an application that includes the installation of
a new utility pole for such collocation.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of state law or local
ordinance, applications pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by the
required application fee. Application fees shall be non-refundable.
      (4)   The city shall not require an application, approval or permit, or
require any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider
authorized to occupy the rights-of-way, for:
         (a)   Routine maintenance;
         (b)   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if me wireless
provider notifies the city at least ten days prior to the planned replacement
and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of equipment
consistent with division (B)(1)(d) of this section; or
         (c)   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or
replacement of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung
between existing utility poles in compliance with applicable safety codes.
      (5)   Wireless providers shall secure a permit from the city to work
within rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or require
lane closures.
   (E)   Exceptions to applicability. Nothing in this chapter authorizes a
person to collocate small wireless facilities on:
      (1)   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled
by the city or another unit of local government that is not located within
rights-of-way, or a privately owned utility pole or wireless support structure
without the consent of the property owner;
      (2)   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
      (3)   (a)   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under § 18c-7201
of the Illinois Vehicle Code, ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 18c-7201, Metra Commuter
Rail or any other public commuter rail service, or an electric utility as
defined in § 16-102 of the Public Utilities Act, ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 16-102,
without the consent of the rail carrier, public commuter rail service, or
electric utility. The provisions of this chapter do not apply to an electric or
gas public utility or such utility’s wireless facilities if the facilities are
being used, developed and maintained consistent with the provisions of
subsection (I) of Section 16-108.5 of the Public Utilities Act, ILCS Ch. 220,
Act 5, § 16-108.5.
         (b)   For the purposes of this subsection, “public utility” has the
meaning given to that term in § 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act, ILCS Ch.
220, Act 5, § 3-105. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to relieve any
person from any requirement (a) to obtain a franchise or a state-issued
authorization to offer cable service or video service or (b) to obtain any
required permission to install, place, maintain, or operate communications
facilities, other than small wireless facilities subject to this chapter.
   (F)   Pre-existing agreements.
      (1)   Existing agreements between the city and wireless providers that
relate to the collocation of small wireless facilities in the right-of-way,
including the collocation of small wireless facilities on city utility poles,
that are in effect on June 1, 2018, remain in effect for all small wireless
facilities collocated on the city’s utility poles pursuant to applications
submitted to the city before June 1, 2018, subject to applicable termination
provisions contained therein. Agreements entered into after June 1, 2018, shall
comply with this chapter.
      (2)   A wireless provider that has an existing agreement with the city on
the effective date of the Act may accept the rates, fees and terms that the
city makes available under this chapter for the collocation of small wireless
facilities or the installation of new utility poles for the collocation of
small wireless facilities that are the subject of an application submitted two
or more years after the effective date of the Act by notifying the city that it
opts to accept such rates, fees and terms. The existing agreement remains in
effect, subject to applicable termination provisions, for the small wireless
facilities the wireless provider has collocated on the city’s utility poles
pursuant to applications submitted to the city before the wireless provider
provides such notice and exercises its option under this paragraph.
   (G)   Annual recurring rate.
      (1)   A wireless provider shall pay to the city an annual recurring rate
to collocate a small wireless facility on a city utility pole located in a
right-of-way that equals (I) $200 per year or (ii) the actual, direct and
reasonable costs related to the wireless provider’s use of space on the city
utility pole.
      (2)   If the city has not billed the wireless provider actual and direct
costs, the fee shall be $200 payable on the first day after the first annual
anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice of intent to collocate, and
on each annual anniversary date thereafter.
   (H)   Abandonment.
      (1)   A small wireless facility that is not operated for a continuous
period of 12 months shall be considered abandoned. The owner of the facility
shall remove the small wireless facility within 90 days after receipt of
written notice from the city notifying the wireless provider of the
abandonment.
      (2)   The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested, by the city to the owner at the last known address of the
wireless provider. If the small wireless facility is not removed within 90 days
of such notice, the city may remove or cause the removal of such facility
pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment agreement for municipal utility
poles or through whatever actions are provided for abatement of nuisances or by
other law for removal and cost recovery.
      (3)   A wireless provider shall provide written notice to the city if it
sells or transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the
city. Such notice shall include the name and contact information of the new
wireless provider.
(Ord. 1678, passed 7-3-18)
§ 124.04 DISPUTE RESOLUTION.
   The Circuit Court of LaSalle shall have exclusive jurisdiction to resolve
all disputes arising under the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act.
Pending resolution of a dispute concerning rates for collocation of small
wireless facilities on municipal utility poles within the right-of-way, the
city shall allow the collocating person to collocate on its poles at annual
rates of no more than $200 per year per municipal utility pole, with rates to
be determined upon final resolution of the dispute.
(Ord. 1678, passed 7-3-18)
§ 124.05 INDEMNIFICATION.
   A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the city harmless against any
and all liability or loss from personal injury or property damage resulting
from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or occupancy of the city
improvements or right-of-way associated with such improvements by the wireless
provider or its employees, agents, or contractors arising out of the rights and
privileges granted under this chapter and the Act. A wireless provider has no
obligation to indemnify or hold harmless against any liabilities and losses as
may be due to or caused by the sole negligence of the city or its employees or
agents. A wireless provider shall further waive any claims that they may have
against the city with respect to consequential, incidental, or special damages,
however caused, based on the theory of liability.
(Ord. 1678, passed 7-3-18)
§ 124.06 INSURANCE.
   (A)   The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless provider’s own cost
and expense, the following insurance:
      (1)   Property insurance for its property’s replacement cost against all
risks;
      (2)   Workers’ compensation insurance, as required by law; or
      (3)   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its
activities on the city improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum
protection limits consistent with its requirements of other users of city
improvements or rights-of-way, including coverage for bodily injury and
property damage.
   (B)   The wireless provider shall include the city as an additional insured
on the commercial general liability policy and provide certification and
documentation of inclusion of the city in a commercial general liability policy
prior to the collocation of any wireless facility.
   (C)   A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the insurance
coverage and limit requirement required by the city. A wireless provider that
self-insures is not required, to the extent of the self-insurance, to comply
with the requirement for the name of additional insureds under this section. A
wireless provider that elects to self-insure shall provide to the city evidence
sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure the insurance
coverage limits required by the city.
(Ord. 1678, passed 7-3-18)
§ 124.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter or application thereof to any person or
circumstances, is ruled unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, such invalidity
shall not affect other provisions or applications of this chapter that can be
given effect without the invalid application or provision, and each invalid
provision or invalid application of this chapter is severable.
(Ord. 1678, passed 7-3-18)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
Chapter
   
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
131.   OFFENSES PERTAINING TO PROPERTY
   
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
   
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
   
134.    OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
   
135.   GAMBLING OFFENSES
   
136.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
   
137.   WEAPONS
   
138.   DECEPTIVE PRACTICES
   
139.   CANNABIS AND PARAPHERNALIA
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Intent
   
130.03   Knowledge
   
130.04   Recklessness
   
130.05   Negligence
   
130.06   Attempt
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this title, the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   ACT. The taking of action or a failure or omission to take action.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 2-2)
   ANOTHER. A person or persons other than the offender.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 2-3)
   CONDUCT. An act or a series of acts, and the accompanying mental state.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 2-4)
   OFFENSE. A violation of a penal statute of this city or state.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 2-12)
§ 130.02 INTENT.
   A person intends, or acts intentionally or with intent, to accomplish a
result or engage in conduct described by the section defining the offense, when
his or her conscious objective or purpose is to accomplish that result or
engage in that conduct.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 4-4)
§ 130.03 KNOWLEDGE.
   (A)   A person knows, or acts knowingly or with knowledge of:
      (1)   The nature or attendant circumstances of his or her conduct,
described by the section defining the offense, when he or she is consciously
aware that his or her conduct is of such nature or that such circumstances
exist. Knowledge of a material fact includes awareness of the substantial
probability that the fact exists.
      (2)   The result of his or her conduct, described by the section defining
the offense, when he or she is consciously aware that such result is
practically certain to be caused by his or her conduct.
   (B)   Conduct performed knowingly or with knowledge is performed willfully,
within the meaning of a statute using the latter term, unless the section
clearly requires another meaning.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 4-5)
§ 130.04 RECKLESSNESS.
   A person is reckless or acts recklessly, when he or she consciously
disregards a substantial and unjustifiable risk that circumstances exist or
that a result will follow, described by the section defining the offense; and
such disregard constitutes a gross deviation from the standard of care which a
reasonable person would exercise in the situation. An act performed recklessly
is performed wantonly, within the meaning of a section using the latter term,
unless the statute clearly requires another meaning.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 4-6)
§ 130.05 NEGLIGENCE.
   A person is negligent, or acts negligently, when he or she fails to be aware
of a substantial and unjustifiable risk that circumstances exist or a result
will follow, described by the statute defining the offense; and such failure
constitutes a substantial deviation from the standard of care which a
reasonable person would exercise in the situation.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 4-7)
§ 130.06 ATTEMPT.
   (A)   Elements of the offense. A person commits an attempt when, with intent
to commit a specific offense, he or she does any act which constitutes a
substantial step toward the commission of that offense.
   (B)   Impossibility.  It shall not be a defense to a charge of attempt that
because of a misapprehension of the circumstances it would have been impossible
for the accused to commit the offense attempted.
   (C)   A person convicted of an attempt may be fined not to exceed the
maximum provided for the offense attempted. If such fine exceeds that set forth
in §
130.99 below, however, the city shall enforce said offense under the provisions
of state law.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 8-4) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provisions of this title for which another penalty is
not specifically provided shall be fined according to the Uniform Fine Schedule
in §
10.99.
(Am. Ord. 1326, passed 2-20-08)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES PERTAINING TO PROPERTY
Section
   
131.01   Damage of firefighting apparatus, hydrants, or equipment
   
131.02   Trespass to land
   
131.03   Damaging city property
   
131.04   Damaging public or private property
§ 131.01 DAMAGE OF FIREFIGHTING APPARATUS, HYDRANTS, OR EQUIPMENT.
   No person shall willfully and maliciously cut, injure, damage, tamper with,
destroy, or deface any fire hydrant, fire hose, fire engine, or other public or
private firefighting equipment, or any apparatus appertaining to such
equipment, or intentionally open any fire hydrant without proper authorization.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 21-1.1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.02 TRESPASS TO LAND.
   (A)   Whoever:
      (1)   Knowingly and without lawful authority enters or remains within or
on a building; or
      (2)   Enters upon the land of another, after receiving, prior to such
entry, notice from the owner or occupant that such entry is forbidden; or
      (3)   Remains upon the land of another, after receiving notice from the
owner or occupant to depart; or
      (4)   Enters upon one of the following areas in or on a motor vehicle
(including an off-road vehicle, motorcycle, moped, or any other powered two-
wheel vehicle), after receiving prior to that entry, notice from the owner or
occupant that the entry is forbidden or remains upon or in the area after
receiving notice from the owner or occupant to depart:
         (a)   Any field that is used for growing crops or which is capable of
being used for growing crops; or
         (b)   An enclosed area containing livestock; or
         (c)   An orchard; or
         (d)   A barn or other agricultural building containing livestock.
      (5)   Enters within the area posted as “no trespassing” extending behind
the Middle East Wall Memorial to the waters of the Illinois River.
   commits a Class B misdemeanor.
   For purposes of division (A)(1) of this section, this section shall not
apply to being in a building which is open to the public while the building is
open to the public during its normal hours of operation; nor shall this section
apply to a person who enters a public building under the reasonable belief that
the building is still open to the public.
   (B)   A person is deemed to have received notice from the owner or occupant
within the meaning of division (A) if he or she has been notified personally,
either orally or in writing, or if a printed or written notice forbidding an
entry has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at the main entrance to the
land or the forbidden part thereof.
   (C)   This section does not apply to any person, whether a migrant worker or
otherwise, living on the land with permission of the owner or of his or her
agent having apparent authority to hire workers on the land and assign them
living quarters or a place of accommodation for living thereon, nor to anyone
living on the land at the request of, or by occupancy, leasing, or other
agreement or arrangement with the owner or his or her agent, nor to anyone
invited by the migrant worker or other person so living on the land to visit
him at the place he or she is so living on the land.
   (D)   A person shall be exempt from prosecution under this section if that
person beautifies unoccupied and abandoned residential or industrial properties
located within this city. For the purpose of this division, UNOCCUPIED AND
ABANDONED RESIDENTIAL or INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY means any real estate in which the
taxes have not been paid for a period of at least two years, and which has been
left unoccupied and abandoned for a period of at least one year. BEAUTIFIES
means to landscape, clean up litter, or to repair dilapidated conditions on or
to board up windows and doors.
   (E)   No person shall be liable in any civil action for money damages to the
owner of unoccupied and abandoned residential and industrial property which
that person beautifies pursuant to division (D) of this section.
   (F)   This section does not prohibit a person from entering a building or
upon the land of another for emergency purposes. For purposes of this division,
EMERGENCY means a condition or circumstance in which an individual is or is
reasonably believed by the person to be in imminent danger of serious bodily
harm or in which property is or is reasonably believed to be in imminent danger
of damage or destruction.
(Am. Ord. 1300, passed 10-3-07)
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 21-3
§ 131.03 DAMAGING CITY PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to:
      (1)   Knowingly damage any city property without the city's consent.
      (2)   Recklessly, by means of fire or explosion, damage village property
without the city's consent.
      (3)   Knowingly start a fire on city land without the consent of the
city.
      (4)   Knowingly deposit on city land or in a city building any stink bomb
or any offensive- smelling compound which thereby tends to interfere with the
use by the city of its land or buildings.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, PROPERTY means anything of value
including, but not limited to real estate, money, commercial instruments,
written instruments representing or embodying rights concerning anything of
value, labor, or services, things affixed to or found on land or part of or
affixed to any building, electricity, gas, or water.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.04 DAMAGING PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person shall damage, destroy or deface any public or private property
without permission of the owner.
('72 Code, § 44.09)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
Section
   
132.01   Disorderly conduct
   
132.02   Curfew
   
132.03   Loitering
   
132.04   False reporting of fires, crimes and other emergencies prohibited
   
132.05   Prohibiting truancy
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   A person commits disorderly conduct when he or she knowingly:
   (A)   Does any act in such unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb
another and to provoke a breach of the peace; such acts shall include but not
be limited to the following:
      (1)   Making, aiding, or assisting in making any improper noise, riot,
disturbance, breach of the peace, or diversion tending to a breach of the
peace;
      (2)   Engaging in or aiding or abetting any fight, quarrel, or other
disturbance;
      (3)   Disturbing any religious service, funeral, public or private
meeting, or assembly of persons to the extent of prohibiting or significantly
interfering with such event or provoking a breach of peace;
      (4)   Collecting in crowds for unlawful purposes;
      (5)   Loitering in a public place for the purpose of engaging in one or
more of the following:
         (a)   Attempting to stop passerby or vehicles in a manner that alarms
or disturbs others or interferes with their free right of passage;
         (b)   Soliciting drug sales;
         (c)   Performing business transactions involving the exchange of cash
for an object having the appearance of a drug sale;
         (d)   Soliciting prostitution in the manner or form identified in the
Illinois Criminal Code; or
         (e)   Fleeing an approaching police officer;
      (6)   Being intoxicated in public places or in any place to the annoyance
and disturbance of other persons;
      (7)   Resisting or obstructing the performance of one known to be a
police officer of any authorized act within the police officer's official
capacity or impersonating a police officer;
      (8)   Assisting any person in custody of police to escape;
      (9)   Assembling with two or more other persons for the purpose of using
force or violence to disturb the public peace;
      (10)   Failing to obey a lawful order of dispersal by a person known to
be a peace officer, where three or more persons are committing acts of
disorderly conduct in the immediate vicinity, which acts are likely to cause
substantial harm or serious inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm;
      (11)   Lodging in or being in outhouses, sheds, barns, stables, or
unoccupied buildings;
      (12)   Engaging in any act of theft in the manner or form identified in
the Illinois Criminal Code;
      (13)   Giving any false alarm of fire or disturbance to any person or
false information to any peace officer or fireman or any city officer;
      (14)   Harassment by telephone in the manner or form identified in the
Illinois Criminal Code;
      (15)   Engaging in an act of public indecency in the manner or form
identified in the Illinois Criminal Code;
      (16)   Engaging in conduct in a manner or form prohibited under the
Illinois Humane Care for Animals Act;
      (17)   Engaging in criminal damage to property in a manner or form
identified in the Illinois Criminal Code;
      (18)   Engaging in assault in the manner or form identified in the
Illinois Criminal Code;
      (19)   Engaging in institutional vandalism or criminal defacement of
property in the manner or form identified in the Illinois Criminal Code;
      (20)   Interfering or threatening to interfere with another person’s
pursuit of a lawful occupation by acts of violence;
      (21)   Obstructing, either singly or together with another person or
persons, the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic and refusal to clear such
pedestrian traffic or refusal to clear such public way when ordered to do so by
the Police Department or other lawful authority;
      (22)   Inciting, attempting to incite, or involvment in attempting to
incite a riot or unlawful disturbance; and
      (23)   Using abusive language or threats toward any member of the Police
Department, any other authorized city official who is engaged in the lawful
performance of their duties, or toward any other person when such words have a
direct tendency to cause acts of violence. Words merely causing displeasure,
annoyance, or resentment are not prohibited.
('72 Code, § 44.01)
   (B)   Transmits or causes to be transmitted in any manner to another a false
alarm to the effect that a bomb or other explosive of any nature is concealed
in such place that its explosion would endanger human life, knowing at the time
of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such
bomb or explosive is concealed in such place;
   (C)   Transmits or causes to be transmitted in any manner to any peace
officer, public officer, or public employee a report to the effect that an
offense will be committed, is being committed, or has been committed, knowing
at the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for
believing that such an offense will be committed, is being committed, or has
been committed;
   (D)   Enters upon the property of another, and for a lewd or unlawful
purpose deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window
or other opening in it; or
   (E)   Transmits or causes to be transmitted in any manner to the Police
Department or any privately- owned and operated ambulance service, a false
request for an ambulance, emergency medical technician- ambulance, or emergency
medical technician-paramedic knowing at the time there is no reasonable ground
for believing that such assistance is required.
(Am. Ord. 1629, passed 3-15-17) Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Disorderly conduct, see ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 26-1
§ 132.02 CURFEW.
   (A)   (1)   It is unlawful for a person of 16 or more years of age but less
than 18 years of age to be present at or upon any public building, place,
street or highway, between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. unless accompanied and
supervised by a parent, legal guardian, or other adult, or engaged in a
business or occupation which the laws of the state authorize a person less than
18 years of age to perform or in attendance at, or while traveling directly to
or home from, school, place of employment, church, an activity sponsored by a
not-for-profit community organization, or an activity involving the exercise of
rights guaranteed by the First Amendment to the United States Constitution.
      (2)   It is unlawful for a person less than 16 years of age to be present
at or upon any public building, place, street or highway, between 9:00 p.m. and
6:00 a.m, unless accompanied and supervised by a parent, legal guardian, or
other adult, or engaged in a business or occupation which the laws of the state
authorize a person less than 16 years of age to perform or in attendance at, or
while traveling directly to or home from, school, place of employment, church,
an activity sponsored by a not-for-profit community organization, or an
activity involving the exercise of rights guaranteed by the First Amendment to
the United States Constitution.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person having the legal care and custody
of a child under 16 years of age to allow or permit such child to go or be upon
any public street, alley or other public place in the city in the night time as
restricted in division (A) of this section, except in the case of necessity.
   (C)   Every member of the police force while on duty is authorized to detain
any such minor wilfully violating the provisions of this section until the
parent or guardian of the child shall take him or her into custody, but such
officer shall immediately upon taking custody of the child communicate with the
parent or guardian.
   (D)   If it shall appear that any child taken into custody for a violation
of this section is growing up in mendicancy or vagrancy or is incorrigible for
lack of proper paternal care, or has no home, proper proceedings shall be taken
to have such child placed in the care of a state institution as is provided by
statute.
   (E)    Any person convicted of violating any provision of this section shall
be fined according to the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99.
('72 Code, § 44.15) (Am. Ord. 802, passed 10-20-93; Am. Ord. 1153, passed 3-3-
04; Am. Ord. 1326, passed 2-20-08 )
Statutory reference:
   Authority to impose curfew, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-1-5
§ 132.03 LOITERING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LOITERING. Remaining idle in essentially one location and shall include the
concepts of spending time idly, loafing, walking about aimlessly, assembling or
congregating.
   (B)   No person shall loiter in a public place in such manner as to:
         (1)   Create or cause to be created a danger of a breach of the peace;
         (2)   Create or cause to be created any disturbance or annoyance to
the comfort and repose of any person;
         (3)   Obstruct the free passage of pedestrians or vehicles;
         (4)   Obstruct, molest or interfere with any person lawfully in any
public place so as to cause that person fear.
   (C)   Whenever the presence of any person in any public place is causing any
of the conditions enumerated in division (B) of this section, any police
officer may order that person to leave that place. Any person who shall refuse
to leave after being ordered to do so by a police officer shall be guilty of a
violation of this section.
   (D)    Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of this
section shall be fined according to the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 677, passed 10-17-84; Am. Ord. 913, passed 9-17-97; Am. Ord. 1326, passed
2–20-08 )
§ 132.04 FALSE REPORTING OF FIRES, CRIMES AND OTHER EMERGENCIES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly start or spread any
false alarm of fire, riot, explosion, civil disturbance or other breach of the
peace in the city.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to report the existence of a
fire or other emergency to the police, fire department or any other agency
empowered to deal with an emergency when such person knows the report to be
false.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to report or cause to be
reported to any police agency any information concerning the commission of any
offense or other incident, which would require police action, when he knows
that no such offense or other incident has occurred; or he knows the
information is false or that he has no such information.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly give false
information to the effect that a bomb will be exploded or that any other
serious hazard exists in any public conveyance, church, school, theater,
auditorium, assembly hall, factory, warehouse, industrial, commercial or
residential buildings or any other place used for public gatherings.
   (D)   Any person, firm, or corporation having a burglar, holdup, fire,
medical or any type of intrusion alarm shall be charged a fee of $50 for the
first false alarm responded to by the police department or other agency or
department of the city within a calendar year and $75 for each other false
alarm so responded to thereafter within a calendar year. If the possessor of
the alarm demonstrates to the satisfaction of the police chief that the false
alarm was not the result of negligence or improper maintenance such fee may be
waived. The failure to pay such fee within 30 days of the rendition of the
statement therefore, shall result in the alarm being disconnected.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use or
cause to be used any telephone or electronic device or attachment that
automatically selects a public primary telephone trunk line of the police
department, fire department, or any other department or bureau of the city, and
then reproduces any prerecorded message to report any burglary or other
emergency.
   (F)   Any person, firm or corporation operating an alarm system connected
with or alerting the communication center of the city shall pay an initial
installation or connection fee of $       and a monitoring fee of $       
annually. The failure to pay such fees within 30 days of the rendition of the
statement therefore shall result in the disconnection of the alarm.
   (G)   The maintenance and repair of all alarm systems, including each and
every component thereof, shall be the responsibility of the owner of such
alarm. All alarms shall be compatible with the communications system of the
city.
   (H)   The owner or agent of any property serviced by an alarm system which
is connected with the communications center of the city shall immediately
respond and report to the location of the alarm at the request of the Police
Department upon any activation or reporting by said alarm system; the failure
to respond after notice and request by the Police Department or any agency or
agent thereof, shall be a basis for the disconnection of said alarm system.
   (I)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this
section shall be subject to a fine according to the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99.
(Ord. 906, passed 7-23-97; Am. Ord. 1326, passed 2-20-08 )
§ 132.05 PROHIBITING TRUANCY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PARENTAL PERMISSION. Shall include permission from a person in loco
parentis and shall be given for reasons only of personal illness, serious
family illness, death in the family, serious home emergencies, necessary and
lawful family support, employment, valid religious justification, school
district’s providing appropriate evidence of home schooling and/or compelling
family reasons.
      TRUANT. A child subject to compulsory school attendance and who is absent
without parental permission from such attendance for a school day or a portion
thereof.
   (B)   Truancy prohibited.
      (1)   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate
limits of the city, or enrolled in a school within the corporate limits of the
city, and enrolled in grades 1 through 12 who is subject to any of the
following divisions (1)(a)1. through 3. to absent himself or herself from
attendance at school without parental or guardian school permission:
            1.   Required by law to attend school;
            2.   Subject to the compulsory attendance requirements of the
Illinois School Code, ILCS Ch. 105, Act 5, as it may be amended from time to
time; or
            3.   Enrolled in a public, private, or parochial school (herein
referred to as "student").
         (b)   It shall also be unlawful for any parent or legal guardian of
any such child to allow a child to violate this section.
      (2)   It shall further be unlawful for any student enrolled in public,
private or parochial school to absent himself or herself from attendance at
said school without parental permission. Any person who shall so absent himself
or herself shall be guilty of the offence of truancy, and students and/or those
who have custody shall be subject to a fine as set forth hereafter. Emergency
or unforeseen absences due to illness or other causes beyond the control of the
person so absenting himself or herself from school without parental permission
shall not constitute truancy if permission is submitted in writing to the
proper school authorities within 24 hours after such absence.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person who has custody or control of a
student to permit such child not to attend some public, private or parochial
school in the district wherein the child resides during the entire time it is
in the session during the regular school term, without reasonable and adequate
excuse, such excuse including personal illness, serious family illness, death
in the family, serious home emergency, necessary and lawful family support,
employment, valid religious justification or providing evidence of satisfactory
participating in home schooling, or compelling family reason. Any person
violating this section is guilty of the offence of truancy and shall be subject
to a fine as set forth hereafter.
   (C)   False excuse prohibited. It shall be an offence under this section for
a parent or other individual to knowingly submit to the proper school
authorities a written excuse under any of the provisions herein that contains
false information, including falsification of a signature. A person convicted
of an offence under this section shall be subject to a fine set forth
hereafter.
   (D)   Penalty. Any student who violates this section and/or any persons,
including, but not limited to, a person having custody of a student hereunder,
who violate this section shall be subject to a fine according to the Uniform
Fine Schedule in §
10.99.
(Ord. 1292, passed 9-19-07; Am. Ord. 1326, passed 2-20-08)
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates §
132.01 shall be subject to a fine according to the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99 with the exception that a person found in violation of §
132.01 involving theft under §
132.01(A)(12) shall be subject to the following fines based upon the value of
the property subject matter of the theft:
   (A)   Theft involving less than $20:                  Penalty $200
   (B)   Theft involving value of $20 or more but less
         than $49.99:                     Penalty $300
   (C)   Theft involving value of $50 or more:            Penalty $500
(Ord. 1631, passed 4-5-17)
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
133.01   Resisting or obstructing a peace officer or correctional institution
employee
   
133.02   Refusing to aid an officer
   
133.03   Tampering with public notice
§ 133.01 RESISTING OR OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER OR CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTION
EMPLOYEE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly resist or obstruct the performance by one
known to the person to be a peace officer or correctional institution employee
of any authorized act within his or her official capacity.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the term CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTION
EMPLOYEE shall mean any person employed to supervise and control inmates
incarcerated in a penitentiary, state farm, reformatory, prison, jail, house of
correction, police detention area, half-way house, or other institution or
place for the incarceration or custody of persons under sentence for offenses
or awaiting trial or sentence for offenses, under arrest for an offense, a
violation of probation, a violation of parole, or a violation of mandatory
supervised release, or awaiting a bail setting hearing or preliminary hearing.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 31-1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.02 REFUSING TO AID AN OFFICER.
   No person, upon command, shall refuse or knowingly reasonably fail to aid a
person known by him to be a police officer in:
   (A)   Apprehending a person whom the officer is authorized to apprehend; or
   (B)   Preventing the commission by another of any offense.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 31-8) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.03 TAMPERING WITH PUBLIC NOTICE.
   No person shall knowingly and without lawful authority alter, destroy,
deface, remove, or conceal any public notice posted according to law, during
the time for which the notice was to remain posted.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 32-9) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
   
134.01   Public indecency
   
134.02   Obscenity
   
134.03   Harmful material
   
134.04   Disorderly houses
§ 134.01 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   Any person of the age of 17 years and upwards who performs any of the
following acts in a public place commits a public indecency:
      (1)   An act of sexual penetration or sexual conduct as defined in ILCS
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 12- 12; or
      (2)   A lewd exposure of the body done with intent to arouse or to
satisfy the sexual desire of the person.
      (3)   Breast-feeding of infants is not an act of public indecency.
   (B)   PUBLIC PLACE. For purposes of this section means any place where the
conduct may reasonably be expected to be viewed by others.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-9) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.02 OBSCENITY.
   (A)   Elements of the offense. A person commits obscenity when, with
knowledge of the nature or content thereof, or recklessly failing to exercise
reasonable inspection which would have disclosed the nature or content thereof,
he:
      (1)   Sells, delivers, or provides, or offers or agrees to sell, deliver,
or provide any obscene writing, picture, record, or other representation or
embodiment of the obscene;
      (2)   Presents or directs an obscene play, dance or other performance or
participates directly in that portion thereof which makes it obscene;
      (3)   Publishes, exhibits, or otherwise makes available anything obscene;
      (4)   Performs an obscene act or otherwise presents an obscene exhibition
of his or her body for gain;
      (5)   Creates, buys, procures, or possesses obscene matter or material
with intent to disseminate it in violation of this section, or of the penal
laws or regulations of any other jurisdiction; or
      (6)   Advertises or otherwise promotes the sale of material represented
or held out by him to be obscene, whether or not it is obscene.
   (B)   Obscene defined. Any material or performance is OBSCENE if:
      (1)   The average person, applying contemporary adult community
standards, would find that, taken as a whole, it appeals to the prurient
interest;
      (2)   The average person, applying contemporary adult community
standards, would find that it depicts or describes, in a patently offensive
way, ultimate sexual acts or sadomasochistic sexual acts, whether normal or
perverted, actual or simulated, or masturbation, excretory functions, or lewd
exhibition of the genitals; and
      (3)   Taken as a whole, it lacks serious literary, artistic, political,
or scientific value.
   (C)   Interpretation of evidence.
      (1)   Obscenity shall be judged with reference to ordinary adults except
that it shall be judged with reference to children or other specially
susceptible audiences if it appears from the character of the material or the
circumstances of its dissemination to be specially designed for or directed to
such an audience.
      (2)   Where circumstances of production, presentation, sale,
dissemination, distribution, or publicity indicate that material is being
commercially exploited for the sake of its prurient appeal, such evidence is
probative with respect to the nature of the matter and can justify the
conclusion that the matter is lacking in serious literary, artistic, political,
or scientific value.
      (3)   In any prosecution for an offense under this section, evidence
shall be admissible to show:
         (a)   The character of the audience for which the material was
designed or to which it was directed;
         (b)   What the predominant appeal of the material would be for
ordinary adults or a special audience, and what effect, if any, it would
probably have on the behavior of such people;
         (c)   The artistic, literary, scientific, educational, or other merits
of the material, or absence thereof;
         (d)   The degree, if any, of public acceptance of the material in this
state;
         (e)   Appeal to prurient interest, or absence thereof, in advertising
or other promotion of the material;
         (f)   Purpose of the author, creator, publisher, or disseminator.
   (D)   Prima facie evidence. The creation, purchase, procurement, or
possession of a mold, engraved plate, or other embodiment of obscenity
specially adapted for reproducing multiple copies, or the possession of more
than three copies of obscene material shall be prima facie evidence of an
intent to disseminate.
   (E)   Affirmative defenses. It shall be an affirmative defense to obscenity
that the dissemination:
      (1)   Was not for gain and was made to personal associates other than
children under 18 years of age;
      (2)   Was to institutions or individuals having scientific or other
special justification for possession of such material.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-20) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.03 HARMFUL MATERIAL.
   (A)   Elements of the offense. No person, with knowledge that a person is a
child (that is, a person under 18 years of age), or who fails to exercise
reasonable care in ascertaining the true age of a child, shall knowingly
distribute to, send, or cause to be sent to, or exhibit to, or offer to
distribute or exhibit any harmful material to a child.
   (B)   Definitions. For purposes of this section:
      (1)   HARMFUL. Material is harmful if, to the average person, applying
contemporary standards, its predominant appeal, taken as a whole, is to
prurient interest, that is a shameful or morbid interest in nudity, sex, or
excretion, which goes substantially beyond customary limits of candor in
description or representation of such matters, and is material the redeeming
social importance of which is substantially less than its prurient appeal.
      (2)   MATERIAL. Any writing, picture, record, or other representation or
embodiment.
      (3)   DISTRIBUTE. To transfer possession of, whether with or without
consideration.
      (4)   KNOWINGLY. Having knowledge of the contents of the subject matter,
or recklessly failing to exercise reasonable inspection which would have
disclosed the contents thereof.
   (C)   Interpretation of evidence.
      (1)   The predominant appeal to prurient interest of the material shall
be judged with reference to average children of the same general age of the
child to whom the material was offered, distributed, sent, or exhibited, unless
it appears from the nature of the matter or the circumstances of its
dissemination, distribution or exhibition that it is designed for specially
susceptible groups, in which case the predominant appeal of the material shall
be judged with reference to its intended or probable recipient group.
      (2)   In prosecutions under this section, where circumstances of
production, presentation, sale, dissemination, distribution, or publicity
indicate the material is being commercially exploited for the sake of its
prurient appeal, such evidence is probative with respect to the nature of the
material and can justify the conclusion that the redeeming social importance of
the material is in fact substantially less than its prurient appeal.
   (D)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any public library or any
library operated by an accredited institution of higher education from
circulating harmful material to any person under 18 years of age, provided such
circulation is in aid of a legitimate scientific or educational purpose, and it
shall be an affirmative defense in any prosecution for a violation of this
section that the act charged was committed in aid of legitimate scientific or
educational purposes.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any parent from distributing
to his or her child any harmful material.
      (3)   Proof that the defendant demanded, was shown, and acted in reliance
upon any of the following documents as proof of the age of a child, shall be a
defense to any criminal prosecution under this section: a document issued by
the federal government or any state, county, or city government or subdivision
or agency thereof, including, but not limited to, a motor vehicle operator's
license, a registration certificate issued under the Federal Selective Service
Act or an identification card issued to a member of the armed forces.
      (4)   In the event an advertisement of harmful material as defined in
this section culminates in the sale or distribution of harmful material to a
child, under circumstances where there was no personal confrontation of the
child by the defendant, his or her employees, or agents, as where the order or
request for harmful material was transmitted by mail, telephone, or similar
means of communication, and delivery of the harmful material to the child was
by mail, freight, or similar means of transport, it shall be a defense in any
prosecution for a violation of this section that the advertisement contained
the following statement, or a statement substantially similar thereto, and that
the defendant required the purchaser to certify that he or she was not under 18
years of age and that the purchaser falsely stated that he or she was not under
18 years of age: “NOTICE: It is unlawful for any person under 18 years of age
to purchase the matter herein advertised. Any person under 18 years of age who
falsely states that he is not under 18 years of age for the purpose of
obtaining the material advertised herein, is guilty of a Class B misdemeanor
under the laws of the state of Illinois and a violation of §
134.03 of the City Code of Ordinances.”
   (E)   Child falsifying age. No person under 18 years of age shall falsely
state, either orally or in writing, that he or she is not under the age of 18
years, or present or offer to any person any evidence of age and identity which
is false or not actually his or her own for the purpose of ordering, obtaining,
viewing, or otherwise procuring or attempting to procure or view any harmful
material.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-21) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.04 DISORDERLY HOUSES.
   No person shall, within the city or within three miles of the outer limits
of the city, keep, maintain, frequent, to be an inmate of or connected
herewith, or contribution to the support of any disorderly house or house of
ill-fame or assignation, or any place used for the practice of fornication or
adultery; or knowingly suffer or permit any house or other premises owned or
occupied by him or under his control to be used for any such purposes.
('72 Code § 44.06)
CHAPTER 135: GAMBLING OFFENSES
Section
   
135.01   Definitions
   
135.02   Gambling
   
135.03   Keeping a gambling place
   
135.04   Seizure of gambling devices and gambling funds
   
135.05   Local licensing and fees
   
135.06   Raffle regulation and license
§ 135.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   GAMBLING DEVICE. Any clock, tape machine, slot machine, or other machines or
device for the reception of money or other thing of value on chance or skill,
or upon the action of which money or other thing of value is staked, hazarded,
bet, won, or lost; or any mechanism, furniture, fixture, equipment, or other
device designed primarily for use in a gambling place. A GAMBLING DEVICE does
not include the following, as more specifically defined in ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5,
§ 28- 2 (a)(1) through (a)(4):
      (1)   Coin-in-the-slot operated mechanical devices.
      (2)   Vending machines.
      (3)   Crane games.
      (4)   Redemption machines.
      (5)   Any video gaming terminal as defined under the Video Gaming Act
(ILCS Ch. 230, Act 40, § 5).
   LOTTERY. Any scheme or procedure whereby one or more prizes are distributed
by chance among persons who have paid or promised consideration for a chance to
win such prizes, whether such scheme or procedure is called a lottery, raffle,
gift, sale, or some other name.
   POLICY GAME. Any scheme or procedure whereby a person promises or guarantees
by any instrument, bill, certificate, writing, token, or other device that any
particular number, character, ticket, or certificate shall in the event of any
contingency in the nature of a lottery entitle the purchaser or holder to
receive money, property, or evidence of debt.
(Am. Ord. 1476, passed 6-6-12)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-2
§ 135.02 GAMBLING.
   (A)   A person commits gambling when, within the corporate limits of the
city, he or she:
      (1)   Plays a game of chance or skill for money or other thing of value,
unless excepted in division (B);
      (2)   Makes a wager upon the result of any game, contest, or any
political nomination, appointment, or election;
      (3)   Operates, keeps, owns, uses, purchases, exhibits, rents, sells,
bargains for the sale or lease of, manufactures, or distributes any gambling
device;
      (4)   Contracts to have or give himself or herself or another the option
to buy or sell, or contracts to buy or sell, at a future time, any grain or
other commodity whatsoever, or any stock or security of any company, as
described in ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-1 (a)(4);
      (5)   Knowingly owns or possesses any book, instrument, or apparatus by
means of which bets or wagers have been, or are, recorded or registered, or
knowingly possesses any money which he or she has received in the courses of a
bet or wager;
      (6)   Sells pools upon the result of any game or contest of skill or
chance, political nomination, appointment, or election;
      (7)   Sets up or promotes any lottery or sells, offers to sell, or
transfers any ticket or share for any lottery;
      (8)   Sets up or promotes any policy game or sells, offers to sell, or
knowingly possesses or transfers any policy ticket, slip, record, document, or
other similar device;
      (9)   Knowingly drafts, prints, or publishes any lottery ticker or share,
or any policy ticket, slip, record, document or similar device, except for such
activity related to lotteries, bingo games, and raffles authorized by and
conducted in accordance with the laws of Illinois or any other state or foreign
government;
      (10)   Knowingly advertises any lottery or policy game, except for such
activity related to lotteries, bingo games, and raffles authorized by and
conducted in accordance with the laws of Illinois or any other state; or
      (11)   Knowingly transmits information as to wagers, betting odds, or
changes in betting odds by telephone, telegraph, radio, semaphore, or similar
means; or knowingly installs or maintains equipment for the transmission or
receipt of such information; except that nothing in this division prohibits
transmission or receipt of such information for use in news reporting of
sporting events or contests.
   (B)   Participants in any of the following activities shall not be
considered as gambling:
      (1)   Agreements to compensate for loss caused by the happening of chance
including without limitation contracts of indemnity or guaranty and life or
health or accident insurance;
      (2)   Offers of prizes, awards, or compensation to the actual contestants
in any bona fide contest for the determination of skill, speed, strength, or
endurance or to the owners of animals or vehicles entered in such contest;
      (3)   Pari-mutuel betting as authorized by the law of this state;
      (4)   Manufacture of gambling devices, including the acquisition of
essential parts therefor and the assembly thereof, for transportation in
interstate or foreign commerce to any place outside this state when such
transportation is not prohibited by any applicable federal law;
      (5)   The game commonly known as “bingo,” when conducted in accordance
with ILCS Ch. 230, Act 25, §§ 1 et seq.;
      (6)   Lotteries when conducted by the state in accordance with ILCS Ch.
20, Act 1605, §§ 1 et seq.;
      (7)   Possession of an antique slot machine that is neither used nor
intended to be used in the operation or promotion of any unlawful gambling
activity or enterprise. For the purpose of this division, an ANTIQUE SLOT
MACHINE is one manufactured 25 years ago or earlier;
      (8)   Raffles when conducted in accordance with ILCS Ch. 230, Act 15, §§
1 et seq.;
      (9)   Charitable games when conducted in accordance with ILCS Ch. 230,
Act 30, §§ 1 et seq.; and
      (10)   Pull tabs and jar games when conducted under ILCS Ch. 230, Act 20,
§§ 1 et seq.; and
      (11)   Gambling games conducted on riverboats when authorized under ILCS
Ch. 230, Act 10, §§ 1 et seq.
      (12)   Operation of any video gaming terminal in compliance with the
rules and requirements of the Video Gaming Act (ILCS Ch. 230, Act 40, § 1 et
seq.).
   (C)   Circumstantial evidence. In prosecutions under division (A) of this
section, circumstantial evidence shall have the same validity and weight as in
any criminal prosecution.
(Am. Ord. 1476, passed 6-6-12) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-1
§ 135.03 KEEPING A GAMBLING PLACE.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, a GAMBLING PLACE is any real estate,
vehicle, boat, or any other property whatsoever used for the purposes of
gambling. No person shall knowingly permit any premises or property owned or
occupied by him or her or under his or her control to be used as a gambling
place.
   (B)   When any premises is determined by the circuit court to be a gambling
place:
      (1)   The premises is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and may be
proceeded against as such; and
      (2)   The premises of any person who knowingly permits thereon a
violation of any section of this chapter shall be held liable for and may be
sold to pay any unsatisfied judgment that may be recovered and any unsatisfied
fine that may be levied under any section of this chapter.
   (C)   An establishment shall not be considered a gambling place under this
section when the establishment operates any video gaming terminal in compliance
with the Video Gaming Act (ILCS Ch. 230, Act 40 § 1 et seq.).
(Am. Ord. 1476, passed 6-6-12) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-3
§ 135.04 SEIZURE OF GAMBLING DEVICES AND GAMBLING FUNDS.
   (A)   Every device designed for gambling which is incapable of lawful use or
every device used unlawfully for gambling shall be subject to seizure,
confiscation, and destruction by city authorities. With the exception of any
device designed for gambling which is incapable of lawful use, no gambling
device shall be forfeited or destroyed unless an individual with a property
interest in the device knows of the unlawful use thereof.
   (B)   Every gambling device shall be seized and forfeited as contraband to
the county wherein the seizure occurs. Any money or other thing of value
integrally related to acts of gambling shall be seized and forfeited as
contraband to the county wherein the seizure occurs.
(Am. Ord. 1476, passed 6-6-12)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-5(a) and (b)
§ 135.05 LOCAL LICENSING AND FEES.
   Operation of any video gaming terminal in compliance with the rules and
requirements of the Video Gaming Act (ILCS Ch. 230, Act 40 § 1 et seq.) shall
be authorized in the city as provided for in this section.
   (A)   Application for local license. Any establishment desiring to operate a
video gaming terminal shall complete an application for local licenses. The
application for local license shall be turned into the City Clerk, signed by
the applicant and shall contain the following:
      (1)   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of a co-partnership, the persons entitled to share in
the profits thereof, and in the case of a corporation, for profit, or a club,
the date of the incorporation, the objects for which it was organized, the
names and addresses of the officers and directors, and if a majority interest
of the stock of the corporation is owned by one person or his or her nominees,
the name and address of the person.
      (2)   The citizenship of the applicant, their place of birth and if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of their naturalization.
      (3)   Name of the licensed terminal operator that owns, services, or
maintains the video gaming terminals to be placed in the applicant’s
establishment.
      (4)   The number of video gaming terminals to be placed in the
applicant’s establishment.
      (5)   A copy of any licenses as required by the Video Gaming Act (ILCS
Ch. 230, Act 40 § 1 et seq.).
      (6)   A record of any bank accounts maintained for the revenues generated
by the play of video gaming terminals. The city has the right to request an
accounting of the accounts.
   (B)   Local license fees. The city shall collect a fee of $100 per year for
the operation of a video gaming terminal.
(Ord. 1476, passed 6-6-12; Am. Ord. 1811, passed 1-5-22)
§ 135.06 RAFFLE REGULATION AND LICENSE.
   (A)   Definitions. All definitions contained in the Illinois Raffles Act
shall apply to this chapter, and in case of any conflict between the provisions
of this chapter and the provisions of the Illinois Raffles Act, ILCS Ch. 230,
Act 15, §§ 0.01 et seq., as amended, shall control.
   (B)   License required. No person, firm or corporation or other entity shall
conduct a raffle without first having obtained a license for such pursuant to
this chapter. Any licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall be valid for
one raffle or for a specified number of raffles to be conducted during a
specified period. No raffle license shall extend beyond one year. No license
shall be required for a raffle which does not require a license under the
Raffles Act to be lawful.
   (C)   Eligibility.
      (1)   Licenses shall be issued only to bona fide religious, charitable,
labor, business, fraternal, educational or veterans’ organizations as defined
by the Raffles Act.
      (2)   The following are ineligible for any license under this chapter:
         (a)   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
         (b)   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
         (c)   Any person who is not of good moral character;
         (d)   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in divisions
(a), (b), or (c) above has a proprietary, equitable or credit interest, or in
which such a person is active or employed;
         (e)   Any organization in which a person defined in divisions (a),
(b), or (c) above is an officer, director or employee, whether compensated or
not; or
         (f)   Any organization in which a person defined in divisions (a),
(b), or (c) above is to participate in the management or operation of a raffle
as defined in the Illinois Raffles Act.
   (D)   Applications. Applications shall be made in writing on the form
prescribed by the city and filed with the City Clerk.
   (E)   License fee. There is no application fee for a license to conduct a
raffle.
   (F)   Records.
      (1)   Each organization licensed to conduct a raffle shall keep such
records as required under the Raffles Act.
      (2)   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles shall report in
writing within 30 days after the conclusion of each raffle to its membership,
its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds from raffles, and the
distribution of net proceeds itemized as required in the Illinois Raffles Act.
Where an organization is licensed to conduct more than one raffle, the report
may be filed within 30 days after the conclusion of the last raffle drawing.
      (3)   Records required by this section shall be preserved three years,
and organizations shall make available their records relating to operation of
raffles for public inspection at reasonable times and places.
   (G)   Repealer. All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith
are hereby repealed except as so repealed shall be and remain in full force and
effect.
   (H)   Validity of license. Each such license shall be valid for one raffle
or for a specified number of raffles during a specified period not to exceed
one year, and may be suspended or revoked by the corporate authorities in the
event of violation of the terms of this chapter or of any applicable state law.
   (I)   Manager and bond. All operations of and conduct of raffles shall be
under the supervision of a single raffles manager designated by the
organization. The manager or operator of the raffle must be a bona fide member
of the organization holding the license for such a raffle and may not receive
any remuneration or profit for participating in the management or operation of
the raffle. The manager shall provide a bond in an amount set by the
organization holding the license unless said organization waives any bond
requirement as authorized under the Raffles Act.
   (J)   Suspension/revocation. Any license granted under this chapter may be
suspended or revoked by the city at any time it appears that the proposed or
actual operation of the raffle will be or is such as to constitute a public
nuisance or to endanger the public peace, health, safety, or welfare. Any
license granted under this chapter may be suspended or revoked in whole or in
part at any time that the raffle is conducted contrary to the license or to any
state or city law, or when such raffle or portion thereof is conducted so as to
constitute a public nuisance or to disturb the peace, health, safety or
welfare. Suspension or revocation shall become effective immediately. It shall
be a violation for any person to operate, engage or participate in, except as a
patron, any raffle which license has been suspended or revoked.
(Ord. 1510, passed 8-21-13)
CHAPTER 136: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
Litter
   
136.01   Definitions
   
136.02   Dumping or depositing of litter prohibited; exemptions
   
136.03   Dumping or depositing litter from motor vehicle prohibited
   
136.04   Accumulation of litter prohibited
   
136.05   Presumption of violation by operator throwing litter from motor
vehicle
   
136.06   Receptacles required in public areas
   
136.07   Power of court to order removal of litter
LITTER
§ 136.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of §§
136.01 through
136.07 the following words and phrases shall have the following meanings
ascribed to them respectively.
   LITTER. Any discarded, used, or unconsumed substance or waste. LITTER may
include, but is not limited to, any garbage, trash, refuse, debris, rubbish,
grass clippings, or other lawn or garden waste; newspaper, magazines, glass,
metal, plastic or paper containers, or other packaging construction material,
abandoned vehicle, motor vehicle parts, furniture, oil, carcass of a dead
animal, any nauseous or offensive matter of any kind; any object likely to
injure any person or create a traffic hazard; or anything else of an unsightly
or unsanitary nature, which has been discarded, abandoned, or otherwise
disposed of improperly.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 3)
   MOTOR VEHICLE. As defined in
Chapter 70 of this Code of Ordinances.
§ 136.02 DUMPING OR DEPOSITING OF LITTER PROHIBITED; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard, leave, cause, or
permit the dumping, depositing, dropping, throwing, discarding, or leaving of
litter upon any public or private property in this city, or upon or into any
river, lake, pond, or other stream or body of water in this city unless:
      (1)   The property has been designated by the city or any of its agencies
for the disposal of litter, and the litter is disposed of on that property in
accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the state Pollution
Control Board;
      (2)   The litter is placed into a receptacle or other container intended
by the owner or tenant in lawful possession of that property for the deposit of
litter;
      (3)   The person is the owner or tenant in lawful possession of the
property or has first obtained the consent of the owner or tenant in lawful
possession, or unless the act is done under the personal direction of the owner
or tenant and does not create a public health or safety hazard, a public
nuisance, or a fire hazard;
      (4)   The person is acting pursuant to special cleanup days established
by the City Council; and/or
      (5)   The person is lawfully acting in or reacting to an emergency
situation where health and safety is threatened, and removes and properly
disposes of any litter when the emergency situation no longer exists.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 4)
   (B)   Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be fined
according to the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99.
(Ord. 1326, passed 2-20-08 )
§ 136.03 DUMPING OR DEPOSITING LITTER FROM MOTOR VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard, or otherwise
dispose of litter from any motor vehicle upon any public highway, upon any
public or private property or upon or into any river, lake, pond, stream, or
body of water in this city except as permitted under §
136.02 (A)(1) through (5). Nor shall any person transport, by any means,
garbage or refuse from any dwelling, residence, place of business, farm, or
other site to and deposit the material in, around, or on top of trash barrels
or other receptacles placed along public highways or at roadside rest areas.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 5)
   (B)   Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be fined
according to the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99.
(Ord. 1326, passed 2-20-08)
§ 136.04 ACCUMULATION OF LITTER PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall allow litter to accumulate upon real property, of
which the person charged is the owner or tenant in control, in such a manner as
to constitute a public nuisance or in such a manner that the litter may be
blown or otherwise carried by the natural elements on to the real property of
another person.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 6)
   (B)   Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be fined
according to the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99.
(Ord. 1326, passed 2-20-08)
§ 136.05 PRESUMPTION OF VIOLATION BY OPERATOR THROWING LITTER FROM MOTOR
VEHICLE.
   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped, or dumped from any motor
vehicle not carrying passengers for hire, the presumption is created that the
operator of that motor vehicle has violated §
136.03, but that presumption may be rebutted.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 9)
§ 136.06 RECEPTACLES REQUIRED IN PUBLIC AREAS.
   (A)   In order to assist the public in complying with this chapter, the
owner or person in control of any property which is held out to the public as a
place for assemblage, the transaction of business, recreation, or as a public
way shall cause to be placed and maintained receptacles for the deposit of
litter of sufficient volume and in sufficient numbers to meet the needs of the
numbers of people customarily coming on or using the property.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, PROPERTY HELD OUT TO THE PUBLIC FOR THE
TRANSACTION OF BUSINESS includes, but is not limited to commercially operated
parks, campgrounds, drive-in restaurants, automobile service stations, business
parking lots, car washes, shopping centers, marinas, boat launching areas,
industrial parking lots, boat moorage and fueling stations, piers, beaches and
bathing areas, airports, roadside rest stops, drive-in movies, and shopping
malls; and PROPERTY HELD OUT TO THE PUBLIC FOR ASSEMBLAGE, RECREATION, OR AS A
PUBLIC WAY includes, but is not limited to any property that is publicly owned
or operated for any of the purposes stated in the definition in this division
for PROPERTY HELD OUT TO THE PUBLIC FOR THE TRANSACTION OF BUSINESS but
excludes state highway rights-of-way and rest areas located thereon.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 10)
   (C)    Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be fined
according to the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99.
(Ord. 1326, passed 2-20-08)
§ 136.07 POWER OF COURT TO ORDER REMOVAL OF LITTER.
   The penalties prescribed in this chapter are in addition to, and not in lieu
of any penalties, rights, remedies, duties, or liabilities which may be
otherwise imposed or conferred by a court.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 8)
CHAPTER 137: WEAPONS
Section
   
137.01   Definitions
   
137.02   Discharge of firearms
   
137.03   Seizure
 
   
137.99   Penalty
§ 137.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR RIFLE. Includes any air gun, air pistol, spring gun, spring pistol, B-
B gun, or any implement that is not a firearm which impels a pellet constructed
of hard plastic, steel, lead, or other hard materials with a force that
reasonably is expected to cause bodily harm.
   FIREARM. Any device, by whatever name known, which is designed to expel a
projectile or projectiles by the action of an explosion, expansion of gas, or
escape of gas, excluding, however:
      (1)   Any pneumatic gun, spring gun, or B-B gun which expels a single
globular projectile not exceeding .18 inches in diameter;
      (2)   Any device used exclusively for signalling or safety and required
or recommended by the United States Coast Guard or the Interstate Commerce
Commission;
      (3)   Any device used exclusively for the firing of stud cartridges,
explosive rivets, or similar industrial ammunition; or
      (4)   An antique firearm (other than a machine gun) which, although
designed as a weapon, the Department of Law Enforcement finds by reason of the
date of its manufacture, value, design, and other characteristics is primarily
a collector's item and is not likely to be used as a weapon.
(Ord. 681, passed 1-2-85)
§ 137.02 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearm or air gun in the city,
provided that this section shall not be construed to prohibit any officer of
the law to discharge a firearm in the performance of his or her duty, nor
prohibit any citizen to discharge a firearm when lawfully defending his or her
person or property, nor prohibit any person from discharging a firearm where
hunting is authorized under both this code and state statute, nor prohibit any
person from discharging a firearm authorized under the city Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 1554, passed 6-18-14) Penalty, see §
137.99
§ 137.03 SEIZURE.
   Any law enforcement officer shall seize, take, remove, or cause to be
removed at the expense of the owner any air rifle or firearm used in any manner
in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 681, passed 1-2-85)
§ 137.99 PENALTY.
    Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be fined according to the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99.
(Ord. 681, passed 1-2-85; Am. Ord. 1326, passed 2-20-08 )
CHAPTER 138: DECEPTIVE PRACTICES
Section
   
138.01   Definitions
   
138.02   General deception
 
   
138.99   Penalty
§ 138.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INTENT TO DEFRAUD. To act willfully, and with the specific intent to deceive
or cheat, for the purpose of causing financial loss to another, or to bring
some financial gain to oneself. It is not necessary to establish that any
person was actually defrauded or deceived.
(Ord. 897, passed 5-7-97)
§ 138.02 GENERAL DECEPTION.
   A person commits a deceptive practice when, with intent to defraud, there is
an intent to obtain control over property or to pay for property, labor or
services of another, or in satisfaction of an obligation for payment of tax
under the Retailers Occupational Tax Act or any other tax due to the state, he
issues or delivers the check or other order upon a real or fictitious
depository for the payment of money, knowing that it will not be paid by the
depository. Failure to have sufficient funds or credit with the depository when
the check or other order is issued or delivered, or when such check or other
order is presented for payment and dishonored on each of two occasions at least
seven days apart, is prima facia evidence that the offender knows that it will
not be paid by the depository, and that he has the intent to defraud.
(Ord. 897, passed 5-7-97) Penalty, see §
138.99
§ 138.99 PENALTY.
    A person who violates any provision of this chapter shall, apart from a
conviction, be fined according to the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99.
(Ord. 897, passed 5-7-97; Am. Ord. 1326, passed 2-20-08 )
CHAPTER 139: CANNABIS AND PARAPHERNALIA
Section
   
139.01   Definitions
   
139.02   Wrongful possession of cannabis
   
139.03   Wrongful possession of paraphernalia
§ 139.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANNABIS. As used in this code, the term CANNABIS has the same meaning as
defined in the Cannabis Control Act, Ch. 720, Act 550, §§ 1 et seq.
   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA. As used in this code, the term DRUG PARAPHERNALIA has
the same meaning as defined in the Drug Paraphernalia Control Act, Ch. 720, Act
600, §§ 1 et seq.
(Ord. 1612, passed 8-17-16)
§ 139.02 WRONGFUL POSSESSION OF CANNABIS.
   Unless a person is exempt from prosecution for possession of cannabis under
Illinois statutes, a person shall not knowingly possess cannabis, and
possession of not more than ten grams of any substance containing cannabis is a
violation of this chapter and such offender shall be fined according to the
Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99.
(Ord. 1612, passed 8-17-16)
§ 139.03 WRONGFUL POSSESSION OF PARAPHERNALIA.
   A person in violation of §
139.02 shall not knowingly possess drug paraphernalia and possession of such is
a violation of this chapter and such offender shall be fined according to the
Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99.
(Ord. 1612, passed 8-17-16)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
Chapter
   
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
   
151.   MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
   
152.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
   
153.   ZONING REGULATIONS
   
154.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Building permits; issuance; inspection of sewerage system
Dangerous Buildings
   
150.10   Definition
   
150.11   Dangerous building deemed public nuisance
   
150.12   Abatement procedure
   
150.13   When building or structure to be torn down; notice; removal
   
150.14   Procedure for service of notice when owner unknown
   
150.15   Alternative action
Demolition of Buildings
   
150.25   Permit required
   
150.26   Application for permit
   
150.27   Deposit
   
150.28   Bond
   
150.29   Inspection of premises
   
150.30   Approval and issuance of permit
   
150.31   Notification required
   
150.32   Permit fees
   
150.33   Regulations for proceeding with work
   
150.34   Supervision
 
   
150.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Application for demolition permit
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 BUILDING PERMITS; ISSUANCE; INSPECTION OF SEWERAGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   All city building permits for the purpose of constructing improvements
on any property within the jurisdiction of the city shall be issued after the
applicant for said permit presents a preliminary plan of construction. If
construction of the improvement would include the use of water and sewer
services incidental to the use of the improvement, the plan must demonstrate
that the improvement will be connected to a public or community sanitary
sewerage system or an adequate individual sewerage disposal system. The word
"adequate" shall be defined as set forth in the "Manual of Septic Practice"
published by the United States Department of Health, Education and Welfare,
Public Health Service.
   (B)   Permits for any building structure shall be issued upon payment of a
fee based on the size of the structure. Said fee shall be $.25 per square foot.
Permits for industrial or commercial structures shall be $.50 per square foot.
Permits for other structures, e.g., fences, driveways, and the like, shall be
issued upon payment of a $35 fee. Permits for cell towers shall be $20 per
foot. The property owner shall further pay all costs and fees of the city in
enforcing this section, including attorney fees, court costs, publication fees
and any other fees associated with the enforcement action.
      (1)   All contractors doing business in the city must obtain a license.
Licenses shall be issued on an annual basis from May 1 to April 30 the
following year. The application fee for a license is $100 which shall not be
prorated for a partial year license. In the event that the contractor does not
complete the work by the expiration of the license, the contractor shall obtain
a new license as well as pay the license fee.
      (2)   All contractors shall be required to provide a certificate of
liability insurance and a surety bond in the amount of $20,000, both of which
shall name the city. All plumbing and roofing contractors shall also provide a
copy of their state license.
      (3)   As part of the annual license application, all contractors shall
fill out the contractor license registration form available at City Hall. As
part of the form, all contractors shall confirm in writing the following:
         (a)   Good standing with the Illinois Department of Financial and
Professional Regulation (when applicable);
         (b)   Good standing with the Illinois Secretary of State (when
applicable);
         (c)   No record of IRS tax liens, Illinois Department of Revenue
liens, and/or mechanic’s liens;
         (d)   No record of violation of the Prevailing Wage Act.
      (4)   All contractors shall also submit a written authorization allowing
the city to review the abovementioned list. If the city finds that a contractor
has been dishonest in his or her application, the contract shall not receive a
license from the city.
      (5)   Failure to secure a proper license renewal will result in the
applicant thereafter being charged two times the normal charge.
   (C)   Building permits must be displayed at the construction site in a
manner that is prominent and clearly visible to passersby and must be so
displayed before construction is begun. Failure to do so shall result in a
penalty of $100 per day that the license is not properly displayed, in addition
to other penalties as provided herein.
   (D)   Upon completion of the construction, an inspection of the applicant’s
sewerage system will be made by the city engineers for the purpose of verifying
the completion of the proposed plan.
   (E)   No open sewerage tiles which have previously resulted in the draining
of effluent in public streets and alleyways will be permitted in any new
construction or improvements, from the passage date of this section forward.
(Ord. 507, passed 12-18-72; Am. Ord. 1121, passed 8-20-03; Am. Ord. 1129,
passed 9-3-03; Am. Ord. 1132, passed 10-1-03; Am. Ord. 1230, passed 12-21-05;
Am. Ord. 1235, passed 1-18-06; Am. Ord. 1259, passed 10-4-06; Am. Ord. 1506,
passed 4-24-13)
Cross-references:
   Building sewer and connections, see §§
51.035 through
51.044
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
§ 150.10 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING. Includes:
      (1)   Any building, shed, fence or other man-made structure which is
dangerous to the public health because of its construction or condition, or
which may cause or aid in the spread of disease or cause injury to the health
of the occupants of it or of neighboring structures;
      (2)   Any building, shed, fence or other man-made structure which,
because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair or any other cause,
is especially liable to fire and constitutes or creates a fire hazard;
      (3)   Any building, shed, fence or other man-made structure which, by
reason of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair or any other cause,
is liable to cause injury or damage by collapsing or by a collapse or fall of
any part of such a structure; and
      (4)   Any building, shed, fence or any other man-made structure which,
because of its condition or because of lack of doors or windows is available to
and frequented by malefactors or disorderly persons who are not lawful
occupants of such structure.
('72 Code, § 12.07(a))
§ 150.11 DANGEROUS BUILDING DEEMED PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Any such dangerous building in the city is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any dangerous
building in the city; and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or
person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in a
dangerous condition, or to occupy such building or permit it to be occupied
while it is or remains in a dangerous condition.
('72 Code, § 12.07(b)) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.12 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Whenever the Building Inspector, the Health Inspector or any other
officer or employee of the city shall find that any building or structure in
the city is a dangerous building, he shall file a written statement to this
effect with the City Clerk. The Clerk shall thereupon cause written notice to
be served upon the owner thereof, and upon the occupant thereof, if any, by
registered mail or by personal service. Such notice shall state that the
building has been declared to be in dangerous condition, and that such
dangerous condition must be removed or remedied by repairing or altering the
building or by demolishing it; and that the condition must be remedied at once.
   (B)   Such notice may be in the following form:
   “To  (owner-occupant of the premises)  of the premises known and described
as                                 .
   You are hereby notified that (describe building) on the premises above
described has been condemned as a nuisance and a dangerous building after
inspection by                     . The causes for this decision are (here
insert the facts as to the dangerous building condition).
   You must remedy this condition or demolish the building immediately, or the
city will proceed to do so.”
   (C)   If the person receiving such notice has not complied therewith within
10 days from the time when this notice is served upon such person by personal
service or by registered mail, the Chief of Police may, upon orders of the
Mayor, proceed to remedy the condition or demolish the dangerous build ing.
('72 Code, § 12.07(c))
§ 150.13 WHEN BUILDING OR STRUCTURE TO BE TORN DOWN; NOTICE; REMOVAL.
   (A)   Any building or structure within the fire limits of the city which has
or may be damaged by fire, decay or other cause to the extent of 50% of its
value, shall be torn down and removed.
   (B)   (1)   Upon written notice by the Building Inspector, Health Officer,
or any other city employee filed with the City Clerk, the Clerk shall notify
the Mayor of the receipt of such notice. The Mayor shall then appoint three
persons to determine whether or not such building or structure has been damaged
to the extent of 50% of its value. A copy of the notice filed by the city
officer, together with a notice of the appointment of this board of three
persons to determine the damage, shall be served upon the owner of the premises
by personal service or by registered mail to his last known address.
      (2)   Such notice may be in substantially the following form:
   “To                                                                       .
   You are hereby notified that                      has determined that the
building owned by you at                      , located within the corporate
limits of the City of Marseilles, Illinois, has been damaged by fire, decay or
otherwise to the extent of 50 percent of its value; and that a board of 3
members has been appointed to verify this finding, which board will hold its
first meeting in the city hall on the         day of                , 19     
at the hour of                o'clock, at which time it will determine whether
this finding is correct.
   If this finding is verified by the board, you must tear down and remove the
said building.”
   (C)   If the board of three members determines that the building in question
has been damaged to the extent of 50% of its value, it shall be the duty of the
owner to tear down or remove the said building within 20 days after the finding
of the board; and it shall be unlawful to occupy or permit such building to be
occupied after such finding.
('72 Code, § 12.07(d))
   (D)   No person shall permit any dangerous building, or any building or
structure, to remain in a dangerous condition, or to remain in the corporate
limits after it has been damaged to the extent of 50% of its value.
('72 Code, § 12.07(e))
§ 150.14 PROCEDURE FOR SERVICE OF NOTICE WHEN OWNER UNKNOWN.
   If the owner of the premises concerned is unknown, or if his address is
unknown, service of any notice provided for in this section may be made by
posting a copy thereof on the premises and by publishing one time a copy
thereof in a newspaper published within the city.
('72 Code, § 12.07(f))
  § 150.15 ALTERNATIVE ACTION.
   In addition to the actions authorized by other sections of this subchapter,
the municipal official whose duty it is to investigate fires, may make the
investigations authorized by the statute found in ILCS Ch. 425, Act 25, §§ 9
through 9e. If such officer shall find that any building or structure is so
occupied or situated as to endanger persons or property, or by reason of faulty
construction, age, lack of repair or for any other cause is especially liable
to fire, or is liable to cause injury by collapsing or otherwise, he shall
order the dangerous condition removed or remedied, and shall so notify the
owner or occupant of the premises. Service of such notice may be in person or
by registered mail, and any person so notified may appeal from the decision of
such officer in the manner provided by law.
('72 Code, § 12.07(g))
DEMOLITION OF BUILDINGS
§ 150.25 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to demolish or “wreck” any building or structure in the
city without first securing a permit therefor.
(Ord. 775, passed 6-17-92) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.26 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   An application for a permit to demolish or “wreck” any building or structure
in the city shall be made in writing to the City Clerk, with a copy to the City
Engineer or his designee, and to any utility company serving the premises, and
to the owners or agents of adjoining or neighboring premises. Such application
shall give the location of the building or structure, the date when demolition
or wrecking is to commence and the approximate time which such demolition or
wrecking shall take place.
(Ord. 775, passed 6-17-92)
§ 150.27 DEPOSIT.
   (A)   (1)   Before a permit is issued, the applicant shall deposit with the
City Treasurer the following sums, plus additional $1,000 for each additional
100,000 feet, to insure that the property is in a proper and safe condition
after such demolition or wrecking.
         (a)   For buildings not exceeding 30,000 cubic feet   $1,500.
         (b)   For buildings not exceeding 100,000 cubic feet   $2,250.
         (c)   For buildings not exceeding 200,000 cubic feet   $3,000.
         (d)   For buildings not exceeding 500,000 cubic feet   $4,500.
         (e)   For buildings not exceeding 1,000,000 cubic feet   $6,000.
         (f)   For buildings not exceeding 1,000,000 cubic feet   $6,000.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, an applicant may submit in lieu of
said deposit a surety bond in the aforesaid amount in a form and with such
insurance company as may be approved by the city.
      (3)   By proper and safe condition is meant that all debris is cleared
away, that any excavation remaining is either filled in and tamped down, or
surrounded by a chain link or masonry fence at least six feet in height, if
such property is not to be put to immediate use. If the property is to be used
for any purpose within two months of such demolition or wrecking then adequate
barricades, lighted at night shall be installed around the perimeter of such
excavation.
   (B)   If the City Engineer or his designee finds that such property has been
put into the proper condition as provided for in this section, he shall
instruct the City Treasurer to return the deposit. If the site is not cleared,
or put into a safe condition or work commenced to do so, within ten days of the
finish of the demolition or wrecking, the city shall proceed with the work, and
the cost of such work shall be deducted from the deposit. If any amount is left
from such deposit after the city has performed the work, such balance shall be
returned to the person who deposited it.
(Ord. 775, passed 6-17-92)
§ 150.28 BOND.
   A certificate showing that public liability insurance in the amount of
$500,000 has been obtained by the applicant, shall accompany any such
application.
(Ord. 775, passed 6-17-92)
§ 150.29 INSPECTION OF PREMISES.
   Before any such permit shall be approved, the City Engineer or his designee
shall inspect the premises where the demolition and wrecking work is to take
place, and ascertain that provision for proper care has been made so as not to
endanger any sewer or water connections with the city sewer and water systems,
or any electrical wires or installation.
(Ord. 775, passed 6-17-92)
§ 150.30 APPROVAL AND ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   If the City Engineer or his designee finds that the terms of this subchapter
are being complied with by the applicant, he shall approve the applicant and
issue a permit for such demolition or wrecking.
(Ord. 775, passed 6-17-92)
§ 150.31 NOTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   Applicants for the demolition of buildings other than one- and two-family
dwellings and apartment buildings containing less than five units must submit a
notification of demolition and renovation as required by the State
Environmental Protective Agency. Applicants shall notify owners and operators
of any underground utility facilities of excavation or demolition activities as
required by the laws of this state. Applicants shall provide the city with
copies of any required notices.
(Ord. 775, passed 6-17-92)
§ 150.32 PERMIT FEES.
   The following fees shall be collected for a permit for such demolition or
wrecking:
   (A)   Wrecking frame or masonry buildings not exceeding 30,000 cubic
feet   $10.
   (B)   Wrecking frame or masonry buildings not exceeding 100,000 cubic
feet   $25.
   (C)   Wrecking frame or masonry buildings not exceeding 200,000 cubic
feet   $40.
   (D)   Wrecking frame or masonry buildings not exceeding 500,000 cubic
feet   $65.
   (E)   Wrecking frame or masonry buildings not exceeding 1,000,000 cubic
feet   $90.
   (F)   Wrecking frame or masonry buildings not exceeding 1,000,000 cubic
feet   $100.
(Ord. 775, passed 6-17-92)
§ 150.33 REGULATIONS FOR PROCEEDING WITH WORK.
   All work of such demolition or wrecking shall be performed in a workmanlike
manner and with the least amount of noise possible. Care shall be taken to
protect neighboring structures with adequate shoring and whatever else is
needful to protect such structures. Signs stating “Demolition work going on -
No trespassing” shall be erected on each side of the building that faces on a
public street or alley. Adequate protection shall be provided to prevent injury
to any city or public utility appurtenances. It shall be the day of all persons
working on or responsible for such demolition or wrecking to see to it that
children are warned away from such premises, and are not permitted to play in
or on or frequent such structures.
(Ord. 775, passed 6-17-92) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.34 SUPERVISION.
   The City Engineer or his designee shall supervise such demolition and
wrecking and shall inspect such premises at least once daily during such
demolition and wrecking.
(Ord. 775, passed 6-17-92)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provisions of this chapter for which another
penalty is not already herein provided, shall be subject to the penalty
according to the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision §§
150.25 through
150.34 shall he fined according to the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 775, passed 6-17-92; Am. Ord. 1326, passed 2-20-08 )
APPENDIX A: APPLICATION FOR DEMOLITION PERMIT
APPLICATION FOR DEMOLITION PERMIT
                                          Permit No.              
                                          Fee                     
Name of Contractor
                                                                             Date
                
Address
                                                                                           City
                  
Phone
                                                                                         Per
                  
General Description of Building:
                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    
Dimensions of Building: Height:
                                                                                    
Dimensions Floor 1:                                                   Floor 2:
                                    
Basement:                                                     Other Floors:
                                        
Total Square footage:
                                                                                                   
Location of Building:
                                                                                                    
Legal Description of Premises:
                                                                                      
The water service must be disconnected at the water main and sanitary sewer
plugged with concrete and be approved by the City Engineer or his designee.
Approved by
                                                                                Date
                 
         City Engineer or his designee
Will it be necessary to barricade or fence off walkways?
                                               
Will aprons be necessary?
                                                                                            
On a separate sheet of paper, submit a drawing indicating fences, barricades,
aprons, canopies and other safeguards which will be used in connection with
wrecking of above mentioned building.
Date Demolition Bond Expires
                                                                                     
Date Demolition to Begin
                                                                                             
Time Limitation set by City Engineer or his designee
                                                     
NOTIFICATION OF UTILITY COMPANIES:
State law requires the notification to owners or operators any underground
utility facilities of excavation at least 48 hours but not more than 14 days
before any excavation. Applicant must submit copy of letter(s) sent or to be
sent to utility companies and must inform City Engineer or his designee of any
utility company responses, if any.
FILLING OF OPENINGS:
On completion of demolition, the site shall be necessary with clean soil,
cinders or other inorganic material and graded to a level not lower than nor
more than twelve (12) inches above the legal of sidewalks, alleys or adjoining
property with proper allowance for settlement.
DEBRIS:
Debris caused from the demolition of a building or structure in excess of that
required to fill openings as provided in above paragraph shall be removed from
the site as wrecking progresses. No salvaged material shall be left on the
premises.
PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
ordinance shall be fined according to the Uniform Fine Schedule in §
10.99 of the city code.
OWNER'S SIGNATURE
                                                                                        
WRECKING CONTRACTOR'S SIGNATURE
                                                      
APPROVED BY                                                            DATE
              
         City Engineer or his designee
(Ord. 775, passed 6-17-92 ; Am. Ord. 1326, passed 2-20-08 )
CHAPTER 151: MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Adoption of state regulations
   
151.02   Placement of units in park
   
151.03   Parking of mobile homes outside parks prohibited
   
151.04   Removal of wheels without permit prohibited
   
151.05   Violations
Licensing
   
151.15   License required
   
151.16   Application for license; contents
   
151.17   License fee term; issuance
   
151.18   Posting licenses
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 ADOPTION OF STATE REGULATIONS.
   ILCS Ch. 210, Act 115 is hereby incorporated by reference and made part of
this code.
('72 Code, § 14.01)
§ 151.02 PLACEMENT OF UNITS IN PARK.
   All units in a mobile home park shall be arranged in rows facing a driveway
of not less than 20 feet, with clear access to a public street or alley.
('72 Code, § 14.03)
§ 151.03 PARKING OF MOBILE HOMES OUTSIDE PARKS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, locate or maintain any
mobile home for human habitation or for any other purpose upon a plot of ground
within the city except in a licensed mobile home park.
   (B)   For the purposes of this chapter for the following defined structures
shall not be considered mobile homes:
      (1)   A modular unit, being a factory-fabricated transportable building
unit designed to be used by itself or to be incorporated with similar units at
a building site into a modular structure.
      (2)   A sectional home, being a dwelling made of two or more modular
units factory fabricated and transported to the home site where they are to put
it on a foundation and joined to make a single house.
('72 Code, § 14.04) (Am. Ord. 574, passed 8-7-78; Am. Ord. 621, passed 4-15-81)
§ 151.04 REMOVAL OF WHEELS WITHOUT PERMIT PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to remove the wheels or other transporting
devices from a mobile home without first obtaining a regular permit from the
Chief of Police.
('72 Code, § 14.05)
§ 151.05 VIOLATIONS.
   If at any time a mobile home park or any of its occupants is found to be in
violation of the provisions of this chapter, the owner or operator therefor
shall be notified, and if the violation is not corrected within five days after
notice, the license of the park shall be revoked by the Mayor.
('72 Code, § 14.06)
LICENSING
§ 151.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or operate within the city
any mobile home park unless such person shall first obtain a license from the
city therefor.
('72 Code, § 14.02(a))
§ 151.16 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; CONTENTS.
   An application for such license shall be made to the City Clerk's office.
The application shall state the name and address of the owner or manager of the
park, location, maximum number of mobile homes to be accommodated, and shall be
accompanied by plans of the park, showing all buildings, toilets, baths, wash
basin facilities, sinks, water faucets, sewer connections, driveways and other
improvements. Such license shall not be issued or renewed until the proposed
premises shall be inspected by the Health Officer, and the Chief of Police, and
until the character of the applicant has been investigated and found proper.
('72 Code, § 14.02(b))
§ 151.17 LICENSE FEE TERM; ISSUANCE.
   The annual license fee for each mobile home park is $50 per calendar year.
Licenses expire on December 31 of each year. The license shall be issued by the
City Clerk after approval by the Council.
('72 Code, § 14.02(c))
§ 151.18 POSTING LICENSES.
   The license certificate shall be conspicuously posted on the premises at all
times, and may be transferred to a new applicant only upon approval of the
Mayor.
('72 Code, § 14.02(d))
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
152.01   Adoption of regulations by reference
   
152.02   Plats; Council's approval
§ 152.01 ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS BY REFERENCE.
   The subdivision regulations of the city, as amended from time to time, are
hereby adopted by reference as fully as if set out in length herein.
('72 Code, § 23.01)
§ 152.02 PLATS; COUNCIL'S APPROVAL.
   Every map, plat or subdivision of any block, lot, sublot or part thereof or
any piece or parcel of land within this city shall be submitted to the City
Council for approval. If such map, plat or subdivision be approved, such
approval shall be entered upon the record of the proceedings of the Council and
the Mayor shall endorse a record of such approval upon such map, plat or
subdivision and the City Clerk shall attest the same and affix the corporate
seal thereto.
('72 Code, § 23.02)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
   
153.01   Adoption of regulations by reference
§ 153.01 ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS BY REFERENCE.
   The zoning regulations of the city, as amended from time to time, are hereby
adopted by reference as fully as if set out in length herein.
(‘72 Code, § 22.01) (Am. Ord. 1404, passed 3-17-10; Am. Ord. 1585, passed 10-7-
15; Am. Ord. 1603, passed 5-18-16; Am. Ord. 1627, passed 3-1-17; Am. Ord. 1655,
passed 2-7-18; Am. Ord 1691, passed 11-7-18; Am. Ord. 1692, passed 11-7-18; Am.
Ord. 1710, passed 5-15-19; Am. Ord. 1714, passed 6-19-19; Am. Ord. 1724, passed
11-6-19; Am. Ord. 1732, passed 12-18-19; Am. Ord. 1743, passed 3-4-20; Am. Ord.
1744, passed 3-4-20; Am. Ord. 1754, passed 5-28-20; Am. Ord. 1758, passed 6-3-
20; Am. Ord. 1799, passed 7-7-21; Am. Ord. 1803, passed 8-4-21; Am. Ord. 1818,
passed 4-6-22)
CHAPTER 154: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
   
154.01   Purpose
   
154.02   Definitions
   
154.03   Base flood elevation
   
154.04   Duties of the Zoning Enforcement Officer
   
154.05   Development permit
   
154.06   Preventing increased flood heights and resulting damages
   
154.07   Protecting buildings
   
154.08   Subdivision requirements
   
154.09   Public health and other standards
   
154.10   Carrying capacity and notification
   
154.11   Variances
   
154.12   Disclaimer of liability
   
154.13   Abrogation and greater restrictions
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to this City
of Marseilles by the Illinois Municipal Code (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 1-2-1, 11-
12-12, 11-30-2, 11-30-8 and 11-31-2) in order to accomplish the following
purposes:
   (A)   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   (B)   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from
flood damage;
   (C)   To promote and protect the public health, safety, and general welfare
of the citizens from the hazards of flooding;
   (D)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
   (E)   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   (F)   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   (G)   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and stormwater impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development.
(Ord. 1302, passed 11-7-07)
§ 154.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year. The BASE FLOOD is also known as the 100-YEAR FLOOD. The base
flood elevation at any location is as defined in §
154.03.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation in relation to mean sea level of
the crest of the base flood.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a building having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. A walled and roofed structure, including gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally above ground, including manufactured homes,
prefabricated buildings and gas or liquid storage tanks. The term also includes
recreational vehicles and travel trailers installed on a site for more than 180
days per year.
   CRITICAL FACILITY.  
      (1)   Any facility which is critical to the health and welfare of the
population and, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the disaster.
Damage to these CRITICAL FACILITIES can impact the delivery of vital services,
can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or can put special
populations at risk.
      (2)   Examples of CRITICAL FACILITIES where flood protection should be
required include: emergency services facilities (such as fire and police
stations), schools, hospitals, retirement homes and senior care facilities,
major roads and bridges, critical utility sites (telephone switching stations
or electrical transformers), and hazardous material storage facilities
(chemicals, petrochemicals, hazardous or toxic substances).
   DEVELOPMENT.  
      (1)   Any man-made change to real estate including, but not necessarily
limited to:
         (a)   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a
building, or any structural alteration to a building;
         (b)   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
         (c)   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site
for a manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than
180 days per year;
         (d)   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges,
culverts, or similar projects;
         (e)   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls, or fences;
         (f)   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating,
paving, or other alterations of the ground surface; or
         (g)   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid
storage tanks, and channel modifications or any other activity that might
change the direction, height, or velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include routine maintenance of existing
buildings and facilities, resurfacing roads, or gardening, plowing, and similar
practices that do not involve filing, grading, or construction of levees.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations
adopt
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD FRINGE. That portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP. A map prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a
community. This map includes insurance rate zones and may or may not depict
floodways and show base flood elevations.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY.  An examination, evaluation, and determination of
flood hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
   FLOODPLAIN and SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). These two terms are
synonymous. Those lands within the jurisdiction of the City of Marseilles, the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the City of Marseilles, or that may be annexed
into the City of Marseilles, that are subject to inundation by the base flood.
      (1)   The FLOODPLAINS of the City of Marseilles are generally identified
as such on panel numbers 0567 and 0575 of the Flood Insurance Rate Map of
LaSalle County prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated
July 18, 2011. FLOODPLAIN also includes those areas of known flooding as
identified by the community.
      (2)   The FLOODPLAINS of those parts of unincorporated LaSalle County
that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the City of Marseilles or
that may be annexed into the City of Marseilles are generally identified as
such on panel numbers 0567 and 0575 of the Flood Insurance Rate Map prepared
for LaSalle County by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated July
18, 2011.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural or nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property, and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form published by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry floodproofed to the flood protection
elevation.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE). The elevation of the base flood plus one
foot of freeboard at any given location in the floodplain.
   FLOODWAY. That portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the
base flood. The FLOODWAY for the floodplains of Illinois river(s)/stream(s)
shall be as delineated on the countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of LaSalle
County prepared by FEMA and dated July 18, 2011. The FLOODWAYS for each of the
remaining floodplains of the City of Marseilles shall be according to the best
data available from the federal, state, or other sources.
   FREEBOARD. An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed
development, unknown localized conditions, wave actions and unpredictable
effects such as those caused by ice or debris jams.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily
determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on the state inventory of historic places by
the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that
has been certified by the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency.
   IDNR/OWR. Illinois Department of Natural Resources/Office of Water
Resources.
   IDNR/OWR. Jurisdictional Stream - Illinois Department of Natural Resources/
Office of Water Resources has jurisdiction over any stream serving a tributary
area of 640 acres or more in an urban area, or in the floodway of any stream
serving a tributary area of 6,400 acres or more in a rural area. Construction
on these streams requires a permit from the Department. (Ill. Admin. Code Tit.
17, p. 3700.30). The Department may grant approval for specific types of
activities by issuance of a statewide permit which meets the standards in §
154.06.
   LOWEST FLOOR.  The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR. Provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of §
154.07.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.  A structure transportable in one or more sections, that
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a
community, and includes any subsequent improvements of such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed on or after the effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by a community.
   NFIP. National Flood Insurance Program.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR TRAVEL TRAILER.  A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less in size; and
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REPETITIVE LOSS.  Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SFHA. See definition of floodplain.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION.  Includes substantial improvement and means the date
the building permit was issued. This, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or
other improvement, was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start
means either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation or placement
of a manufactured home on a foundation. For a substantial improvement, actual
START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor,
or other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects
the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. See definition of building.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cumulative percentage of damage subsequent to the adoption of this chapter
equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred, regardless of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and
materials must be included in this determination. The term includes "Repetitive
Loss Buildings" (see definition in this section).
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.  
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or improvement of a
structure taking place subsequent to the adoption of this chapter in which the
cumulative percentage of improvements:
         (a)   Equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure
before the improvement or repair is started; or
         (b)   Increases the floor area by more than 20%.
      (2)   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the
building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the structure. This term includes structures which have incurred
repetitive loss or substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work
done.
      (3)   The term does not include:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or the Illinois Register of Historic Places.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the required federal, state, and/or local permits
and elevation certification is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as
the documentation is provided.
(Ord. 1302, passed 11-7-07; Am. Ord. 1447, passed 7-6-11)
§ 154.03 BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.
   This chapter’s protection standard is the base flood. The best available
base flood data are listed below. Whenever a party disagrees with the best
available data, the party shall finance the detailed engineering study needed
to replace the existing data with better data and submit it to the FEMA and
IDNR/OWR for approval prior to any development of the site.
   (A)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of Illinois river(s)/
creek(s) shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the
applicable countywide Flood Insurance Study of LaSalle County by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency and dated July 18, 2011.
   (B)   The base flood elevation for each floodplain delineated as an “AH
Zone” or “AO Zone” shall be that elevation (or depth) delineated on the
countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of LaSalle County.
   (C)   The base flood elevation for each of the remaining floodplains
delineated as a “A Zone” on the countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of LaSalle
shall be according to the best data available from federal, state or sources.
Should no other data exist, an engineering study must be financed by the
applicant to determine base flood elevations.
   (D)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of those parts of
unincorporated LaSalle County that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction
of the City of Marseilles, or that may be annexed into the City of Marseilles,
shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles applicable in the Flood
Insurance Study of LaSalle County prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency and dated July 18, 2011.
(Ord. 1302, passed 11-7-07; Am. Ord. 1447, passed 7-6-11)
§ 154.04 DUTIES OF THE ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall be responsible for the general
administration of this chapter and ensure that all development activities
within the floodplains under the jurisdiction of the city meet the requirements
of this chapter. Specifically, the Zoning Enforcement Officer shall:
   (A)   Process development permits in accordance with §
154.05;
   (B)   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of §
154.06;
   (C)   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to §
154.07 are met and maintain a record of the "as-built" elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) or floodproofing certificate;
   (D)   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements of
§
154.08;
   (E)   Ensure that water supply and waste disposal systems meet the public
health standards of §
154.09;
   (F)   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of §
154.11 are met and maintain documentation of any variances granted;
   (G)   Inspect all development projects and take any and all penalty actions
outlined in §
154.99 as necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter;
   (H)   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state, and federal permits;
   (I)   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse;
   (J)   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
   (K)   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this chapter;
   (L)   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps,
copies of state and federal permits, and documentation of compliance for
development activities subject to this chapter;
   (M)   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with this chapter and
make substantial damage determinations for structures within the floodplain;
and
   (N)   Maintain the accuracy of floodplain maps including notifying IDNR/OWR
and/or submitting information to FEMA within six months whenever a modification
of the floodplain may change the base flood elevation or result in a change to
the floodplain map.
(Ord. 1302, passed 11-7-07)
§ 154.05 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body not exempted by law
shall commence any development in the floodplain without first obtaining a
development permit from the Zoning Enforcement Officer. The Zoning Enforcement
Officer shall not issue a development permit if the proposed development does
not meet the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The application for development permit shall be accompanied by:
      (1)   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line
dimensions;
      (2)   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from
excavation or filling;
      (3)   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings;
      (4)   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of §
154.07; and
      (5)   Cost of project or improvements as estimated by a licensed engineer
or architect. A signed estimate by a contractor may also meet this requirement.
   (C)   (1)   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the
Zoning Enforcement Officer shall compare the elevation of the site to the base
flood elevation. Any development located on land that can be shown by the base
flood elevation. Any development located on land that can be shown by survey
data to be higher than the current base flood elevation and which has not been
filled after the date of the site’s first Flood Insurance Rate Map is not in
the floodplain and therefore not subject to the requirements of this chapter.
Conversely, any development located on land shown to be below the base flood
elevation and hydraulically connected, but not shown on the current Flood
Insurance Rate Map, is subject to the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall maintain documentation of the
existing ground elevation at the development site and certification that this
ground elevation existed prior to the date of the site’s first Flood Insurance
Rate Map identification.
      (3)   The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall be responsible for obtaining
from the applicant copies of all other federal, state, and local permits,
approvals or permit-not-required letters that may be required for this type of
activity. The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall not issue a permit unless all
other federal, state, and local permits have been obtained.
(Ord. 1302, passed 11-7-07)
§ 154.06 PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND RESULTING DAMAGES.
   Within any floodway identified on the countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map,
and within all other floodplains where a floodway has not been delineated, the
following standards shall apply:
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no development
shall be allowed which, acting in combination with existing and anticipated
development will cause any increase in flood heights or velocities or threat to
public health and safety. The following specific development activities shall
be considered as meeting this requirement:
      (1)   Bridge and culvert crossings of streams in rural areas meeting the
flowing conditions of the Illinois Department of Natural Resources, Office of
Water Resources Statewide Permit Number 2;
      (2)   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the following conditions of IDNR/
OWR Statewide Permit Number 3: The permit is only applicable when deadmen, pier
cells, or other similar anchorage devices have been permitted by the U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers.
      (3)   Aerial utility crossings meeting the following conditions of IDNR/
OWR Statewide Permit Number 4;
      (4)   Minor boat docks meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 5;
      (5)   Minor, non-obstructive activities meeting, the following conditions
of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 6. The following activities (not involving
fill or positive change in grade) are covered by this permit;
      (6)   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 7;
      (7)   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions
of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 8;
      (8)   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 9;
      (9)   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential
buildings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 10;
      (10)   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 11;
      (11)   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widening
meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 12;
      (12)   Temporary construction activities meeting the following conditions
of IDNR/OWR statewide Permit Number 13; and
      (13)   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely
within a flood fringe area shall be exempt from state floodway permit
requirements.
   (B)   Other development activities not listed in division (A) of this
section may be permitted only if:
      (1)   Permit has been issued for the work by IDNR/OWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required); or
      (2)   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA when necessary, and
approval obtained from FEMA for a revision of the regulatory map and base flood
elevation.
(Ord. 1302, passed 11-7-07; Am. Ord. 1447, passed 7-6-11)
§ 154.07 PROTECTING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   In addition to the damage prevention requirements of §
154.06, all buildings located in the floodplain shall be protected from flood
damage below the flood protection elevation. This building protection
requirement applies to the following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of a new building or alteration or
addition to an existing building valued at more than $1,000 or 70 square feet;
      (2)   Substantial improvements or structural alterations made to an
existing building that increase the floor area by more than 20% or equal or
exceed the market value by 50%. Alteration shall be figured cumulatively
subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. If substantially improved, the
existing structure and the addition must meet the flood protection standards of
this section;
      (3)   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. If
substantially damaged, the entire structure must meet the flood protection
standards of this section within 24 months of the date the damage occurred;
      (4)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. (The building protection requirements do not apply to
returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage.);
      (5)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days per year; and
      (6)   Repetitive loss to an existing building as defined in §
154.02.
   (B)   Residential or non-residential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by one of the following methods:
      (1)   The building may be constructed on permanent land fill in
accordance with the following:
         (a)   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation;
         (b)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
before compaction and should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation
before sloping below the flood protection elevation;
         (c)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or other structural measure;
         (d)   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporated
debris or refuse material; or
         (e)   Shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage from or
onto neighboring properties and when necessary stormwater management techniques
such as swales or basins shall be incorporated.
      (2)   The building may be elevated on solid walls in accordance with the
following:
         (a)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls, crawlspace, or other foundation that is permanently open to flood
waters;
         (b)   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at
or above the flood protection elevation;
         (c)   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the flood protection
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry
and exit of flood waters. Designs must either be certified by a licensed
professional engineer or by having a minimum of one permanent opening on each
wall no more than one foot above grade with a minimum of two openings. The
openings shall provide a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding below the base flood
elevation; and
         (d)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored,
designed, and certified so as to minimize exposure to hydrodynamic forces such
as current, waves, ice, and floating debris.
            1.   All structural components below the flood protection elevation
shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage;
            2.   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps, and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation, provided they are waterproofed;
            3.   The area below the flood protection elevation shall be used
solely for parking or building access and not later modified or occupied as
habitable space; or
            4.   In lieu of the above criteria, the design methods to comply
with these requirements may be certified by a licensed professional engineer or
architect.
      (3)   The building may be constructed with a crawlspace located below the
flood protection elevation, provided that the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
         (b)   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall
have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. A minimum of one opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than one square inch per one square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than one foot above grade;
         (c)   The interior grade of the crawlspace below the flood protection
elevation must not be more than two feet below the lowest adjacent exterior
grade;
         (d)   The interior height of the crawlspace measured from the interior
grade of the crawl to the top of the foundations wall must not exceed four feet
at any point;
         (e)   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawlspace within a reasonable period
of time after a flood event;
         (f)   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation
must be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage; and
         (g)   Utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the
flood protection elevation.
   (C)   Non-residential buildings may be structurally dry floodprooted (in
lieu of elevation) provided a licensed professional engineer or architect
certifies that:
      (1)   Below the flood protection elevation the structure and attendant
utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood;
      (2)   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration, rate
of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy, and the
impact from debris and ice;
      (3)   Floodproofing measures will be incorporated into the building
design and operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity; and
      (4)   Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
floodproofing for the purpose of this division.
   (D)   Manufactured homes or travel trailers to be permanently installed on
site shall be:
      (1)   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation in accordance
with division (B) above; and
      (2)   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement by
being tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations for the Illinois
Mobile Home Tie-Down Act issued pursuant to Ill. Adm. Code Ch. 77, § 870.
   (E)   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles on site for more than 180
days per year shall meet the elevation requirements of division (D) above
unless the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The vehicle must be either self-propelled or towable by a light-
duty truck;
      (2)   The hitch must remain on the vehicle at all times;
      (3)   The vehicle must not be attached to external structures such as
decks and porches;
      (4)   The vehicle must be designed solely for recreation, camping,
travel, or seasonal use rather than as a permanent dwelling;
      (5)   The vehicles largest horizontal projections must be no larger than
400 square feet;
      (6)   The vehicle’s wheels must remain on axles and inflated;
      (7)   Air conditioning units must be attached to the frame so as to be
safe for movement of the floodplain;
      (8)   Propane tanks as well as electrical and sewage connections must be
quick-disconnect and above the 100-year flood elevation;
      (9)   The vehicle must be licensed and titled as a recreational vehicle
or park model; and
      (10)   Must either:
         (a)   Entirely be supported by jacks; or
         (b)   Have a hitch jack permanently mounted, have the tires touching
the ground and be supported by block in a manner that will allow the block to
be easily removed by use of the hitch jack.
   (F)   Garages, sheds, or other minor accessory structures constructed
ancillary to an existing residential use may be permitted, provided the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   The garage or shed must be non-habitable;
      (2)   The garage or shed must be used only for the storage of vehicles
and tools and cannot be modified later into another use;
      (3)   The garage or shed must be located outside of the floodway or have
the appropriate state and/or federal permits;
      (4)   The garage or shed must be on a single-family lot and be accessory
to an existing principal structure on the same lot;
      (5)   Below the base flood elevation, the garage or shed must be built of
materials not susceptible to flood damage;
      (6)   All utilities, plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
must be elevated above the flood protection elevation;
      (7)   The garage or shed must have at least one permanent opening on each
wall not more than one foot above grade with one square inch of opening for
every one square foot of floor area;
      (8)   The garage or shed must be less than $15,000 in market value or
replacement cost, whichever is greater, or less than 576 square feet (24' x
24');
      (9)   The structure shall be anchored to resist floatation and
overturning;
      (10)   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers, and the like) shall be stored above the flood protection
elevation; and
      (11)   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implications.
(Ord. 1302, passed 11-7-07; Am. Ord. 1447, passed 7-6-11)
§ 154.08 SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS.
   The City Council shall take into account hazards, to the extent that they
are known, in all official actions related to land management use and
development.
   (A)   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
planned unit developments, and additions to manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protections
standards of §§
154.06 and
154.07. Any proposal for such development shall include the following data:
      (1)   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain; where
the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the applicant
shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation;
      (2)   The boundary of the floodway when applicable; and
      (3)   A signed statement by a registered professional engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the Plat Act (ILCS Ch. 765, Act 205, § 2).
   (B)   Streets, blocks lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located
and laid out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and
channels. Wherever possible the floodplains shall be included within parks or
other public grounds.
(Ord. 1302, passed 11-7-07)
§ 154.09 PUBLIC HEALTH AND OTHER STANDARDS.
   (A)   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development. In
addition to the requirements of §§
154.06 and
154.07 the following standards apply:
      (1)   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants, or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation unless
such materials are stored in a floodproofed and anchored storage tank and
certified by a professional engineer or floodproofed building constructed
according to the requirements of §
154.07.
      (2)   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
      (3)   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters.
      (4)   New and replacement on-site sanitary sewer lines or waste disposal
systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during flooding. Manholes or other above-ground
openings located below the flood protection elevation shall be watertight.
      (5)   Construction of new or substantially improved critical facilities
shall be located outside the limits of the floodplain. Construction of new
critical facilities shall be permissible within the floodplain if no feasible
alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated or structurally dry
floodproofed to the 500-year flood frequency elevation or three feet above the
level of the 100-year flood frequency elevation, whichever is greater.
Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic
substances will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes
elevated to or above the level of the base flood elevation shall be provided to
all critical facilities.
   (B)   All other activities defined as development shall be designed so as
not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages.
(Ord. 1302, passed 11-7-07)
§ 154.10 CARRYING CAPACITY AND NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   For all projects involving channel modification, fill, or stream
maintenance (including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse
shall be maintained.
   (B)   In addition, the City of Marseilles shall notify adjacent communities
in writing 30 days prior to the issuance of a permit for the alteration or
relocation of the watercourse.
(Ord. 1302, passed 11-7-07)
§ 154.11 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a
specific development proposal, the applicant may apply to the City Clerk for a
variance. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall review the applicant’s request for
a variance and shall submit its recommendation to the City Council. The City
Council may attach such conditions to granting of a variance as it deems
necessary to further the intent of this chapter.
   (B)   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that
all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain;
      (2)   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
      (3)   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
      (4)   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety, or
creation of a nuisance;
      (5)   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities, or other
public facilities;
      (6)   The applicant’s circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP; and
      (7)   All other state and federal permits have been obtained.
   (C)   The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall notify an applicant in writing
that a variance from the requirements of the building protection standards of §
154.07 that would lessen the degree of protection to a building will:
      (1)   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25 per
$100 of insurance coverage;
      (2)   Increase the risk to life and property; and
      (3)   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks
and that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
   (D)   Variances to the building protection requirements of §
154.07 which are requested in connection with reconstruction, repair, or
alteration of a historic site or historic structure, as defined in §
154.02, may be granted using criteria more permissive than the requirements of
§§
154.06 and
154.07, subject to the conditions that:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure; and/or
      (2)   The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure being
removed as a certified historic structure.
   (E)   Any variance granted for an agricultural structure shall be decided
individually based on a case by case analysis of the building’s unique
circumstances. Variances granted shall meet the following conditions as well as
those criteria and conditions set forth in this chapter. In order to minimize
flood damages during the 100-year flood and the threat to public health and
safety, the following conditions shall be included for any variance issued for
agricultural structures that are constructed at-grade and wet-floodproofed.
      (1)   All agricultural structures considered for a variance from the
floodplain management regulations of this ordinance shall demonstrate that the
varied structure is located in wide, expansive floodplain areas and no other
alternate location outside of the special flood hazard area exists for the
agricultural structure. Residential structures or animal confinement
facilities, such as farm houses, cannot be considered agricultural structures.
      (2)   Use of the varied structures must be limited to agricultural
purposes in zone A only as identified on the community’s Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM).
      (3)   For any new or substantially damaged agricultural structures, the
exterior and interior building components and elements (i.e., foundation, wall
framing, exterior and interior finishes, flooring, and the like) below the base
flood elevation, must be built with flood-resistant materials in accordance
with §
154.07.
      (4)   The agricultural structures must be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structures in accordance with §
154.07. All of the building’s structural components must be capable of
resisting specific flood-related forces including hydrostatic, buoyancy, and
hydrodynamic and debris impact forces. Any mechanical, electrical, or other
utility equipment must be located above the base flood elevation or
floodproofed so that they are contained within a watertight, floodproofed
enclosure that is capable of resisting damage during flood conditions in
accordance with §
154.07.
      (5)   The NFIP requires that enclosure or foundation walls, subject to
the 100-year flood, contain openings that will permit the automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters in accordance with §
154.07.
      (6)   The agricultural structures must comply with the floodplain
management floodway provisions of §
154.06. No variances may be issued for agricultural structures within any
designated floodway.
      (7)   Wet-floodproofing construction techniques must be reviewed and
approved by the Floodplain Administrator and a registered professional engineer
or architect prior to the issuance of any floodplain development permit for
construction.
(Ord. 1302, passed 11-7-07; Am. Ord. 1447, passed 7-6-11)
§ 154.12 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the floodplain will be free
from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on the part of
the City of Marseilles or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage
that results from proper reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 1302, passed 11-7-07)
§ 154.13 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter does not repeal the original resolution or ordinance adopted to
achieve eligibility in the National Flood Insurance Program, nor does this
chapter repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. Where this chapter and other ordinance easements, covenants or
deed restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 1302, passed 11-7-07)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain or
failure to comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed
to be a violation of this chapter. Upon due investigation, the Zoning
Enforcement Officer may determine that a violation of the minimum standards of
this chapter exists. The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall notify the owner in
writing of such violation.
   (B)   If such owner fails after ten days’ notice to correct the violation:
      (1)   The City of Marseilles shall make application to the circuit court
for an injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other
order as the court deems necessary to secure compliance with this chapter.
      (2)   Any person who violates this chapter shall upon conviction thereof
be fined not less than $50 or more than $750 for each offense.
      (3)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues; and
      (4)   The City of Marseilles shall record a notice of violation on the
title of the property.
   (C)   (1)   The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall inform the owner that any
such violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and
therefore may cause coverage by a Standard Flood Insurance Policy to be
suspended.
      (2)   The Zoning Enforcement Officer is authorized to issue an order
requiring the suspension of the subject development. The stop-work order shall
be in writing, indicate the reason for the issuance, and shall order the
action, if necessary, to resolve the circumstances requiring the stop-work
order. The stop-work order constitutes a suspension of the permit.
      (3)   No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or
revoked until a hearing is held by the Zoning Board of Appeals. Written notice
of such hearing shall be served on the permittee and shall state:
         (a)   The grounds for the complaint, reasons for suspension or
revocation; and
         (b)   The time and place of the hearing.
      (4)   At such hearing the permittee shall be given an opportunity to
present evidence on his or her behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the
Zoning Board of Appeals shall determine whether the permit shall be suspended
or revoked.
   (D)   Nothing herein shall prevent the City of Marseilles from taking such
other lawful action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected
therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 1302, passed 11-7-07)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Table
   
I.   ANNEXATIONS; DEANNEXATIONS
   
II.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
   
III.   EASEMENTS
   
IV.   FRANCHISES
   
V.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
   
VI.   VACATIONS
   
VII.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
   
VIII.   SEWER RATES AND CHARGES
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS; DEANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
            Annexing certain territory being the south 100 feet of Lot 24 in Clark's
502  3-5-73 Second Addition to the city, being a subdivision of 99 acres in the southwest
            Fractional Quarter in Section 7, Township 33 north, Range 5 east.
            Annexing certain territory being the west half of Lot 19 and the west half of
            Lot 24, except the south 100 feet thereof, and Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8,
            9, 10, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16, 17, 20 and 22, all in Clark's Second Addition to
503  3-5-73 the city, being a subdivision of 99 acres in the southwest fractional quarter
            in Section 7, Township 33 north, Range 5, east. Also Lot 19 in the southwest
            fractional quarter of Section 7, Township 33 North, Range 5 east, (excepting
            from said Lots 3, 4, 9, 10, 15, 16 and 22 that part conveyed to the county).
505  3-5-73 Annexing the following territory:
          Tract 1 (consisting of 118 acres). Part of the northwest quarter of Section
            17, Township 33 north, Range 5 east.
            Tract 2. Lots 14 and 29, the north half of Lot 15 and the east half of Lots
          16, 17 and 18 of the Assessor's Subdivision of Section 7, Township 33 north,
            Range 5 east.
505  3-5-73 Annexing the following territory:
            Tract 1. The west half of the southwest quarter of the southwester quarter of
            Section 8; the east half of the southwest quarter of the southeast quarter of
            Section 7; the northwest quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 17 and
            that portion of the northeast quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 17,
            which lies west of Corn Street; a portion of the north half of the southwest
          quarter ofthe northwest quarter of Section 17; the east half of the northeast
            quarter of Section 18; a portion of the west half of the east half of Section
            18; the north half of Lot 1, all of Lots 2, 3, 4 and 15, and that portion of
            Lot 6 lying west of the center of Gum Creek, all in Assessor's Subdivision of
            the east half of the southeast quarter of Section 18, excepting therefrom
            certain tracts of land.
            Tract 2. The east half of the northwest quarter of the southeast quarter of
            Section 7, Township 33 north, Range 5 east; Lot 4 in Section 7, the east half
          of the northeast quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 7, and the north
            half of Lot 15 in the southeast quarter of Section 7; also Lot 7 in Section
            8, Township and Range aforesaid being the northwest quarter of the southwest
            quarter of Section 8.
526  6-16-  Annexing certain territory being that part of the south half of the west half
     74     of the northwest quarter of Section 13, Township 33 north, Range 4 east.
     3-17-  Annexing certain property being that part of the west half of the northwest
535  75     quarter of Section 13, Township 33 north, Range 4 east, except a certain
            portion thereof.
            Annexing certain territory being Lots 13, 18, 25, 26, 27, 28 and the east
543  7-7-75 half of Lot 19 and the east half of Lot 24, except a certain portion of land
            thereof.
570  5-15-  Annexing certain territory being that part of the west half of the northwest
     79     quarter of Section 13, Township 33 north, Range 4 east.
572  6-19-  Annexing certain territory being that part of the northwest quarter of
     78     Section 13, Township 33 north, Range 4 east.
     2-19-  Annexing certain territory being that part of the south half of the west half
582  79     of the northwest quarter of Section 13, Township 33 north, Range 4 east,
            except a certain portion thereof.
642  8-18-  Annexing certain territory being that portion of Glenwood Park, an addition
     82     to the city lying south of Bluff Street.
701  4-2-86 Annexing the following territory:
          Parcel One. Part of Lot 2 in E.J. Ward's Subdivision in the north fractional
            half of Section 19, Township 33 north, Range 5 east.
          Parcel Two. Part of Lot 2 in E.J. Ward's Subdivision in the north fractional
            half of Section 19, Township 33 north, Range 5 east.
          Parcel Three. Part of Lot 2 in E.J. Ward's Subdivision in the north
            fractional half of Section 19, Township 33 north, Range 5 east.
          (Amended by Ord. 805 set forth in this Table I)
            Annexing certain territory being Lot 6 in Spencer and Lowery's Subdivision of
703  6-18-  Lot 3 and part of Lot 2 in Roger's Addition to the city in the north half of
     86     the southeast quarter and the south half of the northeast quarter of the
            southeast quarter of Section 12, Township 33 north, Range 4 east.
707  10-1-  Annexing certain territory being that part of the northwest quarter of
     86     Section 20, Township 33 north, Range 5 east.
            Annexing certain territory being that part of the Illinois and Michigan
709  2-18-  Canal, including its reserves, lying in the northeast quarter of Section 19
     87     and within the northwest quarter of Section 20, Township 33 north, Range 5
            east.
714  7-16-  Annexing the following territory:
     87
            Parcel 1. Part of the west half of Section 20, and part of Lot 1 in E.J.
          Ward's Subdivision in the north fractional half of Section 19, all in
            Township 33 north, Range 5 east.
          Parcel 2. Part of Section 20, Township 33 north, Range 5 east.
          (Amended by Ord. 805 set forth in this Table I)
     10-7-  Annexing certain territory being that part of the Illinois and Michigan
718  87     Canal, including its reserves, lying in the east half of Section 20 and the
            west half of Section 21, all in Township 33, Range 5 east.
719  10-7-  Annexing the following territory:
     87
          Parcel 1. Part of Lot 2 in E.J. Ward's Subdivision of part of the north
            fractional half of Section 19, Township 33 north, Range 5 east.
            Parcel 2. Part of Lot 1 in E.J. Ward's Subdivision in the north fractional
          half of section 19 and part of the northwest fractional quarter of Section
            20, lying south of the Illinois-Michigan Canal Reserve, all in Township 33
            north, Range 5 east.
          (Amended by Ord. 805 set forth in this Table I)
723  12-2-  Annexing the following territory:
     87
            Parcel 1. That part of the east half of the northeast quarter of Section 20,
            south of the south line of the Illinois and Michigan Canal South Reserve,
            that part of the east half of the southeast fractional quarter of Section 20,
          north of the north bank of the Illinois River, that part of the west half of
            Section 21 south of the south line of the Illinois and Michigan Canal South
            reserve and north of the north bank of the Illinois River, all in Township 33
            north, Range 5 east.
          Parcel 2. Part of Section 21, Township 33 north, Range 5 east.
          (Amended by Ord. 805 set forth in this Table I)
724  12-16- Annexing the following territory:
     87
          Parcel 1. The northwest quarter of Section 21, Township 33 north, Range 5
            east, except a certain tract thereof.
          Parcel 2. The northeast quarter of Section 21, Township 33 north, Range 5
            east.
            Parcel 3. The west half of the northwest quarter and the northeast quarter of
          the northwest quarter, all in Section 22, Township 33 north, Range 5 east,
            except a certain part thereof.
          Parcel 4. The west half of the west half of the southwest quarter of the
            southeast quarter of Section 16, Township 33 north, Range 5 east.
          Parcel 5. The east 30 acres of the southeast quarter of the southeast quarter
            of Section 16, Township 33 north, Range 5 east.
          Parcel 6. Part of Section 21 in Township 33 north, Range 5 east.
          Parcel 7:
          Tract 1. Lot 6, (except a certain portion thereof), in the Subdivision of Lot
            10 in the southwest quarter of Section 16, Township 33 north, Range 5 east.
            Tract 2. Lots 9 and 10 in the Subdivision of Lot 11 in the south half of the
          southwest quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 16, Township 33 north,
            Range 5 east.
            Tract 3. Lot 5 in the Subdivision of Lot 10 in the southeast quarter of the
          southeast quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 16, Township 33 north,
            Range 5 east.
          Parcel 8. Lots 3 and 4 in Lot 10; Lots 7 and 8 in Lot 11; in the subdivision
            of Section 16, township 33 north, Range 5 east.
          Parcel 9. Sublot 6 in Lot 11 in the southeast quarter of Section 16, Township
            33 north, Range 5 east.
739  12-21- Reannexing the following territory:
     88
          Parcel 1. The northwest quarter of Section 21, Township 33 north, Range 5
            east, except a certain portion thereof.
          Parcel 2. The northeast quarter of Section 21, Township 33 north, Range 5
            east.
            Parcel 3. The west half of the northwest quarter and the northeast quarter of
          the northwest quarter, all in Section 22, Township 33 north, Range 5 east,
            except a certain portion thereof.
          Parcel 4. The west half of the west half of the southeast quarter of the
            southeast quarter of Section 16, Township 33 north, Range 5 east.
          Parcel 5. The east 30 acres of the southeast quarter of the southeast quarter
            of Section 16, Township 33 north, Range 5 east.
          Parcel 6. That part of Section 21 in Township 33 north, Range 5 east, except
            a certain portion thereof.
          Parcel 7:
          Tract 1. Lot 6, (except a certain portion thereof), in the Subdivision of Lot
            10 in the southwest quarter of Section 16, Township 33 north, Range 5 east.
            Tract 2. Lots 9 and 10 in the Subdivision of Lot 11 in the south half of the
          southwest quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 16, Township 33 north,
            Range 5 east.
            Tract 3. Lot 5 in the Subdivision of Lot 10 in the southeast quarter of the
          southeast quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 16, Township 33 north,
            Range 5 east.
          Parcel 8. Lots 3 and 4 in Lot 10; Lots 7 and 8 in Lot 11; in the subdivision
            of Section 16, township 33 north, Range 5 east.
          Parcel 9. Sublot 6 in Lot 11 in the southeast quarter of Section 16, Township
            33 north, Range 5 east.
752  8-1-90 Annexing the following territory:
            Parcel 1. Lot 2 in Spencer and Lowery's Subdivision of Lot 3 and part of Lot
          2 in Rogers Addition to the city of the north half of the southeast quarter
            and the south half of the northeast quarter of the southeast quarter of
            Section 12, Township 33 north, Range 4 east.
            Parcel 2. Lot 4 in Spencer and Lowery's Subdivision of Lot 3 and part of Lot
          2 in Roger's Addition to the city of the north half of the southeast quarter
            and the south half of the northeast quarter of the southeast quarter of
            Section 12 in Township 33 north, Range 4 east.
            Parcel 3. Lot 1 in Spencer and Lowery's Subdivision of Lot 3 and part of Lot
          2 in Rogers Addition to the city of the north half of the southeast quarter
            and the south half of the northeast quarter of the southeast quarter of
            Section 12 in Township 33 north, Range 4 east.
            Parcel 4. Lot 3 in Spencer and Lowery's Subdivision of Lot 3 and part of Lot
          2 in Rogers Addition to the city of the north half of the southeast quarter
            and the south half of the northeast quarter of the southeast quarter of
            Section 12 in Township 33 north, Range 4 east.
761  8-7-91 Disconnecting the following parcels:
          Parcel 1: The northwest quarter of Section 21, Township 33 north, Range 5
            east, lying
            north of the public highway (now Route #6); excepting the following described
            tract: commencing at the northwest corner of said Section 21, running thence
            east 92 rods, thence in a southerly direction in the center of the Wyman Road
            97 rods, thence in an easterly direction in the center of the Morris Road,
          29-3/4 rods, thence south 6-1/2 rods, thence in a westerly direction ten feet
            north of and parallel to the north rail of the switch track, 32 rods, to the
            right-of- way of the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railway Company, thence
            in a westerly direction along the north line of said right-of-way 54 rods,
            thence north to the place of beginning.
          Parcel 2: The northeast quarter of Section 21, Township 33 north, Range 5
            east, lying north of the public highway (now Route #6).
            Parcel 3: The west half of the northwest quarter and the northeast quarter of
            the northwest quarter, all in Section 22, Township 33 north, Range 5 east,
          except that part of the northwest quarter of the northwest quarter conveyed
            to Commonwealth Edison Company by Deed recorded March 30, 1976 as Document
            #625343 and, excepting that part of the northeast quarter of the northwest
            quarter lying south and east of the land described in Document #625343.
            Parcel 4: The west half of the west half of the southeast quarter of the
          southeast quarter of Section 16, Township 33 north, Range 5 east (also
            described as the west half of Lot 6 of Lot 12 in Manlius Township).
            Parcel 5: The east 30 acres of the southeast quarter of the southeast quarter
          of Section 16, Township 33 north, Range 5 east, (also described as Lot 5 and
            the east half of Lot 6, both in Lot 12 of the subdivision of Section 16).
          Parcel 7:
          Tract 1: Lot 6, except the west 11 rods thereof, in the subdivision of Lot 10
            in the southwest quarter of Section 16, Township 33 north, Range 5 east.
            Tract 2: Lots 9 and 10 in the subdivision of Lot 11 in the south half of the
          southwest quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 16, Township 33 north,
            Range 5 east.
            Tract 3: Lot 5 in the subdivision of Lot 10 in the southeast quarter of the
          southeast quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 16, Township 33 north,
            Range 5 east.
          Parcel 8: Lots 3 and 4 in Lot 10; Lot 7 and 8 in Lot 11; in the subdivision
            of Section 16, Township 33 north, Range 5 east.
          Parcel 9: Sublot 6 in Lot 11 in the southeast quarter of Section 16, Township
            33 north, Range 5 east.
          Exception: Excepting from the foregoing legal description all that portion of
            E. 2659th Road, lying south of U.S. Route 6.
            Annexing certain territory being the east five acres of the south half of the
780  7-15-  northeast quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 12, Township 33 north,
     92     Range 4 east; excepting a tract commencing the northwest corner of Lot 1 in
            Roger's Addition to the city.
805  12-15- Amending Ords. 701, 714, 719 and 723:
     93
          (1) By the addition of the following: “Together with all riparian rights of
            ownership in and to the Illinois River; and
            (2) To the extent any ambiguity may exist as to the southerly corporate
          boundary of the city, the boundary is hereby declared by virtue of the
            aforesaid annexations to be the middle or center thread of the Illinois
            River.
     7-27-  Annexing part of the southeast quarter of Section 21, Township 33 north,
812  94     Range 5 east of the Third Principal Meridian lying between the Illinois River
            and the south Reserve Line of the Illinois and Michigan Canal.
817  9-21-  Annexing The Donald Johnson property, as described in Exhibit A, as attached
     94     to Ordinance No. 817.
822  11-2-  Annexing the real estate described in Exhibit A, as attached to Ordinance No.
     94     822.
823  11-2-  Annexing the real estate described in Exhibit A, as attached to Ordinance No.
     94     823.
824  11-2-  Annexing the real estate described in Exhibit A, as attached to Ordinance No.
     94     824.
825  11-2-  Annexing the real estate described in Exhibit A, as attached to Ordinance No.
     94     825.
879  11-20- Annexing the real estate described in Exhibit A, as attached to Ordinance No.
     96     879.
891  12-18- Annexing property of Larry and Monica Marco to the city.
     96
903  5-21-  Annexing property of James & Linda Cordial to the city.
     97
907  7-23-  Disconnecting the Donald Johnson property from the city.
     97
925  2-18-  Authorizing the execution of an amendment to an annexation agreement
     98     previously entered into with North Central College (Barr Development).
926  2-18-  Authorizing the execution of an amendment to an annexation agreement
     98     previously entered into with First National Bank as trustee (Trust No. 4216).
927  2-18-  Authorizing the execution of an amendment to an annexation agreement
     98     previously entered into with First National Bank as trustee (Trust No. 4142).
943  7-1-98 Annexing the territory of John Hicks, 2530 Route #6 East to the city.
954  12-16- Annexing certain territory to the city, Bridgeview Bank and Trust Company.
     98
1162 4-21-  Annexing certain territory to the city, property of Marseilles Land
     04     Development Co., Steven R. Flynn and Christopher M. Jude.
1239 2-1-06 Annexing certain territory to the city, Allan Moore.
1281 4-4-07 Annexing certain property to the city, Peter Dudek.
1288 8-1-07 Annexing certain property to the city, Rivers Edge Developers LLC.
1352 9-3-08 Annexing certain property to the city, Spicer Gravel Company Inc.
1401 1-20-  Annexing certain property to the city, First National Bank of Ottawa.
     10
1418 6-2-10 Annexing certain property to the city; various property owners.
1422 9-15-  Annexing certain property to the city; Ralph and Christine Mathes, Jr.
     10
1502 12-5-  Annexing certain property to the city; Jon F. and Barbara B. Cooke.
     12
1666 4-4-18 Annexing certain property to the city; J. Cris Pradel, Robert Salerno, and
            Jauanita Salerno.
1769 9-2-20 Amending annexation agreement related to Walbridge Creek Estates.
           
 
TABLE II: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
513      5-21-73     Approving the contract with Illinois Power Company for the
                     furnishing of all electric energy required by the city.
533      11-25-74    Approving the contract to participate in the Marseilles
                     Area Ambulance Service, by acceptance of revenue sharing.
697      2-5-86      Authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement with
                     Kaiser Agricultural Chemicals, Inc.
                     Approving an Intergovernmental Cooperation Contract with
                     the Illinois Municipal League Risk Management Association
698      2-19-86     for membership for a period of one year beginning the date
                     the Association commences providing risk coverage to its
                     members and each year thereafter unless this ordinance is
                     repealed.
712      6-17-87     Authorizing the agreement between Goldman Properties II,
                     Inc. and the city.
716      9-2-87      Authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement
                     between the city and Spicer, Inc.
738      12-7-88     Authorizing the agreement with Vigoro Industries for the
                     abatement of real estate taxes.
                     Authorizing the execution of a loan agreement (subordinate
                     lien) with the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency
                     for the purpose of paying a part of the cost of
                     constructing, improving and extending the city's sewerage
797      6-23-93     system facilities, and making certain covenants in
                     providing for the operation of such sewerage system and
                     the pledge, dedication, collection, segregation and
                     distribution of the revenues to be derived from the
                     operation thereof.
1283     4-18-07     Authorizing the execution of a lease agreement with
                     Chicago 10MHz LLC, d/b/a Verizon Wireless.
1495     10-3-12     Authorizing the execution of an amended annexation
                     agreement between the city and Steven R. Flynn.
1507     5-15-13     Authorizing the execution of the Illinois Public Works
                     Mutual Aid Network Agreement (IPWMAN)
1541     6-4-14      Authorizing the execution of the fourth amended annexation
                     agreement between the city and Steven R. Flynn.
                    
 
TABLE III: EASEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
555      4-19-76     Granting an easement for sewer and water lines to the
                     Lion's Club of Marseilles.
959      12-16-98    Easement from Jeffrey D. Lamont and Joyce C. Lamont of
                     private property by condemnation.
 
TABLE IV: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Granting to Ottawa T.V. Cable Company, Inc., the right and
                     franchise to erect, maintain and operate the necessary
493      1-24-72     equipment to transmit and distribute television signals by
                     cable over, along and upon the streets, sidewalks and
                     other public places in the city.
                     Granting a franchise to Sammons Communications, Inc., to
559      11-15-76    own and operate and maintain a cable television system in
                     the community of Marseilles.
                     Granting the right, permission and authority to Illinois
                     Power Company to construct, maintain and operate in the
685      5-30-85     city a system for the manufacture, transmission,
                     distribution and sale of electric energy for lighting,
                     heating and power purposes.
                     Amending Sections 4 and 7 of Ordinance 559, passed 11-15-
790      2-24-93     76 which granted a franchise to Sammons Communications,
                     Inc. to own and operate and maintain a cable television
                     system in the city.
1221     11-2-05     Amending an electric franchise agreement with AmerenIP.
                     Authorizing Northern Illinois Gas Company (d/b/a Nicor Gas
1255     9-20-06     Company) to construct, operate and maintain a gas
                     distributing system.
                     Extending the authorization to Illinois Power Company (d/
1392     2-3-10      b/a AmerenIP) to construct, operate and maintain an
                     electric utility system.
 
TABLE V: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
      5-21-  Sale of certain municipal property being the north five acres to the east
511   73     ten acres of the west 20 acres of the northeast quarter of the northeast
             quarter of Section 17, Township 33 north Range 5 east.
512   5-21-  Authorizing the sale of street light system to the Illinois Power Company.
      73
             Sale of a reversion to certain real estate being Lots 18 and 19 in
550   2-16-  Warehouse Block, north of Commercial Street, in the Marseilles Land and
      76     Power Company's Addition to the city, situated in the southwest quarter of
             Section 13, Township 33 north, Range 4 east.
576   9-6-78 Purchase of certain real estate being Lots 103, 105, 107, 109 and 111, in
             Section 13, Township 33 north, Range 4 east.
             Lease of Lots 42, 44, 46 and the east 30 feet of Lot 48 in Warehouse Block,
589   8-20-  north of Commercial Street in the Marseilles Land and Water Power Company's
      79     Addition to the city, to the Lions Club of the city, for a period of 20
             years.
710   5-6-87 Purchase of certain real estate being part of the southeast quarter of
             Section 13, Township 33 north, Range 4 east.
793   5-5-93 Authorizing the lease of a portion of Perry Street.
             Acquisition of the following real estate by condemnation: part of the
837   4-5-95 northeast quarter of Section 19 and the northwest quarter of Section 20 all
             in Township 33 north, Range 5 east of the Third Principal Meridian.
860   2-21-  Disposition of certain real property described as follows:
      96
           Parcel One: Lots 42, 44, 46 and the east half of Lot 48 of Warehouse Block
             into Land and Water Power Company Addition.
             Parcel Two: Lot 20, except the west 20.31 feet thereof, lying north of
           Commercial Street in Warehouse Block in Marseilles Land and Water Power
             Company Addition, in the south half of Section 13, Township 33 north, Range
             4, east of the Third Principal Meridian.
             Parcel Three: Lots 13, 14, 15, 16, and 17 in Warehouse Block north of Canal
           Street; Lots 22, 24, 26, 28, 30, 32, 34, 36, 38, 40 and the west 20.31 feet
             of Lot 20 all in Warehouse Block lying north of Commercial Street in
             Marseilles Land & Water Power company Addition.
      4-17-  Sale of certain real property described as Lots 42, 44, 46 and the east
864   96     half of Lot 48 of Warehouse Block in Land and Water Power Company Addition
             to the city.
1031  12-20- Designating certain real property as a public park and providing a name,
      00     John C. Knudson Park.
1180  10-6-  Designating certain real property as a public park and providing a name,
      04     John Armstrong Memorial Park.
1183  11-3-  Designating certain real property as a public park and providing a name,
      04     Middle East Memorial Park.
1192  12-15- Designating certain real property as a public park and providing a name,
      04     Larry Shehorn Memorial Park.
1457  11-16- Authorizing the purchase of real property located at 140 Lincoln Street
      11     from the Laborers’ International Union of North America, Local Union 393.
1491  8-15-  Authorizing the purchase of real property located at Lots 67 and 68 in
      12     Meadow View Estates Phase V.
1657  2-7-18 Authorizing the purchase of property commonly known as 240 East Bluff
             Street.
1669  5-2-18 Directing the sale of the following real estate parcels, commonly known as:
             340 Wallace Street; 542 Illinois Street; and 212-214 Water Street.
1676A 6-20-  Authorizing the sale of property located at 340 Wallace Street, being Lot
      18     14 in Block 28 of the original Town of Marseilles.
1676B 7-3-18 Authorizing the sale of property located at 542 Illinois Street, and 212-
             214 Water Street.
1677  6-20-  Directing the sale of property located at 417 Illinois Street, Lot 6 in
      18     Block 27 in the Town of Marseilles.
1680  8-15-  Accepting bid and approving sale of property for 417 Illinois Street in
      18     Marseilles.
1681  8-15-  Approving acquisition of unimproved property for drainage control located
      18     on Rutland Street north of Bratton Street.
1687  10-17- Directing sale of real estate parcels of designated vacant parcels of real
      18     estate in Marseilles all zoned as R2 Residence District.
1695  12-5-  Accepting bid and authorizing sale of property commonly known as 394 East
      18     Bluff Street.
             Approving exchange agreement and authorizing execution of exchange
             agreement and authorizing signing of exchange documents for exchanging
             14.78 acres of property between the Railroad and the I&M Canal in Section
1697  1-2-19 20 of Manlius Township for property of Independence Tube Corporation
             located west of their existing fenced facilities in Section 20 of Manlius
             Township, north of the Illinois River, South of the I&M Canal and east of
             Gum Creek.
1698  1-2-19 Approving second amendment to lease agreement and license to use street
             right-of-way and authorizing execution of related documents.
1704  3-6-19 Accepting bid and approving sale of property known as 240 East Bluff
             Street, Marseilles, IL.
      3-20-  Accepting donation of property and authorizing execution of donation
1705  19     agreement located at Lot 9 in Block 26 commonly known as 504 Wallace
             Street, Marseilles.
1712  6-5-19 Accepting bid and approving sale of property at 504 Wallace Street.
             Authorizing quiclaim deed in response to complaint for adverse position and
1713  6-5-19 to quiet title, the plat of the subdivision of Lots 9 and 11 in Weavers
             Addition to Marseilles.
1775  1-6-21 Accepting bid and approving sale of 594 E. Bluff Street.
1789  5-5-21 Authorizing the purchase of 264 Main Street property.
1790  5-5-21 Authorizing the purchase of a street right-of-way over part of 278 Main
             Street.
1791  5-5-21 Authorizing the purchase of a street right-of-way over part of 119
             Commercial Street.
1792  5-5-21 Authorizing the purchase of 241 Main Street property.
1793  5-5-21 Authorizing the purchase of a street right-of-way over part of 237
             Commercial Street.
1794  5-5-21 Authorizing the purchase of a street right-of-way known as 115 Commercial
             Street.
1802  7-21-  Accepting bid and approving sale of 210 W. Bluff Street.
      21
            
 
TABLE VI: VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Vacating an alley being the 25-foot alley which lies west
                     of Lots 1, 2, 3 and 4 and east of Lots 5 and 6 in Howards'
500½    10-2-72     Subdivision of Block 21 in the Land and Water Power
                     Company's Addition to the city in the southwest quarter of
                     Section 13, Township 33 north, Range 4 east.
                     Vacating a certain street being Liberty Street proceeding
                     north from the north edge of Broadway Street, then north
509      5-7-73      to the south edge of the Illinois and Michigan Canal,
                     being a strip approximately 60 feet wide by 100 feet in
                     depth.
                     Vacating a part of a certain street being that portion of
                     Third Avenue proceeding east rom the east edge of Colorado
524      6-17-74     Street to a point 275 feet east along the centerline on
                     said Third Avenue, being a strip approximately 60 feet
                     wide by 275 feet in depth.
                     Vacating a certain alley being that portion of a public
                     street known as Canal Street which lies south of Lots 18
536      4-7-75      and 19 in Warehouse Block, north of Commercial Street, in
                     the Marseilles Land and Water Power Company's Addition to
                     the city, situated in the southwest quarter of Section 13,
                     Township 33 north, Range 4 east.
548      10-20-75    Vacating a portion of Peoria Street north of Lincoln
                     Street.
                     Vacating a portion of Sherman Street south of Washington
590      8-20-79     Street and north of the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific
                     Railroad Track in Gum's Second Addition.
                     Vacating a portion of the reserved street between Lots 35
595      12-17-79    and 36 in Warehouse Block, Land and Water Power Company
                     Addition.
                     Vacating that portion of Carter Street lying adjacent to
                     and adjoining Lot 1, 6, 7, 12 and Lot 19, in Clark's 2nd
607      6-19-78     Addition to the city, being a subdivision of 99 acres in
                     the southwest fractional quarter of Section 7, in Township
                     33 north, Range 5 east.
                     Vacating a certain street being Canal Street from Lots 1
599      1-7-80      and Lots 80 in Warehouse Block, Land and Water Power
                     Company Addition.
                     Vacating that part of reserved Underhill Street lying
603      2-4-80      between Lots 17 and 19 in Warehouse Block in the Land and
                     Water Power Company's Addition to the city.
                     Vacating that portion of a certain public way or alley
                     located in the city lying adjacent to the east line of Lot
657      4-20-83     1, Block 1, in Day and Makeever's Addition to the city,
                     and being approximately 22 feet in width and 116.9 feet in
                     length.
                     Vacating a portion of Sample Street being that part of
748      6-20-90     Sample Street in Marseilles Land and Water Power Company's
                     Addition to the city, lying in the east half of the east
                     half of Section 13, Township 33 north, Range 4 east.
762      10-2-91     Vacating the east one-half of Peoria Street south of
                     Lincoln Street.
                     Vacating the east 15 feet of Grant Street commencing at
                     its intersection with Illinois Street for a distance of
800      9-1-93      100 feet south of the intersection (adjacent to the west
                     side of Lot 8 in Block 27 in the Original Town of
                     Marseilles).
                     Vacating a portion of Ninth Street being the south half of
                     Ninth Street from the east line of Chicago Street for a
806      1-19-94     distance of about 709 feet to the east line of Lehigh
                     Street (south of Block 24 in Gum and Harrington's
                     Addition.
807      1-19-94     Vacating a portion of La Salle Street adjacent to Block 1
                     in Richey's Addition.
                     Vacating a portion of Second Street being approximately
810      4-6-94      7710 square feet adjacent to Lots 1 and 7 in Block 6 of
                     Gum and Harrington's Addition.
                     Vacating the east 30 feet of La Salle Street commencing at
816      8-31-94     its intersection with Union Street for a distance of 100
                     feet north of said intersection.
                     Vacating Liberty Street from the south line of Lincoln
819      10-5-94     Street south to the north line of the Illinois and
                     Michigan Canal.
                     Vacating part of Bluff Street, also known as US Route 6,
828      12-7-94     lying adjacent to Lot 7 in Block 2 of Clark and
                     Underhill's Addition to Marseilles.
865      5-15-96     Vacating an un-named and unopened street lying adjacent to
                     Blocks 5 and 6 in Day & Mackeever's Addition to the city.
874      8-7-96      Vacating a portion of East Broadway Street.
908      7-23-97     Vacating a portion of 8th and 9th Street.
932      3-18-98     Vacating a portion of Sixth and Seventh Streets.
1167     6-2-04      Vacating all that part of unopened, unnamed street south
                     of Washington Street and north of the CSX Railroad.
1168     6-2-04      Vacating all that part of unopened Day Street.
1196     12-15-04    Vacating a portion of two public streets, Eighth and Ninth
                     Streets.
1207     6-15-05     Vacating a portion of Colorado Street.
1219     10-5-05     Vacating a portion of LaSalle Street.
1242     4-19-06     Vacating a portion of two public streets, Ninth and Tenth
                     Streets.
1249     5-17-06     Vacating the west half of Peoria Street.
1354     10-1-08     Vacating a portion of two public streets, Minden Street
                     and Tolin Street.
1503     1-16-12     Vacating a portion of Maiden Lane.
                     Vacating portions of Wallace Street, the alley, and
1559     12-17-14    Chicago Street adjacent to the elementary school located
                     at 201 Chicago Street.
                     Vacating a portion of an alley lying south of and
1636     6-7-17      adjoining Lot 1 in Block 5 between Orange Avenue and
                     Aberdeen Street.
                    
TABLE VII: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
            Zoning certain property being Lots 4, 9, 10, 15, 16 and 22 in Clark's Second
504  - -    Addition to the city, (except that part conveyed to the county) being a subdivision
            of 99 acres in the southwest fractional quarter in Section 7, Township 33 north,
            Range 5 east, as a “B” classification.
            Zoning certain property being Lots 2, 3 (except that part conveyed to the county),
            5, 8, 11, 14, 17, 20 and the west half of Lot 19 and the west half of Lot 24
         (except the south 100 feet thereof) in Clark's Second Addition to the city, being a
            subdivision of 99 acres in the southwest fractional quarter in Section 7, Township
            33 north, Range 5 east, as an “R-3” classification.
            Zoning certain property being Lots 1, 6, 7, 12 in Clark's Second Addition to the
          city, being a subdivision of 99 acres in the southwest fractional quarter in
            Section 7, Township 33 north, Range 5 east, and Lot 19 in the southwest fractional
            quarter of Section 7, Township 33 north, Range 5 east, as an “R-2” classification.
     5-21-  Amending the zoning map of the city to reclassify, rezone and redesignate that
510  73     territory contiguous to the present corporate limits of the city and extending one
            and one-half miles beyond said corporate limits.
     6-17-  Rezoning that part of the southeast quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 29,
522  74     Township 33 north, Range 5 east, from “A-2” Agricultural District to “R-2” Single
            Family and Two Family District.
            Zoning that part of the south half of the west half of the northwest quarter of
527  - -74  Section 13, Township 33 north, Range 4 east, as a Business District with a “zzzz”
            classification.
647  4-20-  Zoning that portion of Glenwood Park, an Addition to the city, lying south of Bluff
     83     Street, as an “R-2” Residence District.
     7-20-  Rezoning south 100 feet of Lots 12 and 13 in Marseilles Land and Water Power
730  88     Company addition to the city, from an “R-2” Residence District to a Business
            District.
            Rezoning 800 Clark Street, being the south half of the west half of the northwest
771  4-1-92 quarter of Section 13, Township 33, Range 4 east, from a Business District to “R-2”
            Single-Family Residence and Two-Family Residence District.
     12-18- Rezoning the northeast quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 17 and a part of
890  96     the southwest quarter of Section 16, Township 33 north, Range 5 east from A-
            2 Agricultural to R Rural.
     12-3-  Rezoning part of the southwest quarter of Section 6, and Lots 7 and 8 in the
918  97     northwest quarter of Section 7 according to the plat of assessor's subdivision of
            said Section 7 from A-2 Agricultural to M Manufacturing.
     12-17- Rezoning the Clark Underhill Addition to Marseilles, Lot 3 in Block 3, commonly
923  97     known as 469 State Street with PIN No. 15-49-409- 005 from R-2 Single and Two-
            family Residence to B Business.
946  8-19-  Rezoning 2816 E. 2575 Road from R-2 Single Family and Two-Family Residence to A
     98     Agricultural.
955  12-2-  Rezoning Lot 12 in Block 3 in Clark and Underhill's Addition to the city, known as
     98     470 Roath Street, from R2 Single and Two-Family Residence to Business District.
1161 4-21-  Zoning certain property as CR-2 Conservation- Recreation 2.
     04
1205 6-15-  Providing for CR-2 zoning for the property commonly known as The Cliffs Insane
     05     Terrain Off-Highway-Vehicle Park.
1206 6-15-  Providing for R-2 zoning for a portion of the property commonly known as The Cliffs
     05     Insane Terrain Off-Highway-Vehicle Park.
            Rezoning part of the southwest quarter of Section 6, Township 33 north, Range 5
1209 7-6-05 east of the Third Principal Meridian from A-2 General Agricultural District to
            Business District
     9-21-  Rezoning part of the north half of Section 21, Township 33 north, Range 5 east of
1216 05     the Third Principal Meridian from A-2 General Agricultural District to
            Manufacturing District.
            Rezoning part of the east half of Section 18, Township 33 north, Range 5 east of
1238 2-1-06 the Third Principal Meridian from C-2 Conservation- Recreation District to R-
            2 Residential District.
            Zoning newly annexed property for Rivers Edge Developers, LLC, part of Lot 10 in
1294 9-5-07 the northwest quarter of Section 14 and part of Lot 11 in the southwest quarter of
            Section 14, Township 33 North, Range 4 east of the Third Principal Meridian, as R3
            Multiple-Family Residence District.
            Rezoning part of Lot 9 in the northwest quarter of Section 7, Township 33 North,
1295 9-5-07 Range 5 east of the Third Principal Meridian, from A2 General Agricultural District
            to R2 Single-Family Residence and Two Family Residence District.
1305 11-7-  Zoning two parcels as B Business District:
     07
          The south 60 feet of Lots 11 and 12 in Block 15 in the Marseilles Land and Water
            Power Company’s Addition; and
          Commencing at the northeast corner of Lot 10 in Block 15 in the Marseilles Land and
            Water Power Company’s Addition, as further described in Ordinance 1305.
1325 1-16-  Rezoning lots 1, 2, 11, and 12 of Block 3 in Scott’s Addition to Marseilles from R2
     08     Single and Two-family Residence District to R3 Multiple-family Residence District.
     8-20-  Zoning a 17-acre parcel of land located in Section 21 of Manilus Township, North of
1349 08     U.S. Route 6 belonging to the Spicer Gravel Company as within an M Manufacturing
            District.
1350 8-20-  Rezoning the property located at 215 Walnut Street from B Business District to R-
     08     2 Single-family and Two-family Residential District.
            Zoning property described as all that part of the east half of the northeast
            quarter of Section 20, Township 33 North, Range 5, east of the third principal
1400 1-6-10 meridian, lying north of the Illinois and Michigan Canal and south of that portion
            thereof occupied by the former Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railroad as within
            a B Business District.
            Rezoning property identified for property tax purposes as PIN 15-49-409-004 and
1421 8-4-10 legally described as Lot 4 in Block 3 in Clark and Underhill’s Addition, commonly
            known as 475 State Street, from R2 Single-Family and Two-Family Residence District
            to B Business District.
1505 3-6-13 Zoning Lot 1 in Hinrichs’ subdivision as B Business District and Lot 2 in Hinrichs’
            subdivision as R-2 Single and Two-Family Residence District.
1555 6-18-  Rezoning the following properties from CR Conservation-Recreation District to R2
     14     Single-Family and Two-Family Residence District:
             (1)   737 Wilson Street;
             (2)   677 Wilson Street;
             (3)   675 Wilson Street;
             (4)   679 Wilson Street; and
             (5)   three parcels located east of Wilson Street in the Southeast Quarter of
            Section 18, Township 33 North, Range 5, East of the Third Principal Meridian.
            Rezoning property owned by Richard Young, and described as Lot 1 and part of Lots
1665 4-4-18 6, 8, 9, and 10 of Marseilles Land and Water Power Company’s Addition to
            Marseilles, as A3 Rural Residential District.
1667 4-4-18 Rezoning property commonly known as 2577 E. 2575th Road as being within a
            Manufacturing District.
1668 5-2-18 Re-adopting the official Zoning Map for the City of Marseilles.
1709 5-15-  Rezoning previously annexed property with Persona Real Estate LLC as A2 General
     19     Agricultural District.
            Granting a zoning map amendment for property of River’s Edge Developers, LLC from,
1711 6-5-19 R-3 Multi-family Residential District to theat of being within an A-2 General
            Agricultural District.
           
 
TABLE VIII: SEWER RATES AND CHARGES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Establishing charges or rates for each user of certain
                     extensions and improvements to the existing sewer system
704      7-2-86      of the city in order to pay the principal and interest of
                     bonds authorized to be issued pursuant to Ordinance 692,
                     and for the purpose of paying for the costs of operation
                     and maintenance thereof.
                     Establishing charges or rates for each user of certain
                     extensions and improvements to the existing sewer system
801      9-15-93     of the city in order to pay the principal and interest of
                     bonds authorized to be issued pursuant to Ordinance 791,
                     and for the purpose of paying for the costs of operation
                     and maintenance thereof.
                     Establishing charges or rates for each user of certain
                     extensions and improvements to the existing sewer system
859      2-21-96     of the city in order to pay the principal and interest of
                     bonds authorized to be issued pursuant to Ordinance 852,
                     and for the purpose of paying for the costs of operation
                     and maintenance thereof.
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to 1972 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Cite Code Section
ILCS Cite                             Code Section
Ch. 5, Act 330, §§ 1 et seq.        35.26
                                      39.40,
Ch. 5, Act 425, §§ 1 et seq.        39.44,
                                      39.45
Ch. 5, Act 425, § 4(a)(6)            39.42
Ch. 5, Act 425, § 35                 39.41
Ch. 5, Act 425, § 83                 39.40
Ch. 5, Act 425, § 95                 39.43
Ch. 5, Act 430, §§ 1-1 et seq.      31.03
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 5-65               35.27
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 15-10              35.27
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5               31.03
Ch. 20, Act 1605, §§ 1 et seq.      135.02
Ch. 20, Act 3305, § 1 et seq.        38.01,
                                      38.09
                                      38.04,
Ch. 20, Act 3305, § 7                95.60,
                                      95.61
Ch. 20, Act 3305, § 11               95.60
Ch. 20, Act 3305, § 13               38.05
Ch. 20, Act 3305, § 20               38.10
Ch. 30, Act 235, § 2.5               31.16
Ch. 35, Act 115, § 9                 37.17
Ch. 35, Act 120, § 1                 37.01
Ch. 40, Act 5, § 3-101 et seq.       34.55
Ch. 40, Act 5, § 3-127               34.60
Ch. 40, Act 5, § 3-128               34.56
Ch. 40, Act 5, §§ 7-101 et seq.     35.22
Ch. 50, Act 705, § 1 et seq.         34.09
Ch. 50, Act 750, §2 et seq.          33.70
Ch. 65, Act 5                         10.05
Ch. 65, Act 5, Division 13, Art. 11   33.54
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1               154.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 4-4-2               30.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-1              37.01,
                                      37.71
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-2              37.71
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-5              37.15
                                      33.80,
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 10-2.1-1 et seq.  33.82,
                                      33.85,
                                      33.86
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-1-5              132.02
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-1-6              95.60,
                                      95.61
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-10-1 et seq.   37.25,
                                      37.26
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-12-4 et seq.   33.50
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-12-12            154.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-13-3             33.52
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-30-2             154.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-30-8             154.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-31-2             154.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-40-1             71.001,
                                      75.10
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-45-1             33.13
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-74.4-1 et seq. 39.60
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-74.4-5(a)        39.60
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-74.4-5(c)        39.60
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-74.4-5(d)        39.60
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-74.4-5(d)(9)     39.60
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-74.4-5(e)        39.60
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-95-1 et seq.   33.25
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-96-1             33.26
Ch. 75, Act 5, Articles 1 - 5         94.01
Ch. 105, Act 5                        132.05
Ch. 210, Act 115                      151.01
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 3-105              124.03
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 16-102             124.03
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 16-108.5           124.03
Ch. 230, Act 15, §§ 0.01 et seq.    135.06
Ch. 230, Act 15, §§ 1 et seq.       135.02
Ch. 230, Act 25, §§ 1 eet seq.      135.02
                                      112.46,
Ch. 230, Act 40, §§ 1 et seq.       135.01 -
                                      135.03,
                                      135.05
                                      112.19,
Ch. 235, Act 5                        112.41,
                                      112.99
Ch. 235, Act 5, Art. 1                112.02
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 2-1                112.18
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-13               112.42
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-16               95.72,
                                      112.40
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-20               95.72,
                                      112.40
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 7-9                112.64
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 7-5                112.99
                                      50.01,
Ch. 415, Act 5, §§ 1 et seq.        93.16,
                                      95.50
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 3.14               71.103
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 3.15               71.103
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 3.81               71.103
Ch. 415, Act 105, § 3                71.103
Ch. 415, Act 105, § 3                136.01
Ch. 415, Act 105, § 4                136.02
Ch. 415, Act 105, § 5                136.03
Ch. 415, Act 105, § 6                136.04
Ch. 415, Act 105, § 8                136.07
Ch. 415, Act 105, § 9                136.05
Ch. 415, Act 105, § 10               136.06
Ch. 425, Act 25, §§ 9 - 9e          150.15
Ch. 425, Act 35, § 2                 92.04
Ch. 605, Act 120, §§ 1 et seq.      70.35
Ch. 625                               73.062,
                                      73.064
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-102              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-105              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-106              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-107              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-108              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, §1-111.8             70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-112              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-113              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-116              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-120              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-125              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-126              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-130              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-131              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-132              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-135              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-136              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-137              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-138              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-139.1            70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-140              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-145.001          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-146              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-147              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-148.2            70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-148.3            70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, §1-148.3a            70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, §1-148.6             70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-153              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-154              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-155              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-157              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-158              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-159.1            70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-162              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, §1-162.5             70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-163              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-166              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-166.1            70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-167              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-168              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-169              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-171              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, §1-171.6             70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, §1-171.8             70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-172              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-174              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-176              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-177              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-178              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-179              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-181              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-182              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-187              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-187.1            70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-188              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-193              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-194              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-195              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-196              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-197              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-199              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-200              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-201              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-203              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-205              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-205.1            70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-207              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-208              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-209              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-210.01           70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-211              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-211.01           70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-212              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-214              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-214.8            70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-217              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-219              70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-609              72.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-616              72.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 4-201 et seq.    90.05
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-203              34.44
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-203(e)           34.44
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-101              99.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-303              99.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-203             70.10
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-205             70.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-206             70.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-209.1           71.045
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-301             70.01,
                                      72.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-302             70.41
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-305             70.30
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-306             70.31
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-307             70.32
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-308             70.33
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-309             70.34
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-310             70.35
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-311             70.35
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-312             70.37
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-313             70.38
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-401             76.03
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-402             76.05
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-403             76.04
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-404             76.06
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-406(a)          76.07
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-406             76.07
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-406(b)          76.07
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-409             76.08
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-410             76.09
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-415             76.07
Ch. 625, Act 5, §11-501              99.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-503(a)          76.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-504             76.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-601             71.001
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-604             71.001
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-605             71.002
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-606(a)          71.003
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-701             71.040
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-702             71.041
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-703             71.042
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-704             71.043
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-705             71.044
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-706             71.044
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-707             71.047
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-708             71.046
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-709             71.048
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-710             71.096
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-801             71.020
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-802             71.021
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-803             71.022
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-804             71.023
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-805             71.024
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-806             71.025
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-901             71.060
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-902             71.061
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-903             71.062
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-904             71.063
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-905             71.064
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-906             71.065
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-907             71.066
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1001            74.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1002            74.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1003            74.03
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1003.1          74.04
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1004            74.05
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1004.1          74.13
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1005            74.06
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1006            74.07
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1007            74.08
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1008            74.09
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1009            74.10
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1010            74.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1011            74.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1201            71.080
Ch. 625, Act 5, §11-1201.1           71.084
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1202            71.082
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1204            70.41
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1205            71.082
Ch. 625, Act 5, §11-1301.1           72.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301.2          72.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301.3          72.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301.3(c)       72.99
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301.3(d)       72.99
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1302            72.40
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1303            72.10
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1304            72.01,
                                      72.10
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1305            72.41
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1401            72.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1402            71.095
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1403            73.046
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1403.2          73.049
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1404            73.047
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1405            73.048
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1406            71.097
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1407            71.098
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1410            71.099
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1411            71.100
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1412            71.100
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1412.1          71.101
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1413            71.103
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1414            71.045
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1416            71.104
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1418            71.105
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1420            71.067
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1425            71.083
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1502            73.001
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1503            73.002
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1504            73.003
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1505            73.004
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1505.1          73.004
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1506            73.005
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1507            73.006
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 12-100 et seq.   75.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-101             75.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-208             71.023,
                                      71.024
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-215             70.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-601             74.10
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-803             71.045
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-805             71.045
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-105             75.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-106             75.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-109             75.13
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-114             75.14
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 16-101 et seq.   70.99
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 18c-7201           124.03
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 700-1 et seq.    71.081
Ch. 625, Act 40, § 6-1               73.064
Ch. 625, Act 40, §§ 1-1 - 11-1      73.060
Ch. 720, Act 5                        99.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 2-2                130.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 2-3                130.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 2-4                130.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 2-12               130.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 4-4                130.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 4-5                130.03
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 4-6                130.04
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 4-7                130.05
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 7-1                34.43
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 7-2                34.43
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 7-5                34.39,
                                      34.43
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 7-8                34.43
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 7-9                34.43
Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 8-1 et seq.      95.72
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 8-4                130.06
Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 9-1 et seq.      95.72
Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 10-1 et seq      95.72
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-9               134.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-14              95.72
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-15              95.72
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-16              95.72
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-17              95.72
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-20              95.72,
                                      134.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-20.1            95.72
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-21              95.72,
                                      134.03
Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 12-1 et seq.     95.72
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 12-12              134.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 16-1 et seq.     95.72
Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 20-2 et seq.     95.72
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 21-1.1             131.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 21-3               131.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 24-1 et seq.     95.72
Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 25-1 et seq.     95.72
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 26-1               95.72,
                                      132.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 28-1 et seq.     95.72
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-1               135.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-1(a)(4)         135.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-2(a)(1) - (a)(4)135.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-2               135.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-3               135.03
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-5(a)            135.04
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-5(b)            135.04
Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 31-1 et seq.     95.72
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 31-1               133.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 31-8               133.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 32-9               133.03
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 36-1               99.02
Ch. 720, Act 550, §§ 1 et seq.      95.72,
                                      139.01
Ch. 720, Act 570, §§ 100 et seq.    95.72
Ch. 720, Act 600, §§ 1 et seq.      139.01
Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq.    40.08
Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 3-109            40.09
Ch. 740, Act 174, § 15(a)            35.27
Ch. 740, Act 174, § 15(b)            35.27
Ch. 765, Act 205, § 2                154.08
Ch. 775, Act 5, § 6-101              35.27
Ch. 820, Act 115, § 9.5              31.06
                                      
 
REFERENCES TO 1972 CODE
1972 Code Section 1994 Code Section
1972 Code Section 1994 Code Section
1.03              10.13
1.05              10.19
1.06(a)           10.99
1.06(b)           10.98
1.06(g)           10.08
1.08              10.97
1.11              10.20
3.16(a)           94.01
3.16(b)           94.02
3.16(c)           94.03
3.16(d)           94.04
3.17(a)           38.01
3.17(b)           38.02
3.17(c)           38.03
3.17(d)           38.04
3.17(e)           38.05
3.17(f)           38.06
3.17(g)           38.07
3.17(h)           38.08
3.17(i)           38.09
3.17(j)           38.10
3.17(k)           38.11
3.17(l)           38.12
3.19              11.01
3.20(d)           36.13
3.20(e)           36.14
3.20(f)           36.15
3.20(g)           36.16
3.20(h)           36.17
3.20(i)           36.18
3.20(j)           36.19
3.20(k)           36.20
6.01              97.002
6.03              97.044
6.04              97.005
6.05              97.020
6.06              97.022
6.07              97.021
6.08(a)           97.035
6.08(b)           97.040
6.08(d)           97.037
6.08(e)           97.038
6.08(f)           97.039
6.08(g)           97.041
6.08(h)           97.042
6.09              97.043
6.10              97.004
6.11              97.009
6.12              97.006
6.13              93.03
6.14              97.024
6.15              97.010
6.16              97.011
6.17              97.012
6.18              97.023
6.19(a)           97.055
6.19(b)           97.056
6.19(c)           97.057
6.19(d)           97.058
6.20              97.008
11.03             51.004
12.02(a)          95.01
12.06(a)          90.01
12.06(b)          90.02
12.06(c)          90.03
12.06(d)          90.04
12.06(e)          90.05
12.06(f)          90.99
12.07(a)          150.10
12.07(b)          150.11
12.07(c)          150.12
12.07(e)          150.13
12.07(d)          150.13
12.07(f)          150.14
12.07(g)          150.15
14.01             151.01
14.02(a)          151.15
14.02(b)          151.16
14.02(c)          151.17
14.02(d)          151.18
14.03             151.02
14.04             151.03
14.05             151.04
14.06             151.05
22.01             153.01
23.01             152.01
23.02             152.02
24.01             92.15
24.02             92.16
24.03             92.17
24.04             92.18
24.05             92.19
24.06             92.20
24.07             92.21
24.08             92.22
24.09             92.23
24.10             92.99
31.01             110.01
31.02             110.02
31.03             110.03
31.04             110.04
31.05             110.05
31.06             110.06
31.07             110.07
31.08             110.08
31.09             110.09
31.10             110.10
31.11             110.11
31.12             110.12
31.13             110.13
32.01(a)          114.01
32.01(b)          114.02
32.01(c)          114.03
32.01(d)          114.04
32.02(a)          114.15
32.02(b)          114.16
32.02(c)          114.17
32.02(d)          114.18
32.02(e)          114.19
32.02(f)          114.20
32.02(g)          114.21
32.03(a)          116.01
32.03(b)          116.02
32.03(c)          116.03
32.03(d)          116.04
32.04(a)          115.30
32.04(b)          115.31
32.04(c)          115.32
32.05(a)          116.15
32.05(b)          116.16
32.05(c)          116.17
32.05(d)          116.18
32.05(e)          116.19
32.06(a)          111.01
32.06(b)          111.02
32.06(c)          111.03
32.07(a)          115.01
32.07(b)          115.02
32.07(c)          115.03
32.07(d)          115.04
32.08(a)          113.01
32.08(b)          113.02
32.09(a)          113.15
32.09(b)          113.16
32.09(c)          113.17
32.09(d)          113.18
32.09(e)          113.19
32.10(a)          115.15
32.10(b)          115.16
32.10(c)          115.17
32.11(a)          113.30
32.11(b)          113.31
32.11(c)          113.32,
                  113.33
32.12(a)          113.45
32.12(b)          113.46
32.12(c)          113.47
32.13(a)          113.60,
                  113.61
32.13(b)          113.62
32.13(c)          113.63
32.13(d)          113.64
32.13(e)          113.65
32.13(f)          113.66,
                  113.67
34.01(a)          37.01
34.01(b)          37.02
34.01(c)          37.03
34.01(d)          37.04
34.02(a)          37.15
34.02(b)          37.16
34.02(c)          37.17
34.02(d)          37.18
35.01             37.25
35.02             37.26
35.03             37.27
35.04             37.28
41.03             76.09
41.18             76.09
44.04             92.04
44.06             134.04
44.09             131.04
44.10             95.35
44.11             93.01
44.12             97.007
44.13(b)          92.02
44.14             92.03
44.15             132.02
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
493      1-24-72     T.S.O., Table IV
500½    10-2-72     T.S.O., Table VI
502      3-5-73      T.S.O., Table I
503      3-5-73      T.S.O., Table I
504      - -         T.S.O., Table VII
505      3-5-73      T.S.O., Table I
507      12-18-72    150.01
509      5-7-73      T.S.O., Table VI
510      5-21-73     T.S.O., Table VII
511      5-21-73     T.S.O., Table V
512      5-21-73     T.S.O., Table V
513      5-21-73     T.S.O., Table II
518      4-15-74     Ch. 78, Sched. I
521      5-6-74      31.17
522      6-17-74     T.S.O., Table VII
                     51.001 -
                     51.006,
                     51.020 -
                     51.024,
523      7-1-74      51.035 -
                     51.044,
                     51.055 -
                     51.063,
                     51.998,
                     51.999
524      6-17-74     T.S.O., Table VI
526      6-16-74     T.S.O., Table I
527      - -74       T.S.O., Table VII
533      11-25-74    T.S.O., Table II
535      3-17-75     T.S.O., Table I
536      4-7-75      T.S.O., Table VI
537      6-16-75     32.23
543      7-7-75      T.S.O., Table I
546      9-2-75      34.02
548      10-20-75    T.S.O., Table VI
                     52.01 -
549      12-22-75    52.07,
                     52.15 -
                     52.23
550      2-16-76     T.S.O., Table V
551      4-19-76     Ch. 78, Sched. I
552      4-19-76     Ch. 77, Sched. III
553      4-19-76     33.01
554      4-19-76     33.02
555      4-19-76     T.S.O., Table III
559      11-15-76    T.S.O., Table IV
563      10-17-77    52.17
565      11-28-77    52.01
                     51.001,
                     51.036,
566      12-19-77    51.057,
                     51.058,
                     51.062,
                     51.063
567      12-19-77    30.15
568      4-3-78      116.19
570      5-15-79     T.S.O., Table I
572      6-19-78     T.S.O., Table I
574      8-7-78      151.03
576      9-6-78      T.S.O., Table V
                     51.001,
578      9-6-78      51.100,
                     51.101,
                     51.999
582      2-19-79     T.S.O., Table I
                     38.01 -
                     38.10,
584      3-19-79     38.11,
                     38.12,
                     T.S.O., Table V
589      8-20-79     T.S.O., Table V
590      8-20-79     T.S.O., Table VI
595      12-17-79    T.S.O., Table VI
599      1-7-80      T.S.O., Table VI
601      1-7-80      Ch. 78, Sched. III
602      2-4-80      30.15
603      2-4-80      T.S.O., Table VI
                     113.32,
                     113.33,
605      3-19-80     113.62,
                     113.64,
                     113.65
607      6-19-78     T.S.O., Table VI
621      4-15-81     151.03
623      6-3-81      Ch. 78, Sched. II
624      5-20-81     52.17
627      9-2-81      37.70 -
                     37.73
628      9-30-81     37.73
631      1-6-82      37.40 -
                     37.42
632      1-6-82      37.55 -
                     37.57
                     112.01 -
                     112.04,
                     112.15 -
                     112.31,
633      7-7-82      112.40 -
                     112.46,
                     112.60 -
                     112.63,
                     112.99
642      8-18-82     T.S.O., Table I
646      10-13-82    Ch. 77, Sched. I
647      4-20-83     T.S.O., Table VII
651      1-5-83      52.17
652      1-5-83      34.20 -
                     34.43 
653      1-19-83     Ch. 78, Sched. I,
                     Ch. 78, Sched. I
657      4-20-83     T.S.O., Table VI
659      6-1-83      Ch. 78, Sched. I
661      7-20-83     34.55 -
                     34.60
665      9-21-83     112.44
669      12-15-83    52.17
670      1-18-84     Ch. 77, Sched. IV
673      6-6-84      Ch. 78, Sched. II,
                     Ch. 78, Sched. II
676      9-19-84     39.01 -
                     39.06
677      10-17-84    132.03
678      12-9-84     Ch. 77, Sched. VI
678      12-19-84    73.060 -
                     73.064
679      1-2-85      Ch. 77, Sched. IV
                     137.01,
681      1-2-85      137.03,
                     137.99
682      1-16-85     137.02 repealed
                     34.22,
683      2-20-85     34.23,
                     34.39,
                     34.42
684      5-1-85      Ch. 78, Sched. II
685      5-30-85     T.S.O., Table IV
                     52.16,
693      12-30-85    52.17,
                     52.18
                     51.001,
694      12-30-85    51.075 -
                     51.084,
                     51.998
695      12-30-85    31.02
696      2-5-86      Ch. 78, Sched. I
697      2-5-86      T.S.O., Table II
698      2-19-86     T.S.O., Table II
700      3-5-86      93.02
701      4-2-86      T.S.O., Table I
703      6-18-86     T.S.O., Table I
704      7-2-86      T.S.O., Table VIII
707      10-1-86     T.S.O., Table I
708      12-17-86    52.16
709      2-18-87     T.S.O., Table I
710      5-6-87      T.S.O., Table V
712      6-17-87     T.S.O., Table II
714      7-16-87     T.S.O., Table I
715      7-15-87     Ch. 78, Sched. I
716      9-2-87      T.S.O., Table II
717      9-16-87     34.20 -
                     34.43
718      10-7-87     T.S.O., Table I
719      10-7-87     T.S.O., Table I
720      11-5-87     51.075
722      12-2-87     112.16
723      12-2-87     T.S.O., Table I
724      12-16-87    T.S.O., Table I
725      1-6-88      51.075,
                     51.084
727      3-2-88      37.85
730      7-20-88     T.S.O., Table VII
731      7-20-88     Ch. 78, Sched. I
733      10-5-88     35.03
                     93.15 -
737      12-7-88     93.21,
                     112.01
738      12-7-88     T.S.O., Table II
739      12-21-88    T.S.O., Table I
                     50.01,
741      4-5-89      50.10 -
                     50.14,
                     50.99
742      4-20-89     75.10
746      3-7-90      Ch. 78, Sched. III
747      3-21-90     Ch. 77, Sched. V
748      6-20-90     T.S.O., Table VI
                     52.16,
750      7-3-90      52.17,
                     52.18
                     51.075,
751      7-2-90      51.076,
                     51.082
752      8-1-90      T.S.O., Table I
754      11-21-90    Ch. 78, Sched. I
759      6-5-91      116.05
761      8-7-91      T.S.O., Table I
762      10-2-91     T.S.O., Table VI
769      3-4-92      35.04
771      4-1-92      T.S.O., Table VII
                     150.25 -
775      6-17-92     150.34,
                     150.99
                     112.02,
                     112.18,
778      7-1-92      112.19,
                     112.47,
                     112.48
780      7-15-92     T.S.O., Table I
781      7-2-92      Ch. 78, Sched. I
                     50.25 -
787      11-18-92    50.30,
                     50.99
790      2-24-93     T.S.O., Table IV
792      5-19-93     34.44
793      5-5-93      T.S.O., Table V
795      6-2-93      51.001,
                     51.044
796      6-16-93     51.075
797      6-23-93     T.S.O., Table II
798      6-23-93     Ch. 77, Sched. IV
800      9-1-93      T.S.O., Table VI
801      9-15-93     T.S.O., Table VIII
802      10-20-93    132.02,
                     118.07
805      12-15-93    T.S.O., Table I
806      1-19-94     T.S.O., Table VI
807      1-19-94     T.S.O., Table VI
808      2-2-94      118.99
810      4-6-94      T.S.O., Table VI
812      7-27-94     T.S.O. I
813      8-3-94      Ch. 77, Sched. IV
816      8-31-94     T.S.O. VI
817      9-21-94     T.S.O. I
819      10-5-94     T.S.O. VI
822      11-2-94     T.S.O. I
823      11-2-94     T.S.O. I
824      11-2-94     T.S.O. I
825      11-2-94     T.S.O. I
828      12-7-94     T.S.O. VI
831      12-21-94    Adopting Ordinance
836-A    4-5-95      112.27 repealed
837      4-5-95      T.S.O. V
838      4-19-95     33.70 -
                     33.77
                     34.01,
849      7-26-95     34.22,
                     34.23
850      9-6-95      51.075,
                     52.17
                     51.043,
851      9-6-95      52.30,
                     52.31
856      12-6-95     Ch. 78, Sched. I
858      12-20-95    39.20 -
                     39.22
859      2-21-96     T.S.O. VIII
860      2-21-96     T.S.O. V
862      4-3-96      Ch. 78, Sched. I
864      4-17-96     T.S.O. V
865      5-15-96     T.S.O. VI
866      5-15-96     37.70 -
                     37.72
871      7-3-96      34.28
874      8-7-96      T.S.O. VI
                     90.01,
876      9-18-96     90.04,
                     90.99
879      11-20-96    T.S.O. I
890      12-18-96    T.S.O. VII
891      12-18-96    T.S.O. I
892      2-5-97      112.43
897      5-7-97      Ch. 138
903      5-21-97     T.S.O. I
906      7-23-97     132.04
907      7-23-97     T.S.O. I
908      7-23-97     T.S.O. VI
909      8-6-97      116.03 -
                     116.06
910      8-6-97      Ch. 119
911      8-20-97     Ch. 119
913      9-17-97     132.03
918      12-3-97     T.S.O. VII
920      12-3-97     Ch. 119
922      12-17-97    36.21
923      12-17-97    T.S.O. VII
925      2-18-98     T.S.O. I
926      2-18-98     T.S.O. I
927      2-18-98     T.S.O. I
928      3-11-98     51.075,
                     52.31
929      3-11-98     52.17,
                     52.30
932      3-18-98     T.S.O. VI
933      4-15-98     Ch. 77, Sched. IV
934      5-6-98      Ch. 77, Sched. I
                     120.01,
                     120.02,
                     120.07,
935      5-6-98      120.10,
                     120.11,
                     120.13,
                     120.14,
                     120.99
936      5-20-98     39.20 -
                     39.29
937      5-6-98      Ch. 77, Sched. IV
938      6-3-98      Ch. 77, Sched. IV
940      7-15-98     37.71
941      6-17-98     97.035,
                     97.036
942      7-1-98      112.16
943      7-1-98      T.S.O. I
946      8-19-98     T.S.O. VII
947      9-2-98      Ch. 77, Sched. IV
949      10-21-98    Ch. 77, Sched. IV
955      12-2-98     T.S.O. VII
957      12-2-98     71.106
954      12-16-98    T.S.O. I
959      12-16-98    T.S.O. III
960      1-20-99     Ch. 78, Sched. I
961      3-3-99      Ch. 78, Sched. I
963      4-7-99      30.01
964      4-7-99      112.64
965      4-7-99      33.73,
                     33.74
966      6-2-99      39.40 -
                     39.45
968      6-2-99      51.075,
                     52.17
969      6-2-99      51.078
970      6-2-99      52.20,
                     52.51
971      6-16-99     Ch. 78, Sch. IV repealed
978      8-18-99     37.71
979      9-15-99     52.38
980      9-15-99     51.043
981      9-15-99     51.001
982      9-15-99     Ch. 77, Sched. IV
983      9-15-99     Ch. 78, Sched. I
985      10-20-99    34.01,
                     34.23
996      1-19-00     Ch. 78, Sched. III
1000     3-15-00     70.99
1001     3-15-00     10.99
1004     6-7-00      Ch. 77, Sched. IV
1005     6-7-00      112.04
1016     7-19-00     51.075,
                     52.17
1017     7-19-00     Ch. 78, Sched. I
1025     11-15-00    33.72
1029     12-6-00     Ch. 78, Sched. II
1034     1-17-01     Ch. 78, Sched. I
1036     2-7-01      Ch. 78, Sched. I
1037     3-7-01      37.100 -
                     37.114
1058     10-17-01    51.075
1084     11-6-02     Ch. 77, Sched. V
1085     11-6-02     Ch. 77, Sched. IV
1082     9-18-02     37.70 -
                     37.72
1092     1-15-03     37.71
1096     5-7-03      Ch. 77, Sched. II
1101     6-4-03      Ch. 77, Sched. IV
1102     6-4-03      Ch. 78, Sched. I
1112     7-2-03      52.05
1113     7-2-03      52.24
1114     7-2-03      52.51
1119     7-16-03     71.021
1120     7-16-03     Ch. 78, Sched. I
1121     8-20-03     150.01
1124     9-3-03      51.075
1125     9-3-03      52.17
1127     9-3-03      52.30
1128     9-3-03      52.31
1129     9-3-03      150.01
1132     10-1-03     150.01
1138     11-5-03     96.02
1147     12-17-03    Ch. 78, Sched. I
1153     3-3-04      132.02
1154     3-17-04     50.28
1155     3-17-04     97.036
                     90.01,
1156     3-17-04     90.03 -
                     90.05,
                     90.99
1157     3-17-04     Ch. 77, Sched. IV
1158     3-17-04     Ch. 77, Sched. IV
1161     4-21-04     T.S.O. VII
1162     4-21-04     T.S.O. I
1163     5-5-04      31.03
1166     9-1-04      30.19
1167     6-2-04      T.S.O. VI
1168     6-2-04      T.S.O. VI
1174     8-4-04      Ch. 77, Sched. IV
1180     10-6-04     T.S.O. V
1181     10-6-04     52.69
1183     11-3-04     T.S.O. V
1192     12-15-04    T.S.O. V
1193     12-15-04    Ch. 77, Sched. IV
1196     12-15-04    T.S.O. VI
1198     5-18-05     72.13,
                     Ch. 78, Sch. I
1199     5-18-05     76.10
1205     6-15-05     T.S.O. VII
1206     6-15-05     T.S.O. VII
1207     6-15-05     T.S.O. VI
1208     7-6-05      36.03
1209     7-6-05      T.S.O. VII
1212     8-17-05     96.05
1213     9-7-05      52.80 -
                     52.91
1214     9-7-05      10.99
1215     9-21-05     52.30,
                     52.31
1216     9-21-05     T.S.O. VII
1219     10-5-05     T.S.O. VI
1221     11-2-05     T.S.O. IV
1230     12-21-05    150.01
1233     1-18-06     52.30,
                     52.31
1234     1-18-06     97.036
1235     1-18-06     150.01
1238     2-1-06      T.S.O. VII
1239     2-1-06      T.S.O. I
1240     2-15-06     52.01,
                     52.08
1241     2-15-06     52.16
1242     4-19-06     T.S.O. VI
1245     4-19-06     52.18
1246     5-3-06      36.12
1249     5-17-06     T.S.O. VI
1250     5-17-06     51.075
1251     6-7-06      Ch. 78, Sched. I
                     35.01,
                     35.15,
                     35.16,
                     35.18 -
                     35.26,
                     35.29,
1254     7-19-06     35.46 -
                     35.48,
                     35.55 -
                     35.57,
                     35.65 -
                     35.73,
                     35.80 -
                     35.82
1255     9-20-06     T.S.O., Table IV
1257     9-6-06      Ch. 77, Sched. I
1259     10-4-06     150.01
1260     10-18-06    30.04
1261     11-1-06     112.16
1262     11-15-06    35.05
1031     12-20-00    T.S.O., Table V
1281     4-4-07      T.S.O., Table I
1283     4-18-07     T.S.O., Table II
1288     8-1-07      T.S.O., Table I
1291     8-15-07     Ch. 77, Sched. IV
1294     9-5-07      T.S.O., Table VII
1295     9-5-07      T.S.O., Table VII
1292     9-19-07     132.05
1300     10-3-07     131.02
                     154.01 –
1302     11-7-07     154.13,
                     154.99
1304     11-7-07     51.075
1305     11-7-07     T.S.O., Table VII
1308     12-5-07     52.04,
                     52.50
1309     12-5-07     Ch. 77, Sched. IV
1310     12-5-07     Ch. 78, Sched. I
1311     12-5-07     Ch. 78, Sched. III
1312     12-19-07    99.01,
                     99.03
1320     12-19-07    Ch. 78, Sched. III
1321     12-19-07    Ch. 77, Sched. IV
1323     1-16-08     97.022
1325     1-16-08     T.S.O., Table VII
                     10.99,
                     30.17,
                     37.71,
                     50.99,
                     51.999,
                     52.08,
                     70.10,
                     70.36,
                     70.37,
                     70.99,
                     71.002,
                     71.080,
                     72.12,
                     72.99,
                     74.12,
                     76.08, Ch. 77, Schs.
                     I,
                     IV,
                     V, Ch. 78 Schs.
                     I,
                     II,
1326     2-20-08     III,
                     90.99,
                     92.99,
                     93.99,
                     96.99,
                     97.022,
                     97.999,
                     98.99,
                     112.04,
                     112.40,
                     112.99,
                     118.99,
                     120.99,
                     130.99,
                     132.02 –
                     132.05,
                     136.02 –
                     136.04,
                     136.06,
                     137.99,
                     138.99,
                     150.99,
                     Ch. 150 Appx A
                     91.01 –
1327     2-20-08     91.16,
                     91.99
1328     2-6-08      33.80 –
                     33.83
1331     2-20-08     121.01 –
                     121.08
1332     3-5-08      52.50
                     Ch. 78, Schs.
1343     8-6-08      I,
                     II
1345     8-20-08     52.16
1346     8-20-08     52.50
1347     8-20-08     52.20
1348     8-20-08     35.16,
                     35.24
1349     8-20-08     T.S.O., Table VII
1350     8-20-08     T.S.O., Table VII
1352     9-3-08      T.S.O., Table I
1353     9-17-08     34.01,
                     34.23
1354     10-1-08     T.S.O., Table VI
                     52.15,
1356     11-5-08     52.16,
                     52.20,
                     52.25
1357     11-5-08     31.10
                     35.15,
                     35.16,
                     35.18 –
                     35.26,
                     35.29,
                     35.46 –
                     35.48,
1358     12-3-08     35.55,
                     35.56,
                     35.65,
                     35.71,
                     35.73,
                     35.74,
                     35.81,
                     35.83
                     50.14,
1370     3-4-09      50.25 –
                     50.27
1377     5-20-09     96.06
1378     6-3-09      96.05
1380     6-17-09     Ch. 78, Sch. I
1384     8-5-09      33.51
1385     8-19-09     50.28
                     51.001,
1387     9-2-09      51.064,
                     51.065
1392     2-3-10      T.S.O., Table IV
1394     11-18-09    Ch. 78, Schs. I,
                     III
1400     1-6-10      T.S.O., Table VII
1401     1-20-10     T.S.O., Table I
1403     2-3-10      37.71
1404     3-17-10     153.01
1406     4-21-10     36.21
                     35.02,
                     35.15,
                     35.16,
                     35.18 –
                     35.26,
                     35.29,
                     35.44 –
1410     6-2-10      35.48,
                     35.55,
                     35.56,
                     35.65,
                     35.71,
                     35.73,
                     35.74,
                     35.83
1412     5-19-10     92.05,
                     92.99
1413     5-19-10     50.11,
                     50.13
1414     7-21-10     75.10
1417     6-16-10     95.01 –
                     95.09
1418     6-2-10      T.S.O., Table I
1421     8-4-10      T.S.O., Table VII
1422     9-15-10     T.S.O., Table I
1424     9-15-10     52.53
1425     11-3-10     51.078
1432     1-5-11      Ch. 78, Schs. I,
                     III
1437     7-6-11      33.80 –
                     33.89
1438     4-6-11      Ch. 78, Sch. I
1439     4-20-11     31.16
1440     5-4-11      112.16
1441     6-1-11      Ch. 77, Sch II,
                     Ch. 78, Sch. I
1445     6-15-11     34.01,
                     34.02
                     154.02,
                     154.03,
1447     7-6-11      154.06,
                     154.07,
                     154.11
1449     - -11       52.17
1450     - -11       112.30
1451     9-7-11      35.27 –
                     35.29
1452     9-21-11     52.20
1455     10-5-11     Ch. 78, Sch. I
                     35.15,
                     35.16,
                     35.18 –
                     35.26,
                     35.29,
                     35.44 –
1456     10-19-11    35.49,
                     35.55,
                     35.56,
                     35.65,
                     35.73,
                     35.74,
                     35.81,
                     35.83
1457     11-16-11    T.S.O., Table V
                     35.15,
                     35.16,
                     35.18 –
                     35.26,
                     35.29,
                     35.44 –
1465     1-18-12     35.49,
                     35.55,
                     35.56,
                     35.65,
                     35.73,
                     35.74,
                     35.81,
                     35.83
1466     1-18-12     Ch. 78, Sch. I
1467     1-18-12     34.23
1469     3-21-12     30.16
1470     3-21-12     30.20
                     117.01 –
1471     4-4-12      117.15,
                     117.99
1472     4-18-12     99.02 –
                     99.09
1473     5-16-12     53.01
1474     5-16-12     75.10
1476     6-6-12      135.01 –
                     135.05
1477     6-6-12      34.09
1478     6-6-12      123.01 –
                     123.05
1479     6-6-12      33.81
1481     6-6-12      122.01 –
                     122.07
1482     6-6-12      112.49
1486     6-20-12     123.01 –
                     123.05
1487     6-2-12      31.04
1489     7-18-12     122.04
1490     7-18-12     112.49
1491     8-15-12     T.S.O., Table V
1492     9-5-12      121.01
1493     10-3-12     112.15,
                     112.16
1494     10-3-12     112.16
1495     10-3-12     T.S.O., Table II
1502     12-5-12     T.S.O., Table I
1503     1-16-12     T.S.O., Table VI
1504     2-6-13      30.15
1505     3-6-13      T.S.O., Table VII
1506     4-24-13     150.01
1507     5-15-13     T.S.O., Table II
1510     8-21-13     135.06
                     116.03,
1511     6-5-13      116.05,
                     116.20
                     112.15,
1516     9-4-13      112.16,
                     112.44
1517     9-4-13      51.040,
                     51.041
1518     - -         94.05
1532     12-4-13     52.35
1533     1-15-14     52.20,
                     52.51
1534     2-5-14      Ch. 78, Sch. III
1535     3-5-14      112.46
                     113.32,
1536     4-2-14      113.46,
                     113.47
1537     4-2-14      53.01
1539     5-7-14      Ch. 78, Sch. I
1541     6-4-14      T.S.O., Table II
1542     6-4-14      Ch. 78, Sch. I
1543     6-4-14      52.05,
                     52.24
1546     6-18-14     91.10,
                     91.17
1548     6-18-14     95.20
1549     6-18-14     92.03,
                     92.05
                     72.01,
1550     6-18-14     72.10,
                     72.11
1551     6-18-14     Ch. 78, Sch. I
1552     6-18-14     Ch. 77, Sch. IV
1553     6-18-14     95.21
1554     6-18-14     73.064,
                     137.02
1555     6-18-14     T.S.O., Table VII
1559     12-17-14    T.S.O., Table VI
1563     11-19-14    Ch. 78, Schs. I and
                     III
1568     1-21-15     72.10
                     51.001,
                     51.005,
                     51.021,
                     51.064,
                     51.065,
                     51.075,
1571     4-15-15     51.076,
                     51.100,
                     52.01,
                     52.17,
                     52.18,
                     52.22,
                     52.50
1575     6-17-15     52.17
1579     9-2-15      95.01
                     97.115 –
1580     9-16-15     97.135,
                     97.999
1581     9-16-15     97.001
1585     10-7-15     153.01
1588     11-4-15     99.06
1589     11-4-15     52.91
1591     11-18-15    Ch. 77, Sch. IV
1595     1-20-16     51.075
1597     1-20-16     Ch. 78, Sch. I
1598     4-6-16      35.06
1599     4-20-16     51.075,
                     52.17
1603     5-18-16     153.01
1612     8-17-16     139.01 –
                     139.03
1613     8-17-16     99.01 –
                     99.10
1615     9-7-16      Ch. 77, Sch. II,
                     Ch. 77, Sch. IV
                     51.001,
1619     11-16-16    51.075,
                     52.01,
                     52.17
1623     12-21-16    31.05
                     72.25,
1626     1-18-16     72.40,
                     72.99,
                     Ch. 78, Sch. III
1625     1-18-17     40.01 –
                     40.11
1627     3-1-17      153.01
                     95.01,
1628     3-15-17     95.02,
                     95.35,
                     95.50
1629     3-15-17     132.01
1631     4-5-17      132.99
1632     4-5-17      75.10
1635     5-3-17      30.04
1636     6-7-17      T.S.O., Table VI
1643     9-6-17      35.06
1644     10-18-17    Ch. 78, Sch. I
1646     11-15-17    35.27
1647     12-6-17     39.60 –
                     39.71
1651     12-20-17    Ch. 77, Sch. IV
1652     1-17-18     35.27
1653     1-17-18     30.21
1655     2-7-18      153.01
1656     2-7-18      91.04
1657     2-7-18      T.S.O., Table V
1664     3-7-18      35.27
1665     4-4-18      T.S.O., Table VII
1666     4-4-18      T.S.O., Table I
1667     4-4-18      T.S.O., Table VII
1668     5-2-18      T.S.O., Table VII
1669     5-2-18      T.S.O., Table V
1670     6-6-18      95.01
                     38.01,
1671     5-16-18     38.03 –
                     38.09,
                     38.12
1673     6-6-18      Ch. 77, Sch. IV
1676A    6-20-18     T.S.O., Table V
1676B    7-3-18      T.S.O., Table V
1677     6-20-18     T.S.O., Table V
1678     7-3-18      124.01 –
                     124.07
1679     7-18-18     34.01,
                     34.02
1680     8-15-18     T.S.O., Table V
1681     8-15-18     T.S.O., Table V
1682     9-19-18     95.01
                     100.01 –
1683     9-19-18     100.05,
                     100.99
1684     10-3-18     31.16
1685     10-3-18     10.99
1686     10-3-18     50.28
1687     10-17-18    T.S.O., Table V
1688     10-17-18    100.02
1690     11-7-18     35.27
1691     11-7-18     153.01
1692     11-7-18     153.01
1695     12-5-18     T.S.O., Table V
1696     12-19-18    112.44
1697     1-2-19      T.S.O., Table V
1698     1-2-19      T.S.O., Table V
1699     1-16-19     Ch. 78, Sch. IV
                     73.004,
                     73.007,
                     73.015,
                     73.016,
                     73.030,
1700     2-6-19      73.031,
                     73.045,
                     73.075 –
                     73.079,
                     73.095 –
                     73.097,
                     73.999
1701     2-20-19     72.25,
                     72.99
                     120.01 ,
                     120.02,
1703     3-6-19      120.07,
                     120.10,
                     120.11,
                     120.13
1704     3-6-19      T.S.O., Table V
1705     3-20-19     T.S.O., Table V
1706     4-17-19     31.06
                     120.01 ,
                     120.02,
1707     4-17-19     120.07,
                     120.10,
                     120.11,
                     120.13
                     51.001,
1708     5-15-19     51.075,
                     52.01,
                     52.17
1709     5-15-19     T.S.O., Table VII
1710     5-15-19     153.01
1711     6-5-19      T.S.O., Table VII
1712     6-5-19      T.S.O., Table V
1713     6-5-19      T.S.O., Table V
1714     6-19-19     153.01
1716     7-17-19     37.130
1719     9-18-19     95.70 -
                     95.76
1723     10-16-19    50.27
1724     11-6-19     153.01
1732     12-18-19    153.01
                     33.40 -
1737     2-5-20      33.43,
                     52.52
1739     2-5-20      Ch. 77, Sch. IV
1740     2-5-20      112.15
1742     2-19-20     Ch. 77, Sch. VII
1743     3-4-20      153.01
1744     3-4-20      153.01
                     120.01 -
1746     3-4-20      120.14,
                     120.99
1748     4-1-20      51.075
1752     5-20-20     39.50 -
                     39.57
1754     5-28-20     153.01
                     95.60,
1755     5-28-20     95.61,
                     95.99
1757     6-3-20      110.01 -
                     110.13
1758     6-3-20      153.01
1761     7-15-20     Ch. 78, Sch. IV
1762     8-5-20      52.18
1763     8-5-20      Ch. 77, Sch. IV
1764     8-5-20      Ch. 77, Sch. I
1766     8-5-20      52.30,
                     52.31
1767     8-5-20      97.003
1769     9-2-20      T.S.O., Table I
1772     11-18-20    Ch. 78, Sch. I
1775     1-6-21      T.S.O., Table V
1787     4-21-21     Ch. 78, Sch. I
1788     5-5-21      96.07
1789     5-5-21      T.S.O., Table V
1790     5-5-21      T.S.O., Table V
1791     5-5-21      T.S.O., Table V
1792     5-5-21      T.S.O., Table V
1793     5-5-21      T.S.O., Table V
1794     5-5-21      T.S.O., Table V
                     33.50 -
1799     7-7-21      33.56,
                     33.58,
                     153.01
1800     7-7-21      52.17
1801     7-7-21      51.075
1802     7-21-21     T.S.O., Table V
1803     8-4-21      153.01
1810     12-15-21    33.27
1811     1-5-22      135.05
1814     1-19-21     112.50
1815     1-19-22     73.075
1818     4-6-22      153.01
1819     3-16-22     38.01 -
                     38.12
1822     6-1-22      38.60 - 38.68
1824     7-20-22     52.30,
                     52.31
                     54.078,
1825     7-20-22     52.20,
                     52.51
                    
 
 
