VILLAGE CODE
of the
VILLAGE OF MATHERVILLE
Code current through:
Ord. 4, Series of 2023, passed 2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the Village of Matherville, as supplemented, contains ordinances
up to and including ordinance 4, Series of 2023, passed 2023. Ordinances of the
Village adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to
the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the
Village office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the
code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
Matherville Village Code   1
Saving Clause   2
Definitions And Interpretations   3
General Penalty   4
Village President And Board Of Trustees   5
Village Officers And Employees   6
Travel, Meal And Lodging Expenses   7
Village Manager   8
CHAPTER 1
MATHERVILLE VILLAGE CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Jurisdiction
1-1-5: Copies On File
1-1-6: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the village board of trustees, this code is hereby declared to
be and shall hereafter constitute the official village code of Matherville.
This code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the MATHERVILLE VILLAGE
CODE and is hereby published by authority of the village board of trustees and
shall be supplemented to incorporate the most recent legislation of the village
as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (1993 Code § 1-1-1; amd. 2016 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the village of general and permanent effect, except
the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (1993 Code § 1-1-2)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
An ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be forwarded to the codifiers, and
the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in its proper place
in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be properly
identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code. (1993
Code § 1-1-3; amd. 2016 Code)
1-1-4: JURISDICTION:
Unless otherwise provided in this code, this code applies to acts performed
within the corporate limits of the village. Provisions of this code also apply
to acts performed outside the corporate limits and up to the limits prescribed
by law where the law confers power on the village to regulate such particular
acts outside the corporate limits. (2016 Code)
1-1-5: COPIES ON FILE:
Copies of this code shall be kept available at the village clerk's office for
public inspection at all reasonable hours. (2016 Code)
1-1-6: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said code, while in
actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and
remain the property of the village and shall be returned to the office of the
village clerk when directed so to do by order of the village board of trustees.
(1993 Code § 1-1-5; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances; Exceptions
1-2-2: Court Proceedings
1-2-3: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   General Ordinances Repealed; Exceptions: All general ordinances or
parts thereof heretofore adopted by the president and board of trustees and not
included in this code are repealed, except the following which are hereby
continued in full force and effect:
      1.   Ordinances authorizing contracts or the issue of municipal notes or
bonds.
      2.   Ordinances levying taxes or making special assessments.
      3.   Ordinances appropriating funds or establishing salaries.
      4.   Ordinances granting franchises or rights to corporations.
      5.   Ordinances relating to the establishment, dedication, opening,
grade, naming, improvement, altering, widening or vacating of any streets,
alleys, sidewalks, parks or public grounds.
      6.   Ordinances respecting the annexation of territory to the village, or
the conveyance or acceptance of real property or easements in real property.
      7.   Ordinances authorizing or relating to particular public
improvements.
      8.   Ordinances relating to elections.
      9.   Any special ordinances.
   B.   Continuation Of Existing Ordinances: All such ordinances shall continue
in full force and effect to the same extent as if fully set out herein. (1993
Code § 1-2-1; amd. 2016 Code)
1-2-2: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not,
as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act
done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued
or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect
any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the village herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the village under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code. (1993 Code § 1-2-3)
1-2-3: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code or any part thereof or any portion adopted by reference therein is
for any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or
effectiveness of the remaining portions of this code, or any part thereof or
any portion adopted by reference therein. The village board of trustees hereby
declares that it would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision,
paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any
one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses
or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Rules Of Construction; Interpretation
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; INTERPRETATION:
In the construction of this code, the following rules shall be observed, unless
such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the village
board of trustees or repugnant to the context of the provisions:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the president and village board of trustees may
be fully carried out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
   D.   Gender: The use of any gender based pronoun should not be construed to
be gender biased, but is only used for grammatical simplicity.
   E.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   F.   May/Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is mandatory.
   G.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   H.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other village officer to do some act or perform
some duty, it shall be construed to authorize the head of the department or
other officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   I.   Officers And Employees Generally: Whenever any officer or employee is
referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words "of the village of Matherville".
   J.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the
village has been changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter",
"section" and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to village ordinances is not meant to
amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1993 Code §§ 1-
3-1, 1-3-2; amd. 2016 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
BOARD OF TRUSTEES OR VILLAGE BOARD: The president and board of trustees of the
village of Matherville, Illinois.
   CODE: The village code of the village of Matherville and amendments thereto.
   COUNTY: The county of Mercer, state of Illinois.
   FISCAL YEAR: Begins May 1 of each year and ends on April 30 of the following
year.
   ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES: The Illinois Compiled Statutes, the latest
publication thereof.
   ILLINOIS MUNICIPAL CODE: Chapter 65 of the Illinois Compiled Statutes.
   MAYOR: President of the village board of trustees of Matherville.
   PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
   STATE: The state of Illinois.
   VILLAGE: The village of Matherville, county of Mercer, state of Illinois.
(1993 Code § 1-3-2; amd. 2016 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (1993
Code § 1-3-3; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Certain Persons
1-4-4: Intent To Defraud
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.   Penalty Imposed: Any person convicted of a violation of any section of
this code shall be fined in a sum not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for any one offense or imprisoned in
the county jail for not to exceed six (6) months, or both so fined and
imprisoned, excepting any specific section of this code wherein the maximum
fine is limited to a lesser amount. (1993 Code § 1-4-1; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Limitation; Compliance With Statute: The provisions of subsection A of
this section notwithstanding, no penalty shall be greater than that established
by state statute for the same offense. (2016 Code)
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this code the same as though it were a part of
each and every separate section unless otherwise indicated. Any person
convicted of a violation of any section of this code where a duty is prescribed
or obligation imposed, or where any action which is of a continuing nature is
forbidden or is declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such
duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise
specifically provided in this code.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (1993 Code § 1-4-3; amd. 2016 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF CERTAIN PERSONS:
   A.   Officers And Employees: No provision of this code designating the
duties of any officer or employee shall be so construed as to make such officer
or employee liable for any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform
such duty, unless the intent of the town board to impose such fine or penalty
on such officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the
section creating the duty. (1993 Code § 1-4-4)
   B.   Employers And Agents: When the provisions of any section of this code
prohibits the commission of an act, not only the person actually doing the
prohibited act or omitting the directed act, but also the employer and all
other persons concerned with or in aiding or abetting the said person shall be
guilty of the offense described and liable to the penalty set forth. (1993 Code
§ 1-1-4)
1-4-4: INTENT TO DEFRAUD:
Whenever an intent to defraud is required in order to constitute an offense, it
shall be sufficient if an intent appears to defraud any person. (1993 Code § 1-
1-4)
CHAPTER 5
VILLAGE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
1-5-1: Election And Functions Of Board Members
1-5-2: Village President
1-5-3: Standing And Special Committees
1-5-4: Board Meetings
1-5-5: Minutes, Records And Orders
1-5-1: ELECTION AND FUNCTIONS OF BOARD MEMBERS:
   A.   Election; Terms: The six (6) members of the board of trustees shall be
elected and serve for four (4) year terms. (1993 Code § 1-10-1; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Functions: The board of trustees shall be the legislative division of
the village and shall perform such duties and shall have such powers as may be
authorized by statute. (1993 Code § 1-10-1)
1-5-2: VILLAGE PRESIDENT:
   A.   Election; Term And Duties:
      1.   Election; Term: The village president shall be elected for a four
(4) year term. (2016 Code)
      2.   Duties: It shall be the duty of the president of the board of
trustees to preside at all meetings of the board at which he may be present
(having appointed a president pro tem to serve in his absence), preserving
order and decorum, call all special meetings, appoint all committees unless
otherwise ordered by the board, and shall perform the duties, and exercise the
powers which are or may be prescribed by statute or by the village ordinances,
and shall take care that the laws and ordinances are faithfully executed. (1993
Code §§ 1-6-1, 1-10-6)
   B.   Power To Remove Appointed Officers: The president shall have power to
remove any appointed officer at any time for incompetence of his duties, or
improper conduct as an officer, giving his reasons in writing. Such removal
shall be considered temporary. Trustees shall ratify the same at a regular or
special meeting. These proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the
Illinois municipal code as may be amended from time to time. (1993 Code § 1-6-
2)
   C.   Bond: The bond amount shall be three thousand dollars ($3,000.00).
(1993 Code § 1-6-3; amd. 2016 Code)
   D.   Vacancy In Office: A vacancy in the office of village president occurs
by reason of resignation, failure to elect or qualify, death, permanent
physical or mental disability, being convicted of a disqualifying crime,
abandonment of office consisting of three (3) unjustified absences from regular
monthly meetings, or removal of residency from the village. (1993 Code § 1-6-4)
1-5-3: STANDING AND SPECIAL COMMITTEES:
   A.   Appointment: At the first regular meeting of the board of trustees
after the annual election of officers of the village, the president shall
appoint standing committees for the ensuing year from the members of the board
of trustees, each committee to consist of not less than two (2) members of the
board as follows: finance; streets and alleys; water and sewer; village
property; parks and recreation; ordinance; and such other special committees as
may be authorized by the ordinances, rules and regulations of the board, which
committees shall perform any and all duties required of them by any ordinance
of the village or by any rule or regulation of the board of trustees. (1993
Code §§ 1-5-3, 1-10-8, 1-10-9; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Membership In Committees: The president shall appoint three (3) persons
to each special committee and designate a chairman. (1993 Code § 1-10-10; amd.
2016 Code)
1-5-4: BOARD MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The regular meetings of the village board of trustees
shall be held on the last Monday of each month of the year at the hour of six
o'clock (6:00) P.M. in the council chambers of the village hall, unless another
site shall be specified. (1993 Code §§ 1-5-1, 1-10-2, 1-10-5; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the village
president or by any three (3) members of the village board by written request
or notice being filed with the clerk and served on the trustees at least forty
eight (48) hours prior to the time specified for such meeting. Notices of
special meetings shall be served on trustees personally, or by leaving the
notice at each trustee's residence. (1993 Code § 1-10-3; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Notice Of Meetings:
      1.   Public notice of the schedule of regular meetings shall be given at
the beginning of each calendar or fiscal year and shall provide the dates,
times and places of such meetings.
      2.   Public notice is given by posting a copy of the notice at the
village hall or at the building in which the meeting is to be held. (1993 Code
§ 1-10-4)
   D.   Quorum: A majority of the elected members of the board shall constitute
a quorum. (1993 Code § 1-10-7)
   E.   Disturbing Meetings: It shall be unlawful to disturb any meeting of the
board of trustees or of any committee thereof, or to behave in a disorderly
manner at any such meeting. (1993 Code § 1-10-14)
   F.   Compliance With Open Meeting Act: All meetings of the board of trustees
and its committees and subcommittees shall be carried out in accordance with
the open meetings act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/1 et seq. (1993 Code §
1-10-15)
1-5-5: MINUTES, RECORDS AND ORDERS:
   A.   Minutes And Records: The village clerk shall keep minutes and records
of board of trustee's meetings and proceedings. (1993 Code §§ 1-10-12, 1-10-13)
   B.   Orders: The village clerk shall keep copies of all orders. (1993 Code §
1-10-11)
CHAPTER 6
VILLAGE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Salaries
1-6-2: Village Clerk
1-6-3: Village Treasurer
1-6-1: SALARIES:
   A.   Salaries of village officers shall be as follows:
 
Village president     $300.00 per month
Village clerk         300.00 per month
Village treasurer     300.00 per month
Village board members 75.00 per meeting
 
   B.   The village clerk and village treasurer shall also receive a fifty
dollar ($50.00) stipend for the purchase of internet access to assist in
performing their respective official duties. (Ord. 2014-8, 12-29-2014)
1-6-2: VILLAGE CLERK:
   A.   Election; Term: The village clerk shall be elected for a four (4) year
term. (2016 Code)
   B.   Oath And Bond: It shall be the duty of the village clerk, before
entering upon his official duties, to take and subscribe before a person
qualified to administer oaths, the oath prescribed in the constitution of the
state; and he shall also file a bond with good and sufficient sureties in the
penal sum of five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the faithful performance of the
duties of his office, which bond shall be approved by the board of trustees and
filed with the village treasurer. (1993 Code § 1-7-1; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Duties:
      1.   Documents: The clerk shall have charge of the village seal and all
records, bonds, vouchers, files and papers of the corporation pertaining to the
business of the board of trustees, except as otherwise provided by ordinance.
(1993 Code § 1-7-2)
      2.   Meeting Attendance; Keeping Records: It shall be the duty of the
clerk to provide a place for the meetings of the board of trustees and attend
all the meetings of the board, whether regular, special or adjourned, and keep
an accurate record of all their proceedings, showing the date of the meetings,
members present, and all other necessary facts in a book provided for that
purpose. (1993 Code § 1-7-3)
      3.   Filing Duties: He shall also file away in proper files all election
returns, all official oaths, bonds, and all other papers coming into his
possession by virtue of his office, noting on each the nature thereof, and the
date of filing. He shall also record in a book to be kept for that purpose all
ordinances passed by the board giving the date of passage, and the date when
such ordinances shall go into effect. (1993 Code § 1-7-4)
   D.   Vacancy In Office: A vacancy in the office of village clerk occurs by
reason of resignation, failure to elect or qualify, death, permanent physical
or mental disability, being convicted of a disqualifying crime, abandonment of
office consisting of three (3) unjustified absences from regular monthly
meetings, or removal of residency from the village. (1993 Code § 1-7-5)
1-6-3: VILLAGE TREASURER:
   A.   Election; Term: The village treasurer shall be elected for a four (4)
year term. (2016 Code)
   B.   Oath And Bond: Before entering upon his official duties, the village
treasurer shall take and subscribe, before a person authorized to administer
oaths, the oath prescribed by the constitution of the state, and he shall also
file with the board of trustees a bond in the penal sum of five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00) with good and sufficient sureties to be approved by the
board for the faithful discharge of his duties. (1993 Code § 1-8-1; amd. 2016
Code)
   C.   Duties:
      1.   The treasurer shall be the custodian of the clerk's bond, and all
notes, monies, and securities belonging to the village, which he shall safely
keep for the use of the village. He shall pay out of the general fund or
special fund, belonging to the village, all orders of the board of trustees
upon such funds signed by the clerk and approved by the president. He shall
keep in a book provided for that purpose, an accurate account of all monies,
notes and bonds coming into his hands as such treasurer, and of the disposition
made of them by the board of trustees.
      2.   He shall, at any time when required by the board, exhibit the
account books and vouchers for inspection. He shall stamp all orders drawn upon
him by order of the board as treasurer and when paid, mark the record "paid"
and the day of payment upon the order. (1993 Code § 1-8-2)
   D.   Separate Accounts And Receipts: The treasurer shall keep a separate
account of each fund and appropriation coming into his hands; and the debits
and credits belonging thereto; and shall give to every person paying money into
the treasury, a receipt therefor giving the date of payment and specifying upon
what account the same is paid. (1993 Code § 1-8-3)
   E.   Monthly And Annual Reports:
      1.   The treasurer shall, at each regular meeting of the board of
trustees, render an account under oath showing the condition of the village
finances. He shall accompany such report with a statement of all orders that
have been paid, and receipts on account of money paid out of any special fund.
He shall also keep a book in which shall be a description of all orders paid,
showing the date, amount, and number of the fund out of which the same was
paid, and the name of the person to whom paid.
      2.   He shall also once a year make out and file with the village clerk a
full and detailed account of all expenditures and all his transactions, showing
the condition of the treasury at such time, which account the clerk shall post
in some public place in the village. (1993 Code § 1-8-4)
   F.   Vacancy In Office: A vacancy in the office of village treasurer occurs
by reason of resignation, failure to elect or qualify, death, permanent
physical or mental disability, being convicted of a disqualifying crime,
abandonment of office consisting of three (3) unjustified absences from regular
monthly meetings, or removal of residency from the village. (1993 Code § 1-8-5)
CHAPTER 7
TRAVEL, MEAL AND LODGING EXPENSES
SECTION:
1-7-1: Definitions
1-7-2: Maximum Reimbursable Expenses
1-7-3: Reimbursement Expense Form
1-7-4: Expenses That Exceed Maximum
1-7-5: Entertainment Expenses
1-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
ENTERTAINMENT: Includes, but is not limited to, shows, amusements, theaters,
circuses, sporting events, or any other place of public or private
entertainment or amusement, unless ancillary to the purpose of the program or
event.
   PUBLIC BUSINESS: Expenses incurred in the performance of a public purpose
which is required or useful for the benefit of the Village to carry out the
responsibilities of Village business.
   TRAVEL: Any expenditure directly incident to official travel by employees
and officers of the Village or by wards or charges of the Village involving
reimbursement to travelers or direct payment to private agencies providing
transportation or related services. (Ord. 2017-1, 2-3-2017, eff. 3-2-2017)
1-7-2: MAXIMUM REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES:
The Village shall only reimburse the following types of travel, meal, and
lodging expenses incurred by its employees and officers up to the following
maximum allowable amounts: Eight hundred dollars ($800.00).
Alcohol is specifically excluded from reimbursement. (Ord. 2017-1, 2-3-2017,
eff. 3-2-2017)
1-7-3: REIMBURSEMENT EXPENSE FORM:
No reimbursement of travel, meal or lodging expenses incurred by a Village
employee or officer shall be authorized unless the "Travel, Meal, and Lodging
Expense Reimbursement Request Form" on file in the Village has been submitted
and approved. All documents and information submitted with the form shall be
subject to disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act 1 . (Ord. 2017-1, 2-
3-2017, eff. 3-2-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
1-7-4: EXPENSES THAT EXCEED MAXIMUM:
Expenses for travel, meals, and lodging of: a) any officer or employee that
exceeds the maximum reimbursement allowed under the regulations adopted under
section
 1-7-2 of this chapter or b) any member of the Corporate Authorities of the
Village may only be approved by roll call vote at an open meeting of the
Corporate Authorities of the Village. However, in the event of an emergency or
other extraordinary circumstances, the Corporate Authorities may approve more
than the maximum allowable expenses set forth above. (Ord. 2017-1, 2-3-2017,
eff. 3-2-2017)
1-7-5: ENTERTAINMENT EXPENSES:
The Village shall not reimburse any elected official, employee, or officer for
any activities which would be considered entertainment. Activities which would
otherwise be considered entertainment, but which are excluded from the
prohibition on reimbursement due to being ancillary to the purpose of the
program or event, may be reimbursed in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 2017-1, 2-3-2017, eff. 3-2-2017)
CHAPTER 8
VILLAGE MANAGER
SECTION:
1-8-1: Appointment; Qualifications
1-8-2: Powers And Duties
1-8-3: Compensation
1-8-4: Acting Manager
1-8-5: Removal From Office
1-8-1: APPOINTMENT; QUALIFICATIONS:
There is hereby established the Office of Village Manager. The Village Manager
shall be appointed for an indefinite term by the President, with consent of a
majority vote of the Board of Trustees. The Village Manager shall be appointed
without regard to his political beliefs and need not be a resident of the
Village when appointed. (Ord. 2017-7, 8-14-2017)
1-8-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Village Manager shall be the administrative head of the government of the
Village and shall be responsible for the efficient administration of all
departments of the Village. The powers and duties of the Village Manager shall
be:
   A.   To enforce the laws and ordinances within the Village.
   B.   To appoint and remove or suspend all directors of departments and the
heads of divisions thereof. No appointments shall be made upon any basis other
than that of merit and fitness.
   C.   To exercise control of all departments of the Village and divisions
thereof.
   D.   To attend all meetings of the Board of Trustees with the right to take
part in the discussion, but with no right to vote.
   E.   To recommend to the Board of Trustees for adoption such measures as he
may deem necessary or expedient.
   F.   To see that all terms and conditions imposed in favor of the Village or
its inhabitants in any contract or public utility franchise are faithfully kept
and performed.
   G.   To make or authorize to make in the ordinary course of business, all
purchases of materials and supplies necessary for the Village as provided for
in the annual appropriation ordinance; provided that, on all purchases of more
than twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00), the Village Manager shall first
solicit bids, except in an emergency, and in all cases shall comply with the
statutory provisions as to the solicitation of bids.
   H.   To have and exercise the power, authority and duties of any director of
a department or division thereof prescribed by this Code or any amendment
thereof, during the time when the office of any such director shall be vacant
or no person shall have been appointed thereto.
   I.   To act as agent for the Local Liquor Control Commissioner in all
matters pertaining to the administration of the licensing and control of the
sale of alcoholic liquors within the Village and the administration of the
Statutes of the State and the provisions of this Code and other ordinances of
the Village pertaining thereto.
   J.   To issue all licenses and permits not otherwise provided for by State
law.
   K.   To appoint administrative assistants.
   L.   To fix the compensation of all appointive officers and employees not
otherwise provided for, subject to approval by the Board of Trustees.
   M.   To prescribe rules and regulations for the conduct of the various
departments of the Village and divisions thereunder.
   N.   To authorize, by permit, the temporary closure of any street, sidewalk,
alley or other public way or public place within the Village for the conduct of
any exhibition, block party, carnival, festival or other special event of
limited duration.
   O.   To issue all lawful licenses and permits not otherwise provided for by
State law or by this Code.
   P.   To perform such other duties as may be prescribed by State law or by
this Code or any other ordinance or resolution of the Board of Trustees. (Ord.
2017-7, 8-14-2017)
1-8-3: COMPENSATION:
The compensation of the Village Manager shall be as determined by the President
and Board of Trustees, but shall, in no case, exceed the amount provided in the
annual appropriation ordinance of the Village in any fiscal year. (Ord. 2017-7,
8-14-2017)
1-8-4: ACTING MANAGER:
In the case of the absence or disability of the Village Manager, the Assistant
Village Manager or another qualified administrative officer of the Village, as
designated by the President and Board of Trustees, shall perform the duties of
the Village Manager during such absence or disability. (Ord. 2017-7, 8-14-2017)
1-8-5: REMOVAL FROM OFFICE:
The Village Manager may at any time be removed from office by a majority vote
of the President and Board of Trustees. (Ord. 2017-7, 8-14-2017)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Plan Commission   1
CHAPTER 1
PLAN COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Membership; Appointment; Qualifications
2-1-2: Terms Of Office
2-1-3: Officers
2-1-4: Meetings And Quorum
2-1-5: Powers And Duties
2-1-1: MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT; QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Commission Established: The plan commission of the village is hereby
established.
   B.   Appointment; Qualifications: The plan commission ("commission") shall
consist of seven (7) members who shall be appointed by the village president,
with the advice and consent of the board of trustees. All members shall be
residents of the village. Such members shall have qualifications as determined
by the village president.
   C.   Vacancies: Any vacancies occurring in the commission shall be filled by
appointment for the unexpired portion of the term remaining.
   D.   Removal; Compensation; Oath: All members of the commission shall be
electors of the village, shall be subject to removal at any time by the
president and board of trustees, and shall serve without compensation, and
shall take an oath. (Ord. 2013-8, 12-30-2013)
2-1-2: TERMS OF OFFICE:
   A.   Initial Term Of Office: For the members initially appointed to the plan
commission, three (3) shall have a term of office expiring on the last Monday
of April, 2015, and four (4) shall have a term of office expiring on the last
Monday of April, 2017. For initial appointments, the village president shall
determine which appointees serve for which term.
   B.   Subsequent Terms: Following the initial term of office for appointed
members of the plan commission, all members shall each be appointed for a term
of four (4) years. The terms of all members shall expire on the last Monday in
April in the last year of their respective terms, regardless of the actual date
of their appointment. Members whose terms have expired may continue to serve
until a successor is appointed.
   C.   Publication: The village shall take such actions as shall be necessary
to maintain records and publicize the terms of the plan commission members.
(Ord. 2013-8, 12-30-2013)
2-1-3: OFFICERS:
The village president shall, at the time of appointment of plan commission
members, designate one member to serve as chairman. Said chairman shall serve
until his term of office expires, or until a successor chairman is designated
by the village president. (Ord. 2013-8, 12-30-2013)
2-1-4: MEETINGS AND QUORUM:
   A.   Meetings: The commission shall meet at such times as it may determine.
Special meetings may be called by the village president, the chairman or by any
four (4) members of the commission.
   B.   Quorum: A majority of the commission members then holding office shall
constitute a quorum. Final action shall be taken upon measures before the
commission with a concurrence of a majority of the members present, provided a
quorum is present. (Ord. 2013-8, 12-30-2013)
2-1-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The commission shall have the following powers and duties:
   A.   To prepare and recommend to the corporate authorities a comprehensive
plan for the present and future development or redevelopment of the village.
Such plan may be adopted in whole or in separate geographical or functional
parts, each of which, when adopted, shall be the official comprehensive plan,
or part thereof of the village. This plan may include reasonable requirements
with reference to streets, alleys, public grounds, and other improvements
hereinafter specified. The plan, as recommended by the commission and as
thereafter adopted, may be made applicable, by the terms thereof, to land
situated within the corporate limits and contiguous territory not more than one
and one-half (11/2) miles beyond the corporate limits and not included in any
municipality. Such plan may be implemented by ordinances to implement the
provisions of subsections B through K of this section.
   B.   Recommend reasonable standards of design for subdivisions and for
resubdivisions of unimproved land and of areas subject to redevelopment in
respect to public improvements as herein defined.
   C.   Recommend reasonable requirements governing the location, width,
course, and surfacing of public streets and highways, alleys, ways for public
service facilities, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, streetlights, parks,
playgrounds, school grounds, size of lots to be used for residential purposes,
stormwater drainage, water supply and distribution, sanitary sewers, and sewage
collection and treatment.
   D.   Designate land suitable for annexation to the village and the
recommended zoning classification for such land upon annexation.
   E.   Recommend changes, from time to time, in the official comprehensive
plan.
   F.   Prepare and recommend to the corporate authorities plans for specific
improvements in pursuance of the official comprehensive plan.
   G.   Give aid to the municipal officials charged with the direction of
projects for improvements embraced within the official plan, to further the
making of these projects, and generally, to promote the realization of the
official comprehensive plan.
   H.   Advise the board of trustees, other boards and commissions,
neighborhood organizations, developers, and the general public regarding
policies, standards and ordinances associated with planning and development
matters.
   I.   Hold public hearings and meetings, as appropriate, and make findings
and recommendations to the board of trustees concerning annexations, text and
map amendments to the zoning ordinance, planned developments, conditional and
special uses, variations which are associated with a map amendment, and
subdivisions.
   J.   Hear and make recommendations to the board regarding proposed zoning
variations.
   K.   Have other powers and duties concerning planning and development
matters as may be assigned from time to time by the board of trustees. The
commission may utilize the services of village staff and consultants as shall
be determined to be appropriate by the village board, or village president.
(Ord. 2013-8, 12-30-2013)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
Liquor Control   1
Video Gaming   2
Peddlers And Solicitors   3
Cable/Video Service Provider Fee   4
CHAPTER 1
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
3-1-1: Definitions
3-1-2: Local Liquor Control Commissioner
3-1-3: License And Compliance Required
3-1-4: Bond Requirements
3-1-5: Ineligibility; Conditions Of License
3-1-6: Classification; Fees For Licenses
3-1-7: Number Of Licenses
3-1-8: Change Of Location
3-1-9: Hours Of Operation
3-1-10: Sale To Minors, Certain Persons Prohibited
3-1-11: Prohibited Acts
3-1-12: View From Street
3-1-13: Live Music Regulated
3-1-14: Consumption Off Premises
3-1-15: Penalty
3-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless otherwise specified, the words and phrases defined are to be construed
in this chapter, as follows:
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Includes alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and every liquid or
solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and capable
of being consumed as a beverage by a human being. The provisions of this
chapter shall not apply to alcohol used in the manufacture of denatured alcohol
produced in accordance with acts of congress and regulations promulgated
thereunder, nor to any liquid or solid containing one-half of one percent or
less, of alcohol by volume. No tax provided for in 235 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/8-1 et seq., shall apply to wine intended for use and used by any
church or religious organization for sacramental purposes; provided, that such
wine shall be purchased from a licensed manufacturer or importing distributor
under 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes.
   CLUB: A corporation organized under the laws of this state, not for
pecuniary profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the
sale or consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept, used and maintained by its
members through the payment of annual dues, and owning, hiring or leasing a
building or space in a building, of such extent and character as may be
suitable and adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation
of its members and their guests and provided with suitable and adequate kitchen
and dining room space and equipment and maintaining a sufficient number of
servants and employees for cooking, preparing and serving food and meals for
its members and their guests; provided, that such club files with the local
liquor control commissioner at the time of its application for a license under
this chapter two (2) copies of a list of names and residences of its members,
and similarly files within ten (10) days of the election of any additional
member his or her name and address; and, provided further, that its affairs and
management are conducted by a board of directors, executive committee, or
similar body chosen by the members at their annual meeting and that no member
or any officer, agent, or employee of the club is paid, or directly or
indirectly receives, in the form of salary or other compensation any profits
from the distribution or sale of alcoholic liquor to the club or the members of
the club or its guests introduced by members beyond the amount of such salary
as may be fixed and voted at any annual meeting by the members or by its board
of directors or other governing body out of the general revenue of the club.
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE: Any bottle, flask, jug, can, cask, barrel, keg, hogshead
or other receptacle whatsoever, used, corked, or capped, sealed and labeled, by
the manufacturer of alcoholic liquor, to contain and to convey any alcoholic
liquor.
   RESTAURANT: Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out
to the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals are actually
and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, such space being
provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and
capacity and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees
to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its guests.
   RETAILER: A person who sells or offers for sale alcoholic liquor for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form.
   SALE: Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner thereof by means
whatsoever for a consideration, and includes and means all sales made by any
person whether principal, agent, employee or servant. (1993 Code § 3-1-1; amd.
2016 Code)
3-1-2: LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER:
   A.   Village President As Commissioner; Assistant:
      1.   The president of the board of trustees of the village shall be the
local liquor control commissioner and shall be charged with the administration
of the appropriate provisions of this chapter and all such ordinances and
resolutions relating to alcoholic liquor as may be enacted.
      2.   The president of the board of trustees may appoint a person or
persons to assist him in the exercise of the powers and performance of the
duties provided for such liquor control commissioner.
   B.   Powers And Duties: The liquor control commissioner shall have the
following powers, functions and duties with respect to licenses: (1993 Code §
3-1-11)
      1.   To grant and/or suspend for not more than thirty (30) days or revoke
for cause or for the violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, all
liquor licenses issued to persons, corporations, or all licensees for premises
within the village. (1993 Code § 3-1-11; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   To enter or authorize any law enforcing officer to enter at any time
upon any premises licensed hereunder to determine whether any of the provisions
of this chapter have been or are being violated.
      3.   To receive complaint from any citizen within its jurisdiction that
any of the provision of this chapter, or the rules or regulations adopted
pursuant hereto, have been or are being violated, and to act upon such
complaints in the manner hereinafter provided.
      4.   To receive liquor license fees and pay the same forthwith to the
village treasurer. In the event the license applied for is denied, the fee
shall be deposited in the general corporate fund or in such other fund as shall
have been designated by the village board.
   C.   Reference To Commissioner: When in this chapter, the liquor control
commissioner shall be referred to, it shall include any person, committee or
other agency appointed by such commissioner.
   D.   License Revocation Authority: The liquor control commissioner may
revoke any license issued by him if he determines that the licensee has
violated any of the provisions of this chapter or any of the laws pertaining to
the sale of alcoholic liquor. (1993 Code § 3-1-11)
3-1-3: LICENSE AND COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale, at retail, in the village, any
alcoholic liquor without having a state and local retail liquor dealer's
license, or to consummate such sale or make such offer in violation of the
terms of such licenses.
   A.   Information required for application includes: the name, age and
address of the applicant in the case of an individual, in the case of a
copartnership, the names of the persons entitled to share in the profits
thereof; and in the case of a corporation for profit, or a club, the date of
the incorporation, the objects for which it was organized, and the names and
addresses of the officers and directors.
   B.   The citizenship of the applicant, his place of birth and if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of his naturalization.
   C.   The location and description of the premises or place of business which
is to be operated under the license.
   D.   A statement that the applicant has never been convicted of a felony and
is not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this chapter or the laws of the state.
   E.   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of the
state of Illinois or of the United States, or any ordinance of the village in
the conduct of his place of business.
   F.   If the application is made in behalf of a partnership, firm,
association, club or corporation, then the same shall be signed and sworn to by
at least two (2) members of such partnership or the president and secretary of
such corporation. (1993 Code § 3-1-2)
3-1-4: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Bond Required: Every applicant for a license hereunder shall file with
his application a joint and several bond executed by a commercial bonding
company authorized to do business in Illinois by at least two (2) good and
sufficient sureties, residing within the village, to the liquor control
commissioner of the village and to his successor in office, in the amount of
one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) conditioned upon true and
faithful compliance by the licensee with all the provisions of this chapter and
of the laws of the state pertaining to alcoholic liquors.
   B.   Forfeiture Of Bond: If a licensee shall be convicted for the violation
of any of the provisions of this chapter or his license shall be revoked and no
appeal is taken upon the order of revocation, or any appeal taken therefrom is
decided adversely to the licensee, his bond shall thereupon be forfeited and
the liquor control commissioner shall institute suit upon such bond in his name
as such commissioner, for the entire amount of said bond and costs. (1993 Code
§ 3-1-3)
3-1-5: INELIGIBILITY; CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Ineligibility: No such license shall be issued to:
      1.   A person who is not a resident of the village, except that for
corporations, there shall be no residency requirement.
      2.   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he resides.
      3.   A person who is not a citizen of the United States.
      4.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under the laws of the
state.
      5.   A person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked
for cause.
      6.   A copartnership, unless all of the members of such copartnership
shall be qualified to obtain a license.
      7.   A corporation, if any officers, manager, or director thereof or any
stockholders owning in the aggregate more than five percent (5%) of the stock
of such corporation would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for
any reason other than the citizenship and residence within the village.
      8.   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the
license is to be issued. (1993 Code § 3-1-4)
      9.   Any person, association or corporation who has not obtained a state
and federal license, or to any such person, association or corporation not
eligible for a state liquor dealer's license. (1993 Code § 3-1-4; amd. Ord.
2012-1, 1-30-2012, eff. 1-30-2012)
      10.   Any person who is otherwise ineligible and prohibited from
obtaining a license from the state commission under 235 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/6-2. (2016 Code)
   B.   License A Personal Privilege: A license issued under this chapter shall
be purely a personal privilege, and shall not constitute property, nor shall it
be alienable or transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily.
   C.   License Renewal: Any licensee who may hold a license on the effective
date hereof may renew his license at the expiration thereof, provided such
licensee is then qualified to receive a license, and the premises for which
such renewal license is sought is suitable for such purpose.
   D.   Dissolution Of License; Refund Of Fee: In the event a license is
revoked during the term for which it was issued, or shall be voluntarily
returned to the Commissioner, and the licensee shall cease to operate under the
license, then the amount paid for such license shall be refunded to the
licensee for the full unexpired calendar months such license has been paid.
   E.   License Term: All licenses issued under this chapter shall terminate on
June 30 next following its issuance. (1993 Code § 3-1-4)
3-1-6: CLASSIFICATION; FEES FOR LICENSES:
   A.   Classification; Fees: Such licenses shall be, and are, divided into the
following classes: (Ord. 2007-1, 2-26-2007, eff. 3-1-2007)
      1.   Class A license, which shall authorize the sale at retail of any
alcoholic liquor or beverage, in the original package or otherwise, for
consumption on the premises where sold, or elsewhere. The annual fee for such
Class A license shall be the sum of five hundred sixty three dollars ($563.00).
(Ord. 2007-1, 2-26-2007, eff. 3-1-2007; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   Class B license, which shall authorize the sale at retail of any
legal alcoholic liquor or beverage, such alcoholic liquor or beverage to be
sold, only, for consumption on the premises where sold. The annual fee for such
Class B license shall be the sum of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). The
Class B license shall be known as a "club" license, and shall be issued only to
local chapters of national clubs or lodge organizations maintaining a local
membership and having a private meeting place open to club members only, and
any such Class B licensee shall not sell to anyone except members of the club
in good standing and their bona fide guests in accordance with the rules of the
organization, and such sales shall be made only for consumption on the premises
only and shall not include any "package" sales. (Ord. 2017-5, 5-22-2017)
      3.   Class C license, which shall authorize the sale at retail of any
legal alcoholic liquor or beverage, such alcoholic liquor or beverage to be
sold only for the period of twenty four (24) hours, the license to expire after
that twenty four (24) hour period and said sale to be only for consumption on
the premises where sold. The fee for such Class C license shall be twenty five
dollars ($25.00) per license, there shall be a limit of five (5) licenses
available for any one (1) 24-hour period and such license shall only be
available for those periods of national holidays or public celebration as
recognized by proclamation of the Village Board.
      4.   Class D license, which shall authorize the sale at convenience
stores of any legal alcoholic liquor or beverage in the original package, for
consumption off the premises only. The annual fee for such Class D license is
five hundred sixty three dollars ($563.00). (Ord. 2007-1, 2-26-2007, eff. 3-1-
2007)
   B.   Payment Of Fee; Proration: All license fees shall be paid in advance,
and shall not be issued for less than a quarter year period. The annual license
fee shall be prorated for the period for which such license is issued, which
period shall be set out on the license. (1993 Code § 3-1-5)
3-1-7: NUMBER OF LICENSES:
   A.   Class A licenses shall be unlimited in number, and such license shall
be purely a personal privilege, good for not to exceed one year after issuance,
unless sooner revoked, and shall not constitute property, nor shall it be
subject to attachment, garnishment or execution, nor shall it be alienable,
transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or
hypothecated except as hereinafter provided. Such license shall not descend by
laws of testate or intestate devolution, but the executors or administrators of
the estate of any deceased licensee, or the trustees of any insolvent or
bankrupt licenses may exercise the privileges of the licensee for the remaining
term of the license and may sell, transfer or assign the same and except in
such cases, no one shall operate any business for the sale of alcoholic liquors
unless such operator shall have personally been issued a license under this
chapter.
   B.   Class B licenses shall be unlimited in number.
   C.   Class C licenses shall be limited to five (5) in number for any twenty
four (24) hour period.
   D.   Class D licenses shall be unlimited in number. (Ord. 2007-1, 2-26-2007,
eff. 3-1-2007)
3-1-8: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
   A.   Any license issued under this chapter shall authorize the sale of
alcoholic liquor only on the premises described in the application and in the
license.
   B.   Such location may be changed only upon the application to, and written
consent issued by, the liquor control commissioner. No change of location shall
be permitted unless the proposed new location is a proper one for the issuance
of a license under the laws of the state. (1993 Code § 3-1-7)
3-1-9: HOURS OF OPERATION:
   A.   Generally: Such license of either class shall permit the sale of
alcoholic liquor as follows:
      1.   On all days of the week, except Friday, Saturday, and Sunday,
between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight;
      2.   On Friday between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and two
o'clock (2:00) A.M. on Saturday morning;
      3.   On Saturday between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and two
o'clock (2:00) A.M. on Sunday morning; and
      4.   On Sunday between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) noon and
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight;
provided, that the closing hour on evenings immediately preceding the following
holidays: New Year's Day, Decoration Day, Fourth Of July, Labor Day,
Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day, shall be the same closing hour as provided
for Saturdays; and the closing hour of such holidays shall be the same as
provided for Sundays. (1993 Code § 3-1-8)
   B.   Class D License Holders: Class D liquor license holders shall be
permitted to sell any alcoholic liquor or beverage on Sundays from eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. until twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight. (Ord. 2011-6, 8-29-
2011, eff. 8-29-2011; amd. Ord. 2015-1, 2-23-2015)
3-1-10: SALE TO MINORS, CERTAIN PERSONS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any licensee or his employees or agent to sell, give
or deliver alcoholic liquor to: (1993 Code § 3-1-9)
   A.   Any person who is under twenty one (21) years of age, except as
provided in 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-16.1; or
   B.   Any intoxicated person. (1993 Code § 3-1-9; amd. 2016 Code)
3-1-11: PROHIBITED ACTS:
It shall be unlawful for any licensee to allow any act or thing to take place
upon such premises, as is prohibited by the laws of the state. (1993 Code § 3-
1-9)
3-1-12: VIEW FROM STREET:
In the premises upon which the sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption upon
the premises is licensed, no screen, blind, curtain, partition, or other thing
shall be permitted in the windows or upon the doors of such licensed premises
nor inside such premises, which shall prevent a clear view into the interior of
such licensed premises from the street, road or sidewalk, at all times; and no
booth, screen or partition, or any arrangement of lights shall be permitted in
the interior of the premises which shall prevent a full view of the entire
interior of such premises from the street, road or sidewalk; and if the
licensee wilfully violates this section, the licensee's license shall be
subject to revocation in the manner herein provided. (1993 Code § 3-1-10)
3-1-13: LIVE MUSIC REGULATED:
Any licensee may have live music between the hours of nine thirty o'clock (9:
30) P.M. and one thirty o'clock (1:30) A.M. on Friday night to Saturday morning
and Saturday night to Sunday morning and on opening hours Sunday to eleven
thirty o'clock (11:30) P.M. Sunday night. This privilege may be terminated as
for any or all licensees at any time by the village board upon good cause being
shown. (1993 Code § 3-1-12)
3-1-14: CONSUMPTION OFF PREMISES:
It shall be unlawful for any person or party while upon the public streets or
public sidewalks or public rights of way adjacent thereto within the village to
drink or consume beer or liquor or to transport, carry, possess or have any
alcoholic liquor except when such beer or alcoholic liquor remains in the
original package and with the seal unbroken. (1993 Code § 3-1-13)
3-1-15: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall
be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1993
Code § 3-1-14)
CHAPTER 2
VIDEO GAMING
SECTION:
3-2-1: License Required
3-2-2: Application For License
3-2-3: License Fee; Term
3-2-4: Display Of License
3-2-5: License Revocation; Hearing; Appeals
3-2-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   The owner of a video gaming terminal shall obtain a license for such
device issued by the village.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to install, keep, maintain, use or
permit the installation, keeping, maintenance or use upon his premises of any
video gaming terminal unless a valid license issued under this chapter for the
video gaming terminal is in effect.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to deliver video gaming terminals
within the village for use by any other person for gain or profit from the
operation thereof unless a license therefor has been issued by the village and
the license fee has been paid for the current year. (Ord. 2012-8, 9-24-2012)
3-2-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Applications for the license required by this chapter shall be filed with the
village clerk and shall contain the following information:
   A.   The name, address, age and date of birth of the owner of the video
gaming terminal and of the owner of the establishment where the video gaming
terminal shall be located.
   B.   Prior convictions of the owner of the video gaming terminal and the
owner of the establishment, if any.
   C.   The place where the video gaming terminal is to be displayed or
operated and the business conducted at that place.
   D.   A description of the video gaming terminal to be covered by the
license.
   E.   Evidence that licenses have been issued by the Illinois gaming board to
the owner of the video gaming terminal and the owner of the establishment.
(Ord. 2012-8, 9-24-2012)
3-2-3: LICENSE FEE; TERM:
   A.   Fee: The annual fee for the license required by this chapter shall be
twenty five dollars ($25.00) per year per terminal. The fee shall be
nonrefundable.
   B.   Expiration: Licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall terminate on
December 31 next following its issuance. The fee to be paid shall be reduced in
proportion to the full calendar months which have expired in the year prior to
the issuance of the license. (Ord. 2012-8, 9-24-2012)
3-2-4: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
The license required by this chapter shall be prominently displayed next to the
video gaming terminal. (Ord. 2012-8, 9-24-2012)
3-2-5: LICENSE REVOCATION; HEARING; APPEALS:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: The village president, at any time, may notify any
licensee under this chapter of any charge of a violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter in connection with the operation of any video gaming
terminal. Notice of the hearing for revocation of a license shall be given in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time
and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be sent by certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the licensee at the last known address at least five (5)
days prior to the date set for the hearing.
   B.   Hearing On Revocation: At the hearing, the town attorney shall present
the complaint and shall represent the town. The licensee shall be permitted
counsel and shall have the right to submit evidence and cross examine
witnesses. The village president shall preside and shall render the decision.
   C.   Appeals:
      1.   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the town in regard to the
denial of an application for a license as provided in this chapter, or in
connection with the revocation of a license as provided in this chapter, shall
have the right to appeal to the village board. Such appeal shall be taken by
filing with the village clerk, within ten (10) days after notice of a denial of
an application or a revocation of a license, a written statement under oath,
setting forth specifically the grounds for appeal.
      2.   The village board shall thereupon set the time and place for a
hearing on such appeal, and notice of such hearing shall be given to the
applicant or licensee in the same manner as provided in subsection A of this
section. The decision of the village board on such appeal shall be by vote of a
majority of all the members then holding office and shall be final. (Ord. 2012-
8, 9-24-2012; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 3
PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definition
3-3-2: License Required
3-3-3: Application; Fee; Issuance; Exception
3-3-4: Contents Of License; Term
3-3-5: License Nontransferable
3-3-6: Time Limitation
3-3-7: Solicitations Exempt
3-3-8: Revocation Of License
3-3-9: Penalty
3-3-1: DEFINITION:
Any person who shall peddle from house to house, sell or offer for sale, barter
or exchange any goods, wares, or merchandise, patent invention or device, or
other article or thing in the village, or at, in or upon any street, avenue,
alley, sidewalk, or other place within the corporate limits of the village
shall be deemed to be a hawker, peddler, or solicitor. (Ord. 2012-11, 11-26-
2012)
3-3-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall, within the corporate limits of the village, exercise the
calling or occupation of a hawker or peddler without a license therefor first
obtained and paid for as hereinafter provided. (Ord. 2012-11, 11-26-2012)
3-3-3: APPLICATION; FEE; ISSUANCE; EXCEPTION:
   A.   Application; Payment Of Fee: All licenses granted as provided in this
chapter shall be issued by the village president or village clerk on
application of the person to whom the same is to be issued or his agent, and
payment of the amount required by this chapter for the full time for which such
license shall run. (Ord. 2012-11, 11-26-2012; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Application Fee: All applicants for a peddler's license set forth
herein shall be required to pay a fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00)
simultaneously with the filing of their application in the form of cash,
certified check, or money order.
   C.   Issuance: Each license so granted shall be issued by the village
president or village clerk and bear the corporate seal of the village.
   D.   Exception: This chapter shall not apply to wholesale dealers. (Ord.
2012-11, 11-26-2012)
3-3-4: CONTENTS OF LICENSE; TERM:
Every license granted in pursuance of the provisions of this chapter shall
express therein the name of the person or persons to whom the same is granted,
the manner in which the articles so offered for sale are carried or conveyed;
the kind, name, or nature of the goods, wares, merchandise, patent invention,
device or other thing to be sold or peddled, together with the date of issuing
said license, and time when the same will expire. Each license issued will
expire December 31 of the said year of license and the person shall be required
to purchase a new license after the current one expires. The license shall also
include business address and a copy of the applicant's certificate of
registration under the retailers' occupation tax act. (Ord. 2012-11, 11-26-
2012)
3-3-5: LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE:
No license granted in pursuance hereof shall be assignable or transferable, nor
shall any such license authorize any person to whom, and in whose name the same
shall have been granted; nor shall any person by virtue of a peddler's license
carry on his business at any place, or in any other manner than as defined
herein. (Ord. 2012-11, 11-26-2012)
3-3-6: TIME LIMITATION:
The licensee hereunder shall be allowed only to solicit during the hours of
eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00) P.M., each day. (Ord. 2012-11,
11-26-2012)
3-3-7: SOLICITATIONS EXEMPT:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any person soliciting
contributions upon behalf of any charitable, religious, fraternal, or
educational organizations or institution, a portion of the proceeds of which
remain for use in the village. (Ord. 2012-11, 11-26-2012)
3-3-8: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Whoever shall violate, neglect, or refuse to comply with and conform to the
provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a penalty as in this chapter
provided, and a like penalty for every day during which such person or persons
shall continue in violation hereof; and his license may, in the discretion of
the president of the board of trustees, be revoked. (Ord. 2012-11, 11-26-2012)
3-3-9: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in an amount not less
than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor exceeding two hundred dollars ($200.00)
for each violation. Each day in which such violation shall continue shall be
deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 2012-11, 11-26-2012)
CHAPTER 4
CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: Cable/Video Service Provider Fee Imposed
3-4-3: Applicable Principles
3-4-4: No Impact On Other Taxes Due From Holder
3-4-5: Audits Of Cable/Video Service Provider
3-4-6: Late Fees Or Payments
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
   CABLE SERVICE: That term as defined in 47 USC section 522(6).
   COMMISSION: The Illinois commerce commission.
   GROSS REVENUES: All consideration of any kind or nature, including, without
limitation, cash, credits, property, and in-kind contributions received by the
holder for the operation of a cable or video system to provide cable service or
video service within the holder's cable service or video service area within
the village.
   A.   Gross revenues shall include the following:
      1.   Recurring charges for cable or video service.
      2.   Event based charges for cable service or video service, including,
but not limited to, pay per view and video on demand charges.
      3.   Rental of set top boxes and other cable service or video service
equipment.
      4.   Service charges related to the provision of cable service or video
service, including, but not limited to, activation, installation, and repair
charges.
      5.   Administrative charges related to the provision of cable service or
video service, including, but not limited to, service order and service
termination charges.
      6.   Late payment fees or charges, insufficient funds check charges, and
other charges assessed to recover the costs of collecting delinquent payments.
      7.   A pro rata portion of all revenue derived by the holder or its
affiliates pursuant to compensation arrangements for advertising or for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services derived from the operation
of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service within the
village. The allocation shall be based on the number of subscribers in the
village divided by the total number of subscribers in relation to the relevant
regional or national compensation arrangement.
      8.   Compensation received by the holder that is derived from the
operation of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service
with respect to commissions that are received by the holder as compensation for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services on the holder's network,
such as a "home shopping" or similar channel, subject to subsection A9 of this
definition.
      9.   In the case of a cable service or video service that is bundled or
integrated functionally with other services, capabilities, or applications, the
portion of the holder's revenue attributable to the other services,
capabilities, or applications shall be included in the gross revenue unless the
holder can reasonably identify the division or exclusion of the revenue from
its books and records that are kept in the regular course of business.
      10.   The service provider fee permitted by 220 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-801(b).
   B.   Gross revenues do not include any of the following:
      1.   Revenues not actually received, even if billed, such as bad debt,
subject to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(c)(1)(vi).
      2.   Refunds, discounts, or other price adjustments that reduce the
amount of gross revenues received by the holder of the state issued
authorization to the extent the refund, rebate, credit, or discount is
attributable to cable service or video service.
      3.   Regardless of whether the services are bundled, packaged, or
functionally integrated with cable service or video service, any revenues
received from services not classified as cable service or video service,
including, without limitation, revenue received from telecommunication
services, information services, or the provision of directory or internet
advertising, including yellow pages, white pages, banner advertisement, and
electronic publishing or any other revenues attributed by the holder to
noncable service or nonvideo service in accordance with the holder's books and
records and records kept in the regular course of business and any applicable
laws, rules, regulations, standards, or orders.
      4.   The sale of cable services or video services for resale in which the
purchaser is required to collect the service provider fee from the purchaser's
subscribers to the extent the purchaser certifies in writing that it will
resell the service within the village and pay the fee permitted by 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(b) with respect to the service.
      5.   Any tax or fee of general applicability imposed upon the subscribers
or the transaction by a city, state, federal, or any other governmental entity
and collected by the holder of the state issued authorization and required to
be remitted to the taxing entity, including sales and use taxes.
      6.   Security deposits collected from subscribers.
      7.   Amounts paid by subscribers to "home shopping" or similar vendors
for merchandise sold through any home shopping channel offered as part of the
cable service or video service.
   C.   Revenue of an affiliate of a holder shall be included in the
calculation of gross revenues to the extent the treatment of the revenue as
revenue of the affiliate rather than the holder has the effect of evading the
payment of the fee permitted by 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(b)
which would otherwise be paid by the cable service or video service.
   HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or
provide cable or video service from the commission pursuant to 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
   SERVICE: The provision of "cable service" or "video service" to subscribers
and the interaction of subscribers with the person or entity that has received
authorization to offer or provide cable or video service from the commission
pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
   SERVICE PROVIDER FEE: The amount paid under this chapter and 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801 by the holder to a village for the service areas
within its territorial jurisdiction.
   VIDEO SERVICE: Video programming and subscriber interaction, if any, that is
required for the selection or use of such video programming services, and which
is provided through wireline facilities located at least in part in the public
right of way without regard to delivery technology, including internet protocol
technology. This definition does not include any video programming provided by
a commercial mobile service provider defined in 47 USC section 332(d) or any
video programming provided solely as part of, and via, service that enables
users to access content, information, electronic mail, or other services
offered over the public internet. (Ord. 2016-2, 4-25-2016)
3-4-2: CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE IMPOSED:
   A.   Fee Imposed: A fee is hereby imposed on any holder providing cable
service or video service in the village.
   B.   Amount Of Fee: The amount of the fee imposed hereby shall be five
percent (5%) of the holder's gross revenues.
   C.   Notice To Village: The holder shall notify the village at least ten
(10) days prior to the date on which the holder begins to offer cable service
or video service in the village.
   D.   Holder's Liability: The holder shall be liable for and pay the service
provider fee to the village. The holder's liability for the fee shall commence
on the first day of the calendar month following thirty (30) days after receipt
of the ordinance adopting this chapter by the holder. The ordinance adopting
this chapter shall be sent by mail, postage prepaid, to the address listed on
the holder's application notice sent pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/21-401(b)(6) to the village.
   E.   Payment Date: The payment of the service provider fee shall be due on a
quarterly basis, forty five (45) days after the close of the calendar quarter.
If mailed, the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked. Each
payment shall include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of
the fee. (Ord. 2016-2, 4-25-2016)
3-4-3: APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES:
All determinations and calculations under this chapter shall be made pursuant
to generally accepted accounting principles. (Ord. 2016-2, 4-25-2016)
3-4-4: NO IMPACT ON OTHER TAXES DUE FROM HOLDER:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to exempt a holder from
any tax that is or may later be imposed by the village, including any tax that
is or may later be required to be paid by or through the holder with respect to
cable service or video service. A state issued authorization shall not affect
any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the village's
simplified municipal telecommunications tax or any other tax as it applies to
any telephone service provided by the holder. A state issued authorization
shall not affect any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the
local unit of government's 911 or E911 fees, taxes or charges. (Ord. 2016-2, 4-
25-2016)
3-4-5: AUDITS OF CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER:
   A.   Audit Requirement: The village will notify the holder of the
requirements it imposes on other cable service or video service providers to
submit to an audit of its books and records. The holder shall comply with the
same requirements the village imposes on other cable service or video service
providers in its jurisdiction to audit the holder's books and records and to
recompute any amounts determined to be payable under the requirements of the
village. If all local franchises between the village and cable operator
terminate, the audit requirements shall be those adopted by the village
pursuant to the local government taxpayers' bill of rights act, 50 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 45/1 et seq. No acceptance of amounts remitted should be
construed as an accord that the amounts are correct.
   B.   Additional Payments: Any additional amount due after an audit shall be
paid within thirty (30) days after the village's submission of an invoice for
the sum. (Ord. 2016-2, 4-25-2016)
3-4-6: LATE FEES OR PAYMENTS:
All fees due and payments which are past due shall be governed by ordinances
adopted by the village pursuant to the local government taxpayers' bill of
rights act, 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 45/1 et seq. (Ord. 2016-2, 4-25-2016)
TITLE 4
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
Weeds And Rubbish   2
Open Burning   3
Village Burn Pile   3A
Property Maintenance Code Enforcement   4
Garbage And Refuse   5
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Animals
4-1-2: Offensive Substances
4-1-3: Dumping In And Around Lake Matherville
4-1-4: Loud Noises
4-1-5: Abatement Of Nuisances
4-1-1: ANIMALS:
   A.   Keeping Livestock In Unhealthy Or Offensive Manner: Any person, firm or
corporation who shall keep, use or occupy any pen, yard, lot, enclosure,
stable, barn or any building whatever, in which any cattle, sheep, hogs, horses
or other animals are kept yarded or confined in such manner as to be unhealthy
or offensive to the people residing in the vicinity shall be deemed the author
of a nuisance and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in any sum not less
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00). (1993 Code § 2-6-3)
   B.   Dead Animals: It shall be unlawful for any person to bring or cause to
be brought, or who shall counsel, advise or assist in bringing any dead animal
within the corporate limits of the village and leave the same to putrefy
herein, or who being the owner or in possession of any animal or animals that
shall die therein, and knowing of the death, shall not remove the same
immediately to a place not less than one-half (1/2) mile from the corporate
limits of the village, or bury the same at a depth of not less than three feet
(3') from the surface; shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in any sum not
less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than one hundred dollars
($100.00) for each and every offense. (1993 Code § 2-6-1)
4-1-2: OFFENSIVE SUBSTANCES:
Any person who shall deposit any filthy or offensive substance, pile brush,
hay, or straw, or any combustible, unwholesome or noxious matter in any street,
alley, or any public place or ground within the village, shall be deemed the
author of a nuisance and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in any sum
not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00). (1993 Code § 2-6-2)
4-1-3: DUMPING IN AND AROUND LAKE MATHERVILLE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to dump any type of waste or debris
in Lake Matherville, or on the land surrounding the lake.
   B.   Any violator of this section shall be subject to a two hundred fifty
dollar ($250.00) fine. (Ord. 2002-3, 9-30-2002)
4-1-4: LOUD NOISES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb by loud noise the peace
and quiet of another, or any neighborhood, or family, or religious congregation
or other assembly.
   B.   Any violator of this section shall be subject to a one hundred dollar
($100.00) fine. (Ord. 2002-4, 9-30-2002)
4-1-5: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES:
Whenever any officer of the village shall abate any nuisance under the
provisions of this chapter or any ordinance of the village or on order of the
village board of trustees, it shall be the duty of such officer to keep an
accurate account of such expenses incurred and report the same at the next
regular meeting of the board, and such expenses may be recovered from the
author of such nuisance. (1993 Code § 2-6-4)
CHAPTER 2
WEEDS AND RUBBISH
SECTION:
4-2-1: Nuisance Declared
4-2-2: Notice
4-2-3: Repeat Offenses
4-2-4: Penalty
4-2-1: NUISANCE DECLARED:
Anyone who allows rubbish, weeds, brush, junk, old cars and parts thereof,
garbage, sewage waste or other such materials to accumulate upon his property
or upon the boulevards and streets adjacent to his property is declared to be
creating a nuisance. (1993 Code § 2-4-1)
4-2-2: NOTICE:
   A.   The village authorities, when such a nuisance comes to their attention,
shall give notice in writing to the owner of the property upon which or
adjacent to which the nuisance is maintained and ten (10) days after the
notice, the village may abate the nuisance, and the reasonable costs of such
abatement shall be chargeable against the property owner.
   B.   Such notice shall also serve as notice that any further violation
within sixty (60) days of said notice shall result in an immediate violation
and fine. (Ord. 2014-5, 5-19-2014)
4-2-3: REPEAT OFFENSES:
   A.   Each day that such nuisance is maintained after the expiration of ten
(10) days from the notice specified in section
4-2-2 of this chapter, a separate offense is created though the offense may be
contained in different counts in the same action, a fine may be levied for each
offense alleged in the complaint.
   B.   If the same property is cited for the same offense within sixty (60)
days of notice of a previous violation, the owner of such property shall be
fined five hundred dollars ($500.00) without further notice, regardless of
whether the previous nuisance was abated. (Ord. 2014-5, 5-19-2014)
4-2-4: PENALTY:
Anyone found guilty of such nuisance shall be fined not less than two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each
offense. (1993 Code § 2-4-2)
CHAPTER 3
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
4-3-1: Burning Restrictions
4-3-2: Penalties
4-3-1: BURNING RESTRICTIONS:
Open burning within the village is regulated as follows:
   A.   Dry leaves, untreated wood, stumps, and logs may be burned between the
hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. of the same
day; provided, that:
      1.   The fire is attended at all times by a person not less than fifteen
(15) years of age;
      2.   A means of extinguishing the fire is readily available;
      3.   The burning is conducted entirely upon private property and not on
any street, alley, sidewalk, public way or public property; and
      4.   Said fire must be completely extinguished by eight o'clock (8:00)
P.M.
   B.   No open burning shall occur within twenty five feet (25') of any
structure. (Ord. 2014-4, 5-19-2014)
   C.   The burning of building materials, garages, outbuildings and/or houses
is prohibited. Violators of this provision, upon conviction, shall be guilty of
a violation of this subsection and shall be punishable by a fine as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2014-4, 5-19-2014; amd. 2016 Code)
   D.   The burning of materials permitted in subsection A of this section is
prohibited whenever the fire chief has determined that weather conditions make
burning within the village unsafe.
   E.   The burning of materials permitted in subsection A of this section
shall be halted, and the fire immediately extinguished, should the fire chief
determine that the particular burning is being conducted in an unsafe manner or
unsafe place or constitutes a danger to the surrounding property or nearby
structures or is in violation of the provisions of this section.
   F.   Open burning shall be permitted on Sundays, except for Sundays on which
community activities occur. The village shall post notice of such activities at
least thirty (30) days in advance.
   G.   The burning of waste from livestock, which includes, but is not limited
to, fecal matter, animal bedding, or anything containing fecal matter, is
prohibited.
   H.   The burning of any chemicals or hazardous materials is prohibited.
   I.   The burning of treated wood, paper products, plastic, or any other
materials not listed in subsection A of this section is prohibited.
   J.   The burning of anything after dark is prohibited with the exception of
small recreational fires. (Ord. 2014-4, 5-19-2014)
4-3-2: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates provisions of section
4-3-1 of this chapter, excepting subsection
4-3-1D of this chapter, or fails or refuses to comply with an order to
extinguish a fire found by the fire chief to be burning in an unsafe manner or
in violation of these provisions, upon conviction thereof, shall be guilty of a
violation of this chapter, and may be fined as follows: a first violation will
result in a written warning; a second violation will result in a fine of not
less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first violation, and may be
fined five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each and every subsequent violation
during the same twelve (12) month calendar year. The fire chief shall have
authority to order any person in violation of this chapter to extinguish any
fire, and shall further have the authority to extinguish such fire if the
person fails to comply with the order. (Ord. 2014-4, 5-19-2014; amd. Ord. 2019-
3, 8-26-2019)
ARTICLE A. VILLAGE BURN PILE
SECTION:
4-3A-1: Burn Pile Established
4-3A-2: Deposits By Residents
4-3A-3: Penalties
4-3A-1: BURN PILE ESTABLISHED:
A burn pile for the Village of Matherville is hereby established at a lot on
Main Avenue south of the Brookwood Apartments. (Ord. 2017-2, 2-27-2017)
4-3A-2: DEPOSITS BY RESIDENTS:
Residents of the Village of Matherville are permitted to deposit yard waste by
depositing same at the Village burn pile. (Ord. 2017-2, 2-27-2017)
4-3A-3: PENALTIES:
The burning of materials not authorized above, is prohibited. Violators of this
provision, upon conviction, shall be guilty of a violation of this section and
shall be punishable by a fine not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00).
(Ord. 2017-2, 2-27-2017)
CHAPTER 4
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
4-4-1: Enforcement Policy
4-4-2: Penalties
4-4-1: ENFORCEMENT POLICY:
For the purpose of enforcing the ICC property maintenance code, the following
policy shall be employed by the village:
   A.   Exterior Yard Conditions: The enforcement priority is on easily
verifiable exterior yard conditions, such as weeds in excess of six inches (6")
high, inoperable cars, accumulations of junk, etc. Such enforcement shall be on
complaint basis, but proactive enforcement may occur for significant nuisance
violations and other areas identified by the village board (e.g., junk cars).
Junk cars are identified as a vehicle that does not have current registration
or a current insurance certificate and has not moved under its own power for
thirty (30) days.
   B.   Exterior Building Conditions: Enforcement of exterior building
conditions may occur if the violation presents a significant blighting
influence, nuisance, hazard or threat to life safety. Such matters shall be
primarily complaint driven, but may be proactive if significant violation. The
enforcement officer shall clear such enforcement action with the mayor or his
or her designee. Examples of building violations are broken windows, usage of
tarps for roofing purposes other than reroofing projects, missing siding, etc.
   C.   Interior Violations: Enforcement of interior violations may be
conducted if the owner or occupant of the building requests an inspection and
subsequent enforcement. Interior enforcement may also be attempted if there is
reasonable and sufficient cause to believe that a significant nuisance, hazard
or threat to life safety is occurring. Reasonable cause must exist to go
forward with an interior enforcement action. An example of a reasonable cause
would be a foul odor and rats coming from the building. The enforcement officer
shall clear interior enforcement action with the mayor or his or her designee.
   D.   Entry Upon Private Property: The enforcement officer shall follow the
regulations provided in the property maintenance code about entry on private
property. Said code states that permission shall be obtained before entering
private property (other than knocking at the door or entering a public area)
and before conducting an inspection. If permission is refused, the enforcement
officer shall leave the property and obtain instructions from the mayor or his
or her designee. Under no conditions shall the enforcement officer violate a
property owner's or occupant's fourth amendment right against warrantless
searches or seizures.
   E.   Voluntary Compliance; Courtesy Notices: The emphasis on property
maintenance code enforcement shall be voluntary compliance. Courtesy notices
shall be issued, reasonable extension granted where appropriate and all
reasonable effort shall be made to work with property owners rather than
against them.
   F.   Approval For Random Inspections: No random inspection of properties
shall occur unless they are approved under the policies enumerated in this
section. There shall be no programs of inspections, such as commercial
occupancies or rental units, unless such are specifically authorized by the
village board and regulated by written policies and procedures.
   G.   Enforcement Action By Village; Billing For Costs:
      1.   The maintenance director or his designee may cut weeds and remove
accumulations of garbage, refuse and salvageable or unsalvageable material
after warning period and all voluntary compliance measures have elapsed.
      2.   Work shall be billed to the property owner and thereafter placed as
a lien. All state laws and provisions of said property maintenance code shall
be complied with.
   H.   Removal Of Inoperable Vehicles: The maintenance director or his
designee may remove inoperable vehicles from private property as provided for
by state and local policy. (Ord. 2012-4, 4-30-2012)
4-4-2: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of this chapter shall
be subject to the following penalties, to be paid to the village at the village
hall building:
   A.   Notice Of Violation; Warning Ticket: Upon detection of the first
nuisance violation, the owner and/or the occupant of the real estate on which
the violation occurs shall be issued a notice of the violation and a warning
ticket. The owner and/or occupant of the property is required to abate the
violation within seven (7) days of the date of the warning ticket.
   B.   Second Violation; Penalty Imposed: Upon detection of the second
violation during any consecutive twenty four (24) month period following the
issuance of the first violation notice, or if the owner and/or occupant fails
to abate the previous violation within the seven (7) day period, then the owner
and/or occupant of the real estate on which the violation occurs shall be
issued a second notice of violation and the owner and/or the occupant,
depending upon whatever the case may be, shall be assessed a penalty in the sum
of seventy five dollars ($75.00). In the event the penalty is not paid in seven
(7) days from the date of the notice, then the owner and/or the occupant of the
real estate shall each be assessed a penalty in the sum of one hundred dollars
($100.00).
   C.   Failure To Pay Penalties: Failure of the person, firm or corporation
violating the provisions of this chapter to pay the penalties listed in
subsection B of this section will result in the mayor instructing the village
attorney to seek recovery of the fines listed in subsection B of this section
and other remedies in court against any defaulting person, firm or corporation.
   D.   Remedial Action Required: Proceeding under this chapter shall not
prevent the village from seeking judicial remedy to abate the nuisance. Payment
of a penalty does not alleviate the violator's responsibility to remedy the
violation.
   E.   Village Fees:
      1.   The penalty provision of this section is in addition to the village
or its representative fees for removal of rubbish, mowing of weeds or grass and
removal of inoperable vehicles.
      2.   The village may from time to time raise the fee amount under the
discretion of the village board.
      3.   The current amount is one hundred dollars ($100.00) per hour per
piece of equipment with a one hour minimum. (Ord. 2012-4, 4-30-2012)
CHAPTER 5
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
4-5-1: Short Title
4-5-2: Definitions
4 5 3: Collection By Contractor Designated By The Village
4-5-4: Precollection Practices
4-5-5: Collection Practices
4-5-6: Fees
4-5-7: Penalties
4-5-8: Severability
4-5-9: Ordinance Repealed
4-5-10: Effective Date
4-5-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the MUNICIPAL REFUSE COLLECTION
SYSTEM ORDINANCE OF THE VILLAGE OF MATHERVILLE. The Village intends to provide
collection and encourage recycling. (Ord. 2023-3, - -2023)
4-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
 
                           Waste resulting from the handling, preparation,
GARBAGE:                   cooking, and consumption of food; wastes from the
                           handling, storage and sale of produce.
                           Any owner of residential property located in a
PERSON:                    person, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
                           company or organization of any kind.
                           All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes
REFUSE:                    (except body wastes), including garbage, rubbish,
                           ashes, and street cleanings.
                           Nonputrescible solid wastes (excluding ashes),
RUBBISH:                   consisting of both combustible and non-combustible
                           wastes, such as paper, cardboard, tin cans, wood,
                           glass, bedding, crockery and similar materials.
VILLAGE:                   The Village of Matherville
WATER AND SEWER ORDINANCE: Refers to Title 8 of this code as amended.
                           Includes any type of plant material such as grass
YARD WASTE:                clippings, leaves, tree and shrub trimmings, brush
                           or anything pertaining to yard waste of any kind.
                           (Ord. 2023-3, - -2023)
 
4-5-3: COLLECTION BY CONTRACTOR DESIGNATED BY THE VILLAGE:
All refuse accumulated on residential property in the Village shall be
collected, conveyed and disposed of by a contractor selected by the Village. No
person shall collect, convey over any of the streets or alleys of the Village
or dispose of, any refuse accumulated on residential properties in the Village.
(Ord. 2023-3, - -2023)
4-5-4: PRECOLLECTION PRACTICES:
   A.   Refuse Containers:
      1.   Refuse, garbage and rubbish shall be placed in cans and bags of a
type approved by the garbage committee which shall be supplied by the family or
household. No such container shall be larger than thirty7 (30) gallons
including contents.
   B.   Storing Of Refuse:
      1.   Public Places: No person shall place any refuse in any street, alley
or other public place, or upon any private property whether owned by such
person or not, within the Village except in proper containers for collection.
Nor shall any person throw or deposit any garbage or rubbish in any stream or
other body of water.
      2.   Scattering Of Refuse: No persons shall cause, place, sweep or
deposit anywhere within the Village any refuse in such a manner that it may be
carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, side-walk, alley, sewer,
parkway or other public place, or into any occupied premises within the
Village.
   C.   Points Of Collection: Refuse containers shall be placed for collection
at ground level on the property, not within the right of way of a street or
alley, and accessible to and not more than twenty feet (20') from the side of
the street from which collection is made. (Ord. 2023-3, - -2023)
4-5-5: COLLECTION PRACTICES:
   A.   Frequency Of Collection: Garbage and refuse accumulated on residential
properties shall be collected at least once each week.
   B.   Limitation On Quantity: No person shall place more than six (6) cans or
ten (10) bags or any combination of cans and bags not to exceed thirty two (32)
gallons per bag or can per residence or dwelling each week. Boxes will be taken
only if they are flat and tied in bundles. Additional bags or cans will be
allowed with the purchase of a one dollar ($1.00) per bag sticker.
   C.   No Chemicals Or Hazardous Liquids: No person shall place any chemicals
or hazardous liquids in the cans or bags to be disposed of with other garbage
and refuse.
   D.   Substances: No person shall place any liquids, building material,
furniture, appliances, dead animals or manure in the cans or bags to be
disposed of with any other garbage and refuse. (Ord. 2023-3, - -2023)
4-5-6: FEES:
   A.   Collection Fee: The garbage collection fee for each residential
property located in the Village shall consist of a fee of seventeen dollars
fifty cents ($17.50) per month per property for garbage pick up. The charge of
seventeen dollars fifty cents ($17.50) per month, or such other charges as may
be approved by the board of trustees of the Village, shall be added to the
water bill due for each residential property located within the Village of
Matherville. All fees for garbage and refuse collections shall be due and
payable along with the water bill on the twentieth day of the month.
   B.   Delinquent Accounts: All accounts shall be considered delinquent if not
paid within thirty (30) days after the date of the bill. All delinquent
accounts are subject to the stoppage of service after a notice mailed at least
seven (7) days prior to the users. For customers using both collection sendee
and water/sewer, both services maybe terminated for not paying either service.
Service shall be resumed thereafter only on payment of the accumulated fees for
the period of collection and the period of noncollection, along with a
delinquent penalty of up to one hundred percent (100%) of the bill.
      1.   Shutoff Of Services: Concurrently a delinquency under the Village
Water and Sewer Ordinance for services, or delinquency under this chapter for
services can result at the discretion of the Village of a shutoff of both
services per the respective ordinances.
      2.   Legal Remedy: The stoppage of collection/water services herein-
before authorized for nonpayment of collection charges shall be in addition to
the right of the Village to proceed for the collection of such unpaid charges
in the manner provided by law for the collection of a municipal claim. (Ord.
2023-3, - -2023)
4-5-7: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined in an
amount not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00). Each day such violation is
committed or permitted to continue, shall constitute a separate offense and
shall be punishable as such hereunder. (Ord. 2023-3, - -2023)
4-5-8: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this
chapter is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distant and
independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions hereof. (Ord. 2023-3, - -2023)
4-5-9: ORDINANCE REPEALED:
All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter are hereby repealed. (Ord. 2023-3, - -2023)
4-5-10: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This ordinance shall take effect iinmediately after its passage, approval, and
publication according to law. (Ord. 2023-3, - -2023)
TITLE 5
POLICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
Police Department   1
Auxiliary Police   2
Minors   3
Dogs   4
Chickens   5
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Police Department Established
5-1-2: Police Chief
5-1-3: Appointment Of Personnel
5-1-4: Compensation
5-1-1: POLICE DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is established a police department for the village consisting of the
chief of police and such other police officers as may be from time to time
appointed. (1993 Code § 1-9-1)
5-1-2: POLICE CHIEF:
   A.   Head Of Department; Functions: The chief of police shall be the head of
the police department and shall direct and supervise the activities of the
sergeant, corporal, patrolmen, and special police officers.
   B.   Rules Of Conduct:
      1.   The chief of police, with the advice and consent of the village
board, may adopt rules of conduct which shall be followed by all members of the
police department.
      2.   Any rules of conduct adopted as hereinabove provided shall be
distributed to all members of the police department. (1993 Code § 1-9-2)
5-1-3: APPOINTMENT OF PERSONNEL:
The chief of police and all salaried members of the police department shall be
appointed by and with the advice and consent of the board of trustees. (1993
Code § 1-9-3)
5-1-4: COMPENSATION:
   A.   Salary: Police department personnel shall be paid a salary as
established by the village board.
   B.   Pay Period: All full time personnel shall be paid semimonthly and part
time personnel shall be paid monthly. (1993 Code § 1-9-4)
CHAPTER 2
AUXILIARY POLICE
SECTION:
5-2-1: Appointment; Background Check
5-2-2: Selection; Qualifications
5-2-3: Powers And Duties
5-2-4: Permission To Perform Duties
5-2-5: Firearms Training
5-2-6: Serve Without Compensation
5-2-1: APPOINTMENT; BACKGROUND CHECK:
   A.   Appointment: The president of the village board of trustees is
authorized to appoint, not to exceed six (6) auxiliary police officers subject
to the advice and consent of the village board.
   B.   Background Check: Prior to appointment, all proposed auxiliary police
officers shall be fingerprinted and their fingerprinting shall be checked with
the federal bureau of identification, Washington, D.C., for any possible
criminal record. No person shall be appointed as an auxiliary police officer if
he or she has been convicted of a felony or other crime involving moral
turpitude.
   C.   Termination: The appointment of any or all auxiliary police officers
may be terminated by the president of the village board subject to the advice
and consent of the village board. (1993 Code § 2-1-1)
5-2-2: SELECTION; QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Such auxiliary police officers shall not be members of the regular
police department of the village.
   B.   Auxiliary police officers will be residents of the village.
   C.   Identification symbols worn by the auxiliary police officers shall be
different and distinct from those used by the regular police department and
shall by selected and chosen by the chief of police.
   D.   Auxiliary police officers shall at all times during the performance of
their duties be subject to the directions and control of the chief of police.
(1993 Code § 2-1-2)
5-2-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
Auxiliary police officers shall have the following powers and duties, when
properly assigned and on duty:
   A.   To aid or direct traffic in the village.
   B.   To aid in control of natural or manmade disasters. (1993 Code § 2-1-3)
   C.   To aid in case of civil disorder, as directed by the chief of police.
(1993 Code § 2-1-3; amd. 2016 Code)
   D.   To perform normal and regular police duties when assigned by the chief
of police on occasions when it is impracticable for members of the regular
police department to perform normal and regular police duties.
   E.   To arrest or cause to be arrested, with or without process, all persons
who break the peace, or are found violating any village ordinance or any
criminal law of the state.
   F.   To commit arrested persons for examinations.
   G.   If necessary, to detain arrested persons in custody overnight or Sunday
in any safe place, or until they can be brought before the proper judge.
   H.   To exercise all other powers as conservators of the peace that the
corporate authorities may prescribe.
   I.   To serve and execute all warrants for the violation of village
ordinances, or the state criminal law, within the limits of the village, and
for this purpose to have all the common law and statutory powers of a police
officer. (1993 Code § 2-1-3)
5-2-4: PERMISSION TO PERFORM DUTIES:
Auxiliary police officers shall not carry firearms and badges, except with the
permission of the chief of police and then only when in uniform and in the
performance of their duties. (1993 Code § 2-1-4)
5-2-5: FIREARMS TRAINING:
Auxiliary police officers, prior to carrying firearms, shall receive a course
of training in the use of such weapons and other police procedures. The course
of training shall not be less than twenty four (24) hours in duration. Upon
satisfactory completion of the training, the chief of police shall file a
certificate, attesting to the auxiliary police officer's completion of the
course, with the village board. (1993 Code § 2-1-5)
5-2-6: SERVE WITHOUT COMPENSATION:
Auxiliary police officers shall receive no compensation for services performed.
(1993 Code § 2-1-6)
CHAPTER 3
MINORS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Curfew
5-3-2: Parental Responsibility
5-3-1: CURFEW:
   A.   Age And Hours Restrictions: It shall be unlawful for any minor under
the age of eighteen (18) years to be present at or upon any public assembly,
building, place, street or highway at the following times unless accompanied
and supervised by a parent, legal guardian or other responsible companion at
least twenty one (21) years of age approved by a parent or legal guardian, or
unless engaged in a business or occupation which the laws of this state
authorize a person of less than eighteen (18) years of age to perform:
      1.   Between eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on Sunday through Thursday,
inclusive, and six o'clock (6:00) A.M., on the following days. (Ord., 7-31-
1995)
      2.   Between one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. on Friday and
Saturday and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. the following days. (Ord., 7-31-1995; amd.
2016 Code)
   B.   Permitting Curfew Violation: It shall be unlawful for any person to
knowingly permit a person in his custody or control to violate subsection A of
this section. (Ord., 7-31-1995)
5-3-2: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Definitions: The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   KNOWINGLY: Having general knowledge of, or reason to know, or a belief or
grounds for belief which warrants further inquiry or inspection.
   LEGAL GUARDIAN: A person appointed guardian, or given custody, of a minor by
a circuit court of this state but does not include a person appointed guardian
or given custody of a minor under the juvenile court act of 1987 1 .
   MINOR: A person under the age of eighteen (18) years.
   PARENT: A natural or adoptive parent or a court designated guardian.
   UNEMANCIPATED MINOR: A minor still under the care and custody of at least
one of his or her parents or legal guardian.
   WILFUL: Proceeding from a conscious and voluntary intentional motion of the
will.
   B.   Inciting Violations By Minors: It shall be unlawful for any person,
including a parent or legal guardian, to knowingly or wilfully cause, aid or
encourage any minor to violate or attempt to violate any federal or state law
or municipal ordinance or to knowingly or wilfully act in such a manner as to
directly tend to cause a minor to violate or attempt to violate any federal or
state law or municipal ordinance.
   C.   Improper Supervision Of Minors: It shall be unlawful for any parent or
legal guardian of an unemancipated minor who resides with such parent or legal
guardian to fail to make all reasonable, necessary and effective efforts to
prevent such minor from violating any of the provisions of any state or federal
statute or ordinance of the village. If, after written notice is given by the
president of the village board of trustees or his authorized agent to any such
parent or legal guardian of any such violation by such minor, there is a
continued or repeated violation by such minor, such parent or legal guardian
shall be guilty of a violation of this section unless such parent or legal
guardian shall have first notified the president in writing of his or her
inability to prevent such continued or repeated violation and shall request the
state's attorney or Mercer County, or the proper public authority to take the
necessary legal proceedings toward having such minor declared and dealt with as
a delinquent minor.
   D.   Vandalism And Malicious Damage:
      1.   Parental Responsibility For Failure To Supervise: It shall be
unlawful for any parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated minor residing
with such parent or legal guardian to knowingly permit such minor to wilfully
or maliciously damage or destroy any property or to injure any person or
animal.
      2.   Parental Responsibility For Damages: The parent or legal guardian of
an unemancipated minor who resides with such parent or legal guardian shall be
liable to the full extent permitted by law, for actual damages for: a) such
minor's acts of institutional vandalism occurring within the village, and b)
the wilful or malicious acts of such minor which occur within the village and
which cause injury to a person, animal or property.
      3.   Presumption Of Knowledge: For the purpose of this subsection D, the
parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated minor residing with such parent or
legal guardian shall be presumed, in the absence of evidence to the contrary,
to have knowingly permitted such minor to have committed a violation of this
subsection D, if:
         a.   Such minor shall either be adjudicated to be in violation of any
ordinance, law or statute prohibiting wilful or malicious acts causing damage
or injury to a person, animal or property or shall have incurred nonjudicial
sanctions from another official agency resulting from an admission of guilt of
violation of any ordinance, law or statute prohibiting wilful or malicious acts
causing damage or injury to a person, animal or property; and
         b.   The parent or legal guardian shall have received a written notice
thereof, either by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, or
by personal service, with a certificate of personal service returned from the
village following such adjudication or nonjudicial sanction; and
         c.   Within one year following receipt of the notice set forth in
subsection D3b of this section, such minor is either adjudicated to have
violated within the corporate limits of the village any ordinance, law or
statute prohibiting wilful or malicious acts causing damage or injury to a
person, animal or property or shall have incurred nonjudicial sanctions from
another official agency resulting from an admission of guilt of a violation
within the corporate limits of the village of any ordinance, law or statute
prohibiting wilful or malicious acts causing damage or injury to a person,
animal or property.
   E.   Parental Responsibility For Violations By Minors: It shall be unlawful
for any parent or legal guardian of a minor to knowingly suffer, permit or
allow such minor to violate any provision of the ordinances of the village, any
state statute or federal law.
   F.   Parental Responsibility For Unpaid Penalties: The parent or legal
guardian of an unemancipated minor who resides with such parent or legal
guardian shall be liable for any fine, condition or restriction or reparation
imposed by a court upon such minor for a violation of any provision of the
ordinances of the village, but only if: 1) such minor has not paid the fine or
made restitution or reparation within the time ordered by the court, and 2)
said parent or legal guardian has been served with summons or notice to appear
in the original cause as provided by law. (Ord., 7-6-1997)
 
Notes
1 1. 705 ILCS 405/1-1 et seq.
CHAPTER 4
DOGS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Running At Large
5-4-3: Number Of Dogs Allowed
5-4-4: Barking Dogs
5-4-5: Impoundment And Redemption Procedures; Fee
5-4-6: Proclamation Of Danger From Rabid Dog
5-4-7: Biting Dog; Quarantine
5-4-8: Penalties
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, certain terms and words are defined as follows:
DOG OR PUP: All animals of the canine species, both male and female.
   RUN AT LARGE: To be off the owner's premises while not on an adequate leash
held by the owner, keeper or custodian; or on the owner's premises while not
confined by an adequate pen or secured by an adequate chain.
   VILLAGE: Village of Matherville, Mercer County, Illinois. (1993 Code § 2-5-
1)
5-4-2: RUNNING AT LARGE:
   A.   Permitting To Run At Large: No dog shall be permitted by its owner,
possessor, keeper or custodian to run at large in the village at any time.
   B.   Confinement Of Dangerous Or Unhealthy Dogs: Any vicious, dangerous,
ferocious dog or dog sick with or liable to communicate hydrophobia in the
village shall be confined by its owner or custodian and shall not be released
from confinement by the owner or custodian even though the dog is leashed and
within the immediate supervision and control of the owner or custodian, unless
such dog shall be securely muzzled by a full basket muzzle.
   C.   Danger Of Hydrophobia: At any other time, when by proclamation of the
village president, duly posted in at least three (3) public places, danger of
hydrophobia shall be declared to exist in the village, all dogs in the village
shall be confined by their owner or custodian and shall not be released from
confinement by the owner or custodian, even though the dog is leashed and
within the immediate supervision and control of the owner or custodian, unless
the dog shall be securely muzzled by a full basket muzzle.
   D.   Nuisance Declared; Apprehension; Disposition:
      1.   Any dog found running at large in the village contrary to any of the
provisions of this section is declared to be a nuisance and shall be
apprehended and confined to a dog shelter, which shelter shall be maintained
either by the village or by another authority duly authorized, designated, and
approved by the board of trustees and the president of the village to provide
adequate and humane care for the confinement of dogs found running at large in
violation of this chapter.
      2.   Any dog that has been permitted to run at large in the village
contrary to any of the provisions of this section and for which three (3)
convictions in any proper court have been based is declared to be a nuisance in
accordance with the provisions of 510 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/15, as it
may be amended from time to time and application shall be made by the village
attorney for an order that such dog be humanely dispatched. (1993 Code § 2-5-2;
amd. 2016 Code)
5-4-3: NUMBER OF DOGS ALLOWED:
   A.   Number Allowed: It shall be unlawful for any householder to have, or to
allow the members of his household to have, in the aggregate, more than three
(3) dogs within the village at any one time unless otherwise approved by the
village board of trustees. (Ord. 2012-9, 10-29-2012)
   B.   Age Of Dog As Exception:
      1.   For the purposes of this section, no dog under six (6) months of age
shall be counted, but all dogs over that age shall be.
      2.   If the matter of age of a dog is brought into question, it shall be
incumbent upon the owner to prove age that would exempt the dog from the
operation of this section.
   C.   Penalty: Anyone convicted of violating this section shall be fined not
more than one hundred dollars ($100.00), and each day such violation continues
may be treated as a separate offense. (1993 Code § 2-5-7)
5-4-4: BARKING DOGS:
   A.   Definitions: The following terms are defined as follows:
   DOG: All animals of the canine species, both male and female.
   KEPT: Any person, whether owner or custodian, who causes a dog or dogs to be
housed or maintained in a particular place, situation, or condition.
   SUBSTANTIAL PERIOD OF TIME: Any dog or dogs in combination thereof that bark
for thirty (30) minutes or more during any one hour period.
   B.   Nuisance Declared: Any dog or dogs kept within the village, that bark
for a substantial period of time so as to alarm or disturb other individuals in
the vicinity and causing a breach of the peace in the neighborhood are hereby
declared to be a nuisance. (Ord. 1997-10, 12-7-1997)
   C.   Penalties:
      1.   Any person, whether owner or custodian, who keeps a barking dog or
dogs constituting a nuisance as defined in this section shall be subject to a
fine as provided in section
5-4-8 of this chapter, and each day that such offense continues shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 1997-10, 12-7-1997; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   In addition to the imposition of a fine as provided in subsection C1
of this section, the village attorney shall also have the right to file a civil
suit against any owner or custodian of a barking dog or dogs constituting a
nuisance as defined in this section for the purpose of abating such nuisance.
(Ord. 1997-10, 12-7-1997)
5-4-5: IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION PROCEDURES; FEE:
   A.   Duties Of Poundkeeper: The poundkeeper is charged with the duties of
impounding in a dog shelter all dogs running at large in violation of this
chapter. He shall be a special police officer and shall be and is authorized to
make all necessary arrests in carrying out the provisions of this chapter and
shall be paid a fee as determined by the board of trustees and approved by the
president.
   B.   Public Notice:
      1.   Immediately after impounding any dog hereunder, it shall be the duty
of the poundmaster to enter upon the records of the pound in a book to be kept
by him for such purposes the approximate location where the dog was
apprehended, the date of impounding, a description of the dog impounded and the
name of the owner or custodian of such dog, if known, or the fact that the
owner or custodian is unknown.
      2.   Further, the poundmaster shall, immediately after impounding any dog
hereunder, provide to the village clerk the approximate location where the dog
was apprehended, the date of impoundment and the name of the owner or custodian
of such dog, if known, or the fact that the owner or custodian is unknown. The
village clerk shall, immediately upon receipt of this information, post in the
village hall a copy of the description of the dog, the approximate location
where the dog was apprehended, the date of impoundment and the location of the
pound.
      3.   In addition, the poundmaster shall, within seven (7) days after
apprehension and impoundment of any dog, cause written notice of such
impoundment to be mailed by certified mail to the owner(s) or custodian(s) of
the dog, if known, with a duplicate copy of the notice to be simultaneously
mailed to the village clerk.
      4.   If at the expiration of five (5) days after receipt by any of the
owner(s) or custodian(s) of the notice of impoundment or if at the expiration
of five (5) days after posting of the notice of impoundment by the village
clerk, when the owner(s) or custodian(s) of the dog is unknown, the dog is not
redeemed by the owner(s) or custodian(s), the dog is declared to be a public
nuisance and the poundmaster may immediately destroy the dog in a humane
fashion or a suitable home may be found.
   C.   Dogs Impounded; Redemption; Fee:
      1.   Dog Impounded: The owner(s) or custodian(s) of any dog impounded
hereunder may redeem the same by paying all costs and charges assessed for the
taking up, impoundment and keeping of the dog, if any, that have accrued up to
the time of making the redemption, and when the same are paid to the
poundmaster, it shall be his duty and he shall release the dog from the pound
and deliver him to the owner(s) or custodian(s) thereof.
      2.   Redemption: Upon redemption of any dog, the poundmaster shall notify
the village clerk of the date of redemption and the name of the owner(s) or
custodian(s) of the dog. Similarly, the poundmaster shall notify the village
clerk upon the humane destruction of any dog or the placement of any dog in a
suitable home, and the village clerk shall maintain a permanent record of such
information. (1993 Code § 2-5-3)
      3.   Fee: The redemption fee for impounded dogs shall be fifty dollars
($50.00). (Ord., 12-19-1994)
5-4-6: PROCLAMATION OF DANGER FROM RABID DOG:
The village president may at any time on an alarm of "rabid dog", prohibit by
public proclamation by notice in a newspaper of general circulation within the
village or by posting notice in at least three (3) public places within the
village all dogs from running at large within the village limits, and may
likewise at any time appoint special police with special authority to kill any
dogs running at large after proclamation is given as herein provided; and such
provision shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days from the date of
proclamation as specified therein unless sooner proclaimed by the president to
be ended. (1993 Code § 2-5-4; amd. 2016 Code)
5-4-7: BITING DOG; QUARANTINE:
   A.   Notify Police; Confinement: Whenever any dog bites a person, the owner
(s) or custodian(s) of the dog shall immediately notify a village police
officer who shall order the dog held on the owner's or custodian's premises or
shall have it impounded for a period of two (2) weeks.
   B.   Examination Of Dog: The dog shall be examined by a licensed
veterinarian immediately after it has bitten anyone and again at the end of the
two (2) week period. If at the end of the two (2) weeks a veterinarian is
convinced that the dog is free from rabies, the dog shall be released from
quarantine or from the shelter as the case may be. If the dog dies in the
meanwhile, its head shall be sent to the state department of health, for
examination for rabies. (1993 Code § 2-5-5)
5-4-8: PENALTIES:
   A.   Penalty Imposed: Any person convicted of violating this chapter shall
be fined in a sum not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00) for any one offense.
   B.   Apply For Order Of Destruction: Any dog which is the subject of a
person's third conviction or more entered by proper courts for a violation of
section
5-4-2 of this chapter shall cause the village to apply for an order of
destruction for such person's animal or animals.
   C.   Liability Of Officers: No provision of this chapter designating duties
of any officer or employee of the village shall be so construed as to make the
village officer or employee liable for any fine or penalty provided for a
failure to perform such duty. (1993 Code § 2-5-6)
CHAPTER 5
CHICKENS
SECTION:
5-5-1: General Provisions
5-5-2: Definitions
5-5-3: Permit Required
5-5-4: Issuance Of Permit
5-5-5: Denial, Suspension, Revocation, Non-Renewal
5-5-6: Notification
5-5-7: Effect Of Revocation/Denial Of Permit
5-5-8: Appeals
5-5-9: Number And Type Of Chickens Allowed
5-5-10: Residential Zoning
5-5-11: Noncommercial Use Only
5-5-12: Enclosures
5-5-13: Odor And Noise
5-5-14: Predators, Rodents, Insects And Parasites
5-5-15: Feed And Water
5-5-16: Waste Storage And Removal
5-5-17: Chickens At Large
5-5-18: Unlawful Acts And Penalty
5-5-19: Nuisances
5-5-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
It shall be unlawful to maintain, on any property within the Village of
Matherville, any cattle, swine, sheep, goats, other hoofed animals, ducks,
geese, turkeys or other species of poultry, with the exception of chickens as
defined and regulated herein. (Ord. 2017-9, 8-28-2017)
5-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
CHICKEN: A member of the subspecies Gallus gallus domesticus, domesticated
fowl.
   PERMITTED TRACT OF LAND: The tract of land as identified by the application
upon which a permit is granted for keeping chickens pursuant to this chapter.
   PERMITTEE: An applicant who has been granted a permit to raise, harbor or
keep chickens pursuant to this chapter.
   PERMITTING OFFICER: The Village President or designee.
   SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING: Any building that contains only one dwelling unit
used, intended, rented, leased, let or hired to be occupied for living
purposes.
   TRACT OF LAND: A property or a zoned lot that has one single- family
dwelling located on that property or zoned lot. (Ord. 2017-9, 8-28-2017)
5-5-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall raise, harbor or keep chickens within
the Village of Matherville, Illinois, without a valid permit.
   B.   Application: In order to obtain a permit, an applicant must submit a
completed application in paper form, and pay all fees required by this chapter.
   C.   Requirements: A permit shall not be issued unless:
      1.   All requirements of this chapter are met;
      2.   All fees, as may be provided for from time to time by the Village
Board of Trustees, are paid in full;
      3.   All judgments in the Village's favor and against the applicant have
been paid in full;
      4.   The tract of land to be permitted shall contain only one single-
family dwelling occupied and used as such by the permittee;
      5.   The applicant has provided notice to the residents of all
immediately adjacent dwellings of the applicant's intent to obtain a permit;
      6.   The applicant has completed an approved class in raising hens in an
urban setting. The Village Clerk shall maintain a current list of such approved
classes. (Ord. 2017-9, 8-28-2017)
5-5-4: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
If the Village concludes as a result of the information contained in the
application that the requirements for a permit have been met, then the Village
shall issue the permit. There shall be no fee to obtain such permit. (Ord.
2017-9, 8-28-2017)
5-5-5: DENIAL, SUSPENSION, REVOCATION, NON-RENEWAL:
The Village may deny, suspend, revoke, or decline to renew any permit issued
for any of the following grounds:
   A.   False statements on any application or other information or report
required by this chapter to be given by the applicant;
   B.   Failure to pay any application, penalty, re-inspection or reinstatement
fee required by this chapter or Village resolution;
   C.   Failure to correct deficiencies noted in notices of violation in the
time specified in the notice;
   D.   Failure to comply with the provisions of an approved mitigation/
remediation plan by the Village, or designee;
   E.   Failure to comply with any provision of this chapter. (Ord. 2017-9, 8-
28-2017)
5-5-6: NOTIFICATION:
A decision to revoke, suspend, deny or not renew a permit shall be in writing,
delivered by ordinary mail or in person to the address indicated on the
application. The notification shall specify reasons for the action. (Ord. 2017-
9, 8-28-2017)
5-5-7: EFFECT OF REVOCATION/DENIAL OF PERMIT:
When an application for a permit is denied, or when a permit is revoked, the
applicant may not re-apply for a new permit for a period of one year from the
date of the denial or revocation. (Ord. 2017-9, 8-28-2017)
5-5-8: APPEALS:
No permit may be denied, suspended, revoked, or not renewed without notice and
an opportunity to be heard being given the applicant or permittee. In any
instance where the Village has denied, revoked, suspended, or not renewed a
permit, the applicant or permittee may appeal the decision to Village Board of
Trustees within ten (10) business days of the receipt by the applicant or
permittee of the notice of the decision. The applicant or permittee will be
given an opportunity for a hearing. The decision of the Village that is not
appealed in accordance with the terms of this section shall be deemed final
action. (Ord. 2017-9, 8-28-2017)
5-5-9: NUMBER AND TYPE OF CHICKENS ALLOWED:
The maximum number of chickens allowed is twelve (12) per tract of land
regardless of how many dwelling units are on the tract. Only female chickens
(hens) are allowed. (Ord. 2017-9, 8-28-2017)
5-5-10: RESIDENTIAL ZONING:
Permits will be granted only for tracts of land located in residential
districts as defined on the current official Zoning Map for the Village of
Matherville, Illinois. (Ord. 2017-9, 8-28-2017)
5-5-11: NONCOMMERCIAL USE ONLY:
A permit shall not allow the permittee to engage in chicken breeding or
fertilizer production for commercial purposes. (Ord. 2017-9, 8-28-2017)
5-5-12: ENCLOSURES:
   A.   Hours: Chickens must be kept in an enclosure at all times. Chickens
shall be secured within a henhouse or chicken tractor during non-daylight
hours.
   B.   Condition: Enclosures must be kept in a clean, dry, odor-free, neat and
sanitary condition at all times.
   C.   Ventilation, Sun And Shade: Henhouses, chicken tractors and chicken
pens must provide adequate ventilation and adequate sun and shade and must be
impermeable to rodents, wild birds and predators, including dogs and cats.
   D.   Henhouses And Chicken Tractors:
      1.   Henhouses and chicken tractors shall be designed to provide safe and
healthy living conditions for the chickens with a minimum of four (4) square
feet per bird while minimizing adverse impacts to other residents in the
neighborhood.
         a.   A henhouse or chicken tractor shall be enclosed on all sides and
shall have a roof and doors. Access doors must be able to be shut and locked at
night. Opening windows and vents must be covered with predator and bird proof
wire of less than one inch (1") openings.
         b.   The materials used in making a henhouse or chicken tractor shall
be uniform for each element of the structure such that the walls are made of
the same material, the roof has the same shingles or other covering, and any
windows or openings are constructed using the same materials. The use of scrap,
waste board, sheet metal, or similar materials is prohibited. Henhouses and
chicken tractors shall be well maintained.
      2.   Henhouses, chicken tractors and chicken pens shall only be located
in the rear yard unless the setback requirements cannot be met in which case
they may be kept in a side yard but within the required setbacks.
      3.   Henhouse, chicken tractors and chicken pens must be located at least
ten feet (10') from the property line and at least twenty five feet (25') from
any adjacent residential dwelling, church, school or place of business.
   E.   Fencing: Any enclosed chicken pen shall consist of sturdy wire fencing.
The pen must be covered with wire, aviary netting, or solid roofing. (Ord.
2017-9, 8-28-2017)
5-5-13: ODOR AND NOISE:
   A.   Odors from chickens, chicken manure or other chicken related substances
shall not be perceptible beyond the boundaries of the permitted tract of land.
   B.   Noise from chickens shall not be loud enough beyond the boundaries of
the permitted tract of land at the property boundaries to disturb persons of
reasonable sensitivity. (Ord. 2017-9, 8-28-2017)
5-5-14: PREDATORS, RODENTS, INSECTS AND PARASITES:
The permittee shall take necessary action to reduce the attraction of predators
and rodents and the potential infestation of insects and parasites. Chickens
found to be infected with insects and parasites that may result in unhealthy
conditions to human habitation may be removed by the Village President or his/
her designee. (Ord. 2017-9, 8-28-2017)
5-5-15: FEED AND WATER:
Chickens shall be provided with access to feed and clean water at all times.
The feed and water shall be unavailable to rodents, wild birds and predators.
(Ord. 2017-9, 8-28-2017)
5-5-16: WASTE STORAGE AND REMOVAL:
All stored manure shall be covered by a fully enclosed structure with a roof or
lid over the entire structure. No more than three (3) cubic feet of manure
shall be stored on the permitted tract of land. All other manure not used for
composting or fertilizing shall be removed. The henhouse, chicken tractor,
chicken pen and surrounding area must be kept free from trash and accumulated
droppings. Uneaten feed shall be removed in a timely manner. (Ord. 2017-9, 8-
28-2017)
5-5-17: CHICKENS AT LARGE:
   A.   The permittee shall not allow the permittee's chickens to roam off the
permitted tract of land. The mere fact, standing alone, that a chicken was off
the permitted tract of land at the time it is killed by a dog or cat or other
domesticated animal, shall not prevent a finding that the animal is considered
a dangerous or aggressive animal, and shall not impair the Village's
responsibility to enforce its animal control provisions.
   B.   The permittee shall place and keep leg bands on all of his chickens
showing the permit number. (Ord. 2017-9, 8-28-2017)
5-5-18: UNLAWFUL ACTS AND PENALTY:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep chickens in violation of
any provision of this chapter or any other provision of this Code.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any owner, renter or leaseholder of property
to allow chickens to be kept on the property in violation of the provisions of
this chapter.
   C.   No person shall keep chickens inside a single family dwelling unit,
multi-family dwelling unit(s) or rental unit.
   D.   No person shall slaughter any chickens within the Village of
Matherville, Illinois.
   E.   No person shall keep a rooster.
   F.   No person shall keep chickens on a vacant or uninhabited tract of land.
   G.   Any violation of any subsection of this section or of section
5-5-1 of this chapter shall result in the issuance of a written warning from
the Village. Failure to correct such violation within ten (10) days of said
warning shall subject the offender to a fine of not less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 2017-9,
8-28-2017)
5-5-19: NUISANCES:
Any violation of the terms of this chapter that constitutes a health hazard or
that interferes with the use or enjoyment of neighboring property is a nuisance
and may be abated under the general nuisance abatement provisions of this Code.
(Ord. 2017-9, 8-28-2017)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
General Traffic Provisions   1
All-Terrain And Slow Moving Vehicles   2
Bicycles   3
Skateboards   4
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Definitions
6-1-2: Enforcement Provisions
6-1-3: Traffic Control Devices
6-1-4: Crosswalks And Safety Zones
6-1-5: Traffic Lanes
6-1-6: Compliance With Signs
6-1-7: Speed Limits
6-1-8: Parking Restrictions
6-1-9: Removal, Impoundment Of Vehicles
6-1-10: Reckless Or Negligent Driving
6-1-11: Pedestrian Traffic
6-1-12: Snowmobiles Permitted On Marked Routes
6-1-13: Golf Cart Operation
6-1-14: Penalty
6-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases when used in this chapter shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them:
BUSINESS DISTRICT: Second Street from Second Avenue to Sixth Avenue and any
alleys immediately adjacent thereto.
   CROSSWALK: A. That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway, and in the absence of a sidewalk on one side of the
highway, that part of the highway included within the extension of the lateral
line of the existing sidewalk to the side of the highway without the sidewalk,
with such extension forming a right angle to the centerline of the highway.
   B.   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface
placed in accordance with the provisions in the manual adopted by the state
department of transportation as authorized in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
11-301.
   DRIVER: Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   FARM TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing plows, mowing machines, and other implements of
husbandry.
   INTERSECTION: A. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of
the lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two (2) highways which join one another at, or approximately at,
right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different
roadways joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
   B.   Where a highway includes two (2) roadways forty feet (40') or more
apart, then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an
intersecting highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
   C.   The junction of an alley with a street or highway does not constitute
an intersection.
   LANED ROADWAY: A roadway which is divided into two (2) or more clearly
marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
   MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which
is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails.
   MOTORCYCLE: Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding a tractor.
   OWNER: A person who holds the legal title of a vehicle or in the event a
vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in
the agreement and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of a vehicle is
entitled to possession, then the conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor
shall be deemed the owner for the purpose of this title.
   PARK: When prohibited, means the standing of a vehicle whether occupied or
not, otherwise then temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged
in loading or unloading.
   PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot.
   POLICE OFFICER: Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to
make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY: Every way or place in private ownership and use of
vehicular travel only by the owner or by those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
   ROADWAY: That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a highway
includes two (2) or more separate roadways, the term "roadway" shall refer to
any such roadway separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
   SAFETY ZONE: The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times which set
apart as a safety zone.
   SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STOP: When required, means complete cessation from movement.
   STOP, STOPPING OR STANDING: When prohibited, mean any stopping or standing
of a vehicle whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic control sign or signal.
   STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   TRAFFIC: Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars, and
other conveyances, either singly or together, while using any thoroughfare for
purposes of travel.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL: Any device, whether manually, electrically, or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to yield or to
stop and to proceed.
   TRUCK-TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than part of the
weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
   VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a thoroughfare, except devices moved by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary tracks or rails. (1993 Code § 2-2-1;
amd. 2016 Code)
6-1-2: ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS:
   A.   Authority Of Department Officials:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the officers of the police department, or
such officers as are assigned by the chief of police, to enforce all street
traffic laws of the state and village.
      2.   Officers of the police department, or such officers as are assigned
by the chief of police, are authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand or
signal; provided, that in the event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite
traffic or to safeguard pedestrians, officers of the police department may
direct traffic as conditions may require.
      3.   Officers of any fire department servicing the village when at the
scene of a fire may direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or
in the immediate vicinity.
   B.   Obedience To Regulations: It shall be unlawful for any person to do any
act forbidden or fail to perform any act required in this chapter.
   C.   Obedience To Department Officials: It shall be unlawful for any person
wilfully to fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or direction of a
police officer or fire department official. (1993 Code § 2-2-2)
6-1-3: TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
   A.   Authority To Install: The chief of police shall place and maintain
traffic control signs, signals and devices when and as required under the
traffic regulations of the village to make effective the provisions of the
regulations, and may place and maintain additional traffic control devices as
he may deem necessary and subject to the approval of the board of trustees.
   B.   Specifications: All traffic control signs, signals and devices shall
conform to the approved specifications. All signs and signals, required
hereunder for a particular purpose, shall so far as practicable be uniform as
to type and location throughout the village. All traffic control devices so
erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of this code shall be official
traffic control devices. (1993 Code § 2-2-3)
   C.   Obedience To Devices: The driver of any vehicle shall obey the
instructions of any official traffic control device applicable thereto placed
in accordance with the traffic regulations of the village, unless otherwise
directed by a police officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of
an authorized emergency vehicle by the Illinois vehicle code. (1993 Code § 2-2-
3; amd. 2016 Code)
   D.   Interference With Devices: It shall be unlawful for any person, without
lawful authority, to attempt to or in fact alter, deface, injure, knock down or
remove any official traffic control device or any railroad sign or signal or
any inscription, shield or insignia thereon or any part thereof. (1993 Code §
2-2-3)
6-1-4: CROSSWALKS AND SAFETY ZONES:
The chief of police is authorized:
   A.   To designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks or lines upon
the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where in his opinion
there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway and at such
other places as he may deem necessary.
   B.   To establish safety zones of such kind and character and at such places
as he may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians. (1993 Code § 2-2-3)
6-1-5: TRAFFIC LANES:
   A.   The chief of police is authorized to mark traffic lanes upon the
roadway of any street or highway where a regular alignment of traffic is
necessary.
   B.   Where traffic lanes have been marked, it shall be unlawful for the
operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicles within the
boundaries of the lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement. (1993 Code § 2-2-3)
6-1-6: COMPLIANCE WITH SIGNS:
   A.   Stop Or Yield Right Of Way:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to drive into any intersection marked with a
stop sign without bringing the vehicle to a full stop prior to entering the
intersection.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to fail to yield right of way at any
intersection marked with a yield sign.
   B.   No Parking: It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon any street or
highway marked with a no parking sign. (1993 Code § 2-2-3)
6-1-7: SPEED LIMITS:
   A.   Reasonable And Prudent Speed; Due Care:
      1.   No person shall drive a vehicle on a public thoroughfare at a speed
greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions and having regard
to the actual and potential hazards then existing.
      2.   In every event, speed shall be so controlled as may be necessary to
avoid colliding with any person, vehicle, or other conveyance on or entering
the public thoroughfare in compliance with the legal requirements and duty of
all persons to use due care.
   B.   Maximum Speed Limit: Where no special hazard exists that requires lower
speed for compliance with subsection A of this section, the speed shall not
exceed thirty (30) miles per hour, except as follows: (1993 Code § 2-2-4)
Upon proper action by the board and a traffic study performed in compliance
with Illinois Compiled Statutes, the speed limit on any thoroughfare within the
village may be raised or lowered by posting signs to that effect. (1993 Code §
2-2-4; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Driving Too Slowly: No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a
slow speed as to impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic
except when reduced speed is necessary for safe operation or in compliance with
law. (1993 Code § 2-2-4)
6-1-8: PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Parking Time Limited: It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon any
street or highway for more than forty eight (48) hours. (1993 Code § 2-2-5)
   B.   Parking During Snow Removal:
      1.   Anytime there is an accumulation of two inches (2") or more of snow,
it shall be unlawful to park or to allow any vehicle to remain parked on the
south side of Second Street between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and
seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
      2.   All vehicles in violation of this subsection B shall be subject to
being towed at the expense of the owner or renter of the vehicle. (Ord. 2001-2)
6-1-9: REMOVAL, IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES:
   A.   Improperly Parked Vehicles:
      1.   Any vehicle parked in violation of traffic regulations or any
vehicle parked so as to obstruct the free movement of traffic or to cause a
traffic hazard may be immediately removed upon order of the police department.
Any such vehicle removed by the police department shall be kept under the
control of the police department until the owner or authorized agent pays a
reasonable cost of removal and storage in addition to the penalty provided for
such improper parking. Any such vehicle shall be deemed to be improperly parked
after a period of three (3) minutes unless the vehicle is parked in the
business district.
      2.   If the vehicle is redeemed within five (5) days, removal charges
shall not exceed ten dollars ($10.00); however, if the vehicle is not redeemed
within five (5) days, the cost of redemption shall include the actual cost and
expense of the removal in addition to a storage charge of one dollar ($1.00)
per day and the costs and expenses shall be a lien in favor of the village.
(1993 Code § 2-2-6)
   B.   Wrecked Or Abandoned Vehicles Or Personal Property:
      1.   The police department is authorized, in addition to any penalty that
may be provided therefor, to remove any unidentified, stolen, wrecked or
abandoned motor vehicle or other personal property as defined in statute, found
upon any public thoroughfare or other property of the village and shall keep
the same in its custody and control at such place as may be designated by the
police department until redeemed by the owner; and all such unidentified,
stolen, wrecked or abandoned motor vehicles or other personal property which
now is in the possession of the police department shall be subject to the
actual cost of removal or tow in from the public place and a storage charge of
two dollars ($2.00) per day as long as the same is in possession and custody.
(1993 Code § 2-2-6; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any owner or any person in charge of a
motor vehicle or other personal property to leave or abandon the same upon the
streets or public places.
   C.   Removal From Private Property:
      1.   If at any time a vehicle is parked upon private property without the
consent of the owner of the property, the police department is authorized to
remove the vehicle therefrom and to cause the same to be stored, provided the
owner of the private property has first signed a complaint against the owner or
operator of the vehicle.
      2.   The village shall have a lien for all necessary costs of removing
and storing a vehicle, and the vehicle may be held by the village until the
lien is paid.
   D.   Lien On Impounded Properties:
      1.   All motor vehicles and other personal property impounded by the
police department and unredeemed by the owner thereof for a period of sixty
(60) days shall thereafter be subject to sale by the chief of police to the
highest bidder for cash as provided, and the proceeds of the sale shall be
applied to the removal and storage charges accumulated against each article,
which shall be deposited with the village treasurer and credited to him and
shall be kept in a separate fund for a period of one year from the date of
receipt and if, at the end of the year, the former owner of this property has
not made satisfactory proof of claim, then the balance of the proceeds of the
sale, after deductions, shall be paid to the owner.
      2.   Any appeal from the removal, storage and publication costs, if any,
assessed by the police department shall be in the same manner as provided by
law. (1993 Code § 2-2-6)
6-1-10: RECKLESS OR NEGLIGENT DRIVING:
   A.   Reckless Driving: Any person who drives any vehicle upon a public
thoroughfare carelessly and heedlessly, or without due caution and
circumspection and at a speed or in a manner so as to endanger any person or
property, or who passes when there is a line in his lane indicating a sight
distance restriction, shall be deemed guilty of reckless driving.
   B.   Negligent Driver:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle in a
negligent manner over and along the public thoroughfares of the village. For
the purpose of this section to "operate in a negligent manner" shall be
construed to mean the operation of a vehicle upon the public thoroughfares in
such a manner as to endanger or be likely to endanger any persons or property.
      2.   The offense of operating a vehicle in a negligent manner shall be
considered to be a lesser offense than, but included in, the offense of
operating a vehicle in a reckless manner, and any person charged with operating
a vehicle in a reckless manner may be convicted of the lesser offense of
operating a vehicle in a negligent manner.
   C.   Driving Contrary To Law: It shall be unlawful for the owner, or any
other person, employing or otherwise directing the driver of any vehicle to
require or knowingly permit the operation of such vehicle upon a highway in any
manner contrary to law.
   D.   Causing Loud Noise: No person shall operate a vehicle, except in cases
of emergency, in such a manner that loud or disturbing noises are heard; nor
shall horns or other warning devices be sounded unnecessarily. (1993 Code § 2-
2-7)
6-1-11: PEDESTRIAN TRAFFIC:
   A.   Prohibited Acts: No person shall loiter, lounge or sleep in or upon any
street, park, public place or public way or in any public building, or obstruct
the access to any public building or any part thereof or obstruct passage
through or upon any public street, park or public place.
   B.   Term Described: For the purposes of this chapter, the term "obstruct"
encompasses, but is not necessarily limited to, one or more of the following
acts:
      1.   Obstruction of the free and unhampered passage of pedestrians or
vehicles.
      2.   Obstructing or molesting or interfering with any person lawfully
upon any street, park or public place.
      3.   Obstructing or otherwise interfering with any person lawfully upon
any street, park or public place.
      4.   Use of any language, conversation, or conduct which annoys, insults,
or disturbs persons passing along a street, or other public places, or
occupying, residing or doing business in any of the houses or places. (1993
Code § 2-2-8)
6-1-12: SNOWMOBILES PERMITTED ON MARKED ROUTES:
   A.   The operation of snowmobiles shall be permitted on marked routes only
within the village.
   B.   Any violator of this section shall be subject to a fifty dollar
($50.00) fine. (Ord. 2013-2, 4-29-2013)
6-1-13: GOLF CART OPERATION:
   A.   Definition: For purposes of this section, "golf cart" means a vehicle
specifically designed and intended for the purposes of transporting one or more
persons and their golf clubs or maintenance equipment while engaged in the
playing of golf, supervising the play of golf, or maintaining the condition of
the grounds on a public or private golf course.
   B.   Required Equipment: The operation of golf carts shall be allowed within
the village with the exception that no golf cart may be operated in the village
unless, at a minimum, it has the following: brakes, a steering apparatus,
tires, a rearview mirror, red reflectorized warning devices in the front and
rear, a slow moving emblem on the rear of the golf cart, a headlight that emits
a white light visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the front,
a taillamp that emits a red light visible from at least one hundred feet (100')
from the rear, brake lights, and turn signals.
   C.   Yield Right Of Way: The operator of the golf cart shall yield the right
of way to all pedestrian and vehicular traffic which constitutes a hazard.
   D.   Driving While Under The Influence; Certain Statutes Apply: A person who
drives or is in actual physical control of a golf cart on any village roadway
while under the influence is subject to the following:
625 ILCS
625 ILCS
5/11-500     Definitions
5/11-501     Driving while under the influence of alcohol, other drug or drugs,
             intoxicating compound or compounds or any combination thereof
             Suspension of driver's license; statutory summary alcohol, other
5/11-501.1   drug or drugs, or intoxicating compound or compounds related
             suspension; implied consent
5/11-501.2   Chemical and other tests
5/11-501.4   Admissibility of chemical tests of blood conducted in the regular
             course of providing emergency medical treatment
5/11-501.4-1 Reporting of test results of blood or urine conducted in the
             regular course of providing emergency medical testing
5/11-501.5   Preliminary breath screening test
5/11-501.6   Driver involvement in personal injury or fatal motor vehicle
             accident; chemical test
5/11-501.7   Youthful intoxicated driver's visitation program
5/11-501.8   Suspension of driver's license; persons under age 21
5/11-502     Transportation or possession of alcoholic liquor in a motor
             vehicle
 
   E.   Penalty: Any violator of this section shall be subject to a minimum
seventy five dollar ($75.00) fine. (Ord. 2004-2, 10-25-2004)
6-1-14: PENALTY:
Any person or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall be
fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1993 Code § 2-2-
10)
CHAPTER 2
ALL-TERRAIN AND SLOW MOVING VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-2-1: Definitions
6-2-2: Operation Requirements And Restrictions
6-2-3: Required Equipment
6-2-4: Penalties
6-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ATV/UTV: An ATV/UTV a.k.a. slow moving vehicle (SMV) defined herein means a
nonhighway vehicle not specifically designed to be used on a public highway,
including:
   A.   An all-terrain vehicle, as defined by 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
1-101.8.
   B.   A recreational off highway vehicle, as defined by 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/1-168.8.
   VILLAGE STREETS: Any of the streets within the boundaries of the village of
Matherville. (Ord. 2012-7, 8-27-2012)
6-2-2: OPERATION REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
All persons wishing to operate an SMV on the village streets must ensure
compliance with the following requirements:
   A.   Operator must have current liability insurance.
   B.   Operator must be sixteen (16) years of age and have a valid driver's
license.
   C.   Operator must obey all traffic laws of the state of Illinois.
   D.   The SMV must be operated only on the village streets, except where
operation is prohibited.
   E.   The SMV must not be operated in excess of the posted speed limit and
may not exceed twenty (20) miles per hour.
   F.   The SMV must be operated in a reasonable and safe manner.
   G.   A person operating or who is in actual physical control of an SMV as
described herein on a roadway while under the influence is subject to 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-500 through 5/11-502.
   H.   SMVs shall not be operated on sidewalks or in village parks other than
parking areas.
   I.   SMVs may not be operated on streets and highways and roads under the
jurisdiction of the county highway department and the township except to cross
at intersections.
   J.   Persons driving an SMV are to pull over to the right side of the road
and stop, yielding right of way to approaching traffic from behind. (Ord. 2012-
7, 8-27-2012)
6-2-3: REQUIRED EQUIPMENT:
All SMVs must be equipped as follows:
   A.   Horn.
   B.   Brakes and brake light/taillamp that emits a red light visible from at
least one hundred feet (100') from the rear which must be illuminated when in
operation.
   C.   Turn signals.
   D.   Steering apparatus.
   E.   Tires.
   F.   Rearview and/or side view mirror.
   G.   Headlight that emits a white light visible from a distance of five
hundred feet (500') to the front which must illuminate when in operation.
   H.   A slow moving vehicle emblem, as required of other vehicles in 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-709.
   I.   Red reflectorized warning devices in the front and the rear.
   J.   Any additional requirement which may be amended in the Illinois vehicle
code. (Ord. 2012-7, 8-27-2012)
6-2-4: PENALTIES:
   A.   Fine Imposed: Failure to abide by this chapter shall result in a fine
of one hundred dollars ($100.00), with each infraction of this chapter
constituting a separate offense bearing a separate fine.
   B.   Administrative Warning Tickets:
      1.   In the sole discretion of a county sheriff officer and/or board of
trustees, they may issue an administrative warning ticket (AWT), which for
purposes of this chapter is defined as a notice of a violation of the village
ordinance used in lieu of an arrest or notice to appear in circuit court.
      2.   If a warning ticket is issued, the vehicle must not be operated
until the police department or village board inspects the vehicle and operator
for compliance.
      3.   Persons who have received an AWT for a violation of any provision of
this chapter may settle and compromise the claim by paying to the village an
administrative fee in the amount of fifty dollars ($50.00) within fifteen (15)
days of the date of issuance.
      4.   In addition to paying an administrative fee, as provided for in this
subsection B, persons issued an AWT will be required, within fifteen (15) days
of the date of issuance of the AWT, to correct the violation(s) indicated
thereon to the satisfaction of the county sheriff's department and the board of
trustees.
      5.   Persons who have been issued an AWT for a violation of this chapter
and who fail to pay the administrative fee in the allotted time, and/or those
persons who have been issued an AWT who fail to correct the violation when
required or indicated, within the time allotted, will be issued a notice to
appear in the circuit court of Mercer County or issued a notice of complaint
filed in the circuit court of Mercer County, or issued a combination of a
notice to appear and a notice of complaint filed in said court, and shall be
subject to the fines and penalties set forth in subsection C of this section.
   C.   Issuance Of Notice To Appear: In lieu of an AWT, as defined in
subsection B of this section, or upon failure to timely compromise and/or
correct any violation for which an AWT has been issued, a county sheriff
officer may cause the issuance of notice to appear and/or cause the issuance of
a notice of complaint to be filed in the circuit court of Mercer County, which
will subject the person to whom the notice or notices have been issued to a
fine of not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) and not more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 2012-7, 8-27-2012)
CHAPTER 3
BICYCLES
SECTION:
6-3-1: Lamp Required
6-3-2: Riding On Sidewalks Prohibited
6-3-3: Penalty
6-3-1: LAMP REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to ride a bicycle within the corporate
limits of the village after dark without an attached lighted lamp. (1993 Code §
2-7-1)
6-3-2: RIDING ON SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to ride a bicycle on any public sidewalk
within the corporate limits of the village. (1993 Code § 2-7-2)
6-3-3: PENALTY:
Any person in any way failing to comply with the provisions of this chapter
shall be subject to a fine of not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than
twenty five dollars ($25.00). (1993 Code § 2-7-3)
CHAPTER 4
SKATEBOARDS
SECTION:
6-4-1: Intent And Purpose
6-4-2: Definitions
6-4-3: Use Of Skateboard Areas
6-4-4: Establishment Of Skateboard Lanes And Paths
6-4-5: Riding Requirements And Restrictions
6-4-6: Penalty
6-4-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The village finds and declares that the provisions of this chapter are enacted
for the following reasons:
   A.   To establish safety requirements for the operators of skateboards; and
   B.   To establish regulations banning, or, where permitted, governing the
operation of skateboards on the roadways, paths and sidewalks of the village.
(1993 Code § 2-8-1)
6-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ROADWAY: That portion of a road, street, or highway designed or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, excluding the sidewalk.
   SIDEWALK: That portion of a road, street, or highway designed or ordinarily
used for pedestrian travel.
   SKATEBOARD: A single platform mounted on wheels, which is propelled solely
by human power and which has no mechanism or other device with which to steer
or to control the movement or direction of the platform. (1993 Code § 2-8-2)
6-4-3: USE OF SKATEBOARD AREAS:
The operation of skateboards on any public property or upon any street, roadway
or highway within the village is not permitted unless such area has been
designated as a skateboard area by the village police department. (1993 Code §
2-8-3)
6-4-4: ESTABLISHMENT OF SKATEBOARD LANES AND PATHS:
   A.   The police department, in conjunction with other departments of the
village government, may establish a series of lanes on designated public
properties within this village upon which skateboards may be operated.
   B.   The police department shall design and make available a map which
indicates the location of all skateboard lanes and skateboard paths within the
village. (1993 Code § 2-8-4)
6-4-5: RIDING REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Skateboard Paths: Where a designated skateboard path has been provided,
every operator shall use the path and shall not use any adjacent roadway except
at intersections, in an emergency, or where necessary to:
      1.   Make a permissible left, right or U-turn;
      2.   Leave or cross the roadway; or
      3.   Maintain the safe operation of the skateboard.
   B.   Carrying Articles: No skateboard operator shall carry any article which
prevents the use of both hands and feet in the control and operation of the
skateboard.
   C.   Clinging To Vehicles: No skateboard operator shall attach his
skateboard or himself to any vehicle upon a lane, roadway, sidewalk or
skateboard path.
   D.   Areas Where Riding Prohibited: Skateboarding shall be prohibited on any
roadway or in the bike lane of any roadway not so designated and in no event in
any portion of the village specifically designated as a business district.
   E.   Traffic Control Devices: The police department of the village is
authorized to erect official traffic control devices on those areas of public
property where skateboarding is allowed.
   F.   Riding On Sidewalks: Skateboarding is prohibited upon any sidewalk in
any portion of the village and specifically prohibited on any sidewalk within
any district designated as a business district.
   G.   Yield Right Of Way: Notwithstanding their status as pedestrians,
skateboard operators on sidewalks and bike paths shall yield the right of way
to all vehicular and to all other pedestrian (nonskateboard) traffic upon the
sidewalk or path.
   H.   Subject To Rights Of Pedestrians: Skateboard operators on roadways or
lanes shall be granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the
duties applicable to nonskateboard pedestrians.
   I.   Protective Gear: Skateboard operators shall wear protective coverings
for their hands, knees, elbows, and heads when operating a skateboard and shall
not operate a skateboard while barefoot.
   J.   Number Of Persons On Skateboard: No more than one person shall operate
or ride on a skateboard at one time. (1993 Code § 2-8-5)
6-4-6: PENALTY:
Every person convicted of a violation of any provision of this chapter shall be
punished by a fine of not more than fifty dollars ($50.00) or by impoundment of
the violator's skateboard for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days or by any
combination thereof. (1993 Code § 2-8-6)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
City Parks   1
CHAPTER 1
CITY PARKS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Old School Park
7-1-2: Lake Park
7-1-1: OLD SCHOOL PARK:
   A.   Boundaries: Boundaries are as follows: Second Street West by Second
Avenue East by Third Avenue West by north one-half (1/2) block of original
town. (1993 Code § 2-3-1)
   B.   Closing Hours: No persons or party shall frequent, go upon or remain
within the boundaries of the public park, commonly known as "Old School Park",
between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. on
the succeeding day. (1993 Code § 2-3-1; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Alcoholic Beverages Restricted: It shall be unlawful to consume or
possess within the boundaries of the public park, commonly known as "Old School
Park", at any time alcoholic beverages, except at times and in accordance with
the terms of any permit therefor issued by the president of the village board
of trustees.
   D.   Penalty: Anyone violating this section shall be fined not to exceed one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for each offense. (1993 Code § 2-3-1)
7-1-2: LAKE PARK:
   A.   Park Area: All property controlled by the village of Matherville
commonly known as Matherville Lake.
   B.   Closing Time: It shall be unlawful for anyone, without the prior
written permission of the village president or when he is not available, of the
village police officer, to be in the lake park after the hour of ten o'clock
(10:00) P.M. nor shall anyone be in the park prior to sunup in the morning.
   C.   Penalty: Anyone violating this section shall be subject to a fine of
not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00), upon conviction thereof, and each
night shall be treated as a separate offense. (1993 Code § 2-3-2)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC UTILITIES
Waterworks System   1
Sewerage System   2
Building Sewers And Connections   2A
Use Of Public Sewers   2B
Combined Billing For Village Services   3
CHAPTER 1
WATERWORKS SYSTEM
SECTION:
8-1-1: Definitions
8-1-2: Water Department; Superintendent
8-1-3: Application For Use; Deposit Required
8-1-4: Meter And Main Hookup; Deposit Amounts; Tap-On Fee
8-1-5: Water Rates
8-1-6: Billing And Delinquency Procedures
8-1-7: Meter Malfunction; Calculation Of Water Consumed
8-1-8: Limitation Of Liability
8-1-9: Right Of Access; Water Use
8-1-10: Water Consumer Rules And Regulations
8-1-11: Termination Of Service
8-1-12: Water For Construction; Permit; Requirements
8-1-13: Multiple Users; Separate Meter Per Household
8-1-14: Extension Of Mains
8-1-15: Suspension Of Use; Water Emergency
8-1-16: Obstructing System Or Water Flow
8-1-17: Unlawful Use Of Water
8-1-18: Cross Connection Control
8-1-19: Penalties
8-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms shall, for the purposes of this chapter, be construed as
follows:
FAMILY: One or more individuals using common cooking facilities and living and
eating together as a single housekeeping unit.
   MATHERVILLE WATERWORKS SYSTEM: All facilities owned by the village of
Matherville, Illinois, or the Matherville sanitary district including
buildings, pipes, conduits, treatment facilities or storage reservoirs which
are maintained for the purposes of delivery of water or transfer and disposal
of sewage. (1993 Code § 5-1-1)
8-1-2: WATER DEPARTMENT; SUPERINTENDENT:
There is hereby established an executive department of the village to be known
as the "water department of the village of Matherville", and the president of
the village is hereby authorized to appoint, subject to confirmation by the
board of trustees, a superintendent of said water department and all other
necessary employees, and the said superintendent shall have the general
management and control of the waterworks systems of the village, subject,
however, to the supervision of the board of trustees. (1993 Code § 5-1-2)
8-1-3: APPLICATION FOR USE; DEPOSIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Filing Of Application: No water shall be turned on for use on, or in,
any premises until an application therefor in writing has been made for that
purpose specifying therein the ownership of the premises to be supplied water,
identifying the party responsible for water charges and stating the purpose for
which the water is to be used. Said application shall be filed with the
superintendent of the water department. (1993 Code § 5-1-3)
   B.   Deposit Required:
      1.   The applicant, and if applicant is not the owner of the premises,
and/or owner shall each deposit with the application the sum as set forth in
subsection
8-1-4A1 of this chapter before water is supplied to said premises or consumed
by any user or applicant. (1993 Code § 5-1-3; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   Such deposit shall be held by the village as security for the
payment of water used at the premises specified by the applicant, and may be so
applied when any default is made in payment of a water bill.
      3.   The deposit shall be returned to the applicant and/or owner without
interest upon termination of water service to said premises and all accounts of
applicant being paid. (1993 Code § 5-1-3)
8-1-4: METER AND MAIN HOOKUP; DEPOSIT AMOUNTS; TAP-ON FEE:
   A.   Meters; Connection; Deposit:
      1.   Deposit Amounts: All water users or consumers supplied by the
Village shall be supplied through meters only, such meters to be and remain the
property of the Village, and such users or consumers shall pay for the water
used or consumed at the rates and in the manner as in this chapter specified,
and each user or consumer shall pay a deposit as set forth below:
         a.   Homeowner: One hundred dollars ($100.00) for each meter installed
on the premises.
         b.   Rental property owner: One hundred dollars ($100.00) for each
meter installed on the premises.
         c.   Renter: Two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each meter installed on
the premises.
      2.   Reconnect Fee Following Shutoff: Following shutoff, the reconnection
fee on all properties is one hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 2001-1)
   B.   Tap-On Fee: There shall be a two hundred dollar ($200.00) tap-on fee
for new or modified service to each property in which such new or modified
connection requires modification to the public mains or public arteries,
branches and service pipes thereto. (1993 Code § 5-1-6)
8-1-5: WATER RATES:
The following shall be the rates for water supplied through meters, payable
monthly on the fifteenth day of each month of each calendar year: (1993 Code §
5-1-10)
 Rate Per Thousand Gallons
                                          Rate Per Thousand Gallons
First 3,000 gallons, in Village users     $22.50 minimum charge
First 3,000 gallons, out of Village users $28.00 minimum charge
Next 9,000 gallons                        $1.10
Next 10,000 gallons                       1.00
Next 10,000 gallons                       0.90
All over 30,000 gallons                   0.80
Bulk                                      3.00
 
Owners of vacant properties may apply to the Village Manager to be billed at
$12.00 per month flat rate charge for water. If at any time the property is
occupied, the water rates for such properties shall return to the regular rates
above. Regular water rates will also apply if water usage exceeds 100 gallons
per month. It is the obligation of the property owner to inform the Village
when the property is occupied. Failure to notify the Village may, in the
Village’s discretion, result in the property being retroactively charged the
regular water rates for the time period the property was claimed to be vacant.
Owners of vacant property may, in the alternative, apply to the Village to shut
off water service to the property for a fee of $100. A re-connect fee of $100
will also be due at any time water service is requested after having been
previously shut off under this section. (1993 Code § 5-1-10; amd. Ord. 2008-1,
12-20-2007, eff. 1-1-2008; Ord. 1, Series of 2023, 1-30-2023)
8-1-6: BILLING AND DELINQUENCY PROCEDURES:
   A.   Rendition Of Bills, Late Payments: Combined bills for water, sewer and
garbage service shall be rendered monthly and shall be delinquent thirty (30)
days after their rendition. In the event of failure to pay the bills within
said thirty (30) days, an additional charge of ten dollars ($10.00) shall be
added to the bill, as well as a delinquent penalty of up to one hundred percent
(100%) of the delinquent amount.
Whenever payment is made on a combined bill for water, sewer and garbage
service, the payment shall be applied first toward any outstanding fines,
penalties, or late charges owed to the Village, then to the charge for garbage
service, then to the charge for sewer service, and lastly to the charge for
water service. (Ord. 2018-2, 3-26-2018)
   B.   Use Of Deposit; Turn Off Water: All users of water shall be required to
deposit such amount as provided in subsection
8-1-4A1 of this chapter, when application is made for the supply of water to
the premises involved, and such funds collected shall be held by the Village
and may be applied to the payment of any water bill that is delinquent;
provided, that the application therefor to such purpose shall not be construed
as a waiver of the right of the Village to enforce the full payment of any
delinquent water bill or a waiver of the right of the Village to turn off the
supply of water to the premises involved in the event of any such delinquency,
and further shall be required that the said deposit be replenished before the
water supply is reestablished by the Village. (1993 Code § 5-1-11; amd. 2016
Code)
8-1-7: METER MALFUNCTION; CALCULATION OF WATER CONSUMED:
Whenever any meter, by reason of its being out of repair, or for any cause,
fails promptly to register the water passing through the same, the consumer
shall be charged at the rate shown for the corresponding time of the previous
year under like conditions. If no record of the previous year exists, then it
shall be the duty of the superintendent of the water department to estimate or
determine so far as he can the amount of water consumed during the time such
meter fails to operate, which estimation will be final, conclusive and binding
on the consumer, and the consumer shall pay the amount so estimated. (1993 Code
§ 5-1-7)
8-1-8: LIMITATION OF LIABILITY:
All connections and water applied for hereunder, and all the water used
hereunder, shall be upon the express condition that the village shall not be
liable, nor shall any claim be made against it, for damages or injury caused by
reason of the breaking of any main, branches, service pipes, apparatus or
appurtenances connected with said waterworks system or plant, or any part or
portion thereof, or for any interruption of the supply by reason of the
breakage of machinery, or by reason of stoppage, alterations, extensions or
renewals. (1993 Code § 5-1-8)
8-1-9: RIGHT OF ACCESS; WATER USE:
   A.   Access; Interference Unlawful: The village and its employees shall have
ready access to the premises, places or buildings where meters are located for
the purpose of reading, examining, testing and repairing the same, and
examining and testing the consumption, use and flow of water, and it shall be
unlawful for any person or corporation to interfere with, prevent, or obstruct
the village or its duly authorized agency, in its duties hereunder.
   B.   Compliance With Conditions For Taking Water: Every consumer of said
water shall take the same upon the conditions prescribed in this chapter.
   C.   Village Right To Use Consumer's Water: The village shall reserve the
right to use the water from the users' facilities at any time deemed necessary.
No charge shall be made by the user for the use of his facilities and no charge
shall be made by the village for the water used by the village. (1993 Code § 5-
1-9)
8-1-10: WATER CONSUMER RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The following rules and regulations for the consumers of water and for plumbers
are hereby adopted and established:
   A.   Application For Service: No water shall be furnished or supplied to any
consumer for any purpose whatever until such consumer shall make application
therefor. Such application shall state the location of the premises to be
served and the use to which the water will be put.
   B.   Owner Notify Village Of Tenants: Each titleholder of the premises where
the water is supplied shall be responsible for notifying the village of any
tenants to whom owner has let such premises and the date of beginning and
ending of such letting.
   C.   Supplying Water To Others: No water consumer may supply water to other
families or allow such water to be taken, except for use on the premises and
for the purposes specified in the application. After water is introduced into
any building or upon any premises, no water consumer shall authorize any person
to make or employ any person to make any tap connection to the waterworks upon
the premises for alterations, repairs, extensions or attachments thereto
without a written permit therefor to be issued by the superintendent of the
water department.
   D.   Right To Shut Off Water; Nonliability Of Village:
      1.   The village reserves the right to shut off water at any time in the
mains for the purpose of repairing, cleaning, making connections with or
extensions to same, or for the concentrating of water in any part of the
village in case of fire, and for restricting the use of the water in case of
deficiency in supply.
      2.   No claim shall be made against the village by reason of the breaking
of any service pipe or service cock, or damage arising from shutting off of
water for repairing, laying or relaying mains, hydrants or other connections or
repairing any part of the waterworks system, or from failure of the water
supply, or by increasing the water pressure at any time, or from concentration
or restricted use of water as herein provided. (1993 Code § 5-1-13)
8-1-11: TERMINATION OF SERVICE:
For any violation of the prescribed rules and regulations prescribed in section
8-1-10 of this chapter or for the nonpayment of water bills, the village
reserves the right to turn off the water without notice and to forfeit any
payments made, and after the water has been turned off from any service pipe on
account of nonpayment of water bills, or violation of rules, the same will not
be turned on until all delinquent bills and penalties are paid, together with
the reconnect fee as set forth in subsection
8-1-4A2 of this chapter, and no water will be furnished to any person who is
indebted to the village on account of water consumed, material or repairs.
(1993 Code § 5-1-14; amd. 2016 Code)
8-1-12: WATER FOR CONSTRUCTION; PERMIT; REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Application For Use: Persons or corporations desiring to use village
water for building or construction purposes shall make application therefor in
writing and file the same in the office of the village clerk on a form provided
for that purpose.
   B.   Permit Issuance; Service Connection And Removal: Upon a permit being
granted (permits shall be issued in writing and signed by the superintendent of
the water department), the service pipe shall be carried at the expense of the
applicant to the inside of the curb line, where a service cock and meter shall
be placed, with pipe leading to the surface, and a faucet at the end thereof
above said surface. When the building or construction work is completed, the
faucet and meter shall be removed and the water shut off, unless permanent
connection thereunder is made.
   C.   Charge: Charge for the use and connecting of meters shall be as
prescribed hereafter by the board of trustees.
   D.   Installation And Maintenance Of Service Lines: The users shall be
responsible for installation and maintenance of service lines between the main
and the curb stop and from curb stop to the residence or business. Such service
lines must be at least three-fourths inch (3/4") in diameter, and must be
installed at a minimum depth of five feet (5'). Service lines must have a
minimum working pressure rating of one hundred sixty (160) psi at seventy three
and four-tenths degrees Fahrenheit (73.4°F) and must be constructed on one of
the following types of materials: copper (type K), polyvinyl chloride (PVC),
polyethylene or polybutylene. Service lines must not be covered until they are
inspected and approved by a duly authorized village representative.
   E.   Prohibited Connection: The users shall not connect any service line or
a plumbing line connected with the service line to any other water source.
   F.   Compliance With State Requirements: The service line must meet any
requirements of the Illinois environmental protection agency. (1993 Code § 5-1-
12)
8-1-13: MULTIPLE USERS; SEPARATE METER PER HOUSEHOLD:
   A.   Multiple Users: No owner or plumber shall be permitted to conduct water
pipes into any two (2) distinct premises or tenements unless separate and
distinct stopcocks shall be placed on the outside of such premises along the
sidewalk opposite the same, nor shall any pipe be allowed to cross lots or
buildings to adjoining premises. (1993 Code § 5-1-15)
   B.   Separate Meters: For each premises served, there shall be installed
therein a separate meter for each user's family household. This provision shall
apply for all premises constructed or remodeled after April 1, 1985. (1993 Code
§ 5-1-17)
8-1-14: EXTENSION OF MAINS:
The board of trustees shall first determine if an extension of water main is
economically feasible based on the estimated cost of the extension and the
number of existing potential users that will use water along the extension. If
the extension is economically feasible, then the village may install and pay
the cost of the extension at the discretion of the board of trustees. If the
village elects not to pay the cost of extending the water main, then the person
or persons desiring water service shall install the extension at their own
personal expense upon written consent by the board of trustees. The village
shall not pay for any extensions to an undeveloped area such as a subdivision
being developed unless there are sufficient existing residents or businesses to
make the extension economically feasible.
   A.   The village must approve all plans and specifications for any
extensions.
   B.   Before any extensions are installed, the plans and specifications must
be reviewed and approved by the state environmental protection agency.
   C.   Ownership, rights of way, and title must be conveyed to the village for
all extensions installed by anyone other than the village. The village will
maintain the mains thereafter.
   D.   No extensions will be permitted if, in the opinion of the board of
trustees, the system does not have the necessary capacity to serve the proposed
extension.
   E.   Any users requesting a termination of service shall give written notice
to the village ten (10) days prior to the time such termination of service is
desired. The meter shall be read by the village and the users will be billed.
   F.   Responsibility for payment for water consumed prior to the date of
termination shall be with the property owners as well as the users.
   G.   There shall be no charge for transferring the water service to the
subsequent users. (1993 Code § 5-1-18)
8-1-15: SUSPENSION OF USE; WATER EMERGENCY:
The right is reserved to suspend the use of lawn fountains and hoses for
sprinkling lawns and gardens whenever, in the opinion of the village board of
trustees, public exigencies require it. (1993 Code § 5-1-16)
8-1-16: OBSTRUCTING SYSTEM OR WATER FLOW:
   A.   Obstructing System: No person shall in any manner obstruct the access
to any stopcock, hydrant or valve, or any public faucet or opening for the
taking of water in any street, alley, public way, public ground or public place
connected to or made part of the Matherville waterworks system, nor shall any
person pile or place any lumber, brick or building material or other article,
thing or hindrance whatsoever within twelve feet (12') of the same, or in any
manner hinder, delay or obstruct the members of the duly constituted
firefighting organization in reaching the same.
   B.   Interfering With Water Flow: It shall be unlawful for any person in any
manner to interfere with or obstruct the flow, retention, storage or authorized
use of water in said waterworks system, reservoirs or plant, or any part
thereof, or to injure, deface, remove or displace any water main, hydrant,
service pipe, water meter, shutoff box, public fountain, valve, engine or
building connected with said waterworks system or plant, or to cause, suffer,
or permit any of said things to be done. (1993 Code § 5-1-4)
8-1-17: UNLAWFUL USE OF WATER:
No person who is not duly authorized by the village board of trustees or
superintendent of the water department shall turn the water on at any fire
hydrant or service cock, or use water therefrom when so turned on. (1993 Code §
5-1-5)
8-1-18: CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, only the following
definitions shall apply: (1993 Code § 5-1-20)
   BACKFLOW: Water of questionable quality, wastes or other contaminants
entering a public water supply system due to a reversal of flow.
   CROSS CONNECTION: A connection or arrangement of piping or appurtenance
where a backflow could occur.
   SAFE AIR GAP: The minimum distance of a water inlet or opening above the
maximum high water level or overflow rim in a fixture, device or container to
which public water is furnished which shall be at least two (2) times the
inside diameter of the water inlet pipe, but shall not be less than one inch
(1") and need not be more than twelve inches (12").
   SECONDARY WATER SUPPLY: A water supply system maintained in addition to a
public water supply, including, but not limited to, water systems from ground
or surface sources not meeting the requirements of the state environmental
protection agency, or water from a public water supply which in any way has
been treated, processed or exposed to any possible contaminant or stored in
other than an approved storage facility.
   SUBMERGED INLET: A water pipe or extension thereto from a public water
supply terminating in a tank, vessel, fixture or appliance which may contain
water of questionable quality, waste or other contaminant and which is
unprotected against backflow.
   WATER UTILITY: The village of Matherville water department. (1993 Code § 5-
1-20; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Compliance With Local And State Regulations: A connection with a public
water supply system shall comply with the existing laws and rules of the
Illinois state plumbing code and the provisions of this code.
   C.   Prohibited Connections: Cross connection of the public water supply
system and any other water supply system or source including, but not limited
to, the following are prohibited:
      1.   Between a public water supply system and a secondary water supply.
      2.   By submerged inlet.
      3.   Between a lawn sprinkling system and the public water supply system.
      4.   Between a public water supply and piping which may contain sanitary
waste or a chemical contaminant.
      5.   Between a public water supply system and piping immersed in a tank
or vessel which may contain a contaminant.
   D.   Control Program: The village shall develop a comprehensive control
program for the elimination and prevention of all cross connections, and
removal of all existing cross connections and prevention of all future cross
connections.
   E.   Approval Of Proposed Connective Action: Any user of the village water
shall obtain written approval from the water department of any proposed
corrective action or protective device before using or installing it. The total
time allowed for completion of the necessary corrections shall be contingent
upon the degree of hazard involved and include the time required to obtain and
install equipment. If the cross connection has not been removed within that
time as hereinafter specified, the city shall physically separate the village
water supply from the on site piping system in such manner that the two (2)
systems cannot be connected by any unauthorized person.
   F.   Secondary Water Source Identified:
      1.   When a secondary water source is used in addition to the village
water supply, exposed village water and secondary water piping shall be
identified by distinguishing colors or tags and so maintained that each pipe
may be traced readily in its entirety. It will be necessary to protect the
village water supply at the service connection in a manner acceptable to the
water department.
      2.   A private water storage tank supplied from the village water supply
system shall be deemed a secondary water supply unless it is designed and
approved for potable water usage.
   G.   Time Limit And Expenses For Elimination: Within one year from the
effective date hereof, all existing cross connections to the village water
supply system shall be eliminated. The expenses of such elimination shall be
that of the owner of the property on which such cross connection exists.
   H.   Authority To Inspect: The water department of the village or any
representative thereof shall have the authority to inspect any premises to
determine the presence of an existing cross connection and to order the
elimination of such cross connection.
   I.   Discontinue Water Service; Other Precautionary Measures:
      1.   The water department is hereby authorized to discontinue water
service after a reasonable notice to any person owning any property where a
cross connection in violation of this section exists.
      2.   The water department may take such other precautionary measures as
necessary to eliminate any danger of the contamination of the village water
supply system. Water service to such property shall not be restored until such
cross connection has been eliminated. (1993 Code § 5-1-20)
8-1-19: PENALTIES:
Any person who shall perform any act in violation of any section of this
chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than fifty dollars
($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense, and
shall in addition be liable for the actual damages done, caused or water used.
(1993 Code § 5-1-19)
CHAPTER 2
SEWERAGE SYSTEM
SECTION:
8-2-1: Definitions
8-2-2: Authority Of Inspectors
8-2-3: Use Of Public Sewer Required
8-2-4: Fee For Building Sewer Connection With Main Sewer
8-2-5: Sewer Rates
8-2-6: Damaging Or Tampering With Sewage Works
8-2-7: Violations; Penalties
8-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and terms as used in this chapter shall be deemed to mean
and be construed as follows, unless the context specifically indicates
otherwise:
BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD): The quality of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C), expressed in parts per
million by weight.
   BUILDING DRAIN: The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (5') outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER: A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   CONTRIBUTOR: Any individual, firm, company, association, society,
corporation or group responsible for the production of domestic, commercial or
industrial waste which is directly or indirectly discharged into the village
sewer system.
   GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food,
and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The liquid wastes from industrial processes as
distinguished from sanitary sewage.
   INSPECTOR: The person or persons duly authorized by the village board of the
village of Matherville, Mercer County, Illinois, to inspect and approve the
installation of building sewers and their connections to the public sewer
system; and to inspect such sewage as may be discharged therefrom.
   NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface water or groundwater.
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group using the sewage treatment plant or sewerage system.
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per
liter of solution. It is used to indicate the concentration of free acid and
alkali.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWAGE: Sewage discharging from the sanitary conveniences of
dwellings (including apartment houses and hotels), office buildings, factories
or institutions, and free from stormwater, surface water and industrial wastes.
   SANITARY SEWER: A sewer which carries sewage and to which stormwater,
surface water and groundwater are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE: A combination of the water carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with such
groundwater, surface water and stormwater as may be presented.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT: Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS OR SEWERAGE SYSTEM: All facilities for collecting, pumping,
treating and disposing of sewage.
   SEWER: A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage and other waste liquids.
   STORM SEWER OR STORM DRAIN: A pipe or conduit which carries stormwater and
surface water and drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes;
it may, however, carry cooling water and unpolluted water.
   SUPERINTENDENT: The superintendent of the municipal sewage works of the
village of Matherville, Mercer County, Illinois, or his duly authorized deputy,
agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage, or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   VILLAGE: The area of territory located within the incorporated limits of the
village of Matherville, Mercer County, Illinois.
   VILLAGE BOARD: The duly elected board of the village of Matherville, Mercer
County, Illinois.
   VILLAGE TREASURER: The duly elected treasurer of the village of Matherville,
Mercer County, Illinois.
   WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently. (1993 Code § 6-1-1; amd. 2016 Code)
8-2-2: AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
Duly authorized employees of the village bearing proper credentials and
identification shall be permitted to enter upon all properties for the purpose
of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing, in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter. (1993 Code § 6-7-1)
8-2-3: USE OF PUBLIC SEWER REQUIRED:
   A.   Objectionable Waste: It shall be unlawful for any person to place,
deposit, or permit to be deposited in an insanitary manner upon public or
private property within the village, or in any area under the jurisdiction of
the village, any human or animal excrement, garbage, or other objectionable
waste. (1993 Code § 6-2-1)
   B.   Discharge: It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet
within the village, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the village, any
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, or other polluted waters, except where
suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with provisions of this
chapter. (1993 Code § 6-2-2)
   C.   Septic Tanks: Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to
construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank cesspool, or other
facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage. (1993 Code § 6-2-3)
   D.   Required Hookup To Public Sewer: The owners of any houses, buildings,
or properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other
purposes, situated within the village and abutting on any street, alley or
right of way in which there is now located, or may in the future be located, a
public sewer, are required to install, at such owner's expense, suitable toilet
facilities therein and building sewer connecting such facilities directly with
the proper public sewer, and to maintain the same, all in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, such compliance to be completed within thirty (30)
days after date of official notice from the village to do so; provided, that
the public sanitary sewer is located within two hundred feet (200') of the
property line of such owner and is of such design as to receive and convey of
gravity such sewage as may be conveyed to it. (1993 Code § 6-2-4)
8-2-4: FEE FOR BUILDING SEWER CONNECTION WITH MAIN SEWER:
   A.   Application For Permit:
      1.   No Fee: If the owner of property adjacent or abutting the main sewer
shall file an application for a building sewer permit with the village board on
or before July 1, 1963, and shall, in accordance with a permit issued by the
village board, connect the building sewer to the public sewer on or before the
expiration of thirty (30) days from the date of the notice served upon him by
the village in accordance with the requirement of subsection 8-2-3D of this
chapter, then and in such case, there shall be no charge to the applicant for
either the application or the connection to the public sewer.
      2.   Payment Of Fee: If, however, the owner of such property shall fail
to file application for such building sewer permit with the village board on or
before July 1, 1963, or having filed before that date, fails to complete such
building sewer and connect the same to the public sewer in accordance with the
requirements of the notice given as aforesaid, then such owner, as well as any
other owner making application after July 1, 1963, shall pay a fee of two
hundred dollars ($200.00), payable to the village treasurer for such
application and connection charge, which fee is to be paid at the time
application for such building sewer permit is filed with the village board.
(1993 Code § 6-4-1)
   B.   Issuance Of Permit: On approval of an application for a building sewer
permit, the village board shall cause a permit to be issued to the applicant,
which permit shall require the completing of the work within thirty (30) days
from the date of issuance of such permit. (1993 Code § 6-4-2)
   C.   Time Limit Extension: When, in the judgment of the village board, a
property owner on application has made sufficient showing to the village board
that due to conditions beyond his control or peculiar hardship, the period of
time set forth in this section for compliance herewith shall be unequitable or
unfair to him, the village board may grant to such owner an extension of time
within which to comply with the provisions herewith. (1993 Code § 6-4-3)
   D.   Special Rates: Where, in the judgment of the village board, special
conditions make the application of the sewer connection charge inequitable or
unfair, either to the village or to the owner of the property, a special rate
shall be established by the village. Such charge shall be subject to approval
by resolution of the village board and may be considered inequitable or unfair
where the charge would represent an unduly inequitable proportion of the cost
of the main sewer to the owner or to the village because of the type of
building to be erected or the area involved. (1993 Code § 6-4-4)
   E.   Sewer Fund: The village treasurer shall keep the monies received by him
under the provisions of this section in a separate and distinct fund to be
known as the main sewer fund, and shall be paid out by him only upon resolution
of the village board. (1993 Code § 6-4-5)
   F.   Use Of Monies Collected: The monies collected under this section shall
be used, upon resolution by the village board, for the construction,
reconstruction or enlargement of existing sewage mains and for new sewage
mains. (1993 Code § 6-4-6)
8-2-5: SEWER RATES:
   A.   Rates: The sewer rate for users within the village shall be twenty
dollars ($20.00) per month.
   B.   Sewer Rate For Certain Users Discharging Unpolluted Water Into Sewer
System:
      1.   Any applicant who shall pay all required separate meter costs and
further shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the village board that all
water through the meter is returned to the village waterworks unpolluted as per
current standards for treated sewer water shall not be charged for sewer use on
that metered unpolluted water.
      2.   For all other meters, the sewer rates remain the same:
 
First 9,000 gallons            $10.00 per 1,000 gallons (minimum)
Every additional 1,000 gallons $1.25 per 1,000 gallons
 
(Ord., 4-26-1999; amd. Ord. 2008-1, 12-20-2007, eff. 1-1-2008; Ord. 2012-3, 3-
26-2012, eff. 5-1-2012)
8-2-6: DAMAGING OR TAMPERING WITH SEWAGE WORKS:
   A.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully or
maliciously break, damage, destroy, uncover or tamper with any building,
structure, appurtenance, installation or equipment which is a part of the
municipal sewage works.
   B.   Penalty: Any violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor and any
person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in an amount not
exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) or imprisoned not exceeding thirty (30)
days. (1993 Code § 6-6-1)
8-2-7: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Notice Served: Any person found to be violating any provision of this
chapter, except article B of this chapter, shall be served by the village with
written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable
time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within
the period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
(1993 Code § 6-8-1)
   B.   Misdemeanor; Penalty Imposed: Any person who shall continue any
violation beyond the time limit provided for in subsection A of this section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
in an amount not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) or by imprisonment not
exceeding thirty (30) days. Each day in which any such violation shall continue
shall be deemed a separate offense. (1993 Code § 6-8-2)
   C.   Liability For Noncompliance: Any person violating any of the provisions
of this chapter shall become liable to the village for any expense, loss or
damage occasioned the village by reason of such violation. (1993 Code § 6-8-3)
   D.   Noncompliance With Notice: Any construction or maintenance of building
sewer lines located upon the private property of any owner, which construction
or maintenance is in violation of any of the requirements of this chapter,
shall be corrected within thirty (30) days after date of official notice from
the village board of such violation at the owner's expense, and if not made
within such time, the village board shall, in addition to the other penalties
herein provided, have the right to finish and correct the work and assess the
cost thereof to the property owner. Such assessment shall be collected with and
in such manner as general property taxes. (1993 Code § 6-8-4)
ARTICLE A. BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
SECTION:
8-2A-1: Permit And Bond Requirements
8-2A-2: Connection And Inspection
8-2A-3: Owner Responsible For Installation Cost
8-2A-4: Exceptions To Single Hookup
8-2A-5: Use Of Old Building Sewers
8-2A-6: Public Property Sewers
8-2A-7: Excavations
8-2A-8: Construction Specifications
8-2A-9: Building Sewer Connection To Public Sewer
8-2A-10: Compliance Required
8-2A-11: Records Required
8-2A-1: PERMIT AND BOND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connection with, or opening into, use, alter, or disturb, any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the village
board. (1993 Code § 6-3-1)
   B.   Application For Permit; Fees:
      1.   There shall be three (3) classes of building sewer permits: a) for
residential, b) commercial service, and c) for service of his agent.
Applications for permits shall be on special forms furnished by the village.
The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or
other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the village board.
      2.   A permit and inspection fee of five dollars ($5.00) for a
residential building sewer permit; ten dollars ($10.00) for a commercial
building sewer permit; and fifteen dollars ($15.00) for an industrial building
sewer permit shall be paid to the village treasurer at the time the application
is filed. (1993 Code § 6-3-2)
   C.   Bond: Every person, company or corporation to whom a license is granted
shall, at the time of receiving the same, file a bond approved by the village
board, in the sum of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00), conditioned to indemnify
and save the village harmless against all losses or damages that may arise from
or be occasioned by the making of connections with the public sewers or the
excavations therefor or by carelessness, negligence or unskillfulness in making
the same. (1993 Code § 6-3-17)
   D.   Revocation Of Permit:
      1.   All permits to connect with sewer shall be given upon the express
condition that the village board may at any time before the work is completed,
revoke and annul the same and no party interested shall have a right to claim
damages in consequence of any such permits being revoked or annulled.
      2.   At no time shall a person to whom license is granted, connect sewer
lateral into manhole, unless a special permit is obtained from the village
board, stating how work shall be done, if granted. (1993 Code § 6-3-18)
8-2A-2: CONNECTION AND INSPECTION:
The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the village board when
the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer.
The connection shall be made under the supervision of a representative of the
village. (1993 Code § 6-3-13)
8-2A-3: OWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR INSTALLATION COST:
All costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection and maintenance
of a building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
village from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned
by the installation of the building sewer. (1993 Code § 6-3-3)
8-2A-4: EXCEPTIONS TO SINGLE HOOKUP:
A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every building,
except where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and
no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building
through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway. In such cases, the
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered as one building sewer. Where more than two (2) buildings
are to be connected into one service connection, the village board must
consider and issue a special permit, if, in their judgment, such permit is
justified. (1993 Code § 6-3-4)
8-2A-5: USE OF OLD BUILDING SEWERS:
Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when they
are found on examination and test by a representative of the village to meet
all requirements of this article. (1993 Code § 6-3-5)
8-2A-6: PUBLIC PROPERTY SEWERS:
   A.   Construction Specifications: The building sewer that will be installed
on public property, streets, or alleys, and public easements of any kind, shall
be extra heavy cast iron soil pipe, ASTM specification A48-41, class no. 50, or
vitrified clay sewer pipe, ASTM specification C261-54, or concrete sewer pipe,
ASTM specification C14-57, or latest revisions thereto. Joints shall be tight
and waterproof. Water service line and building sewers may be laid in the same
trench; provided, that water pipe shall be laid on a bench or on solidly tamped
backfill at least twelve inches (12") above the top of the building sewer
throughout its entire length. Where conditions render such laying in the same
trench infeasible, the water pipe and the building sewer shall be separated ten
feet (10') horizontally throughout their length. Cast iron soil pipe with hot
poured lead joints and caulked shall be required by the village where the
building sewer is exposed to damage by roots. If the sewer is to be installed
in filled or unstable ground, the building sewer shall be cast iron soil pipe,
except the nonmetallic material may be accepted if laid on a suitable concrete
cradle as approved by the village.
   B.   Consideration Of Other Methods: All lateral sewers or building sewers
shall be of cast iron, vitrified clay or concrete as previously specified in
this section. The village board may, upon application by the owner, consider
other methods of installation of lateral sewers on private property where
conditions so warrant. (1993 Code § 6-3-6)
8-2A-7: EXCAVATIONS:
   A.   Open Trench; Pipe Laying: All excavations required for the installation
of a building sewer shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the
village. Pipe laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with ASTM
specification C12-19, except that no backfill shall be placed until the work
has been inspected. (1993 Code § 6-3-10)
   B.   Protection From Hazards; Restoration:
      1.   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
      2.   Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in
the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the
village.
      3.   No excavation for building sewer installations shall be left open in
whole or in part after proper installation in accordance herewith has been
made, unless the same be adequately guarded as provided. (1993 Code § 6-3-14)
8-2A-8: CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Size And Slope: The size and slope of the building sewer shall meet the
approval of the village and in no event shall the diameter be less than four
inches (4"), and the slope less than one-eighth inch (1/8") per foot. Slopes to
provide at least 2.50 feet per second velocity at one-half (1/2) full are
recommended where a four inch (4") sewer has at least 1.04 feet slope per one
hundred feet (100') of sewer. (1993 Code § 6-3-7)
   B.   Elevation: Wherever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to
the building at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall
be laid parallel to, or within three feet (3') of, any bearing wall, which
might thereby be weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection
from frost. The building sewer shall be laid at uniform grade and in straight
alignment insofar as possible. Changes in direction shall be made only with
properly curved pipe and fittings. (1993 Code § 6-3-8)
   C.   Artificial Lift To Sewer: In all buildings in which any building drain
is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried
by such drain shall be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to
the building sewer. (1993 Code § 6-3-9)
   D.   Joints And Connections:
      1.   All joints and connections shall be made gastight and watertight.
Cast iron soil pipe joints shall be firmly packed with oakum and hemp and
filled with molten lead not less than one inch (1") deep. Lead shall be run in
one pour and caulked tight. Where cast iron water pipe is used, it shall be
equal to AWWA specification C-106-53, latest revision, class 50, with tyton,
bell-tite, fastite, or approved equal joints and mechanical joint fittings.
      2.   All joints in vitrified clay pipe shall be made of gaskets and
jointing material hereinafter specified. A gasket of "ropax" or "oakum", or
other equal material approved by the village, not less than three-fourths (3/4)
diameter and in one length sufficient to pass around the pipe and lap at the
top for right compaction by caulking into the annular space at the joint.
Remainder of the annular space shall be completely filled with "kalktite", or
equal, jointing material. Other types of joints will be considered by the
village as conditions exist. All jointing materials shall be used in strict
accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations in a workmanlike manner to
secure watertight joints. (1993 Code § 6-3-11)
8-2A-9: BUILDING SEWER CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER:
Connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be made at the "Y"
branch, if such branch is available at a suitable location. If the public sewer
is twelve inches (12") in diameter or less and no properly located "Y" is
available, the owner shall at his own expense install a "Y" branch in the
public sewer at the location specified by the village. However four inch (4")
extra heavy cast iron pipe will be allowed to be tapped into main sewers of a
diameter smaller than twelve inches (12") by using a hub with short spigot.
Where the public sewer is greater than twelve inches (12") and no properly
located "Y" branch is available, a neat hole may be cut into the public sewer
to receive the building sewer with entry in the downstream direction at an
angle of approximately forty five degrees (45°). A forty five degree (45°) ell
may be used to make such connection, with the spigot end cut so not to extend
past the inner surface of the public sewer. The invert of the private sewer at
the point of connection shall be at the same, or at a higher elevation than the
invert of the public sewer. A smooth, neat joint shall be made, and the
connection made secure and watertight by encasement in concrete. Special
fittings may be used for the connection only when approved by the village.
(1993 Code § 6-3-12)
8-2A-10: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
Any building sewer or connection presently in use or proposed to be used or
constructed shall be so used as constructed as to comply with the requirements
of this article, and, if at any time, the same should be found to be in
violation of any of the provisions of this article, the owner shall be required
at his expense to correct the same in accordance with the provisions hereof
within thirty (30) days after date of official notice by the village to do so.
(1993 Code § 6-3-15)
8-2A-11: RECORDS REQUIRED:
It shall be the duty of the village board to keep a complete record, for future
reference, of all sewers constructed, showing the location and profile
description of the same; also, a record of all connections made with such
sewers and the description of property so connected, including the location of
all such connections with the sewers; also, a record of all manholes, sewers
and drain connections and all other appurtenances to such sewers. (1993 Code §
6-3-16)
ARTICLE B. USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
SECTION:
8-2B-1: Village Board Control
8-2B-2: Review By Village Board
8-2B-3: Board Access To Premises
8-2B-4: Special Agreements
8-2B-5: Revision Of Regulations
8-2B-6: Determination Of Waste Standards
8-2B-7: Collection Points
8-2B-8: Prohibited Discharges
8-2B-9: Stormwater And Unpolluted Drainage
8-2B-10: Prohibited Materials
8-2B-11: Grease, Oil And Sand Interceptors
8-2B-12: Colored Waste
8-2B-1: VILLAGE BOARD CONTROL:
   A.   The village board reserves the right to amend any or all requirements
relating to the nature, type, concentration or other analysis of the prohibited
discharges set out in sections
8-2B-8 through
8-2B-12 of this article, or other substances, materials, waters, or wastes,
that discharge into any public or private sewer.
   B.   Any waters or wastes which, by interaction with other waters or wastes
in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases or develop color of
undesirable intensity, or form suspended solids in objectionable concentration,
or create any other condition deleterious to structures and treatment
processes, shall be subject to control of the village board. (1993 Code § 6-5-
6)
8-2B-2: REVIEW BY VILLAGE BOARD:
   A.   Board Review And Approval: The admission into the public sewers of any
waters or wastes: 1) having a five (5) day biochemical oxygen demand greater
than four hundred (400) parts per million by weight, or 2) containing more than
four hundred fifty (450) parts per million by weight of suspended solids, or 3)
containing any quantity of substances having the characteristics described in
this article, or 4) having an average daily sewage flow greater than two
percent (2%) of the average daily sewage flow of the village, shall be subject
to the review and approval of the village board.
   B.   Necessary Treatment: Where necessary, in the opinion of the village
board, the owner shall provide at his expense such preliminary treatment as may
be necessary to: 1) reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to four hundred (400)
parts per million and the suspended solids to four hundred fifty (450) parts
per million by weight, or 2) reduce objectionable characteristics or
constituents to within the maximum limits provided in this article, or 3)
control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or wastes.
   C.   Plans And Specifications Submitted: Plans, specifications and any other
pertinent information relating to proposed preliminary treatment facilities
shall be submitted for the approval of the village board and the Illinois state
board of health, and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced
until the approval is obtained in writing.
   D.   Maintenance Of Treatment Facilities: Where preliminary treatment
facilities are provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be owned and
maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation, by the owner
at his expense. (1993 Code § 6-5-7)
8-2B-3: BOARD ACCESS TO PREMISES:
The village board or its duly appointed superintendent or other authorized
representative of the village shall be entitled to access to the premises of
any contributor for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing at any reasonable time to such extent as may be necessary
to carry out the spirit and intent of this article, and it shall be deemed a
part of the agreement on the part of the contributor as a condition to his
permission to connect with the village sewer system, that such access be
granted. (1993 Code § 6-5-8)
8-2B-4: SPECIAL AGREEMENTS:
No statement in this article shall be construed as preventing any special
agreement, arrangement or contract between the village board and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the village for treatment subject to the rate and cost as
established by the village board. (1993 Code § 6-5-9)
8-2B-5: REVISION OF REGULATIONS:
Any section, subsection, clause, phrase or portion of this article may be
revised by the village board. (1993 Code § 6-5-10)
8-2B-6: DETERMINATION OF WASTE STANDARDS:
All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes shall be determined in accordance with the current volume of "Standard
Methods For The Examination Of Water And Sewage", as written by the American
Public Health Association and the American Waterworks Association. (1993 Code §
6-5-11)
8-2B-7: COLLECTION POINTS:
Any contributor shall, upon request by the village board, provide a central
collection point to facilitate observation, measurement and sampling of the
waters or wastes. Such collection points shall be accessible and easily located
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the village
board. The collection point shall be installed and maintained by the owner at
his expense. In the event no collection point is established or requested, the
nearest downstream manhole shall be considered as a collection point for the
property which is being served. (1993 Code § 6-5-12)
8-2B-8: PROHIBITED DISCHARGES:
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater, surface
water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling waters or
unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer. (1993 Code § 6-5-1)
8-2B-9: STORMWATER AND UNPOLLUTED DRAINAGE:
Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers
as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers, or to a
natural outlet approved by the village board. Industrial cooling waters or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged, upon approval by the village
board, to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet. (1993 Code § 6-5-2)
8-2B-10: PROHIBITED MATERIALS:
Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged, into any public or private sewer, any of the following described
substances, materials, waters or wastes:
   A.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred fifty
degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65 degrees centigrade).
   B.   Any gasoline, benzine, naphtha, fuel oil, mineral oil, or other
flammable or explosive liquid, solid or gas.
   C.   Any waters or wastes containing emulsified oil or grease exceeding on
analysis an average of one hundred (100) parts per million floatable and six
hundred (600) parts per million dispersed of other soluble matter.
   D.   Any waters or wastes which contain more than ten (10) parts per million
by weight of the following gases: hydrogen, sulphide, sulphur dioxide or
nitrous oxide.
   E.   Any waters or wastes that contain grease or oil or other substance that
will solidify or become discernibly viscous at temperatures between thirty two
degrees (32°) and one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F).
   F.   Any garbage that has not been properly comminuted or triturated.
   G.   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails,
lime slurry, lime residues, beer or distillery slops, chemical residues, paint
residues, cannery waste, bulk solids, or any other solid or viscous substance
capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with
the proper operation of the sewage treatment plant.
   H.   Any waters or wastes that contain phenols in excess of 0.50 per
million.
   I.   Any waters or wastes having corrosive properties capable of causing
damage or hazard to structures, equipment or personnel of the sewage treatment
plant. Free acids and alkalis of such wastes must be neutralized within a
permissible range of pH between 4.5 and 10.0.
   J.   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance or of
high chlorine demand in sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any
sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or create
any hazard in the receiving waters or the effluent of the sewage treatment
plant. Materials such as copper, zinc, chromium, or similar toxic substances
shall be limited to the following average quantities in the sewage as it
arrives at the treatment plant. At no time shall the hourly concentration at
the sewage treatment plant exceed three (3) times the average concentration.
 
Chlorine demand            30 parts per million
Chromium (Cr) (hexavalent) 5 parts per million
Copper (Cu)                3 parts per million
Iron (Fe)                  15 parts per million
Zinc (Zn)                  2 parts per million
 
   K.   Any cyanides in excess of two (2) parts per million by weight as CN in
the wastes from any outlet into the public sewers.
   L.   Any waters or wastes containing the discharge of acid pickling wastes
or concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not, which are
capable of causing any obstruction, damage or corrosion in the sewers or the
sewage treatment plant.
   M.   Any waters containing suspended solids of such character and quantity
that unusual provision, attention or expense is required to handle such
materials at the sewage treatment plant.
   N.   Any noxious or malodorous gas or other substance which either singly or
by interaction with other wastes is capable of creating a public nuisance or
hazard to life or of preventing entry into sewers for their maintenance and
repair.
   O.   Any toxic radioactive isotopes having a half-life of more than one
hundred (100) days, without special written permit by the village board.
   P.   Any wastes that, for a duration of fifteen (15) minutes, have a
concentration greater than five (5) times that of "normal sewage" as measured
by suspended solids and BOD.
   Q.   Any waters, wastes, materials or substances which react with waters or
wastes in the sewer system to release noxious gases, develop color of
undesirable intensity, form suspended solids in objectionable concentration or
create any other condition deleterious to structures and treatment processes.
(1993 Code § 6-5-3)
8-2B-11: GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS:
   A.   Interceptors Required: Grease, oil or sand interceptors shall be
provided when, in the opinion of the village board, they are necessary for the
proper handling of liquid waste containing grease in excessive amounts or any
flammable waste, sand or other harmful ingredients, except that such
interceptors shall be of a standard approved type and capacity which meets
village and state code requirements, and shall be readily and easily accessible
for cleaning and inspection.
   B.   Maintenance By Owner: Where installed, all grease, oil or sand
interceptors shall be owned and maintained by the owner at his expense, in
continuously efficient operation at all times. (1993 Code § 6-5-4)
8-2B-12: COLORED WASTE:
Concentrated dye wastes, spent tanning solutions, or other wastes which are
highly colored, or wastes which are of unusual volume, concentration of solids,
or composition, as for example in total suspended solids of inert nature (such
as fuller's earth) and/or in total dissolved solids (such as sodium chloride,
calcium chloride, or sodium sulphate) or unusual in BOD, shall be subject to
determination by the village board for:
   A.   Approval or rejections of admission to the public sewers; or
   B.   Modification at the point of origin to permit admission; or
   C.   Pretreatment by owner to permit admission. (1993 Code § 6-5-5)
CHAPTER 3
COMBINED BILLING FOR VILLAGE SERVICES
SECTION:
8-3-1: Rendition Of Bills, Late Payments
8-3-1: RENDITION OF BILLS, LATE PAYMENTS:
Combined bills for water, sewer and garbage service shall be rendered monthly
and shall be delinquent thirty (30) days after their rendition. In the event of
failure to pay the bills within said thirty (30) days, an additional charge of
ten dollars ($10.00) shall be added to the bill, as well as a delinquent
penalty of up to one hundred percent (100%) of the delinquent amount.
Whenever payment is made on a combined bill for water, sewer and garbage
service, the payment shall be applied first toward any outstanding fines,
penalties, or late charges owed to the Village, then to the charge for garbage
service, then to the charge for sewer service, and lastly to the charge for
water service. (Ord., Series of 2018)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
Building Code And Regulations   1
Plumbing Code   2
Electrical Code   3
Dangerous Buildings   4
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Adoption Of Building Code
9-1-2: Street Name Signs
9-1-3: Numbering Houses And Lots
9-1-1: ADOPTION OF BUILDING CODE:
There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing rules and regulations
for the construction, alteration, removal, demolition, equipment, use and
occupancy, location and maintenance of buildings and structures, that certain
building code known as the international building code, recommended by the
International Code Council, Inc., being particularly the 2015 edition thereof,
of which not less than three (3) copies have been and now are filed in the
office of the village clerk, and the same is hereby adopted and incorporated as
fully as if set out at length herein, and the provisions thereof shall be
controlling in the construction of all buildings and other structures. (1993
Code § 4-1-1; amd. 2016 Code)
9-1-2: STREET NAME SIGNS:
The names of all streets and avenues as the same have been established by
ordinance shall be plainly designated by suitable metal signs conspicuously
placed. There shall be at least one such sign placed at each street
intersection. (1993 Code § 4-1-2)
9-1-3: NUMBERING HOUSES AND LOTS:
   A.   Plan Of Numbering: The following shall be the plan of numbering the
houses, lots and parts of lots fronting on any street, avenue or public place
of the village:
      1.   The number of streets running north and south shall commence at
First Avenue, and the numbers shall run from 100 up to 200, so far as
necessary, and shall be used consecutively for the distance of the first block
or fractional block; the even numbers for the right hand or west side of the
street, and odd numbers for the left hand or east side of the street. One
number shall be left for and applied to each twenty feet (20') of distance and
in any cases where a building or place of business occupies less than twenty
feet (20'), a fractional number shall be used. The numbers from 200 to 300
shall in like manner be used for the second block and in like manner for
succeeding blocks, consecutively.
      2.   The numbering of avenues running east and west shall be done in like
manner, commencing at First Street, even numbers being used for the right hand
or south side of the avenue and odd numbers for the left hand or north side of
the avenue.
      3.   Each lot and part of lot fronting on any street, avenue or public
place of the village not already correctly numbered shall be numbered in
accordance with the provisions of this section. Such numbers shall be at least
three inches (3") tall and permanently affixed on the lot to be clearly visible
and easily read from the street or avenue. (1993 Code § 4-1-3)
   B.   House Numbers: House numbers shall be permanent. (1993 Code § 4-1-4)
CHAPTER 2
PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
9-2-1: Adoption Of Plumbing Code
9-2-1: ADOPTION OF PLUMBING CODE:
There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing minimum standards of
design, materials and workmanship for all plumbing hereafter installed, altered
or repaired and to establish methods of procedure within the limits of the
village that certain plumbing code known as the Illinois plumbing code being
particularly the 2004 edition thereof, and the whole thereof of which not less
than three (3) copies have been and now are filed in the office of the village
clerk, and the same is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out
at length herein, and from the date on which this section shall take effect,
the provisions thereof shall be controlling in the installation, alteration or
repairing of plumbing. (1993 Code § 4-2-1; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 3
ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
9-3-1: Adoption Of Electrical Code
9-3-1: ADOPTION OF ELECTRICAL CODE:
All electric wiring, installation of electrical fixtures, apparatus, or
electrical appliances for furnishing light, heat, or power, or other electrical
work introduced into or placed in or upon, or in any way connected to, any
building or structure within the limits of the village shall be in conformity
with the provisions set forth in the national electrical code, 2014 edition,
thereof, for electrical wiring and apparatus, which is hereby adopted and
incorporated as a part of this code as fully as if set out at length herein,
three (3) copies of said electrical code shall at all times be on file in the
office of the village clerk. (1993 Code § 4-3-1; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 4
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Declaration Of Nuisance
9-4-2: Abatement Procedure; Costs
9-4-1: DECLARATION OF NUISANCE:
Any building, structure or part thereof within the corporate limits of the
village, which by reason of faulty construction, lack of repair, age, or any
other cause, shall be in such condition as to endanger life or limb of persons
passing by or near the same, or residing or being in the vicinity thereof, or
endangering any property contiguous thereto is hereby declared a nuisance and
dangerous to public safety. (1993 Code § 4-4-1)
9-4-2: ABATEMENT PROCEDURE; COSTS:
   A.   Abatement Of Nuisances: The owner of said building, structure or part
thereof shall abate said nuisance by the razing of said building, structure or
part thereof to the ground level, or by rebuilding or repairing said building,
structure or part thereof in accordance with building restrictions so as to
eliminate all danger to public safety. (1993 Code § 4-4-2)
   B.   Order Of Abatement: Upon the village officials by resolution declaring
a nuisance, said officials shall issue an order of abatement of said nuisance,
which order of abatement shall be served upon the owner of said building
residing in the village, or published in one issue of a newspaper of general
circulation in the village, and a copy of said publication posted on said
building if said owner does not reside in the village or is unknown. (1993 Code
§ 4-4-3)
   C.   Failure To Abate: If said owner shall fail to abate said nuisance
within a reasonable time after the service or publication and posting of said
order of abatement, then the village shall abate said nuisance by razing said
building, structure, or part thereof to ground level, and said razing may be
done by employment of labor or by contract; the salvage sold and the proceeds
applied on the cost of razing and the cost of proceeding to abate. (1993 Code §
4-4-4)
   D.   Liability For Costs: In case said proceeds are insufficient to pay the
costs of abatement, then the owner shall be liable to the village for the
balance of said costs, to be recovered in a suit of law, and in case said
proceeds are more than said costs, the balance shall be paid to said owner or
deposited in the village treasury for the use of said owner. (1993 Code § 4-4-
5)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
Title, Purpose And Definitions   1
Administration And Enforcement   2
Board Of Appeals   3
General Provisions   4
Districts   5
R-1 General Residential District   5A
R-2 Multiple Dwelling Residential District   5B
C-1 Commercial District   5C
M-1 Manufacturing District   5D
M-2 Mobile Home Parks District   5E
Nonconforming Uses   6
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title
10-1-2: Purpose
10-1-3: Interpretation
10-1-4: Definitions
10-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known and may be cited as the ZONING ORDINANCE OF
MATHERVILLE, ILLINOIS. (1993 Code § 7-1-2)
10-1-2: PURPOSE:
The provisions of this title are enacted for the purpose of dividing the
village into zones or districts, restricting and regulating therein the
location, erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration and use of
buildings, structures, and land for trade, industry, residence and other
specified uses; to regulate the intensity of the use of lot areas, and to
regulate and determine the area of open spaces surrounding such buildings; to
establish building lines and the location of buildings designed for specified
industrial, business, residential and other uses within such areas; to fix
standards to which buildings or structures shall conform therein; to prohibit
uses, buildings or structures incompatible with the character of the districts,
respectively; to prevent additions to and alterations or remodeling of existing
buildings or structures in such a way as to avoid the restrictions and
limitations lawfully imposed hereunder; to limit congestion in the public
streets by providing for the off street parking and loading and unloading of
vehicles; providing for the gradual elimination of nonconforming uses of land,
buildings and structures; and prescribing penalties for the violation of this
title; to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from fire, panic
and other dangers; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent the
overcrowding of land; to conserve the taxable value of land and buildings
throughout the village; and to promote the public health, safety and general
welfare. (1993 Code § 7-1-1)
10-1-3: INTERPRETATION:
In interpreting and applying the provisions of this title, they shall be held
to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public safety, health,
convenience, comfort, prosperity, and general welfare. It is not intended by
this title to interfere with or abrogate or annul any easements, subdivision
restrictions, covenants or agreements between parties; provided, however, that
where this title imposes a greater restriction upon the use of buildings or
premises, or require larger open spaces than are imposed or required by other
provisions of this code, rules, regulations, or by easements, covenants, or
agreements, or subdivision restrictions, the provisions of this title shall
govern. (1993 Code § 7-13-1)
10-1-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, and amendments thereto, certain terms and words
are defined; words used in the present tense shall include the future, words
used in the singular number shall include the plural number, and the plural the
singular:
ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE: A subordinate building or use which is located on
the same lot on which the main building or use is situated, and which is
reasonably necessary and incidental to the conduct of the primary use of the
building or main use.
   BLOCK: All property on one side of the street between two (2) intersecting
streets, or natural barriers.
   BUILDING: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and
designed or intended for the shelter, support, enclosure or protection of
persons, animals or chattels.
   BUILDING AREA: The building area of a lot is the space remaining after the
minimum open space requirements of this title have been complied with.
   BUILDING LINE: For the purpose of this title, the building line is the same
as the front yard setback line.
   CORNER LOT: A lot situated at the intersection of two (2) or more streets.
   DWELLING: A building or portion thereof, but not an automobile and not a
mobile home, designed primarily for residential occupancy.
   DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms in a dwelling to be used for occupancy by
one family for living and sleeping purposes.
   FRONT YARD: The yard extending across the whole width of the lot and line
between the front line of the lot and the nearest line of the building.
   INTERIOR LOT: A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT: A parcel of land occupied or suitable for occupancy by one main
building or use, with accessory buildings, including the open spaces required
by this title, and having its principal frontage on a public street or highway.
   LOT DEPTH: The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines,
measured in the mean direction on the side lot lines.
   LOT FRONTAGE: The front of a lot shall be that boundary of a lot along a
public street; for a corner lot, the front shall be the shorter lot boundary
along a street.
   LOT WIDTH: The horizontal distance between the side lot line as measured at
right angles to the lot depth at a point midway between the front and rear lot
lines.
   MOBILE HOME: Any of the following:
   A.   Any vehicle or structure used or originally designed or manufactured,
or originally constructed so as to permit its being used as a conveyance on the
public streets or highways and designed or manufactured to permit the occupancy
thereof as a dwelling place for one or more persons. The removal of a tongue or
hitch, or wheels, tires or rims, or axles, springs or other undercarriage, or
other components or parts of such unit shall not in any way affect the status
of such unit, once so used, constructed, designed, or manufactured, nor shall
placing such unit on a permanent foundation affect such status for purposes of
this title.
   B.   Any vehicle or structure originally designed, manufactured or
constructed so as to permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling place for one
or more persons, or used for that purpose and for which the manufacturer
thereof has issued a manufacturer's statement of origin or for which a
certificate of title has been issued by the secretary of state of Illinois or
by any title agency of any other state.
   MOBILE HOME PARK: An area of land upon which two (2) or more occupied
trailer coaches or mobile homes are harbored either free of charge or for
revenue purposes, and shall include any building or structure, tent, vehicle or
enclosure used or intended for use as a part of the equipment of a mobile home
park.
   NONCONFORMING USE: Any building, structure or land lawfully occupied by a
use or lawfully situated on the effective date hereof, or amendments hereto,
which does not conform after the effective date hereof, or amendments hereto,
with the regulations of this title.
   PARKING SPACE: An area upon the lot or adjacent thereto, enclosed in the
main building, an accessory building or unenclosed, sufficient in size to store
one standard automobile, which has adequate access to a public street or alley,
and permitting satisfactory ingress and egress of an automobile, and which is
not located wholly or partially upon the public right of way or upon any street
or alley or other public property.
   PRIVATE PARKING AREA: An open area for the parking of privately owned
automobiles and not for general use.
   REAR YARD: The yard extending across the whole width of the lot and lying
between the rear line of the lot and the nearest line of the principal
building.
   SIDE YARD: That part of the yard lying between any building and a side lot
line, and extending from the front line of the lot to the rear line of the lot.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change which would prolong the life of the
supporting members of a building or structure, such as bearing walls, columns,
beams or girders.
   STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, which requires location on the
ground or attached to something having location on the ground.
   YARD: An open space on the same lot with a main building, unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward, except as otherwise provided in this
title. (1993 Code § 7-3-1)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-2-1: Enforcement Officer
10-2-2: Violation; Penalty
10-2-1: ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:
The village board of trustees shall appoint an enforcement officer to enforce
the provisions of this title. (1993 Code § 7-12-1)
10-2-2: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
It shall be unlawful to use or occupy any building, structure or premises in
violation of the terms of this title. Any person, firm or corporation who
violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with or who resists
the enforcement of any of the provisions of this title shall be fined not less
than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each
offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues. (1993 Code § 7-12-2)
CHAPTER 3
BOARD OF APPEALS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Board Created; Appointment; Meetings
10-3-2: Authority Of Board
10-3-3: Restrictions On Powers
10-3-4: Duties Of Officers
10-3-5: Meetings And Hearings
10-3-6: Failure Of Applicant To Appear
10-3-7: Appeal From Action Of Enforcing Officer
10-3-8: Variances; Procedure
10-3-1: BOARD CREATED; APPOINTMENT; MEETINGS:
   A.   Creation: A board of appeals is established as authorized by the laws
of the state of Illinois to hold hearings and make recommendations to the
village board of trustees.
   B.   Appointment; Meetings: Appointment of members to the board of appeals,
filling of vacancies, removal of members, and meetings of the board of appeals
shall be governed by the laws of the state of Illinois and this chapter. (1993
Code § 7-14-1)
10-3-2: AUTHORITY OF BOARD:
The board of appeals shall have the authority and duty to hold public hearings
and to make recommendations to the village board of trustees for allowance or
refusal of applications for variances, and to review decisions or
interpretations of the zoning officer and make recommendations thereon to the
village board of appeals. The board of appeals may conduct such meetings and
hearings and shall have such other powers necessary to carrying out the duties
of the board of appeals, but not inconsistent with this chapter or the laws of
the state of Illinois. (1993 Code § 7-14-2)
10-3-3: RESTRICTIONS ON POWERS:
   A.   Conflict Of Interest: Any member who has any interest in a matter
before the board shall remove himself from any meetings or hearings at which
the matter is under consideration.
   B.   Limited Powers: Nothing shall be construed to give or grant to the
board the power or authority to alter or change the zoning ordinance, including
the zoning map, nor to grant variations from the application of the zoning
ordinance, which authority is reserved to the village board of trustees, but it
shall be the duty of the zoning board of appeals to make recommendations as to
the granting and denial of request for variations from the application of the
zoning ordinance and from appeals from decisions and interpretations of the
enforcing officer under the zoning ordinance.
   C.   Use Of Legal Counsel: The village attorney shall be consulted in cases
where the powers of the board are not clearly defined and in such other cases
where the zoning board of appeals is in need of legal counsel. (1993 Code § 7-
14-5)
10-3-4: DUTIES OF OFFICERS:
   A.   Officers Listed: The officers shall be a chairman, an acting chairman
and a secretary.
   B.   Designation: The village board of trustees shall designate the
chairman; the board of appeals shall elect from among its members the acting
chairman when the chairman is absent; the village president may designate a
secretary who may, but need not, be a member of the board of appeals; in the
event the village president does not so appoint a secretary, the board of
appeals shall designate a secretary who may, but need not, be a member of the
board.
   C.   Chairman: The chairman shall supervise the affairs of the board of
appeals. He shall preside at all meetings of the board, shall appoint the
committees and subcommittees as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of
the board, and shall provide for the oath to be administered to all witnesses
in cases before the board. The chairman shall be an ex officio member of all
committees and subcommittees so appointed.
   D.   Acting Chairman: The acting chairman, in the absence or disability of
the chairman, shall perform all duties and exercise all powers of the chairman.
   E.   Secretary:
      1.   The secretary shall record and maintain permanent minutes of the
board's proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon every question, or if
absent or failing to vote, indicating that fact. The secretary shall keep
minutes of its examinations and other official actions.
      2.   The secretary shall summarize accurately the testimony of those
appearing before the board or keep a verbatim transcript of all hearings; the
secretary shall record the names and addresses of all members appearing before
the board.
      3.   The secretary shall, subject to the board and chairman, conduct the
correspondence of the board and have published in a local newspaper, public
notices of meetings or hearings as required by law and these procedures.
      4.   The secretary shall file the minutes and records of all hearings and
meetings with the village clerk within fifteen (15) days after the meeting or
hearing and shall retain a copy of the minutes and records in the office of the
board, which minutes and records shall be a public record.
      5.   The secretary shall be the custodian of the files of the board of
appeals and keep all records. (1993 Code § 7-14-6)
10-3-5: MEETINGS AND HEARINGS:
   A.   Calling Of Meeting: Meetings of the board of appeals shall be called by
the chairman and the date for hearings shall be set by the chairman.
   B.   Notice Of Meeting: The chairman shall give not less than forty eight
(48) hours' notice of such meetings to all other members of the board of
appeals. Hearings and notice thereof shall be set and notice given in
accordance with subsections
 10-3-8C and D of this chapter.
   C.   Quorum: The quorum shall consist of four (4) members for any meeting or
hearing.
   D.   Meetings Open To Public; Except Executive Meetings: All meetings shall
be open to the public except executive meetings as defined: An executive
meeting may be held for members of the board to consider and deliberate any
matter before them, but no new evidence, exhibits or other testimony shall be
taken thereat nor any witnesses called at such a closed meeting; no one shall
be allowed to attend such executive meetings except members of the board of
zoning appeals, members of the village board, the president thereof and legal
counsel. (1993 Code § 7-14-7)
   E.   Order Of Business: Meetings of the board of appeals shall proceed as
follows:
      1.   Roll call and declaration of quorum.
      2.   Reading and approval of minutes of previous meetings.
      3.   Communications.
      4.   Announcement of decisions from last meeting, if any.
      5.   Reports of committees.
      6.   Call of cases on agenda and hearing of request for continuance.
      7.   Hearing of cases on agenda.
      8.   Unfinished business.
      9.   New business.
      10.   Adjournment. (1993 Code § 7-14-8)
   F.   Transcripts: Any person wishing a verbatim transcript of a meeting or
hearing before the zoning board of appeals shall furnish at his own expense the
necessary stenographer or recording apparatus and shall pay for the
transcribing of the record. (1993 Code § 7-14-14)
10-3-6: FAILURE OF APPLICANT TO APPEAR:
   A.   Motion To Dismiss Case: If an applicant shall fail to appear, the
chairman may entertain a motion from the board to dismiss the case for want of
prosecution. In the absence of a motion by the board, the chair shall rule.
   B.   Notice Of Dismissal; Reinstatement; Fee: The dismissal shall be without
prejudice; in each case, the applicant shall be notified of such dismissal by
written notice within forty eight (48) hours of such dismissal; the applicant
shall have fifteen (15) days from the date of the notice to apply for
reinstatement of the case; the case may be reinstated upon the payment of a
fifteen dollar ($15.00) reinstatement fee.
   C.   Dismissal Without Prejudice: The dismissal shall be without prejudice
and a case which is not so reinstated may be refiled by paying the usual filing
fee. (1993 Code § 7-14-8)
10-3-7: APPEAL FROM ACTION OF ENFORCING OFFICER:
   A.   Right To Appeal: An appeal may be taken from the enforcing officer's
decision or interpretations by any person aggrieved, officer, department, or
bureau head of the village affected by the enforcing officer's decision.
   B.   Time Limit: An appeal shall be taken within a reasonable time from the
decision or action of the enforcing officer.
   C.   Records Transmitted To Secretary: The enforcing officer shall transmit
to the secretary of the board all papers constituting the records upon which
the action appealed from was taken.
   D.   Appeal In Writing; Information: The appeal taken shall be in writing
and shall give the name and address of the applicant and shall state the
action, decision, or interpretation appealed from and the date upon which the
action was taken or decision or interpretation rendered.
   E.   Case Number And Date For Hearing: Upon receipt of the properly filed
appeal application form, the chairman of the board shall assign a case number
and the case shall then be set for hearing, such hearing date to be within
sixty (60) days of the date the appeal was filed. The application for appeal
may be filed with an accompanying application for a request for variation.
   F.   Filing Of Memorandum With Village Board: Upon rendering a decision, the
zoning board of appeals shall file a written memorandum with the village board
of trustees stating the board's findings of fact and making a recommendation as
to the action to be taken and stating their reasons therefor. The memorandum
shall show the vote, absence or abstinence from voting of each member by name
and the date upon which the action was taken. (1993 Code § 7-14-9)
10-3-8: VARIANCES; PROCEDURE:
   A.   Authority To Grant: The power and authority to grant variations from
the application and regulation of this title in accordance with the provisions
and requirements of the laws of the state of Illinois is hereby granted to and
reserved by the village board of trustees. (1993 Code § 7-14-3)
   B.   Procedure To Grant: So far as not inconsistent with the laws of the
state of Illinois, the following procedure shall be used in consideration of
requests or applications for such variances:
      1.   Any person, corporation, organization or firm wishing to request a
variance or a variation from the application or regulation of this title shall
file a written application with the board of appeals created hereunder. The
application shall state the name of the applicant, the name of the owner of the
property involved, a description of the property involved, and shall describe
the variation requested and shall include a diagram of any proposed structure
thereon. The application shall include such further information as is required
or requested by the board of appeals or the village board of trustees. The
village board of trustees may adopt a form for the application.
      2.   Upon receipt of a proper application, the board of appeals shall
hold a public hearing thereon and give public notice of the hearing and
otherwise proceed in accordance with any rules adopted by the village board of
trustees.
      3.   The village board of trustees shall at any regular or special
meeting adopt rules and procedures to be followed by the zoning board of
appeals in considering appeals from decisions or interpretations of the
enforcing officer.
      4.   The village board of trustees shall at any regular or special
meeting adopt the rules and procedures to be followed by the board of appeals
in considering any request for such a variation hereunder. The rules need not
take the form of a chapter. (1993 Code § 7-14-4)
   C.   Request For Variance; Application; Filing Fee:
      1.   Request for variation from application of this title shall be made
to the zoning board of appeals and the zoning board of appeals shall make
recommendation thereon to the village board.
      2.   Any person, corporation, organization or firm wishing to request the
variance or a variation from the application or regulation of the zoning
ordinance shall file a written application in duplicate with the board of
appeals. The application shall state the name of the applicant, the name of the
owner of the property involved, a description of the property involved, and
shall describe the variation requested and shall include a diagram of any
proposed structure thereon. The application shall include such further
information as is required or requested by the board of appeals or the village
board of trustees. If the village board of trustees adopts a form for the
application, the application shall be substantially in such official form. One
copy of the application shall be delivered forthwith to the village clerk.
      3.   The applicant shall pay a ten dollar ($10.00) filing fee and a
fifteen dollar ($15.00) publication fee. So much of the publication fee shall
be refunded as is not actually used for publications of required notices under
these rules or under this title or the statutes of the state of Illinois.
      4.   Upon receipt of a properly filed application or request for variance
and proof of receipt of the required fee, the chairman shall assign a case
number to the application and shall set it for hearing, such hearing to be
within sixty (60) days of such proper filing and payment of fee. (1993 Code §
7-14-10)
   D.   Notice Of Hearings:
      1.   Public notice of the date and time of hearings on applications or
requests for variances shall be given by publication of the date and time in a
local newspaper, such notice to be not less than fifteen (15) days nor more
than thirty (30) days prior to the hearing.
      2.   The notice shall state the name and address of the applicant, the
name and address of the owner of the property, street address, if any, and if
not, then sufficient other location of the property, and a brief statement of
the nature of the request for variation. (1993 Code § 7-14-11)
   E.   Procedure On Hearings:
      1.   At the time of the hearing, the applicant may appear in his own
behalf or be represented by counsel or agent.
      2.   All witnesses shall testify under oath.
      3.   The applicant or his representative may make a statement outlining
the nature of his request prior to introducing evidence.
      4.   The chairman may give restatement of the case. Evidence shall be
presented in the following order:
         a.   Applicant may present his evidence.
         b.   Board and objectors and other parties in interest may cross
examine the applicant's witnesses.
         c.   Objectors or interested parties may present evidence.
         d.   The board and applicant or other objectors or interested parties
may cross examine.
         e.   Rebuttal by the applicant and cross examination of rebuttal
witnesses by the board and objectors and other interested parties.
         f.   Rebuttal by objectors and other interested parties and cross
examination by the board and the applicant and other objectors and interested
parties.
         g.   Evidence by the board.
         h.   Cross examination of any witnesses called by the board or other
evidence adduced by the board, by applicant, objectors and other interested
parties.
      5.   Upon conclusion of the evidence presented in each case, the board
shall, upon the request of any member, consider the evidence presented in
executive session. (1993 Code § 7-14-12)
   F.   Decisions:
      1.   Final decisions or recommendations of the board of appeals shall be
made within fifteen (15) days from the date of hearing.
      2.   The board shall prepare and file with the village board of trustees,
within said fifteen (15) days, a written memorandum containing the following:
         a.   A brief statement of the request or application made.
         b.   Findings of fact. If a recommendation to grant a variation is
made, such findings of fact shall include facts which support each of the
following:
            (1)   Property in question cannot yield a reasonable return if
permitted to be used only under the conditions allowed by the regulations in
that zone.
            (2)   The plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances.
            (3)   The variance if granted will not alter the essential
character of the locality. The findings of fact shall be such facts as clearly
sustained each of the three (3) foregoing points and shall not be in the form
of conclusions.
         c.   The recommendation of the board of appeals and the reasons
therefor.
         d.   The vote, absence or abstinence from voting of each board member.
         e.   The date upon which the action was taken.
      3.   At the next following public meeting or hearing, announcement shall
be made stating each member who voted in favor or against the recommendation or
action taken by the board and those who were absent or abstaining from voting
and the recommendations made.
      4.   A concurring vote of four (4) members of the board shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of the
enforcing officer or to grant a variation in this title. (1993 Code § 7-14-13)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Compliance With Title
10-4-2: Uses Allowed
10-4-3: Annexations, Automatic Classification
10-4-1: COMPLIANCE WITH TITLE:
No building or structure shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed
or structurally altered, nor any land used except in compliance with all
requirements and restrictions and any other applicable provisions of this
title. (1993 Code § 7-2-2)
10-4-2: USES ALLOWED:
   A.   Only Permitted Uses Allowed: No building or structure shall be erected,
converted, enlarged, reconstructed or structurally altered, nor shall any
building or land be used for any purpose other than is permitted in the
district in which the building or land is located. (1993 Code § 7-2-1)
   B.   More Restrictive Uses Allowed: More restrictive uses are permitted in
districts zoned for lesser restrictive uses in addition to those uses
specifically permitted in the zone. (1993 Code § 7-2-3)
10-4-3: ANNEXATIONS, AUTOMATIC CLASSIFICATION:
A territory annexed to the village shall be automatically classified as R-
1 general residential, unless the board of trustees of the village shall, after
a public hearing, before the board of appeals, designate different zoning for
the annexed territory. There shall be at least fifteen (15) days' notice of the
time and place of any such hearing, such notice to be published in a newspaper
of general circulation within Mercer County, Illinois. (1993 Code § 7-11-1)
CHAPTER 5
DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Districts Designated
10-5-2: Future Use
10-5-1: DISTRICTS DESIGNATED:
The village is divided into the following use districts, hereinafter designated
and listed in the order of their restrictiveness, beginning with the most
restrictive use zone:
R-1 general residential
R-2 multiple dwelling residential
C-1 commercial
M-1 manufacturing
M-2 mobile home parks
(1993 Code § 7-4-1)
10-5-2: FUTURE USE:
Restrictions designated as applicable to certain use districts created shall
also be applicable to such territory as shall be hereafter designated as
included in such use districts whether by lawful changes in existing boundaries
or by future annexations and whether such use districts now have territorial
boundaries or not. (1993 Code § 7-4-2)
ARTICLE A. R-1 GENERAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5A-1: Permitted Uses
10-5A-2: Rules And Regulations
10-5A-3: Boundaries
10-5A-1: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses in the R-1 district are as follows:
   A.   Dwellings for one to four (4) families.
   B.   Churches.
   C.   Temporary buildings, equipment or materials for uses incidental to
construction work, which buildings, equipment or materials shall be removed
upon completion or abandonment of such work.
   D.   Accessory buildings, garages and uses customarily incident to the above
uses, but not involving the conduct of a business.
   E.   Public utility structures, usually necessary to serve an area or
district in which they are located.
   F.   Office of professional or business persons using their residences as
offices.
   G.   Schools, libraries, public buildings, parks and playgrounds, hospitals
and clinics, funeral homes, private gardens, greenhouses and nurseries.
   H.   Shops maintained in dwelling or accessory buildings for the purpose of
repairing furniture, lawn mowers, radios, televisions or for taking orders for
merchandise or for operating barbershops or beauty shops or for conducting
similar minor and innocuous operations. (1993 Code § 7-5-1)
10-5A-2: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The R-1 general residential district shall be subject to the following
additional rules and regulations:
   A.   Side Yard: There shall be a side yard on each side of a building of not
less than ten percent (10%) of the width of the lot but less than five feet
(5') in any case, and need not exceed ten feet (10').
   B.   Front Yard: There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than
twenty five feet (25'); provided, however, that where the average depth of the
front yard fronting on any one side of the given street in a block exceeds or
is less than twenty five feet (25'), the depth of the front yard required under
this title for such lot shall be the average depth.
   C.   Back Yard: There shall be a back yard having a depth of not less than
five feet (5').
   D.   Signs And Bulletin Boards: No sign or bulletin board of any character
shall be permitted except those pertaining to uses specified in subsections
10-5A-1B, C, E and G of this article, except those pertaining to the sale or
lease of the premises on which they are located.
   E.   Lot Size: The minimum lot sizes required for use of lots for dwelling
or residential purposes shall be as follows:
 
Single-family (1 dwelling unit) 5,000 square feet
Two-family (2 dwelling units)   7,500 square feet
Three-family (3 dwelling units) 10,000 square feet
Four-family (4 dwelling units)  12,500 square feet
 
   F.   Parking: One parking space shall be provided for each dwelling unit.
(1993 Code § 7-5-3)
10-5A-3: BOUNDARIES:
The R-1 general residential district is defined and bounded as follows:
All that area now within the corporate limits of the village of Matherville,
Illinois, excepting the following:
All of Block F; Lots numbered 7 through 12 of Block 7; Lots numbered 7 through
12 of Block 8; Lots numbered 11 and 12 of Block 9; all of Block 6; Lots 1
through 6 of Block 5; in the original town, now the village of Matherville,
William Taylor's Subdivision to the village of Matherville, all situated in the
county of Mercer and state of Illinois.
(1993 Code § 7-5-2)
ARTICLE B. R-2 MULTIPLE DWELLING RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5B-1: Permitted Uses
10-5B-2: Lot Size
10-5B-3: Parking
10-5B-4: Boundaries
10-5B-1: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses in the R-2 district are as follows:
All uses permitted in R-1 district.
Dwellings for one to eight (8) families (1 to 8 dwelling units). (1993 Code §
7-6-1)
10-5B-2: LOT SIZE:
The minimum lot size required for use for a dwelling or residence in this
district shall be five thousand (5,000) square feet; provided, that the minimum
square footage requirement shall be increased by two thousand five hundred
(2,500) square feet for each dwelling unit to be used or placed on the lot in
excess of one dwelling unit. (1993 Code § 7-6-3)
10-5B-3: PARKING:
One parking space shall be provided for each dwelling unit. (1993 Code § 7-6-4)
10-5B-4: BOUNDARIES:
The R-2 multiple dwelling residential district is defined and bounded as
follows:
William Taylor's Subdivision to the village of Matherville, situated in the
county of Mercer and state of Illinois.
(1993 Code § 7-6-2)
ARTICLE C. C-1 COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5C-1: Permitted Uses
10-5C-2: Boundaries
10-5C-1: PERMITTED USES:
In the commercial district, buildings, structures and land may only be put to
the uses permitted in the general residential district, the multiple dwelling
residential district and the following uses:
Auto repair, service and storage garages.
Bakeries and food stores.
Banks and other financial institutions.
Barbershops and beauty shops.
Blacksmith and welding shops.
Bus passenger stations.
Feed stores, hatcheries, dairies and milk processing plants.
Gasoline filling stations.
Hardware, plumbing, heating, electrical and tinsmith establishments.
Implement stores and repair shops.
Laundry and dry cleaning establishments.
Locker plants.
Milk, eggs and produce receiving stations.
Nursing homes.
Office buildings.
Painting and decorating shops.
Pool halls, bowling alleys and theaters.
Printing and publishing establishments.
Restaurants and hotels.
Stores, shops, showrooms, and salesrooms for the conduct of retail sales and
services.
Taverns.
Telephone exchanges. (1993 Code § 7-7-1)
10-5C-2: BOUNDARIES:
The C-1 commercial district is described as and shall consist of the following:
All of Block F; Lots numbered 7 through 12 of Block 7, Lots numbered 7 through
12 of Block 8; Lots numbered 11 and 12 of Block 9; all of Block 6; Lots 1
through 6 of Block 5; in the original town, now the village of Matherville, all
situated in the county of Mercer and state of Illinois.
(1993 Code § 7-7-2)
ARTICLE D. M-1 MANUFACTURING DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5D-1: Permitted Uses
10-5D-1: PERMITTED USES:
In the M-1 manufacturing district, buildings and land may be used for any
purpose; provided, that the use shall not constitute a nuisance as defined by
Illinois statute and shall otherwise be lawful, or shall be obnoxious or
offensive by reason of emission of odor, dust, smoke, gas, noise or pollution
of water. (1993 Code § 7-8-1)
ARTICLE E. M-2 MOBILE HOME PARKS DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5E-1: Mobile Home Placement
10-5E-2: Alteration Of Mobile Homes
10-5E-3: Boundaries
10-5E-1: MOBILE HOME PLACEMENT:
No person or party shall place, maintain, or use, nor permit the placing,
maintenance or use of a mobile home on any lot or land within the village,
except within the territorial boundaries of a mobile home park, which is then
duly licensed by the village to operate a mobile home park. (1993 Code § 7-9-2)
10-5E-2: ALTERATION OF MOBILE HOMES:
It shall be unlawful for any person or party to remove from any mobile home
within the village the tongue, hitch, wheel or wheels, axle or axles or
undercarriage, or to place within the village any unit originally a mobile
home, which has been so altered. (1993 Code § 7-9-3)
10-5E-3: BOUNDARIES:
Mobile home parks may be erected, used and maintained in such area or areas as
shall hereafter be designated or annexed under this district classification and
so designated by the village authorities; provided, that the erection, use and
maintenance of mobile home parks shall be in compliance with all applicable
state statutes and village regulations. (1993 Code § 7-9-1)
CHAPTER 6
NONCONFORMING USES
SECTION:
10-6-1: Existing Nonconformance
10-6-2: Changing Building Use
10-6-3: Damaged Buildings
10-6-4: Discontinued Use
10-6-1: EXISTING NONCONFORMANCE:
   A.   The lawful use of buildings, structures and land existing on the
effective date hereof, although the use does not conform with provisions
hereof, may be continued, but if such nonconforming use is abandoned, any
further use of the premises shall be in conformity with the provisions of this
title.
   B.   A nonconforming use may be extended throughout the building life,
provided no structural alterations are made, except those required by law or
ordinance or such as may be required for safety, or such as may be necessary to
secure or ensure the continued advantageous use of the building, but without
extending the length of time of its then established useful life, without
extending the area of the land structurally so used on the effective date
hereof or at a later amendment creating the nonconformance. (1993 Code § 7-10-
1)
10-6-2: CHANGING BUILDING USE:
A nonconforming use of a building may be changed to another nonconforming use
of the same or more restricted classification. (1993 Code § 7-10-2)
10-6-3: DAMAGED BUILDINGS:
No building devoted to a nonconforming use, which has been damaged by fire or
other causes to the extent of seventy five percent (75%) of its actual cash
value immediately prior to such fire or other damage shall be repaired or
rebuilt or thereafter used, except in conformity with this title. (1993 Code §
7-10-3)
10-6-4: DISCONTINUED USE:
Any nonconforming use of a building, structure or land which is discontinued
for a period of one year or more shall not be continued again, and any future
use shall be in conformity with the provisions of this title. (1993 Code § 7-
10-4)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Definitions And General Provisions   1
Preliminary Approval By Village Board   2
Information Required On Preliminary And Final Plats   3
Minimum Standards Of Design   4
Minimum Standards Of Development   5
Enforcement   6
CHAPTER 1
DEFINITIONS AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Definitions
11-1-2: Variations And Exceptions
11-1-3: Changes And Amendments
11-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, certain terms and words are defined as follows:
BUILDING LINE: A line on a plat between which line and a street, alley, or
private place no building or structures may be erected.
   METES AND BOUNDS: The method used to describe a tract of urban land intended
to be used for dwellings or other purposes, so that it can be recorded in the
county recorder's office, as contrasted with a description of a part of a
property approved and recorded as a subdivision plat by the lot and block
number.
   PLAT: A map, drawing, or chart on which the subdivider's plan of the
subdivision is presented and which he submits for approval and intends in final
form to record.
   SUBDIVISION: A subdivision of land is either:
   A.   The division of land into three (3) or more lots, sites or parcels;
   B.   Establishment or dedication of a road, highway, street or alley through
a tract of land regardless of division or area; or
   C.   Resubdivisions of land heretofore divided or platted into lots, sites,
or parcels; provided, however, that the sale or exchange of small parcels of
land to or between adjoining property owners, where such sale or exchange does
not create additional lots, shall not be considered as a subdivision of land.
Any resubdivision of recorded lots or tracts, which now front and are proposed
to front upon an existing street and where a total of not more than four (4)
new lots or sites are proposed to be created, shall be submitted to the village
board for checking the proposed resubdivision with the design standards of this
title and with the requirements of other village regulations, and if the
proposed resubdivision conforms to such regulations and requirements, the
village board may waive the other requirements of this title and the lots may
be transferred by metes and bounds or by other legal descriptions.
   SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE: This title may be referred to and known as "the
subdivision ordinance" or "this title".
   VILLAGE: Village of Matherville, Mercer County, Illinois.
   VILLAGE BOARD: Duly elected members to the village board of trustees of the
village of Matherville, Mercer County, Illinois. (1993 Code § 8-1-1)
11-1-2: VARIATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS:
Whenever the tract to be subdivided is of an unusual size or shape or is
surrounded by a development or unusual conditions so that the strict
application of the requirements contained in these regulations would result in
real difficulties and substantial hardships or injustice, the village board may
vary or modify the requirements so that the subdivider is allowed to develop
his property in a reasonable manner, but so, at the same time, the public
welfare and interests of the village and surrounding area are protected and the
general intent and spirit of these regulations are preserved. (1993 Code § 8-6-
1)
11-1-3: CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS:
Any regulation or provisions of this title may be changed and amended from time
to time by the village board; provided, however, that the changes or amendments
shall not become effective until after a public hearing has been held, public
notice of which shall have been given in a newspaper of general circulation at
least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, or as otherwise required by law.
(1993 Code § 8-8-1)
CHAPTER 2
PRELIMINARY APPROVAL BY VILLAGE BOARD
SECTION:
11-2-1: Preliminary Plat Required
11-2-2: Village Board Approval
11-2-3: Village Planning
11-2-4: Final Plat
11-2-1: PRELIMINARY PLAT REQUIRED:
Whenever the owner of any tract or parcel of land within the corporate limits
of the village wishes to make a subdivision of the same, he shall cause to be
prepared a preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision and shall submit three
(3) copies of the preliminary plat together with such other information as may
be pertinent thereto to the village board for its preliminary study and
approval. The preliminary plat shall contain such information and be in such
form as is outlined in chapter 3 of this title. (1993 Code § 8-2-1)
11-2-2: VILLAGE BOARD APPROVAL:
The village board shall study such preliminary plat to see if it conforms with
the minimum standards and requirements as outlined by this title, and shall
approve or reject such plat within thirty (30) days after the date of
submission. If the village board does not act upon the same within thirty (30)
days, the preliminary plat shall be deemed to be approved; however, the
subdivider may agree to an extension of time for an additional time not to
exceed sixty (60) days. The approval of the preliminary plat by the village
board shall constitute authorization to proceed with the preparation of the
final plat and with the installation of the necessary improvements therein as
set forth in chapter 4 of this title. (1993 Code § 8-2-2)
11-2-3: VILLAGE PLANNING:
Where a tract of land is proposed for subdivision and the village board finds
that the same would constitute a part of a larger logical subdivision in
relation to the existing development of the village, the village board may
cause to be prepared a proposed possible plat of the entire area to be used by
the village board as an aid to village planning, and specifically in judging
the proposed plat filed by the owner. (1993 Code § 8-2-3)
11-2-4: FINAL PLAT:
The subdivider shall also submit to the village board for its approval or
rejection in the same manner as the preliminary plat, a final plat of the
proposed subdivision, which shall contain the data and information outlined in
chapter 3 of this title. If the village board approves the plat, the approval
and the date thereof shall be noted on the plat over the signature of the
president or president pro tempore of the village board of trustees. The
acceptance by the village board as herein specified shall constitute an
acceptance of all streets, alleys, ways, easements, parks, or other areas
preserved for or dedicated to the public. (1993 Code § 8-2-4)
CHAPTER 3
INFORMATION REQUIRED ON PRELIMINARY AND FINAL PLATS
SECTION:
11-3-1: Conference With Village Board
11-3-2: Preliminary Plat
11-3-3: Final Plat
11-3-1: CONFERENCE WITH VILLAGE BOARD:
Each subdivider of land should confer with the village board before preparing
the preliminary plat in order to acquaint himself with such proposed village
planning as may exist or with any municipal regulations governing the territory
in which the proposed subdivision is located. (1993 Code § 8-3-1)
11-3-2: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Information: The preliminary plat shall be drawn to scale and shall
show:
      1.   The location of present property and section lines and lines of
corporate limits and other legally established districts, streets, buildings,
watercourses, tree masses, and other existing features within the area to be
subdivided and on land immediately adjacent thereto.
      2.   The proposed location and width of streets, alleys, lots, buildings,
setback lines and easements, if any.
      3.   Existing sanitary and storm sewers, water mains, culverts, and other
underground structures within the tract and immediately adjacent thereto. The
location and size of the nearest water main and sewer or outlet are to be
indicated in a general way upon the plat.
      4.   The title under which the proposed subdivision is to be recorded and
the name of the subdivider platting the tract.
      5.   The names and adjoining boundaries of all adjoining subdivisions and
the names of record owners of adjoining parcels of unsubdivided land.
      6.   Contours with intervals of five feet (5') or less.
      7.   Grades and profiles of streets and plans and written and signed
statements explaining how the subdivider proposes to provide and install
improvements meeting the requirements of chapter 4 of this title.
   B.   Filing: The preliminary plat shall be filed with the village clerk in
triplicate. If approved, two (2) copies shall be retained by the village clerk
and one signed copy returned to the subdivider. Receipt of this signed copy
shall be authorization for the subdivider to proceed with the preparation of
plans and specifications for the minimum improvements required in this title
and with the preparation of the final plat. (1993 Code § 8-3-2)
11-3-3: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Approval: If the final plat conforms to the approved preliminary plat,
and if the necessary improvements are constructed in accordance with the
approved plans thereof, or a satisfactory surety bond is submitted by the
subdivider guaranteeing construction in accordance with the approved plans, the
final plat will be approved.
   B.   Submission: The final plat shall be submitted to the village board on
tracing cloth with two (2) copies thereof together with copies of any deed
restrictions where such are too lengthy to be shown on the plat, together with
three (3) prints of plans showing the improvements to have been constructed
within the subdivision and certified that the same have been constructed in
accordance therewith (or a bond with sureties to be approved by the village
clerk, guaranteeing construction of the improvements in accordance with the
plans previously approved).
   C.   Information: The final plat shall show:
      1.   The boundary lines of the area being subdivided with accurate
distances and bearings.
      2.   The lines of all proposed streets and alleys with their width and
names.
      3.   The accurate outline of any property which is offered for dedication
to public use.
      4.   The lines of all adjoining lands and the lines of adjacent streets
and alleys with their width and names.
      5.   All lot lines and an identification system for all lots and blocks.
      6.   Building lines and easements for any rights of way provided for
public use, service or utilities, with figures showing their dimensions.
      7.   All dimensions, both linear and angular, necessary for locating
boundaries of subdivisions, lots, streets, alleys and of any other areas for
public or private use; the linear dimensions to be expressed in feet and
decimals of a foot.
      8.   Radii, acres and chords, points of tangency, central angles for all
curvilinear streets, and radii for all rounded corners.
      9.   All survey monuments and bench marks, together with their
descriptions.
      10.   Name of subdivision and description of property subdivided, showing
its locations and extent, points of compass, scale of plan, and name of owner
or owners or the subdivider.
      11.   Certification by a registered land surveyor, licensed under the
laws of the state of Illinois, that the plat has been prepared by him and that
all necessary survey monuments are correctly shown.
      12.   Private covenants or restrictions and limitations upon title, if
any, shall be shown by separate instrument attached to the plat and referred to
on the plats as a part thereof, unless the same be of such brevity as would
permit it to be shown on the plat. Plats shall contain proper acknowledgment of
the owners and shall bear the consent of any mortgagee to the plat and
restrictions.
      13.   In addition to the foregoing, all requirements for platting as set
forth in the municipal code of Illinois and acts amendatory thereto, shall be
complied with before the plat is recorded in the office of the county recorder.
(1993 Code § 8-3-3)
CHAPTER 4
MINIMUM STANDARDS OF DESIGN
SECTION:
11-4-1: Minimum Standards
11-4-2: Acre Subdivision
11-4-3: Relation To Adjoining Street System
11-4-4: Street And Alley Width
11-4-5: Blocks
11-4-6: Lots
11-4-7: Building Lines
11-4-8: Character Of Development
11-4-9: Easements Along Streams
11-4-10: Improvements
11-4-1: MINIMUM STANDARDS:
No subdivision plat shall be approved by the village board unless it conforms
to the minimum standards set forth in this chapter. (1993 Code § 8-4-0)
11-4-2: ACRE SUBDIVISION:
Whenever the area is divided into lots containing one to three (3) acres,
inclusive, and there are indications that the lots will eventually be
resubdivided into smaller building lots, consideration shall be given to the
street and lot arrangement of the original subdivision so that additional minor
streets can be opened which will permit a logical arrangement of smaller lots.
(1993 Code § 8-4-1)
11-4-3: RELATION TO ADJOINING STREET SYSTEM:
   A.   Arrangement: The arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall make
provisions for the continuation of the principal existing streets in adjoining
additions (or their property projection where adjoining property is not
subdivided) insofar as they may be necessary for public requirements. The width
of such streets in new subdivisions shall not be less than the established
minimum street widths. The street and alley arrangements shall also be such as
to cause no hardship to owners of adjoining property when they plat their own
land and seek to provide for convenient access to it.
   B.   Half Streets Or Alleys: Whenever there exists a dedicated or platted
half street or alley adjacent to the tract to be subdivided, the other half of
the street or alley shall be platted. (1993 Code § 8-4-2)
11-4-4: STREET AND ALLEY WIDTH:
   A.   The minimum width for streets shall be fifty feet (50'), except that
the village board may in certain cases, to conform with already existing
streets in the village, or because of topography or special conditions, require
a greater or lesser width.
   B.   Dead end streets shall be avoided when possible, but if deemed
necessary in the opinion of the village board, they shall terminate in a
circular right of way with a minimum diameter to be determined by the village
board, which will provide safe and convenient space therefor.
   C.   The minimum width of all alleys shall be twenty feet (20'), and alleys
shall be required in the rear of all commercial and industrial districts.
   D.   Where alleys are not provided, easements of not less than five feet
(5') in width shall be provided on all rear lot lines and side lot lines where
deemed necessary for poles, wires, conduits, storm and sanitary sewer, gas,
water and heat mains. Easements of greater width may be required along lines or
across lots when deemed necessary by the village board for the extension of
main sewers or other utilities. (1993 Code § 8-4-3)
11-4-5: BLOCKS:
The length and width of blocks shall conform as nearly as practicable to those
in the existing development of the village. However, the village board may
permit a deviation therefrom when the deviation, in their opinion, is necessary
because of the size, location, or topography of the tract, and the proposed
deviation conforms to and is in harmony with a possible larger subdivision unit
of which the proposed subdivision is a part. (1993 Code § 8-4-4)
11-4-6: LOTS:
   A.   All side lot lines of lots shall be as nearly as possible at right
angles to straight street lines, or radial to curved street lines, unless a
variation to this rule will give a better streets and lot plan.
   B.   The minimum dimensions for lots located within the future urban area,
except in areas zoned for commercial and industrial uses, shall be fifty feet
(50') in width and one hundred feet (100') in depth, but in no case shall a
rectangular or irregular shaped lot that is to be used for residential
purposes, contain less area than is required by the lot area regulation of the
zoning district in which the property is located.
   C.   Corner lots shall have extra width sufficient to permit the maintenance
of building lines on both front and side streets.
   D.   Lots at street intersections which are likely to be dangerous shall
have a radius of not less than fifteen feet (15') at the street corner. (1993
Code § 8-4-5)
11-4-7: BUILDING LINES:
Building lines shall be shown on all lots whenever the depth of the building
lines are greater than those required by other village regulations. When the
subdivided area is not under zoning control, the village board may require
building lines in accordance with the needs of each subdivision. Provisions
shall be made by deed requiring all enclosed parts of buildings to be set back
to such building lines. (1993 Code § 8-4-6)
11-4-8: CHARACTER OF DEVELOPMENT:
The village board shall have the right to agree with the subdivider regarding
the type and character of development that will be permitted in the
subdivision, and may require that certain minimum regulations regarding this
matter be incorporated in the deed restrictions. The regulations shall be
intended to protect the character and value of the surrounding development and
shall also tend to secure the most appropriate character of development in the
property which is subdivided. (1993 Code § 8-4-7)
11-4-9: EASEMENTS ALONG STREAMS:
Whenever any stream or important surface watercourse is located in an area that
is being subdivided, the subdivider shall at his own expense make adequate
provision for straightening or widening the channel so that it will properly
carry the surface water and shall also provide and dedicate to the village an
easement along each side of the stream, which easement shall be for the purpose
of widening, improving, or protecting the stream and for recreational use. The
width of the easement shall not be less than twenty feet (20') and the total
width of the easement shall be adequate to provide for any necessary channel
relocations and straightening. (1993 Code § 8-4-8)
11-4-10: IMPROVEMENTS:
Before the final plat of any subdivided area shall be approved and recorded,
the subdivider shall make and install the improvements described in this
chapter. In lieu of final completion of the minimum improvements, before the
plat is finally approved, the subdivider may follow either of the following
alternate methods:
   A.   Post a surety bond with the village ensuring the village that the
improvements shall be completed by the subdivider within two (2) years after
final approval of the plat. The form and type of bond shall be approved by the
village attorney, and the amount of the bond shall be not less than the
estimated cost of the improvements, and the amount of the estimate must be
approved by the engineer for the village. If the improvements are not completed
within the specified time, the village board may use the bond or any necessary
portion thereof to complete same.
   B.   The subdivider may petition the village board to provide the necessary
improvements and to assess the cost against the subdivided property in
accordance with the local requirements regarding special assessments. Provided,
however, that the subdivider shall be responsible for any difference between
the cost of the improvements and the amount that can be legally assessed by the
village against the subdivided property and shall furnish the necessary waivers
to permit the assessment of the entire cost of the improvement. (1993 Code § 8-
4-9)
CHAPTER 5
MINIMUM STANDARDS OF DEVELOPMENT
SECTION:
11-5-1: Minimum Improvements
11-5-2: Street Improvements
11-5-3: Water Lines
11-5-4: Sewers
11-5-5: Other Utilities
11-5-1: MINIMUM IMPROVEMENTS:
The minimum improvements installed in any subdivision before the plat can be
finally approved shall be in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(1993 Code § 8-5-0)
11-5-2: STREET IMPROVEMENTS:
All streets shall be filled or excavated to the grade approved by the village
board, and the roadway improved by surfacing. The minimum standards for
surfacing shall be not less than the following requirements:
   A.   Urban Areas: Whenever the subdivision is located within that portion of
the village that lies within the areas described in other village regulations
as urban areas, or may lie within the probable future urban areas, the minimum
width of surfacing shall be twenty seven feet (27'). The surfacing shall be of
a type conforming to the traffic requirements of each street, but in no event
shall it be less than an all weather road capable of bearing vehicles at all
seasons, and shall consist of not less than six inches (6") of compacted
crushed stone or gravel, or approved specifications and sealed with an approved
topcoat. Curbs may be required along each side of the surfacing wherever
necessary to prevent serious erosion because of the grade of the street. The
subdivider shall be required to install only one-half (1/2) the width of
surfacing required when a street along the outer edge of his subdivision
borders adjacent property that cannot bear its share of the cost of surfacing.
All surfacing shall conform to the appropriate specifications of, and the
construction shall be supervised by, the village board.
   B.   Outside Urban Areas: Whenever the subdivision is located beyond the
probable future urban areas as described in other village regulations, the
minimum width of surfacing shall be twenty two feet (22'), but on each side of
this surfacing there shall be an earth shoulder having a minimum width of eight
feet (8'). The surfacing shall be an all weather surfacing capable of bearing
vehicles at all seasons and shall consist of at least six inches (6") of
compacted crushed stone or gravel, or approved specifications, and sealed with
an approved topcoat. The surfacing shall be in accordance with appropriate
specifications of, and the construction shall be supervised by, the village
board. (1993 Code § 8-5-1)
11-5-3: WATER LINES:
Where an approved public water supply is reasonably accessible or procurable,
water mains and fire hydrants shall be installed when ordered by the village
board, so as to make the water supply available to every lot in the
subdivision. (1993 Code § 8-5-2)
11-5-4: SEWERS:
   A.   Sanitary Sewer: Where a public sanitary sewer is reasonably accessible,
the subdividers shall connect or provide for the connection with such sanitary
sewer, but in any event shall make provisions in such subdivision for the
establishment of a sanitary sewer system accessible to each lot in the
subdivision, and such sewer system shall be approved by the village board.
   B.   Stormwater Disposal: Adequate provisions shall be made for the disposal
of stormwater, subject to the approval of the village board. (1993 Code § 8-5-
3)
11-5-5: OTHER UTILITIES:
Whenever it is deemed necessary by the village board, it may require the
installation of electric lines, streetlights, gas mains, street trees, and
other similar facilities before the plat is approved. (1993 Code § 8-5-4)
CHAPTER 6
ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
11-6-1: Recording Of Plats Denied
11-6-2: Building And Repair Permits Denied
11-6-3: Public Improvements Denied
11-6-1: RECORDING OF PLATS DENIED:
No plat of any subdivision shall be entitled to record in the county recorder's
office or have any validity until it shall have been approved in the prescribed
manner. (1993 Code § 8-7-1)
11-6-2: BUILDING AND REPAIR PERMITS DENIED:
No building or repair permit shall be issued for any structure located on a lot
in any subdivision within the village limits, the plat of which has been filed
after the effective date hereof but which has not been approved in accordance
with the provisions or the plat of which was filed before the effective date
hereof, but did not conform to the requirements set forth in the municipal code
of Illinois, and acts amendatory thereto. (1993 Code § 8-7-2)
11-6-3: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS DENIED:
The village board shall not permit any public improvements over which it has
any control to be made or any money expended for improvements in any area that
has been subdivided or upon any street that has been platted after the
effective date hereof unless the subdivision or street has been approved in
accordance with the provisions of this title. (1993 Code § 8-7-3)
 
