MATTOON, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-28 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through 2025-5497, passed 6-17-2025
State legislation current through 2024 ALS #4
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
MAYOR          Rick Hall
CITY MANAGER   Kyle Gill
CITY CLERK     Susan J. O'Brien
CITY TREASURER Beth Wright
CITY ATTORNEY  Daniel C. Jones
COMMISSION
COMMISSIONER   Erica Butler
COMMISSIONER   James Closson
COMMISSIONER   Dave Cox
COMMISSIONER   David Phipps
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2003-5169
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A 2003 SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
FOR THE CITY OF MATTOON, ILLINOIS
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed a 2003 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Mattoon,
which supplement contains all ordinances of a permanent nature enacted since
the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this Political Subdivision;
and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Illinois Compiled Statutes; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority of the municipality (the
"City Council") to accept these updated sections in accordance with changes of
the law of the State of Illinois; and
WHEREAS, the 2003 supplement contains local legislation current through
Ordinance 2003-5161 passed February 16, 2003 and state legislation current
through February 7, 2003; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of Mattoon as
follows:
Section 1. The 2003 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Mattoon
as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, and
as, attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set
out in its entirety.
Section 2. Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the City Council and the City Clerk is hereby
authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of the Code of
Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 3. This ordinance shall be effective upon its approval as provided by
law.
Upon motion by Mayor Carter, seconded by Commissioner Schilling, adopted this
7th day of October, 2003, by a roll call vote, as follows:
AYES (Names):   Commissioner Donnell, Commissioner Gambill,
         Commissioner Hesse, Commissioner Schilling,
         Mayor Carter
NAYS (Names):   None
ABSENT (Names):   None
Approved this 7th day of October, 2003.
               David E. Carter /s/
               David E. Carter, Mayor
               City of Mattoon, Coles County, Illinois
ATTEST:               APPROVED AS TO FORM
Susan O'Brien /s/          J. Preston Owen /s/
Susan O'Brien, City Clerk         J. Preston Owen, City Attorney
Recorded in the Municipality's Records on  10-08 , 2003.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter
   
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section headings
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Official time
   
10.06   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   Amendments to code
   
10.10   Severability
   
10.11   Reference to public office or officer
   
10.12   Errors and omissions
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances saved
   
10.16   Technical codes
   
10.17   Historical and statutory references
   
10.18   Copies of code on file
   
10.19   Jurisdiction
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification by and for the city of Mattoon shall be designated as the
code of Mattoon and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   CITY.  The City of Mattoon, Illinois.
   CITY COUNCIL. The legislative authority of the City.
   COUNTY. Coles County, Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of Coles County, Illinois.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.17)
   COURT. Construed to mean any court of competent jurisdiction.
   DECREE. Synonymous with JUDGMENT.  
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.24)
   ELECTORS. Persons qualified to vote for elective officers at municipal
elections.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-1-2 (3) )
   EXECUTIVE OFFICER. Words used for an executive or ministerial officer may
include any deputy or other person performing the duties of such officer,
either generally or in special cases.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.08)
   HERETOFORE or HEREAFTER.  HERETOFORE means any time previous to the day on
which the ordinance, resolution, or statute takes effect; HEREAFTER means at
any time after that date.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.17)
   HIGHWAY, ROAD, or STREET. May include any road laid out by authority of the
United States, or of this state, or of any town or county of this state, and
all bridges thereupon.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.16)
   ILL. REV. STAT. Illinois Revised Statutes, 1987, as heretofore and hereafter
amended.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves, or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.10)
   MUNICIPAL CODE. The Illinois Municipal Code, ILCS, Ch. 65, Act 5.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, and SWEAR includes affirm.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.12)
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner,
purchaser and seller under a contract and/or deed, or tenant in common of the
whole or part of the property, and includes any beneficiary of a land trust
which owns property.
   PERSON. Any legal person; includes associations, partnerships, corporations,
joint ventures, and bodies politic and corporate as well as individuals.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.05)
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   POLICE OFFICERS. Police officers employed and in the service of the City of
Mattoon. POLICE FORCE shall be construed to include such persons in the employ
of a city as members of the Department of Police, who are or shall hereafter be
appointed and sworn as police officers.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.20)
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates, and other interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes school districts; units of legal government; the
city, county, state, or federal governments, officers and agencies thereof, or
any commissions or committees thereof; or any duly authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Ch. 5, § 1-188)
   SPECIAL DISTRICTS. The meaning established in Article VII of the
Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.29)
   STATE. The State of Illinois.
   STREET. Where the context admits, includes alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, squares, and other public thoroughfares.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The city code hereby adopted, and as
hereinafter modified by amendment, revision, and by the adoption of new titles,
chapters, or sections.
   UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The meaning established in Section 1 of Article
VII of the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.28)
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents, and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters; but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, required by law, it shall be in
the proper handwriting of that person, or in case he is unable to write, his
proper mark, or by his duly authorized facsimile signature under the Illinois
Uniform Facsimile Signature of Public Officials Act.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.15)
   YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed; and the word YEAR alone is
equivalent to the expression "Year of Our Lord."
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.10)
§ 10.03 SECTION HEADINGS.
   Headings and captions used in this code are employed for reference purposes
only, and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed according to
the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and phrases that have acquired a
technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative or judicial definition
or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
   (B)   As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following rules will be followed.
      (1)   The singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include
the singular.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.03)
      (2)   Words of one gender shall include the other genders.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.04)
      (3)   Words in the present tense shall include the future.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.02)
      (4)   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the context admits.
   (C)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last day
is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or fixed in any statute now or
hereafter in force in this state, and then it shall also be excluded. If the
day succeeding Saturday, Sunday, or a holiday is also a holiday or a Saturday
or Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be excluded.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.11)
   (D)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Words purporting to give joint authority to three or more municipal
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority
of the officers or persons.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.09)
   (F)   These rules of construction shall not apply to any provision of this
code which shall contain any express provision excluding that construction, or
when the subject matter or context of this code may be repugnant thereto.
   (G)   All general provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the City
Council may be fully carried out.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.01)
   (H)   The provisions of any ordinance, so far as they are the same as those
of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions, and not as a new enactment.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 2)
§ 10.05 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time for the city shall be as set by federal law.
§ 10.06 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed, nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 3)
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment, or repeal of an ordinance does not do any
of the following, except as provided in division (C) of this section.
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder.
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation, or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded, or incurred thereunder.
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal.
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding, or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment. The
investigation, proceeding, or remedy may be instituted, continued, or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 85, § 2)
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment for any offense is reduced
by a reenactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture, or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 4)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in this code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of this code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision and the context
clearly indicates that the reference to the section as amended or revised was
not intended.
§ 10.08 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of these
codified ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions
bearing the latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions
bear the same passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be
consistent with the meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject
matter taken as a whole.
§ 10.09 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal, or in any
way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of
this code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed
chapters, sections, and subsections, or any part thereof, by subsequent
ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by the omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as
numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie
evidence of subsequent ordinances until this code of ordinances and subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are re-adopted as a new code of ordinances by
the City Council.
§ 10.10 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of these codified ordinances or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the section or
related sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions are severable.
§ 10.11 REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICE OR OFFICER.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary. Such references
shall also include the designee or agent of any such officer or office, unless
the law or the context clearly requires otherwise.
§ 10.12 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including, but not limited
to tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming, or vacating streets, alleys, or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the village; and all special ordinances) as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code of ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect unless herein
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the City
Council or a certain city officer or employee to make additional regulations
for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all regulations of
a similar nature serving that purpose effected prior to the codification and
not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.16 TECHNICAL CODES.
   Whenever any technical codes are incorporated herein by reference, any
subsequent amendments or revisions to such technical codes shall automatically
become a part of this code and shall be made available for public inspection by
the city. Further, to the extent of any conflict between the technical
provisions of this code and any technical codes adopted by reference, the most
restrictive provision shall prevail.
§ 10.17 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   If an ILCS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the
text of the section is nearly identical to the statute. Example: (ILCS Ch. 65,
Act 5 § 3.1-5-5)) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-85). If an
ILCS cite is set forth as a "statutory reference" following the text of the
section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information.
   § 38.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      The city shall make available to any person for inspection or copying all
public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of Information Act.
   Statutory reference:
      Freedom of Information Act, see ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, §§ 1 et seq.
§ 10.18 COPIES OF CODE ON FILE.
   Copies of this code shall be kept available at the City Clerk's office for
public inspection.
('68 Code, § 1.10)
§ 10.19 JURISDICTION.
   Unless otherwise provided in this code, this code applies to acts performed
within the corporate limits of the city. Provisions of this code also apply to
acts performed outside the corporate limits and up to the limits prescribed by
law where the law confers power on the city to regulate such particular acts
outside the corporate limits.
('68 Code, § 1.05)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless another penalty is specifically provided by this code for
violation of any particular provisions, section or chapter, any person
violating any provision of this code, or any rule or regulation adopted or
issued in pursuance thereof, or any provision of any code adopted herein by
reference, shall be subject to one or more of the following:
      (1)   A fine of not less than $50, nor more than $750 for each offense,
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
      (2)   Community service of not less than ten hours nor more than 150
hours for each offense.
      (3)   The court may, upon a plea of guilty or a stipulation by the
defendant of the facts supporting the charge or finding of guilt, defer further
proceedings and the imposition of a sentence and enter an order of supervision
for the defendant. If the defendant is not barred from receiving an order of
supervision as provided below, the court may enter an order for supervision
after considering the circumstances of the offense, and the history, character
and condition of the offender, if the court is of the opinion that:
         (a)   The defendant is not likely to commit further ordinance
violations;
         (b)   The defendant and the public would be best served if the
defendant were not to receive a conviction of an ordinance violation; and
         (c)   In the interest of justice, an order of supervision is more
important than a conviction of an ordinance violation.
Additionally the costs of prosecution, a supervision fee and any court costs
may be imposed.
   (B)   The person upon whom any fine or penalty is imposed for violation of
any provision of this code or any ordinance of the city, upon order of the
court before whom the conviction is had, may be committed to the city or county
jail as provided by law, or to any other place provided by ordinance for the
incarceration of offenders until the fine, penalty, and costs are fully paid.
No imprisonment, however, shall exceed six months for any one offense.
   (C)   Each act of violation and each day upon which a violation occurs
constitutes a separate offense.
   (D)   The penalty provided by this section applies to the amendment of any
section of this code or a code adopted herein by reference whether or not such
penalty is reenacted in the amendatory ordinance.
   (E)   Reference to a section of this code shall be understood also to refer
to and include the penalty section relating thereto, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
   (F)   The failure of an officer or employee of the city to perform an
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject such officer or employee
to the penalty imposed for violation of this code, unless a penalty is
specifically provided in the section creating the duty.
('68 Code, § 1.06) (Am. Ord. 2009-5280, passed 9-15-2009; Am. Ord. 2012-5345,
passed 2-7-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Limitations on penalties, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act. 5, § 1-2-1
   Authority to imprison for certain ordinance violations, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act
5, § 1-2-1.1
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   City seal
§ 11.01 CITY SEAL.
   The corporate seal of the city shall be circular in form and have engraved
in the outer circle "City of Mattoon, Coles Co., Illinois," and in the inner
circle "Corporate Seal." The City Clerk shall be the custodian thereof and may
affix it to any document requiring its use.
('68 Code, § 2.20)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
Chapter
   
30.   FORM OF GOVERNMENT
   
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
   
32.   CITY COUNCIL
   
33.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
   
34.   POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS
   
35.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
   
36.   TAXATION
   
37.   EMPLOYEE REGULATIONS
   
38.   PUBLIC RECORDS
   
39.   CITY POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: FORM OF GOVERNMENT
   [Reserved]
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Elections
   
31.02   Bonds
   
31.03   Residency requirement for municipal officers and employees
   
31.04   Compensation
   
31.05   Annual report
   
31.06   Account of moneys received
   
31.07   Records open to inspection
   
31.08   Removal or absence from city
   
31.09   Liability for damage
   
31.10   Authority to sign documents
   
31.11   Solicitation and acceptance of gifts prohibited
Appointed City Officials
   
31.20   City Manager
   
31.21   City Treasurer
   
31.22   City Clerk
Other Officials
   
31.35   Deputy City Clerk
   
31.36   City Attorney
   
31.37   City Engineer
   
31.38   Coordinator of federal and state aid
Cross-reference:
   Powers and duties of city officials, see also
Ch. 33
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Method of holding. Municipal elections shall be held in accordance
with the Illinois Compiled Statutes, 1993, as heretofore and hereafter amended.
   (B)   Canvassing returns. At an adjourned or special meeting of the Council
within one week after any municipal election, the returns shall be canvassed
and the result shall be declared, and the City Clerk shall enter the same at
large on the journal, with the names of all persons voted for and the number of
votes received, as well as the office.
   (C)   Tie. In case of a tie, the City Clerk shall notify the persons
interested to be present at the next regular session of the Council, at which
time the tie shall be determined by lot, in the following manner: There shall
be placed in a ballot box as many folded slips of paper of equal size as there
are persons having an equal number of votes; upon one shall be written the name
of the office, upon the other the word "Mattoon." The candidate drawing the
ballot or slip on which the name of the office is written shall be declared
elected. If a candidate fails to appear or refuses to draw, the Mayor may
appoint someone else to do so for such candidate.
   (D)   Order at polls. The Chief of Police and all other police officers
shall attend at all elections for the purpose of maintaining order and keeping
the peace under the orders of the judges who shall maintain order at the polls,
and may command any police officer in attendance to arrest any person who shall
disturb the peace by riotous or disorderly conduct.
('68 Code, § 2.01)
§ 31.02 BONDS.
   (A)   Amount. Every officer of the city shall execute a bond before entering
upon the duties of the office, with good and sufficient security to be approved
by the Council, payable to the city, conditioned as hereinafter provided, and
in the penal sums respectively as follows:
      (1)   Mayor, $3,000.
      (2)   City Council members, $3,000.
      (3)   City Treasurer. Not less than three times the latest Federal census
population or any subsequent census figure used for motor fuel tax purposes.
      (4)   City Clerk. Double the estimated amount of all receipts coming into
or remaining in his hands in any one time during the year, but in no event less
than $50,000.
      (5)   City Manager. Double the estimated amount of the unilateral
spending authority of the City Manager authorized by the City Council, but in
no event less than $50,000.
      (6)   Other officers. In such amount as the Council shall specify by
resolution.
   (B)   Surety; premium. The City Manager, City Treasurer and City Clerk shall
each furnish a bond secured by a responsible surety company. The bond shall be
accompanied with a sworn financial statement of such surety company. Where
personal bonds are given they shall be secured by two responsible sureties, at
least one of whom must be a property owner of the county.
   (C)   Officer surety for another. No member of the Council and no person
holding any office in this city shall become surety on the official bond of any
other officer of this city.
(‘68 Code, § 2.28) (Ord. 3500, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 3523, passed - - ; Am.
Ord. 93-4735, passed, - - ; Am. Ord. 93-4735, passed 5-4-1993; Am. Ord. 2025-
5492, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 31.03 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT FOR MUNICIPAL OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   All municipal employees and officers shall reside within 20 miles of the
corporate boundaries of the City of Mattoon unless otherwise provided for in
employment agreements and collective bargaining agreements.
(Ord. 79-4392, passed 6-5-1979; Am. Ord. 2000-5020, passed 3-7-2000; Am. Ord.
2012-5358, passed 8-7-2012)
§ 31.04 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Salaries of city officers and employees shall be as established by
ordinance.
   (B)   All salaries of officers and employees of the city shall be paid every
other Friday, unless provision is made to the contrary, by the City Council.
The City Clerk shallprepare changes to payroll every other week, which when
signed by the City Manager, the Clerk shall authorize the issuance of checks
for the salaries indicated to be due. Deductions as provided by law shall be
made for pension funds, social security, withholding tax (income tax),
insurance, and also for voluntary deductions as authorized by employees.
(‘68 Code, § 2.41) (Ord. 4055, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 98-4940, passed 4-21-1998;
Am. Ord. 2012-5358, passed 8-7-2012; Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 31.05 ANNUAL REPORT.
   Every officer and head of a department shall, for the information of the
City Council and all other city officials, annually make and file a report
covering in detail the transactions of his department, and also properly
summarizing the same for the fiscal year.
('68 Code, § 2.29)
§ 31.06 ACCOUNT OF MONEYS RECEIVED.
   All officers collecting any moneys belonging to the city shall immediately
pay over the same to the City Treasurer, and shall at the first regular meeting
in each month present a full, itemized and true statement of all amounts
received during the preceding calendar month, attaching thereto a duplicate
receipt of the City Treasurer. Any officer failing to so turn over any funds
collected by him, or failing to make an account as above required, shall be
subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $100.
('68 Code, § 2.30)
Cross-reference:
   City Treasurer to report delinquent officer to Council, see §
31.21(F)
§ 31.07 RECORDS OPEN TO INSPECTION.
   The records, books, and papers pertaining to any city officer shall at all
reasonable times be subject to the inspection and examination of the Mayor, the
City Council or any person interested in the same; and all city officers shall,
when requested, give all the information in their power pertaining to their
respective offices, to the Council or any department of the city government.
('68 Code, § 2.31)
§ 31.08 REMOVAL OR ABSENCE FROM CITY.
   If any city officer shall remove from the city, or absent himself therefrom
for one month without permission of the City Council, first had and obtained,
his office shall be vacated.
('68 Code, § 2.32)
§ 31.09 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGE.
   All officers shall be liable to the city for all loss or damage which may
arise from their negligence or willful misconduct in the discharge of any
official duty, and the City Council may, by order, withhold the salary of any
such officer, in order to secure the city from loss. And if any officer shall
fail, neglect or refuse to discharge or perform any duty required of him, the
head of the department may employ or appoint some competent person to perform
such duty and the costs and expenses of doing the same shall be charged to such
officer and deducted from his salary or if his salary shall be insufficient to
pay the same, they may be collected from him and recovered by suit in the name
of the city, before any court of competent jurisdictions.
('68 Code, § 2.33)
§ 31.10 AUTHORITY TO SIGN DOCUMENTS.
   Unless otherwise provided by the City Council, all contracts, bonds of every
description, obligations, city warrants, licenses, permits, franchises and
every document required by the action of the Council, or requiring the
signature of any city officer to make it valid, shall be signed by the City
Manager (except as otherwise especially provided) and countersigned by the City
Clerk, who shall also affix the seal of the city thereto.
(‘68 Code, § 2.21) (Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 31.11 SOLICITATION AND ACCEPTANCE OF GIFTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The regulations of ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 5-15 and ILCS Ch. 5, Act
430, § 10-10 through 10-40 of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act,
ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 1-1 et seq., (hereinafter referred to as the "Act" in
this section) are hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to the
officers and employees of the city to the extent required by ILCS Ch. 5, Act
430, § 70-5.
   (B)   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or
accepted under the Act, by any officer or any employee of the city, is hereby
prohibited.
   (C)   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to an
officer or employee of the city under the Act, is hereby prohibited.
   (D)   The participation in political activities prohibited under the Act, by
any officer or employee of the city, is hereby prohibited.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, the terms "officer" and "employee" shall
be defined as set forth in ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5(c).
   (F)   The penalties for violations of this section shall be the same as
those penalties set forth in ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 50-5 for similar violations
of the Act.
   (G)   This section does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies, which regulate the conduct of city officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this section, however, the provisions of this section shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5(a).
   (H)   Any amendment to the Act that becomes effective after the effective
date of this section shall be incorporated into this section by reference and
shall be applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of
gifts and to prohibited political activities. However, any amendment that makes
its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be
incorporated into this section by reference without formal action by the
corporate authorities of the city.
   (I)   If the Illinois Supreme Court declares the Act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this section shall be repealed as of the date that the Illinois
Supreme Court's decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This section shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the corporate authorities of the city if the Illinois Supreme Court finds the
Act unconstitutional.
   (J)   If the Illinois Supreme Court declares part of the Act
unconstitutional but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the Act,
or does not address the remainder of the Act, then the remainder of the Act as
adopted by this section shall remain in full force and effect; however, that
part of this section relating to the part of the Act found unconstitutional
shall be deemed repealed without further action by the Corporate Authorities of
the city.
(Ord. 99-4992, passed 6-15-1999; Am. Ord. 2004-5179, passed 5-4-2004)
APPOINTED CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.20 CITY MANAGER.
   (A)   Office established. There is hereby created the office of City Manager
pursuant to enabling statutory authority provided at ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 5-
1-1 et seq.
   (B)   Appointment. The Mayor and City Council shall appoint the City
Manager, by majority vote. The person appointed shall be selected on the basis
of his or her training, executive and administrative qualifications and
experience in the administration of municipal government and need not be a
resident of the city at the time appointed. However, the City Manager shall
make their permanent residence within the Mattoon, Illinois School District
within six months of their appointment and installation as City Manager. His or
her background and experience shall be consistent with the Manager’s statutory
duties, the responsibilities set forth herein and any job description adopted
by the City Council. The person shall be appointed without regard to political
affiliation, race, sex, national origin, religion or any other illegal
discriminatory factor. Any person who has held the position of Mayor or member
of the City Council, within one year prior to the appointment to the position
of City Manager, is hereby deemed not qualified and shall not be appointed to
the City Manager position.
   (C)   Tenure of office. The City Manager shall be appointed for an
indefinite term. The City Manager may at any time be removed from office by the
Mayor and the City Council, by majority vote. The City Council and the City
Manager may enter into an agreement with respect to other terms and provisions
of employment and may provide for salary, salary adjustments, fringe benefits,
severance provisions and payment, and other remuneration and benefits of
office. The City Manager, with the approval of the Mayor and City Council, may
appoint an Acting City Manager to act during the absence or disability of the
City Manager to carry out the functions and duties of the City Manager.
Preference will be given to the departmental directors or superintendents of
the city in the selection of the Acting City Manager.
   (D)   Bond and oath. Before entering upon the duties of office, the City
Manager shall furnish a surety bond in the amount of $50,000 to be approved by
the City Council, said bond to be conditioned upon the faithful performance of
his or her duties. The city shall pay the premium of the bond. Before entering
upon the duties of office, the City Manager shall take and subscribe to any
oath prescribed by the statutes of the State of Illinois.
   (E)   Compensation. The City Manager shall receive compensation in such
amount and manner, as the City Council shall affix from time to time by
ordinance or resolution and by agreement.
   (F)   Powers and duties. The City Manager shall, in all cases, be subject to
the authority and direction of the Mayor and City Council. The City Manager
shall be, pursuant to ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 5-3-7, the executive and
administrative head of the City of Mattoon and responsible for the proper
administration of all affairs of the city. The powers and duties of the City
Manager shall be:
      (1)   To enforce the laws and ordinances within the City of Mattoon.
      (2)   To provide proper support staff and services for the Mayor and
members of the City Council.
      (3)   To appoint and, when necessary for the good of the service, suspend
or remove all city employees, except when otherwise provided for by law; to
appoint and remove all department heads. All decisions to appoint and remove
employees shall be consistent with applicable policies approved by the City
Council, applicable federal and Illinois law, valid labor agreements, and
consistent with the principles of good municipal administration and due process
of law. No appointment shall be made upon any basis other than that of merit
and fitness.
      (4)   To develop, recommend and administer such appropriate personnel
policies and procedures as the Manager concludes are needed to manage the staff
of the city and as approved by the City Council.
      (5)   To serve as the human resource manager of the city. The City
Manager is responsible to manage any and all collective bargaining processes of
the city, as applicable, and recommend negotiated collective bargaining
agreements for consideration and approval by the City Council. The City Manager
shall be responsible for administering all collective bargaining agreements.
The City Manager shall keep the City Council informed of human relation
developments, disputes and staff matters, as well as the status of collective
bargaining and the administration of any collective bargaining agreements. The
City Council may determine to employ attorneys or other persons with
specialized expertise to assist with the conduct of negotiations with
bargaining units representing city employees.
      (6)   The City Manager may authorize any administrative officer, subject
to the Manager’s direction and supervision, to exercise these powers with
respect to subordinates in that officer’s department, office or agency.
      (7)   To exercise oversight and control of all departments, offices and
positions of the city, except as otherwise provided by law.
      (8)   To prepare an annual budget ordinance.
      (9)   To serve as Chief Financial and City Budget Officer, as provided at
ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 8-2-9.1 et seq., and keep the City Council advised of
the present financial status and the future needs of the city. As City Budget
Officer, to prepare a report of estimated funds necessary to defray the
expenses of the city for the fiscal year for the consideration of the City
Council and to prepare and submit to the City Council, by the date set by the
City Council, a recommended annual budget for city operations and a capital
improvement plan and to administer the approved budget and capital improvement
plan.
      (10)   To attend all meetings of the City Council with the right to take
part in the discussions, but with no right to vote, unless there is an extreme
situation preventing attendance at such a meeting, and in that case the City
Manager will do everything possible to notify the Mayor in advance of their
inability to attend such a meeting.
      (11)   Manage all purchasing and procurements of necessary goods,
materials and services for the city and provide for policies and procedures for
city staff to comply with regarding such purchasing and procurement.
      (12)   The City Manager shall, at least annually, report to the City
Council with respect to the financial and fiscal affairs of the city. The City
Manager will regularly report to the City Council regarding the status of the
operations of city departments, services and programs and to assess such
operations continuously, making appropriate recommendations for improvements.
      (13)   To perform such other duties as may be prescribed by law,
including Article 5 of the Illinois Municipal Code, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 5-5-
1 et seq., or may be required of him or her by ordinance or resolution of the
City Council. The City Administrator shall perform all other executive and
administrative duties not specifically enumerated herein with due regard to the
executive, administrative and legislative powers granted to the City Council
pursuant to ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 4-5-2.
      (14)   Those powers vested in the prior position of City Administrator
elsewhere in this code, and outside of this § 31.20, are hereby vested in the
City Manager.
      (15)   The City Manager shall serve as Chair of the Economic Development
Revolving Loan Fund Advisory Committee.
      (16)   The City Manager shall designate, in writing, an employee of the
city who is not the Mayor or member of the City Council who will serve as the
Acting City Manager at any time the City Manager is temporarily unable to
fulfill their duties as City Manager, or is otherwise incapacitated. During the
absence or disability of the City Manager, the Acting City Manager shall carry
out all the functions and duties of the City Manager.
   (G)   Appointment limitations. The City Manager is not authorized to make
appointments to the Board of Local Improvements, nor the Zoning Board of
Appeals or Planning Commission. Such appointments shall be made by the Mayor
with the advice and consent of the City Council. The City Manager is not
authorized to appoint members to boards and commissions that the city is
authorized to establish pursuant to statutory authority, other than in
applicable provisions of the Illinois Municipal Code, being ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5,
Articles 3.1 and 4.
   (H)   City audit. The City Council will provide for independent audits of
all accounts of the city. Such audits shall be conducted independently of the
City Manager by some person or firm selected by the City Council. Full reports
of such audits are to be filed in the public records of the city.
(Ord. 2003-5157, passed 2-4-2003; Am. Ord. 2005-5202, passed 5-3-2005; Am. Ord.
2025-5490, passed 4-1-2025)
Statutory reference:
   Power of mayors and governing bodies to appoint board and commission
members, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 5-3-1 and 5-3-11
§ 31.21 CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   Position established. There is hereby created the office of City
Treasurer. The Treasurer plans, organizes and directs the activities and staff
of the Finance Department. The Treasurer prepares various financial and policy
analysis reports relating to the city’s financial position. The work of the
Treasurer is performed in accordance with statutory procedures. The City
Manager and City Council prescribe policies for departmental operations and
hold the Treasurer responsible for the effectiveness of departmental programs.
   (B)   Appointment. The Mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council
shall appoint and evaluate the performance of the City Treasurer. The person
appointed by the Mayor to the position of City Treasurer shall be nominated
solely on the basis of his or her training, executive and administrative
qualifications and experience in the financial administration of a municipal
government. His or her qualifications and experience shall be consistent with a
job description adopted by the City Council.
   (C)   Tenure of office. The term of the office of the City Treasurer shall
be coterminous with the term of the Mayor. The City Council and the City
Treasurer may enter into an agreement with respect to other terms and
provisions of employment and may provide for salary, salary adjustments, fringe
benefits, severance provisions and payment, and other remuneration and benefits
of office.
   (D)   Compensation. The City Treasurer shall receive compensation in such
amount and manner, as the Council shall affix from time to time by ordinance or
resolution and by agreement.
   (E)   Duties. The City Treasurer’s duties are prescribed by ILCS Ch. 65, Act
5, § 3.1-35-40 et seq. and ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 4-5-22 as these state statutes
may be amended from time to time.
      (1)   The Municipal Treasurer shall receive all money belonging to the
municipality and shall keep the treasurer’s books and accounts in the manner
prescribed by ordinance. These books and accounts shall always be subject to
the inspection of any member of the corporate authorities. The municipality
may, however, by ordinance designate a person or institution which, as bond
trustee, shall receive from the county collector amounts payable to the
municipality as taxes levied pursuant to a bond issuance.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a separate account of each fund or
appropriation and the debits and credits belonging to the fund or
appropriation.
      (3)   The Treasurer shall give every person paying money into the
treasury a receipt, specifying the date of payment and upon what account paid.
The Treasurer shall file copies of these receipts with the Clerk, with the
Treasurer’s monthly reports. If the Treasurer has possession of money properly
appropriated to the payment of any warrant lawfully drawn upon the Treasurer;
the Treasurer shall pay the money specified in the warrant to the person
designated by the warrant.
      (4)   In addition to the duties now imposed by law upon a municipal
treasurer, the treasurer of a municipality under the commission form of
municipal government shall deposit all money the treasurer receives from all
sources of revenue, to his or her credit as treasurer of the municipality, in
one or more places of deposit designated in the same manner and subject to the
same conditions as provided in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-50. The treasurer
(i) shall collect any interest paid on these deposits, (ii) shall report that
interest in the treasurer’s next statement following its collection, and (iii)
shall credit the interest to the particular fund of the municipality upon which
the interest accrued. This interest shall be treated as a part of that
particular fund and shall be subject to use for any purpose for which the fund
may be used.
   (F)   Reports. At the end of every month, and oftener if required by the
corporate authorities, the Municipal Treasurer shall render an account under
oath to the corporate authorities, or to an officer designated by ordinance,
showing the state of the treasury at the date of the account and the balance of
money in the treasury. The Treasurer shall accompany the account with a
statement of all money received into the treasury and on what account, together
with all warrants redeemed and paid by the Treasurer. On the day the Treasurer
renders an account, these warrants, with all vouchers held by the Treasurer,
shall be delivered to the Municipal Clerk and filed, together with the account,
in the Clerk's office. All paid warrants shall be marked "paid". The Treasurer
shall keep a register of all warrants, which shall describe each warrant,
showing its date, amount, and number, the fund from which paid, the name of the
person to whom paid, and when paid.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-45)
   (G)   Deposit of funds.
      (1)   The Municipal Treasurer may be required to keep all funds and money
in the Treasurer's custody belonging to the municipality in places of deposit
designated by ordinance. When requested by the Municipal Treasurer, the
corporate authorities shall designate one or more banks or savings and loan
associations in which may be kept the funds and money of the municipality in
the custody of the Treasurer. When a bank or savings and loan association has
been designated as a depository, it shall continue as a depository until ten
days have elapsed after a new depository is designated and has qualified by
furnishing the statements of resources and liabilities as required by this
section. When a new depository is designated, the corporate authorities shall
notify the sureties of the Municipal Treasurer of that fact in writing at least
five days before the transfer of funds. The Treasurer shall be discharged from
responsibility for all funds or money that the Treasurer deposits in a
designated bank or savings and loan association while the funds and money are
so deposited.
      (2)   The Municipal Treasurer may require any bank or savings and loan
association to deposit with the Treasurer securities or mortgages that have a
market value at least equal to the amount of the funds or moneys of the
municipality deposited with the bank or savings and loan association that
exceeds the insurance limitation provided by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation or the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation.
      (3)   The Municipal Treasurer may enter into agreements of any definite
or indefinite term regarding the deposit, redeposit, investment, reinvestment,
or withdrawal of municipal funds.
      (4)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act or any other law,
each official custodian of municipal funds, including, without limitation, each
municipal treasurer or finance director or each person properly designated as
the official custodian for municipal funds, including, without limitation, each
person properly designated as official custodian for funds held by an
intergovernmental risk management entity, self-insurance pool, waste management
agency, or other intergovernmental entity composed solely of participating
municipalities, is permitted to:
         (a)   Combine moneys from more than one fund of a single municipality,
risk management entity, self-insurance pool, or other intergovernmental entity
composed solely of participating municipalities for the purpose of investing
such moneys;
         (b)   Join with any other official custodians or treasurers of
municipal, intergovernmental risk management entity, self-insurance pool, waste
management agency, or other intergovernmental entity composed solely of
participating municipalities for the purpose of jointly investing the funds of
which the official custodians or treasurers have custody; and
         (c)   Enter into agreements of any definite or indefinite term
regarding the redeposit, investment, or withdrawal of municipal, risk
management entity, self-insurance agency, waste management agency, or other
intergovernmental entity funds.
         (d)   When funds are combined for investment purposes as authorized in
this section, the moneys combined for those purposes shall be accounted for
separately in all respects, and the earnings from such investment shall be
separately and individually computed, recorded, and credited to the fund,
municipality, intergovernmental risk management entity, self-insurance pool,
waste management agency, or other intergovernmental entity, as the case may be,
for which the investment was acquired. Joint investments shall be made only in
investments authorized by law for investment of municipal funds. The grant of
authority contained in this subsection is cumulative, supplemental, and in
addition to all other power or authority granted by any other law and shall not
be construed as a limitation of any power and authority otherwise granted.
      (5)   No bank or savings and loan association shall receive public funds
as permitted by this section unless it has complied with the requirements
established by Section 6 of the Public Funds Investment Act.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-50)
   (H)   Personal use of funds. The Municipal Treasurer shall keep all money
belonging to the municipality and in the Treasurer's custody separate and
distinct from the Treasurer's own money and shall not use, either directly or
indirectly, the municipality's money or warrants for the personal use and
benefit of the Treasurer or of any other person. Any violation of this
provision shall subject the Treasurer to immediate removal from office by the
corporate authorities, which may declare the Treasurer's office vacant.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-55)
   (I)   Receipts and expenditures. The Municipal Treasurer shall report to the
corporate authorities, as often as they require, a full and detailed account of
all receipts and expenditures of the municipality, as shown by the Treasurer's
books, up to the time of the report.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-60)
   (J)   Annual accounts.
      (1)   Within six months after the end of each fiscal year, the treasurer
of each municipality having a population of less than 500,000, as determined by
the last preceding federal census, shall annually prepare and file with the
clerk of the municipality an account of moneys received and expenditures
incurred during the preceding fiscal year as specified in this section. The
treasurer shall show in the account:
         (a)   All moneys received by the municipality, indicating the total
amounts, in the aggregate, received in each account of the municipality, with a
general statement concerning the source of receipts. In this division, the term
"account" does not mean each individual taxpayer, householder, licensee,
utility user, or other persons whose payments to the municipality are credited
to a general account.
         (b)   Except as provided in division (1)(c) below of this section, all
moneys paid out by the municipality where the total amount paid during the
fiscal year exceeds $2,500 in the aggregate, giving the name of each person to
whom moneys were paid and the total paid to each person.
         (c)   All moneys paid out by the municipality as compensation for
personal services, giving the name of each person to whom moneys were paid and
the total amount paid to each person from each account, except that the
treasurer may elect to report the compensation for personal services of all
personnel by name, listing each employee in one of the following categories:
            (i)   Under $25,000;
            (ii)   $25,000.00 to $49,999.99;
            (iii)   $50,000.00 to $74,999.99;
            (iv)   $75,000.00 to $99,999.99;
            (v)   $100,000.00 to $124,999.99; or
            (vi)   $125,000.00 and over.
         (d)   A summary statement of operations for all funds and account
groups of the municipality as excerpted from the annual financial report as
filed with the appropriate state agency.
      (2)   Upon receipt of the account from the Municipal Treasurer, the
Municipal Clerk shall publish the account at least once in one or more
newspapers published in the municipality or, if no newspaper is published in
the municipality, then in one or more newspapers having a general circulation
within the municipality. In municipalities with a population of less than 500
in which no newspaper is published, however, posting a copy of the account in
three prominent places within the municipality may make publication.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-65)
   (K)   Report to County Collector. Within six months after the end of each
fiscal year the Treasurer, as provided in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-65,
shall file with each town or county collector of taxes who collects taxes
levied by the municipality a copy of the annual account that is required to be
filed with and published by the Municipal Clerk, as provided in ILCS Ch. 65,
Act 5, § 3.1-35-65, together with an affidavit of the Municipal Clerk stating
that the copy is a true and correct copy of the annual account filed with the
Clerk, that it was published or posted as required by ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §
3.1-35-65, the date of the filing and publication or posting, and, if
published, the newspaper in which it was published.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-70)
   (L)   Failure to file account with County Collector. If a municipal
treasurer fails to file the annual account and affidavit with the town or
county collector within six months after the end of a fiscal year as required
by ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-70, the town or county collector, as the case
may be, shall withhold payment to the Treasurer of any and all moneys due the
municipality after the expiration of that six-month period and until the annual
account and affidavit are received by the Collector. The failure of a Municipal
Treasurer or Municipal Clerk to comply with the provisions of ILCS Ch. 65, Act
5, § 3.1-35-65 and ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-70 within six months after the
end of a fiscal year shall not preclude the Treasurer or Clerk or the other
officers of the municipality from preparing, publishing or posting, and filing
the annual account and affidavit after the expiration of that six-month period.
If the Clerk, Treasurer, or other officers later comply with the provisions of
this Division 35, the town or county collector, as the case may be, shall pay
over to the Municipal Treasurer the moneys withheld by the Collector
immediately upon the filing of the annual account and affidavit with the
Collector.
(ILCS Ch.65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-75)
   (M)   Violations and penalties. A public officer who fails, neglects, or
refuses to discharge any duty imposed on that officer by ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5,§
3.1-35-65 through ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-75, or who violates any
provisions of ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-65 through ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §
3.1-35-80, is guilty of a petty offense and upon conviction shall be fined not
less than $25 nor more than $100, in addition to any other penalties prescribed
by law.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-80)
   (N)   Special assessment funds. All money received on a special assessment
shall be held by the Municipal Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the
payment of the improvement for which the assessment was made, and the money
shall be used for no other purpose, except to reimburse the municipality for
money expended for the improvement.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-85) (Ord. 2003- 5157, passed 2-4-2003; Am. Ord.
2005-5202, passed 5-3-2005; Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 31.22 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   Position established. There is hereby created the office of City
Clerk. The Clerk plans, organizes and directs the activities and staff of the
City Clerk Department. The City Clerk Department is responsible for the human
resource functions of municipality, as delegated by the City Manager. The work
of the Clerk is performed in accordance with statutory procedures. The City
Manager and City Council prescribe policies for departmental operations and
hold the Clerk responsible for the effectiveness of departmental programs.
   (B)   Appointment. The City Council shall appoint the City Clerk. The person
appointed to the position of City Clerk shall be nominated solely on the basis
of his or her training and administrative qualifications. His or her
qualifications and experience shall be consistent with a job description
adopted by the City Council.
   (C)   Tenure of office. The City Council and the City Clerk may enter into
an agreement with respect to other terms and provisions of employment and may
provide for salary, salary adjustments, fringe benefits, severance provisions
and payment, and other remuneration and benefits of office.
   (D)   Compensation. The City Clerk shall receive compensation in such amount
and manner, as the Council shall affix from time to time by ordinance or
resolution and by agreement.
   (E)   Statutory duties. The City Clerk’s duties are prescribed by ILCS Ch.
65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-90 as these state statutes may be amended from time to
time, except as otherwise provided within this code, consistent with the law.
      (1)   The Municipal Clerk shall keep the corporate seal, to be provided
by the corporate authorities, and all papers belonging to the municipality the
custody and control of which are not given to other officers.
      (2)   The Clerk shall attend all meetings of the corporate authorities
and keep a full record of their proceedings in the journal. The record of those
proceedings shall be made available for public inspection within seven days
after being approved or accepted by the corporate authorities as the official
minutes of their proceedings.
      (3)   The Municipal Clerk shall have other duties prescribed by the
corporate authorities.
      (4)   Copies of all papers duly filed in the Clerk’s office and
transcripts from the journals and other records and files of the Clerk’s
office, certified by the Clerk under the corporate seal, shall be evidence in
all courts in like manner as if the originals were produced.
   (F)   Other duties of the City Clerk. Other prescribed duties of the City
Clerk and the departmental staff include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Directs and oversees preparation and distribution of the City
Council meeting agendas; ensures compliance with legal requirements regarding
official postings, public notices and advertising.
      (2)   Develops, implements and manages the records management system and
responds to citizen inquiries.
      (3)   Processes all requests for access to city records in compliance
with state and federal freedom of information laws.
      (4)   Serves as a local registrar for the State of Illinois Office of
Vital Records for Coles County for birth and death certificates.
      (5)   Administers the municipality’s employment policies and procedures
as prescribed by personnel ordinances, employee handbooks and collective
bargaining agreements. The Clerk manages document preparation and retention
pertaining to job descriptions, employee classification and compensation,
recruitment, selection, performance appraisal, discipline, grievances and
termination, as delegated by the City Manager.
      (6)   Facilitates organization wide training to assure employer
compliance with state and federal equal employment opportunity, affirmative
action and discrimination laws, as delegated by the City Manager.
      (7)   Administrates the municipality’s risk management program including
property, casualty, auto, inland marine, law enforcement liability, public
officials liability, employment practices liability, workers compensation,
medical, dental, life and disability insurance, as delegated by the City
Manager.
      (8)   Serves on the safety committee. The Safety Committee consists of
the City Manager, as Committee Chair and representatives of each department of
the municipality. It meets on a quarterly basis for the purpose of identifying
and correcting unsafe or unhealthy working conditions.
         (a)   The Safety Committee reviews and approves written policies and
procedures for each of the written programs required by state and federal
occupational health and safety regulations.
         (b)   The Safety Committee conducts safety audits; reviews accident
reports, formulates accident prevention recommendations and otherwise critiques
the city’s safety and risk management program.
         (c)   The Safety Committee makes personal inspections, participates in
government inspections and investigates complaints concerning allegations of
unsafe or unhealthy conditions.
         (d)   The Safety Committee promotes education programs, which will
motivate adoption of safe working habits.
      (9)   Issues licenses in accordance with state statutes and the
ordinances of the municipality and keeps a record in a suitable book of each
license granted, to whom granted, for what purpose, for what length of time
granted, the location of the place of business for which the license was
obtained and the amount of the license fee paid.
      (10)   Serves as the authorized agent of the municipality for
administration of the Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund.
      (11)   Serves as a member of the Board of Trustees for the Firemen’s
Pension Fund and maintains the accounting system for the Firemen’s Funds.
      (12)   Records payments received on the Economic Development Revolving
Loan Fund.
      (13)   Manages billings to commercial property owners outside the city
limits for stand-by fire protection contracts.
      (14)   Serves as the administrator of the city’s 457 and 125 plans.
      (15)   Directs rental of the Burgess-Osborne Auditorium building.
(Ord. 2003-5157, passed 2-4-2003; Am. Ord. 2005-5202, passed 5-3-2005; Am. Ord.
2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
OTHER OFFICIALS
§ 31.35 DEPUTY CITY CLERK.
   The office of Deputy Clerk is created and established. In conformity with
ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-30-10, the City Clerk is authorized to appoint one
Deputy Clerk subject to confirmation by the Council. Other employees of the
City Clerk's office shall be known and designated as clerks.
('68 Code, § 2.23) (Ord. 3925, passed - - )
§ 31.36 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The City Manager shall appoint a City Attorney. The term of office of
the City Attorney shall be coterminous with the term of the Mayor. The person
appointed by the City Manager to the position of City Attorney shall be
nominated solely on the basis of training, qualifications and experience. The
City Attorney shall have a Juris Doctor degree and be a licensed attorney under
the laws of the State of Illinois, authorized to practice in the Illinois
Circuit and Appellate Courts and the Federal District Court for the Central
District of Illinois. The City Attorney shall be a member in good standing with
the Illinois State Bar Association. The City Council may enter into an
agreement with the City Attorney that prescribes legal services to be
performed, the compensation for such services and residency requirements
equivalent to requirements that apply to employees of the municipality.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the City Attorney to prosecute or defend in
behalf of the city (when the services of an attorney are necessary) in all
cases in which the interest of the city or the official acts of any officer or
agent of the city are involved, except in local improvement matters. He shall
pass upon all fee bills of officers and courts and the liability of the city
therefor. He shall attend all City Council meetings, and, when required, advise
the Council, or any city officers, in relation to all matters of law arising,
in which the interests of said city are in question. He shall make reports
concerning any suits as to which the city may be a party, whenever directed to
do so by the Council.
   (C)   The City Attorney shall prepare and draft ordinances. He shall furnish
opinions, orally or written, as requested by the Council, or any officer, board
or department of the city government, on any legal question concerning the
rights and liabilities of the city. He shall advise the officials of the city
with reference to their duty. He shall draw contracts, bonds, or instruments in
writing, in behalf of the city, or examine and approve the same when required
by the Council, the Mayor, or the City Manager, so to do.
   (D)   It shall be his duty when his services are necessary, to prosecute any
suit brought in the name of the city for the recovery of any penalty, or fine,
for the violation of any of the laws or ordinances of the city. He shall cause
execution to issue upon all judgments recovered in favor of the city, and shall
direct the Chief of Police to attend to their prompt collection. The City
Manager shall be the regular contact for the City Attorney and he or she shall
report to the Council and Mayor, all cases in which he shall deem it expedient
to take an appeal or writ of error on behalf of the city, and the Mayor, or
City Manager as authorized, shall enter into such bonds, or other obligations
as required, on the part of the city, under the corporation seal, and the
sureties on said bond shall be indemnified by the city from all loss and
damage. The City Clerk shall deliver to the City Attorney any bond or other
paper necessary to be used in any suit or other proceeding, taking his receipt
for same.
   (E)   The City Attorney may in case of temporary absence, or otherwise,
being unable to attend to the duties of his office, with the consent of the
Mayor, and at his own expense, appoint some competent attorney to act in his
place. The Council may authorize the retaining of assistant counsel, when
deemed expedient.
   (F)   The City Attorney shall have nothing to do with local improvement
matters, and his duties shall not cover anything at all in connection with
proceedings under the Local Improvement Act, either in the preparation of
ordinances, or in connection with any of the steps necessary to be taken in
connection with local improvement proceedings and in carrying the same to final
completion, nor shall he appear in any court proceedings in connection with
proceedings under the Local Improvement Act. Nothing herein shall be construed
to prohibit his acceptance of special employment in local improvement matters.
   (G)   The City Attorney shall be paid such compensation as shall be fixed by
ordinance.
(‘68 Code, § 2.26) (Am. Ord. 2003-5161-A, passed 6-3-2003; Am. Ord. 2025-5492,
passed 5-6-2025)
§ 31.37 CITY ENGINEER.
   (A)   The City Council may from time to time as needed, authorize the
employment of a competent civil engineer or engineers to do the general
engineering work of the city, exclusive of engineering work to be performed in
connection with any local or public improvement instituted under the Local
Improvement Act of the state. The City Engineer shall be paid such compensation
as shall be fixed by the Council. The City Manager shall be responsible for the
selection and employment of such City Engineer or Engineers.
   (B)   (1)   The City Engineer shall prepare and submit plans, estimates and
specifications for such work as the City Manager may direct. He shall supervise
the construction of all public work for which he is employed and see that it is
properly executed; and if the contractor fails or refuses to execute the work
in accordance with his contract, the Engineer shall suspend the work and report
the facts to the City Manager.
      (2)   He shall, when required, receive, inspect and measure all material
to be used in any public work of the city, and if necessary, shall keep an
accurate account of the quantity and quality of the same, the cost thereof,
from whom received and for what purpose used, or to be used; he shall examine
all bills for material so received by him or in connection with his department,
and, if found correct, shall certify same to the Council for allowance.
      (3)   He shall give or mark the grade of any street or alley, where
established, at the request of any person desiring to erect any building or
enclosure or to lay any sidewalk thereon. He shall make surveys within and for
the city that he may be called upon to make by the City Manager or Board of
Local Improvements, and shall employ the necessary chairpeople and such other
assistants as the City Manager or Council may authorize.
      (4)   All records, plans, specifications, and maps prepared or kept by
him in connection with the foregoing services shall be the property of the
city.
(‘68 Code, § 2.27) (Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 31.38 COORDINATOR OF FEDERAL AND STATE AID.
   (A)   There is hereby created the position of Coordinator of Federal and
State Aid of the city, who shall hold office until replaced and the successor
or successors appointed and qualified.
   (B)   The Coordinator of Federal and State Aid shall be appointed by the
Mayor by and with the consent of the City Council.
   (C)   The compensation of the Coordinator of Federal and State Aid shall be
as established by ordinance.
   (D)   The duties of the Coordinator of Federal and State Aid shall be, but
are not limited to the following:
      (1)   He shall be responsible for all professional and administrative
duties of the office of the Coordinator of Federal and State Aid.
      (2)   He shall be responsible for the preparation of all applications
which will qualify the city for participation in programs of the federal and
state governments.
      (3)   He shall be an ex officio member and consultant to the City
Planning Commission and review all proposed subdivision plats and make
recommendations to said commission.
      (4)   He shall be an ex officio member and consultant to the City Zoning
Board of Appeals on all zoning matters and make recommendations to said Board.
      (5)   He shall be the city coordinator on all matters pertaining to
industrial and economic development.
      (6)   He shall be in charge of all special studies including, but not
limited to, land use studies, neighborhood analysis studies, economic base
structure studies and studies in connection with the capital improvements
program of the city.
('68 Code, § 2.50) (Ord. 70-4197, passed - - )
CHAPTER 32: CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Term of office
   
32.02   Meetings
   
32.03   Rules of order
   
32.04   Record of ordinances
   
32.05   Powers, functions and duties
   
32.06   Electronic attendance at meetings
Council Committees
   
32.15   Environmental Committee
   
32.16   Insurance Study Committee
§ 32.01 TERM OF OFFICE.
   Newly elected members of the City Council shall be inaugurated and their
terms of office of both the Mayor and Councilmembers shall commence at the
first regular or special meeting in the month of May following the general
election and shall continue until their respective successors are so
inaugurated.
(Ord. 89-4609, passed 5-1-1989; Am. Ord. 2001-5061, passed 5-1-2001)
§ 32.02 MEETINGS.
   (A)   All regular meetings of the City Council shall be held on the first
and third Tuesday of each month. All regular meetings of the City Council shall
convene at 6:30 p.m.
   (B)   Special meetings of the Council may be called as provided by law. The
City Clerk shall issue calls for special meetings and the Chief of Police shall
cause to be delivered a copy of such notice to each member of the Council, or
if not found, leave a copy at his residence and return the call with his
endorsement of service thereon to the Clerk. Such call shall state the time and
place and object of the meeting.
No other business than that stated in the call shall be transacted at such
meeting.
('68 Code, § 2.10) (Ord. 3658, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 85-4485, passed 7-16-1985;
Am. Ord. 87-4542, passed 6-16-1987; Am. Ord. 2001-5051, passed 2-20-2001; Am.
Ord. 2002-5098, passed 1-15-2002; Am. Ord. 2009-5266, passed 1-6-2009)
§ 32.03 RULES OF ORDER.
   At a City Council meeting:
   (A)   The Mayor shall take the chair at the appointed hour and call to
order, and at the instance of any two members present compel the attendance of
absent members. Should the Mayor fail to appear for a quarter hour thereafter,
the City Clerk shall call the meeting to order and the Council shall appoint
one of its members to act as Chairperson and Mayor pro tem, during such absence
of the Mayor.
   (B)   (1)   The order of business at all regular meetings shall be as
follows:
         (a)   Pledge of Allegiance.
         (b)   Roll call.
         (c)   Consent agenda. Items listed on the consent agenda are
considered to be routine in nature and will be enacted by one motion. Prior to
asking for a motion to approve the consent agenda, the Mayor will ask if anyone
desires to remove an item from the consent agenda for public discussion. No
separate discussion of these items will occur unless a Council member requests
the item to be removed from the consent agenda. If an item is removed from the
consent agenda, it will be considered elsewhere on the meeting agenda.
         (d)   Minutes of previous meetings.
         (e)   Report of the City Manager.
         (f)   Approval of the payroll and bills submitted since the last
Council meeting.
         (g)   Public presentations, petitions and communications. This portion
of the City Council meeting is reserved for persons who desire to address the
Council. The Illinois Open Meetings Act mandates that the City Council may not
take action on comments received on matters that have not been identified on
this agenda, but the Council may direct staff to address the topic or refer the
matter for action on the agenda for another meeting.
         (h)   Unfinished business.
         (i)   New business.
         (j)   Miscellaneous business.
         (k)   Recess to closed session. The agenda must cite the specific
statutory exception to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, being ILCS Ch. 5, Act
120, § 2(c), that allows discussion of topics in closed session.
         (l)   Reconvene from closed session; consider motions or notice of
motions pertaining to topics discussed in closed session, if noticed in the
agenda.
         (m)   Adjourn.
      (2)   This order of business may be changed during any meeting as may be
convenient by a vote of a majority of all the members elected.
   (C)   The Mayor shall preserve order and decorum and shall decide all
questions of order, subject to an appeal to the Council. A majority of all the
members elected shall carry the appeal, unless the subject matter sought to be
considered requires a large vote for its adoption, in which case a like vote
shall be necessary to overrule the decision of the chair.
   (D)   Any member called to order shall immediately take his seat until the
point of order is decided.
   (E)   Appeals shall be decided without debate, but the chair and the
appealing member may each speak once to explain.
   (F)   On appeal the question shall be in the following form, “Shall the
decision of the chair be sustained?”
   (G)   Any member desiring to speak on any question (or proposing a motion)
shall rise and address the chair, but shall not proceed until recognized by the
chair. He shall not speak longer than ten minutes, or more than once, except by
general consent. The mover may, however, speak to close debate for not to
exceed five minutes.
   (H)   Any member indulging in personalities, reflections injurious to any
member of the Council or not speaking in order, or smoking, shall be called to
order.
   (I)   All petitions and other communications shall be in writing.
   (J)   While any member has the floor and is speaking no other member shall
engage in conversation, or pass between him and the chair or otherwise
interrupt the speaker.
   (K)   When a question is stated every member present shall vote, unless
excused by the Council, or unless pecuniarily or personally, directly or
indirectly, interested in the result of the vote, in which case he shall not
vote.
   (L)   No motion shall be entertained unless seconded; when seconded it shall
be stated by the chair, and if he or any other member requires it, reduced to
writing.
   (M)   When a motion or resolution has been so stated it shall be in the
possession of the Council, but it may by consent of the Council be withdrawn at
any time before it is acted upon.
   (N)   If a question contains more than one distinct proposition, it may be
divided by the chair on the request of any member.
   (O)   When a blank is to be filled or the motion is to strike out and
insert, and different sums or times are proposed, the question shall first be
put upon the largest sum or the longest time.
   (P)   When a question is under debate no motion shall be entertained unless
for the previous question, to refer, to postpone, to adjourn to a certain day,
to lay on the table, to amend, or to adjourn the Council.
   (Q)   A motion for the “previous question,” or to lay on the table, until
decided, preclude all amendment and all debate or to adjourn to a certain day,
shall, until decided, preclude all amendment to the main question.
   (R)   The previous question shall be put as follows: “Shall the main
question be now put?”
   (S)   A motion to adjourn (without conditions or time) shall always be in
order and decided without debate.
   (T)   The name of a member offering a motion, ordinance, resolution or other
proposition, shall be entered with it upon the journal.
   (U)   The following city officers shall attend all regular meetings of the
Council unless excused by the Mayor: City Clerk, City Attorney, Treasurer,
Chief of Police, Fire Chief, Community Development and Planning Director,
Tourism Director, City Engineer and Public Works Director.
   (V)   No vote of the Council shall be reconsidered or rescinded at any
meeting of the Council, unless at such meeting there be present as many members
as were present when such vote was taken.
   (W)   All ordinances, resolutions or other propositions or motions in
writing, which are finally disposed of unfavorably shall, unless returned to
the introducer at his request, be destroyed by the Clerk after 30 days.
   (X)   All ordinances, resolutions or other motions and propositions in
writing which shall remain on file for more than 90 days without any action
being taken thereon shall be deemed abandoned, and shall be destroyed by the
Clerk.
   (Y)   All ordinances or resolutions for the consideration of the Council
shall be filed with the City Clerk at least 72 hours before the meeting at
which they are to be presented and considered, and the Clerk shall furnish
copies thereof to each member of the Council and the City Attorney 48 hours
copies thereof to each member of the Council and the City Attorney 48 hours
before the meeting at which same are to be considered, unless waived by a vote
of at least four members of the Council.
   (Z)   On all questions of order not herein specially provided for, Roberts
Rules of Order for Parliamentary Practice is adopted and made the law governing
the deliberations of the Council.
(‘68 Code, § 2.11) (Ord. 65-839, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2005-5204, passed 6-21-
2005; Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 32.04 RECORD OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed by the City Council shall thereupon be recorded
at length by the Clerk in permanent record books, provided that typewritten or
printed certified copies of the originals may be pasted in such records,
provided with ample stubs running through them lengthwise. Ordinances shall be
divided into three classes, and books provided accordingly:
      (1)   General ordinances, in which those pertaining to subject embraced
in this general ordinance revision are covered.
      (2)   Special ordinances, relating to special subjects, including
appropriations and tax levy, and not comprised in the other two.
      (3)   Improvement ordinances, relating to improvements of every kind and
nature, whether by general or special taxes or special assessments.
   (B)   Upon the back of each ordinance a number shall be placed running
consecutively under the above general heads (separate thereunder). Such records
shall be provided with a numerical and alphabetical index combined, and
ordinances indexed accordingly. The City Clerk shall also endorse on every
ordinance the date of filing, when read first and referred, when reported and
read second time, and any other definite action had and its nature, with pages
of the journal of the Council. A similar entry shall be made on the record copy
thereof, and where publication is legally or by such ordinance required a
certified copy of publication, with publishers' affidavit attached to it.
('68 Code, § 2.12)
§ 32.05 POWERS, FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Council has and shall exercise all legislative powers,
functions and duties conferred upon the city or its officers.
      (1)   It shall make all orders for the making or construction of any
improvements, bridges or buildings. It shall levy all taxes, apportion and
appropriate all funds, and audit and allow all bills, accounts, payrolls, and
claims, and order payment thereof. It shall make or authorize the making of all
contracts, and no contract shall bind or be obligatory upon the city unless
either made by ordinance or resolution adopted by the Council or reduced to
writing and approved by the Council, or expressly authorized by ordinance or
resolution adopted by the Council.
      (2)   The Council may, by ordinance or resolution, assign to an officer
or employee, duties in respect to the business of any other city departments,
offices or employment, and such service shall be rendered without additional
compensation.
   (B)   The Council shall adopt rules governing its order of business and
prescribe the manner in which legislation shall be considered, which rules
shall not be inconsistent with the law and ordinance.
   (C)   Classification of employees.
      (1)   Probationary employees. Except for police officers and
firefighters, an employee is a probationary employee for his or her first six
months of employment unless otherwise stated in a collective bargaining
agreement. A police officer or firefighter is a probationary employee for his
or her first 12 months of employment. The City Manager may discharge the
employee with or without cause during this probationary period.
      (2)   Regular full-time employees. A person working the regularly
scheduled number of hours is considered a regular full-time employee. Temporary
employees are not considered regular full-time employees.
      (3)   Regular part-time employees. A person working less than the
regularly scheduled number of hours is considered a regular part-time employee.
      (4)   Temporary employees. A person expected to be employed for a period
of less than six consecutive months or less than 1,000 hours in the next 12-
month period is considered a temporary employee. Temporary employees may work
the regularly scheduled number of hours (full-time) or less than the regularly
scheduled number of hours (part-time).
      (5)   Exempt employees. A person appointed to a management, supervisory
or confidential position as defined by the Fair Labor Standards Act and/or the
Illinois Labor Relations Board.
      (6)   Non-exempt employees. A person appointed to a position that is not
an exempt position.
   (D)   Appointment authority. Except as otherwise provided by law, the City
Manager shall determine the need for and hire new probationary, regular full-
time, regular part-time, exempt and non-exempt employees of the municipality.
If such authority is delegated by the City Manager, temporary employees may be
appointed by departmental directors.
(Ord. 89-4608, passed 5-1-1989; Am. Ord. 2001- 5083, passed 9-18-2001; Am. Ord.
2005-5199, passed 2-1-2005; Am. Ord. 2005-5207, passed 9-6-2005; Am. Ord. 2012-
5358, passed 8-7-2012; Am. Ord. 2020-5435, passed 12-15-2020; Am. Ord. 2025-
5492, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 32.06 ELECTRONIC ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS.
   The city hereby adopts the electronic attendance at meetings rules that
permit a member of the public body to attend any meeting of a public body as
defined in the Open Meetings Act via electronic means.
   (A)   Rules statement. It is the decision of the city that any member of the
city may attend any open or closed meeting of the city via electronic means
(such as by telephone, video or internet connection) provided that such
attendance is in compliance with these rules and any applicable laws.
   (B)   Prerequisites. A member of the city may attend a meeting
electronically if the member meets the following conditions: A quorum is
physically present throughout the meeting; and, a majority of the members
present votes to approve the electronic attendance at the meeting.
      (1)   The member should notify the Clerk at least one hour before the
meeting, unless impractical, so that necessary communications equipment can be
arranged. Inability to make the necessary technical arrangements will result in
denial of a request for electronic attendance.
      (2)   The member must assert one of the following three reasons why he or
she is unable to physically attend the meeting:
         (a)   The member cannot attend because of personal illness or
disability;
         (b)   The member cannot attend because of employment purposes or the
business of the city; or
         (c)   The member cannot attend because of a family or other emergency.
      (3)   The Clerk, after receiving the electronic attendance request, shall
inform the City Council of the request for electronic attendance.
   (C)   Voting procedures. After a roll call establishing that a quorum is
physically present, the presiding officer shall call for a motion that a member
may be permitted to attend the meeting electronically after specifying the
reason entitling the absent member to attend electronically. The motion must be
approved by a vote of a majority of the members present of the City Council.
   (D)   Adequate equipment required. The member participating electronically
and other members of the City Council must be able to communicate effectively,
and members of the audience must be able to hear all communications at the
meeting site. Before allowing electronic attendance at any meeting, the City
Council shall provide equipment adequate to accomplish this objective at the
meeting site.
   (E)   Minutes. Any member attending electronically shall be considered an
off-site attendee and counted as present electronically for that meeting. The
meeting minutes shall also reflect and state specifically whether each member
is physically present or present by electronic means.
   (F)   Rights of remote member. A member permitted to attend electronically
will be able to express his or her comments during the meeting and participate
in the same capacity as those members physically present, subject to all
general meeting guidelines and procedures previously adopted and adhered to.
The member attending electronically shall be heard, considered, and counted as
to any vote taken. Accordingly, the name of any member attending electronically
shall be called during any vote taken, and his or her vote counted and recorded
by the Clerk and placed in the minutes for the corresponding meeting. A member
attending electronically may leave a meeting and return as in the case of any
member, provided the member attending electronically shall announce his or her
leaving and returning.
   (G)   Committees, boards and commissions. These rules shall apply to all
committees, boards and commissions established by authority of the City
Council.
(Ord. 2008-5248, passed 1-15-2008)
COUNCIL COMMITTEES
§ 32.15 ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITTEE.
   There is hereby created a City of Mattoon Environmental Committee. The
Beautification and Recycling Committee is hereby dissolved.
(Res. 98-2089, passed 5-19-1998)
§ 32.16 INSURANCE STUDY COMMITTEE.
   (A)   An Insurance Study Committee is hereby appointed with each member to
serve until replaced by a subsequent appointee.
   (B)   The Committee shall consist of nine members, with the membership
electing a chairperson and a secretary at its first meeting subsequent to the
adoption of this section.
   (C)   The Committee shall adopt its own rules of procedure, and, in the
absence of such rules of procedure, shall follow “Robert’s Rules of Order.”
   (D)   The Committee is a public body and shall comply with the Illinois Open
Meetings Act by giving public notice of its meetings.
   (E)   The Committee shall receive its assignments from the City Council and
the City Manager.
   (F)   The Committee shall make recommendations to the City Council and the
City Manager in its advisory capacity with respect to insurance coverages
purchased by the city in all forms and all coverages.
(Ord. 2001-5086, passed 9-18-2001; Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
CHAPTER 33: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
33.001   Distribution of powers
   
33.002   Appointment of assistants and employees
   
33.003   City office hours
Mayor and City Manager
   
33.015   Powers and duties of Mayor and City Manager
Finance
   
33.025   Powers and duties of the Finance Director
Public Works
   
33.035   Powers and duties of the Public Works Director
Parks and Recreation
   
33.045   Powers and duties of the Parks and Recreation Director
Fire
   
33.055   Powers and duties of the Fire Chief
City Arts Council
   
33.065   Arts Council regulations
Public Works Advisory Board
   
33.075   Establishment
   
33.076   Appointment
   
33.077   Qualifications
   
33.078   Compensation
   
33.079   Officers
   
33.080   Rules of procedure
   
33.081   Time of meetings; quorum
   
33.082   Duties and responsibilities
   
33.083   Recommendations
Community Planning and Zoning Commission
   
33.095   Membership
Emergency Management
   
33.130   Emergency management
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.001 DISTRIBUTION OF POWERS.
   The executive and administrative powers, authority and duties in the city
are generally vested in the City Manager.
(Ord. 2001-5083, passed 9-18-2001; Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 33.002 APPOINTMENT OF ASSISTANTS AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided by law or ordinance, the City Manager
shall make and enforce such rules and regulations adopted by the Council as may
be necessary to secure efficient conduct of the service of the city departments
and of the business in charge thereof.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by statute, the ordinances of the city,
applicable labor agreements, and the applicable personnel codes, the City
Manager is vested with the right, power and authority to approve and confirm
all appointments and has the power to discharge at any time the heads of all
departments, as well as any and all employees within such departments.
   (C)   The City Manager shall fill a vacancy of a department head as soon as
possible if not before the vacancy exists.
(Ord. 2001-5083, passed 9-18-2001; Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 33.003 CITY OFFICE HOURS.
   (A)   The offices of the city, namely the offices of the Finance Department
and the City Clerk, will remain open daily except Saturdays and Sundays from 8:
00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. All offices and departments of the city except the Fire
and Police Departments will be closed on the following days to observe the
following legal holidays: New Year’s Day, Martin Luther King Day, President’s
Day, Good Friday, Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day, Veteran’s Day,
Thanksgiving Day, day after Thanksgiving, Christmas Eve Day and Christmas Day.
   (B)   If a holiday falls on a Saturday, the preceding Friday shall be
observed as the holiday. If a holiday falls on a Sunday, the following Monday
shall be observed as the holiday.
(‘68 Code, § 2.54) (Res. 1229, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2012-5358, passed 8-7-
2012)
MAYOR AND CITY MANAGER
§ 33.015 POWERS AND DUTIES OF MAYOR AND CITY MANAGER.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be the president of the Council and preside at its
meetings. The City Manager shall supervise all departments and report to the
Council for its action all matters requiring Council attention in any
department. The City Manager shall be the chief executive officer, responsible
for the day-to-day operations and implementing the policies set by the Mayor
and City Council. The City Manager shall have and exercise all the powers and
perform all the duties provided or prescribed by law or the ordinances of the
city, not in conflict with the provisions of this chapter. The Mayor or City
Manager shall sign all contracts on behalf of the city. The City Manager shall
have charge of and cause to be prepared and published all statements and
reports required by law or ordinance or by resolution of the Council.
   (B)   The City Manager shall grant all licenses or permits, unless otherwise
provided by law or ordinance. The City Manager shall have supervision of all
purchases of all materials, apparatus and supplies.
   (C)   The City Manager shall have general supervision and control of the
Police Department and all officers and members thereof. The City Manager shall
see that all police officers are prompt and faithful in the discharge of their
respective duties and from time to time shall take such measures as he or she
may deem expedient for the preservation of peace and good order and the
enforcement of the laws and ordinances of the city.
   (D)   The City Manager shall have general supervision and control of the
Community Development and Planning Department and its land use regulatory
functions, including planning, zoning and building code enforcement. The City
Manager shall provide general supervision and control of the office of the City
Clerk and all business regulatory functions of the municipality. The Public
Library trustees shall be appointed by the Mayor in the manner and form
prescribed by statute.
   (E)   The City Manager appoints the City Attorney and the City Council
appoints the Treasurer and City Clerk. Except when another appointment
authority is prescribed by statute or ordinance, the Mayor appoints members of
boards, commissions and advisory committees of the municipality with the advice
and consent of the Council. The Mayor may appoint another commissioner or
official to represent the city’s interest in organizations of which the city is
a member, subject to advice and consent of the Council. The Mayor retains the
appointment power over membership on certain boards and commissions, subject to
advice and consent of the Council. Thus, the Mayor appoints, with the approval
of the Council, the members of the Board of Local Improvements, the Zoning
Board of Appeals, and the Planning Commission.
   (F)   The City Manager, or his or her designee, shall have charge and
supervision of Arts Council.
   (G)   The City Manager shall have charge of and supervision over the Tourism
Department, including operations of the Hotel/Motel Tax Fund and Festival
Management Fund.
   (H)   When not otherwise provided for by law or in this code, the City
Manager shall have the authority to appoint or designate such department heads,
superintendents, directors as may be established by the City Council or this
code, or to delegate such authority to appropriate administrative personnel.
   (I)   Local state of emergency.
      (1)   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in
this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this division, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
         CURFEW. A prohibition against any person walking, running, loitering,
standing or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public property or vacant
premises within the corporate limits of the city except officials of any
governmental unit and persons officially designated to duty with reference to
said civil emergency.
         EMERGENCY. (a) A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of
actual force or violence or any threat to use force if accompanied by immediate
power to execute by three or more persons acting together without authority of
law; or (b) Any natural disaster, epidemic, or manmade calamity, including
outbreak of disease, flood, conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or
explosion, or eminent threat of any of those events within the corporate limits
of the city, resulting in or threatening the death or injury of persons or the
destruction of property to such an extent that extraordinary measures must be
taken to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
      (2)   Declaration. Whenever an emergency, as defined in division (I)(1)
of this section exists, the Mayor is authorized to declare the existence of a
local state of emergency by means of a written declaration of the Mayor, under
oath, setting forth the facts which constitute the emergency, describing the
nature of the emergency and declaring that a local state of emergency exists in
accordance with the definitions set forth in this section. This declaration
must be filed with the Municipal Clerk as soon as practicable after issuance.
      (3)   Curfew authorized. After proclamation of a local state of emergency
by the Mayor, he or she may order a general curfew applicable to such
geographical areas of the city or to the city as a whole, as he or she deems
reasonable and advisable, and applicable during such hours of the day or night
as he or she deems necessary in the interest of the public safety and welfare.
      (4)   Orders authorized. After the proclamation of a local state of
emergency, the Mayor may also, in the interest of public safety and welfare,
and to address this issues caused threatened by the emergency, make take any or
all of the following actions by executive order during the state of emergency:
         (a)   All actions reasonably necessary to respond to the emergency;
         (b)   Approve previously appropriated expenditures of the city for the
purpose of continuing the operations of the municipality;
         (c)   In the event the local state of emergency extends beyond the
current fiscal year and a new budget has not been approved, Mayor shall be
authorized to approve new spending by the city during the existence of the
local state of emergency.
         (d)   Order the closing of all retail liquor stores, including taverns
and private clubs or portions thereof wherein the consumption of intoxicating
liquor and beer is permitted;
         (e)   Order the discontinuance of the sale of alcoholic liquor by any
wholesaler or retailer;
         (f)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle;
         (g)   Order restrictions on ingress or egress to parts of the city to
limit the occupancy of any premises;
         (h)   To make provisions for the availability and use of temporary
emergency housing;
         (i)   Temporarily postpone, all meetings of the City Council, and any
city committee, commission, board authority, or other city body as deemed
appropriate by the Mayor;
         (j)   Temporarily close any and all streets, alleys, sidewalks, bike
paths, public parks or public ways;
         (k)   Approve application for local, state, or federal assistance;
         (l)   Establish and control routes of transportation, ingress and
egress;
         (m)   To the extent not superseded by authorities with superior
jurisdiction, control ingress and egress from any designated disaster or
emergency area or home, building or structures located therein;
         (n)   Accept services, gifts, grants loans, equipment, supplies, and /
or materials whether from private, nonprofit, or governmental sources;
         (o)   Close or cancel the use of any municipally owned or operated
building or public facility; or
         (p)   Issue any and all such other orders or undertake such other
functions and activities as the Mayor reasonably believes is required to
protect the health, safety, and welfare of persons or property within the city
or otherwise preserve the public peace or abate, clean up, or mitigate the
effects of any emergency or disaster.
      (5)   Duration. The declaration herein authorized shall be effective for
a period of up to 21 days or until the adjournment of the next regular or
special meeting of the City Council, whichever comes first, unless sooner
terminated by a proclamation of the Mayor, or, his or her interim emergency
successor, indicating that the civil emergency no longer exists. The Mayor or
his or her interim emergency successor, shall have the power to re-proclaim the
existence of an emergency at the end of each 21-day period during the time said
emergency exists.
      (6)   Notice. Upon issuing the proclamation herein authorized, the
Municipal Clerk shall notify the news media situated within the city, and shall
cause at least four copies of the proclamation declaring the existence of the
emergency and any curfew to be posted at the following places within the city:
the city hall, the police station and in the area of any curfew.
      (7)   Violations. Any person violating the provisions of this section or
executive orders issued pursuant hereto shall be guilty of an offense against
the city and shall be punished as provided by §
10.99.
      (8)   Effect on other ordinances. Nothing contained in this section shall
be construed to impair the powers contained in this code, giving powers to the
police and fire departments, but shall be construed together with existing
ordinances now in effect for the safety and welfare of the citizens of the
city.
(Ord. 2001-5083, passed 9-18-2001; Am. Ord. 2005-5202, passed 5-3-2005; Am.
Ord. 2009-5277, passed 5-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2020-5430, passed 3- 23-2020; Am.
Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
Cross-reference:
   Arts Council regulations, see §
33.065
FINANCE
§ 33.025 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE FINANCE DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Finance Director shall be appointed by the City Manager. The
Finance Director shall have charge of and supervision over all accounts and
records of the city, and of all officers, boards or departments required to
keep or make accounts, records or reports. Said Finance Director shall inspect
or cause to be inspected all records or accounts required to be kept in any of
the offices or departments of the city and shall cause proper accounts and
records to be kept and proper reports to be made. The Finance Director shall
audit or cause to be audited at frequent intervals the accounts of every
officer or employee who does or may receive or disburse money. The Finance
Director shall examine or cause to be examined and report to the Council upon
all bills, accounts, payrolls and claims before they are acted upon or allowed,
unless otherwise provided by law.
   (B)   The Finance Director shall procure, from all persons or corporations
operating public service utilities on, in or about the city, and cause to be
placed on file, such reports as they are by law or ordinance or otherwise
required to make to the city, or any of its officers, and shall procure copies
of such reports as are made to the state or any public office or department,
and shall cause same to be placed on file, and shall collect, or cause to be
collected, all license fees, franchise taxes, rentals or other monies which may
be due or become due to the city; the Finance Director shall report to the
Council any failure to make reports or pay money due to the city, which such
recommendations in relation thereto as the Finance Director may deem proper.
The Finance Director shall, whenever the city has authority so to do, cause to
be examined the accounts and records of any person or corporation operating a
public service utility in the city, and shall report to the Council any refusal
to permit such examination.
   (C)   The Finance Director, with approval of the Council, shall have control
and supervision over all matters of bonds and insurance purchased or to be
purchased, including any renewals or re-issuance thereof, in all departments of
the city with the advice and consent of the Council.
   (D)   The Finance Director shall have charge of all accounts, collections
and disbursements of all departments and all bills for city salaries, and all
demands coming from the judicial branch of the city government, and shall
approve same if just and correct.
   (E)   The City Manager, or his or her designee, shall have charge of city
beautification and the environmental committee.
   (F)   The Finance Director shall, upon application, be entitled to such
assistance from other departments as may be necessary for any purpose
pertaining to his or her department, and the Finance Director shall have
control and supervision over all department employees or officers as may be
authorized or delegated by the City Manager to the Finance Director.
(Ord. 2001-5083, passed 9-18-2001; Am. Ord. 2005-5202, passed 5-3-2005; Am.
Ord. 2009-5277, passed 5-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
PUBLIC WORKS
§ 33.035 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Public Works Director shall have authority over and charge of the
cleaning, sprinkling and repair of streets, alleys, and public places, except
as otherwise provided herein, and the entire erection, making and
reconstruction of all street improvements, paving, curbing, sidewalks, bridges,
viaducts, subways and all public improvements and the repair thereof, including
the improvement and repair of water and sewer mains, unless otherwise provided
by law or by ordinance.
   (B)   The Public Works Director shall have charge of and supervision of all
right-of-way owned by the city together with the care and maintenance of trees,
other landscape and street furniture within the right-of-way.
   (C)   The Public Works Director shall approve the estimates, which may be
made from time to time, of the cost of such work, as the same progresses, and
shall recommend to the Council the acceptance of the work done or improvement
made, when completed according to contract, and perform such other duties as
may be required by ordinance or resolution.
   (D)   The Public Works Director shall have charge of, and have the control,
management and direction of lighting of streets, alleys, parking lots, public
grounds, bridges, viaducts, subways and buildings not otherwise assigned by law
and this chapter. The Public Works Director shall have charge of, control and
management of the connection of all electric wiring to and with the wires of
any public utility corporation, or person rendering service under any
franchise, grant or contract; and to issue permits for the same.
   (E)   The Public Works Director shall have charge of the location of the
excavations to be made in paved streets or alleys or other places for the
purpose of repairing, tapping, inspecting or otherwise, but the issuing of
permits for said excavations shall be by the Community Development and Planning
Department, provided the consent of the Street Superintendent is first had and
obtained. The Public Works Director shall have charge of keeping open all catch
basins and of making ordinary repairs thereon.
   (F)   The Public Works Director shall have charge and control of the
inspections made upon matters pertaining to the Public Works Director’s
department and collect for same according to law. The Public Works Director
shall have supervision of the purchasing of all material, apparatus and
supplies to the Public Works Director’s department, and of the offices and
departments assigned thereto. The Public Works Director shall, upon
application, be entitled to such assistance from any other department as may be
necessary for any purpose pertaining to the Public Works Director’s department
and the Public Works Director shall have control and supervision over all
department employees or officers as may be authorized or delegated by the City
Manager to the Public Works Director.
   (G)   The Public Works Director shall have supervision of the purchase of
material and supplies for construction or repair work or for use in the Public
Works Director’s department or the offices and departments assigned thereto,
the Superintendent of Streets and all employees, all sidewalk work, all
officers and employees employed in connection with the work of the department,
are apportioned and assigned to the Public Works Director and shall be under
the supervision and direction of the Public Works Director, as may be
authorized or delegated by the City Manager.
   (H)   The Public Works Director shall have charge of and supervision over
the placement, installation, repair and maintenance of traffic signs and
traffic control lights.
   (I)   The Public Works Director shall have general supervision and control
over sanitation, construction inspection and equipment maintenance functions.
   (J)   The Public Works Director shall have charge of and supervision and
control over the water and sewer treatment plants, the Lake Mattoon and Lake
Paradise water reservoirs, and all officers, employees, as may be authorized or
delegated by the City Manager, and the property, apparatus and equipment used
or capable of being used therewith.
   (K)   The Public Works Director shall have charge of and supervision and
control over all buildings and grounds owned by the city.
(Ord. 2001-5083, passed 9-18-2001; Am. Ord. 2005-5202, passed 5-3-2005; Am.
Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
PARKS AND RECREATION
§ 33.045 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE PARKS AND RECREATION DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Parks and Recreation Director shall have general supervision and
control of all public parks, playgrounds and pleasure grounds within or
belonging to the city, and all animals, birds, livestock, plants, trees and
shrubbery contained therein or kept or used in connection with parks.
   (B)   The Parks and Recreation Director shall have charge of and supervision
over the improvement, maintenance and care of Dodge Grove Cemetery.
(Ord. 2001-5083, passed 9-18-2001; Am. Ord. 2005-5202, passed 5-3-2005; Am.
Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
FIRE
§ 33.055 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall have general supervision and control of the Fire
Department and all fire fighters, officers and employees therein and
supervision over all Fire Stations, property and apparatus used in or by the
Fire Department.
(Ord. 2001-5083, passed 9-18-2001; Am. Ord. 2005-5202, passed 5-3-2005; Am.
Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
CITY ARTS COUNCIL
§ 33.065 ARTS COUNCIL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   Vision. The Mattoon Arts Council envisions a vibrant, creative
community where arts activities are frequent and evident, where members of the
community have opportunities to experience and engage in the arts directly and
where arts activities are appreciated as an asset for the community and
economic development.
      (2)   Mission. The Mattoon Arts Council supports, develops, facilitates
and promotes high-quality, affordable arts programs and events for people of
all ages.
      (3)   Values.
         (a)   Our work must be done in collaboration with others to make the
most of our assets as a small community.
         (b)   We define ART to include the widest possible interpretation of
the language, visual and performing arts.
         (c)   The presence of arts intrinsically enhances a community's
quality of life.
         (d)   We especially value, seek out and support events that offer
opportunities to educate.
         (e)   Engagement in artistic activities stimulates community
creativity and attracts people to a community in ways that have long term
social and economic benefits.
   (B)   Council Board of Directors.
      (1)   General powers. The affairs of the Mattoon Arts Council shall be
managed by its Board of Directors.
      (2)   Membership. Directors of the Mattoon Arts Council are appointed by
the Mayor with confirmation by the City Council from the nominations of the
Mattoon Arts Council Board of Directors. The Board will consist of 11 voting
members, a majority of whom shall be residents of the City. The City Manager
and the Tourism Director will serve as ex officio (non-voting) members of the
Board.
      (3)   Terms. Length of term is two years. The terms of the Board
membership are staggered. Annual appointments by the City Council take place in
September. Directors are limited to three full terms. Past Board Directors may
be re-appointed to an additional term after being off the Board for a minimum
period of one year. Term limits can be waived one time in a special
circumstance by a two-thirds vote of the Board of Directors.
      (4)   Compensation. No Director of the Mattoon Arts Council shall be
compensated for the performance of services for the Council, but may, by
resolution of the Council, be reimbursed for expenses incurred on behalf of the
Council. No part of net earnings or other assets of the Council shall inure to
the benefit of, or be distributable to its members, directors or any private
persons.
      (5)   Responsibilities. Council Board Directors are expected to be active
in the management and activities of the Mattoon Arts Council. Council Directors
are expected to attend a minimum of two-thirds of all meetings, be actively
involved in at least one committee and publicly support the arts and the Arts
Council.
         (a)   The Mattoon Arts Council Board members shall make final
approval, by majority vote, of any expenditures greater than $500 from funds
collected by donations, membership fees and other fundraising activities.
         (b)   Any expenditures greater than $100 but less than $500 shall be
approved by any two of the four sitting Arts Council officers.
         (c)   Any expenditures less than $100 shall be approved by the Tourism
Director or the Arts Coordinator at the Director's discretion.
         (d)   Upon approval of expenditures as set forth herein above, the
Finance Director of the city shall prepare or shall direct the preparation of
checks and distribute said checks for payment in a timely manner.
      (6)   Resignation. Any Council Board Director may resign by submitting a
letter of resignation to the Chairman.
      (7)   Removal. A Director who misses 50% of the meetings or three
consecutive meetings during a one- year period may be removed from the Board by
the Chairman.
      (8)   Vacancies. For any vacancy on the Council Board, the Board Chairman
will make the appointment, with approval by the Board and the City Council. A
Director appointed to fill a vacancy shall serve for the unexpired term of his/
her predecessor.
      (9)   Council advisers. The Chairman may invite members of the community
to sit as Council advisers, with the approval of the Council Board, on such
terms as determined by the Council Board. Advisers will be welcomed to share
knowledge and expertise that may assist Council Board in attaining the Mattoon
Arts Council's objectives. There shall be no fixed term or maximum number of
Council advisers. Council advisors shall not have voting privileges at Board
meetings but may make recommendations to the Council Board.
   (C)   Officers.
      (1)   Officers. The officers of the Mattoon Arts Council shall be
Chairman, Vice-Chairman, Secretary and Treasurer and other such officers as the
Board may direct. No two offices may be held by the same person.
      (2)   Elections and terms of office. The officers shall be elected
annually in October. The officers shall hold an office for a two-year term. The
Board may grant up to two one-year extensions to an officer's term. A Director
may return to an office after one year.
      (3)   Removal. An officer elected or appointed by the Board of Directors
may be removed by a two-thirds vote of the members of the Board of Directors.
      (4)   Vacancies. A vacancy in any office because of death, resignation,
removal, disqualification or otherwise, may be filled by the Board of Directors
for the unexpired portion of the term.
      (5)   Chairman. The Chairman shall preside at all meetings of the Mattoon
Arts Council and shall have general supervision over all business, affairs and
activities of the Mattoon Arts Council. The Chairman shall appoint all standing
committees.
      (6)   Vice Chairman. The Vice Chairman shall preside in the absence of
the Chairman.
      (7)   Secretary. The Secretary shall be responsible for the usual duties
including keeping minutes of all meetings, and other duties, from time to time,
as assigned by the Chairman.
      (8)   Treasurer. The Treasurer shall be responsible for the usual duties
including maintaining all financial accounts and records and presenting a
financial report at each Board meeting, and other duties, from time to time, as
assigned by the Chairman.
   (D)   Meetings.
      (1)   Regular meetings. Meetings shall be held monthly. Time and location
will be determined by the Council Board.
      (2)   Quorum. A quorum shall consist of a simple majority of all
appointed voting Mattoon Arts Council Directors. Routine business shall be
transacted by a simple majority vote. If a quorum is present, the affirmative
vote of a majority of those present at the meeting shall be the act of the
Mattoon Arts Council. Each Director of the Mattoon Arts Council is entitled to
cast one vote. There shall be no proxy voting. Whenever permissible, a Director
may attend by telephone or web connection.
      (3)   Notice. Notice of Board meetings shall be given at least five days
prior to the meeting. Each Director shall receive notice by regular mail, phone
or email. The notice shall include the date, time and place of the meeting.
      (4)   Special meeting. Special meetings of the Directors may be called at
any time by the Chairman, or by any three Directors. Notice of a special
meeting of the Council Board shall be given five days prior to the meeting.
      (5)   Rules of Order. Current Robert's Rules of Order shall govern the
Mattoon Arts Council when not inconsistent with the by-laws of the Mattoon Arts
Council or any other special rules of order the Council may adopt.
      (6)   Fiscal year. The fiscal year shall begin on the first day of May
and end on the last day of April.
   (E)   Committees. The Mattoon Arts Council shall have the following
committees and such other committees as the Council deems appropriate. Each
committee shall choose a chair and may appoint community advisers to assist
with committee activities.
      (1)   Governance Committee. Create and oversee structured mechanisms and
tools that ensure competent management and high quality operations, guided by
the objectives of our strategic plan.
      (2)   Program Committee. Provide compelling and coherent programming,
competently offered, that provides value to our community and makes optimal use
of our resources, guided by the objectives of our strategic plan.
      (3)   Development Committee. Provide or create increased fundraising
efforts, for both the short term and long term financial operations of the
Mattoon Arts Council, guided by the objectives of our strategic plan.
      (4)   Nomination Committee. Annually accept nominations and prepare a
slate of officers for the Board of Directors. Develop policies and procedures
that it deems necessary to ensure the successful succession of the Council.
   (F)   Records and reports.
      (1)   Records. The Mattoon Arts Council shall maintain adequate and
correct books, records and accounts of its operations. All such books, records
and accounts shall be kept by the Secretary and/or Treasurer, and surrendered
upon completion of their term of office. Accurate minutes shall be kept of the
proceedings of the Board of Directors. A record of the names and addresses of
each member of the Council shall be kept on file, and updated annually. Past
records shall be kept permanently in files for future reference.
      (2)   Reports. All books and accounts of the Mattoon Arts Council shall
be open to inspection by the members of the Board of Directors and subject to
public inspection under the Illinois Freedom of Information Act. All committees
are expected to give monthly reports of their activities or non-active time.
Any event needs to provide a written report to the secretary of details
including income, expenses and attendance. The calendar year shall be used for
annual reporting to City Council during the month of January.
      (3)   Financial reporting. The Finance Director shall provide financial
reporting and financial accounting in a manner consistent with the achievement
of the stated vision, mission and values of the Mattoon Arts Council. The
Finance Director shall be charged with providing financial services including
check writing responsibility; generating and circulating monthly financial
reports; segregating Mattoon Arts Council funds; reviewing internal financial
control; and providing a regular annual audit of financial records.
   (G)   Other.
      (1)   Conflict of interest. No Director of the Mattoon Arts Council shall
use their position, or knowledge gained therefrom, in such a manner that a
conflict between the organization and their personal interests arise. Each
Council Director has a duty to place the interest of the Mattoon Arts Council
foremost in dealings with the organization. If any Council Director has a
personal interest in business or activity proposed, they are expected to fully
disclose such interest. Any Director aware of a potential conflict should not
be present for any discussion or vote in connection with the matter. Official
minutes will reflect any abstaining votes.
      (2)   Political activism. The Mattoon Arts Council shall use neither its
monies nor its name in furtherance of, nor engage in, political activity in
support of any candidate for public office or issue for referendum. This shall
not be construed to limit the exercising of the constitutional rights of any
individual Director.
      (3)   Non-discrimination. The Mattoon Arts Council will not discriminate
against people on the basis of race, color, sex, religion, income, national
origin, age, disability, sexual orientation, political affiliation or any other
legally protected characteristic in any of its policies, recommendations or
actions.
      (4)   Endowment. The Board of Directors shall have the power to accept
gifts of money or securities from donors and to designate the gifts as an
endowment fund. The Mattoon Arts Council shall spend only the income from the
interest generated by the endowment fund. The Board of Directors shall
designate the institution for the deposit of funds.
      (5)   Amendments to by-laws. These by-laws may be amended or revised by
the Board of Directors at any time, with 30 days prior notice of the amendment
and a two-thirds vote of the Board quorum present at a regular meeting of the
Mattoon Arts Council. By-laws then will go to the City Council for approval.
(Ord. 2014-5371, passed 11-4-2014; Am. Ord. 2016-5387, passed 5-3-2016; Am.
Ord. 2023-5460, passed 2-21-2023; Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
PUBLIC WORKS ADVISORY BOARD
§ 33.075 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A Public Works Advisory Board is hereby created to advise the Public Works
Director and the City Council on policy matters pertaining to the activities
and functions of the Public Works Department. All legislative powers of the
city and its Public Works Department are vested in the City Council. No
individual member of the Board or collective action of the Board may direct
action to be taken by the City Council, the Public Works Director, Parks and
Recreation Director, employees or contractors of the city.
(Ord. 2014-5369, passed 6-17-2014; Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 33.076 APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   All members of the former Board of Water and Sewer Commissioners and
the former Street and Parks Advisory Board, who desire to become members of the
Public Works Advisory Board, are hereby appointed and confirmed for initial
terms of office on the Public Works Advisory Board.
   (B)   Each member of the former Boards, who desire to become members of
Public Works Advisory Board, shall establish staggered terms of office by self
selection or lottery at the first organizational meeting of the Board. One
third of the former members shall serve an initial term expiring on December
31, 2003; one third shall serve an initial term expiring on December 31, 2004
and one third of the former members shall serve an initial term expiring on
December 31, 2005. All members of the Board shall serve until their successors
have been appointed and confirmed.
   (C)   The size of the Board shall be reduced by attrition to eleven members
serving three year staggered terms. If the number of members becomes less than
11, new appointments to the Board shall be made by the Mayor and confirmed by
the City Council. New members will be appointed to fulfill the unexpired term
of a member whose seat becomes vacant for any reason during his or her term.
   (D)   If a member of the Board misses three unexcused consecutive meetings
as determined by the Chair, it shall be cause for termination from membership
on the Board. The Secretary of the Board shall report such absences to the
Mayor.
(Ord. 2002-5136, passed 8-20-2002)
§ 33.077 QUALIFICATIONS.
   No person shall be appointed or serve as a member of the Board who has not
attained the age of 18 years, who has not been a resident of the city for more
than one year prior to his or her appointment, or who holds any other city
office by appointment or election.
(Ord. 2002-5136, passed 8-20-2002)
§ 33.078 COMPENSATION.
   The members of the Board serve without compensation.
(Ord. 2002-5136, passed 8-20-2002)
§ 33.079 OFFICERS.
   (A)   At its first organizational meeting and at the first meeting of each
calendar year thereafter, the Board shall select from its members a Chair and a
Vice Chair. The Chair and the Vice Chair shall hold such respective positions
while a member of the Board for the calendar year in which they are appointed,
and until their respective successors are duly selected and qualified.
   (B)   The Chair, or in his or her absence, the Vice Chair shall preside over
the meetings of the Board and shall exercise and perform such duties as are
assigned to him or her by this section.
   (C)   In the event that both the Chair and the Vice Chair are absent, the
remainder of the Board constituting a quorum shall appoint a Chair Pro Tempore,
who shall perform the duties of the Chair for that meeting.
   (D)   The Chair of the Board shall appoint a Parliamentarian who shall serve
until the first regularly scheduled meeting of the year following the
appointment.
   (E)   The Public Works Director or his or her designee shall be Secretary of
the Board. The Secretary shall be responsible for preparing the agenda for
Board meetings in consultation with the Chair and providing public notice of
the meetings of the Board. The Secretary shall take roll at the meetings of the
Board and shall cause minutes to be kept, showing the vote of the Board members
on each question and on the other official actions of the Board. The Secretary
shall maintain copies of communications and reports considered by the Board.
(Ord. 2002-5136, passed 8-20-2002)
§ 33.080 RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   The Board may adopt its own rules of procedure and, unless modified, Roberts
Rules of Order shall apply.
(Ord. 2002-5136, passed 8-20-2002)
§ 33.081 TIME OF MEETINGS; QUORUM.
   (A)   At its first organizational meeting and at the first meeting of each
calendar year thereafter, the Board shall establish dates and times for its
regularly scheduled meetings. In formulating its meeting schedule, the Board
shall attempt to avoid conflict with members’ work and vacation schedules.
Meetings shall generally be held once per month, unless there is no business to
be considered by the Board.
   (B)   The Public Works Director or the Parks and Recreation Director may
call special meetings with the concurrence of the Chair.
   (C)   The Board may take no action on any agenda item unless a quorum of the
Board is present. A quorum shall be six members of the Board.
(Ord. 2014-5369, passed 6-17-2014)
§ 33.082 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Board provides recommendations to the Public Works Director, the
Parks and Recreation Director and the City Council on policy matters pertaining
to the activities and functions of both the Public Works Department and the
Parks and Recreation Department. Public Works Department includes but not
limited to: the Water, Sewer, Street, Drainage Systems, Buildings and Grounds,
Street Lighting, Sidewalk, Parking Lot and Equipment Maintenance. Parks and
Recreation Department includes but not limited to: Parks, Sports Complexes,
Lakes and Cemetery.
   (B)   The Board is enabled at its discretion to explore alternative methods
for the delivery of services rendered by the Departments. The results of any
such findings and/or recommendations will be referred to the City Council whose
members collectively have the sole authority to change or implement such
findings and/or recommendations.
   (C)   The Board shall establish procedures to provide the public with the
opportunity to provide input on policies and development plans for both the
Public Works Department and the Parks and Recreation Department.
   (D)   In reviewing planning, development and operation policies for both
Departments, the Board shall be guided by, and its recommendations shall be in
conformity with applicable state and federal laws and regulations, as they may
be amended from time to time.
   (E)   Board recommendations for changes to the municipal code or prior
resolutions of the City Council may only be placed into effect by an ordinance
or resolution duly considered and adopted by the City Council.
   (F)   The Board shall review the Directors’ requests for updates to the
city’s Capital Improvement Plan, operating and capital budgets and make a
report thereon to the City Council.
   (G)   The Board shall review the Directors’ request for changes to user
charges and shall strive to maintain a fee and rental structure for facilities
and services to make the Departments’ operating budgets as self-sustaining as
possible.
   (H)   The Board shall review proposals and bids received for Departmental
procurements and Capital Improvement projects valued over $20,000 and offer its
recommendations to the City Council for the award of such procurements.
(Ord. 2014-5369, passed 6-17-2014)
§ 33.083 RECOMMENDATIONS.
   The Public Works Director and the Parks and Recreation Director shall submit
recommendations of the Board in writing to the City Clerk. Recommendations of
the Board shall normally be placed on the agenda of the next regular meeting of
the City Council for discussion and possible action. The City Clerk should
receive reports at least six days prior to the day of the Council meeting at
which it is to be heard.
(Ord. 2014-5369, passed 6-17-2014)
COMMUNITY PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
§ 33.095 MEMBERSHIP.
   The City Planning Commission authorized by this section shall consist of 11
members, with the power to vote so as to represent practically all the
industrial, commercial, service, civil and labor interests. By virtue of their
offices, the Superintendent of Schools, or his or her appointed designee, and
the executive director of the Mattoon Chamber of Commerce shall be two of the
11 representing the community. Said 11 members are to be appointed by the
Mayor, on the basis of their particular fitness or competency for their duty on
said Commission, and who shall hold no other office in said city government,
and such appointments are to be officially ratified by the City Council. The
City Manager, City Attorney and the Community Development and Planning Director
shall serve in an advisory capacity only, without the power to vote. Members of
the Planning Commission shall reside within the City of Mattoon or within
territory contiguous to the municipality and not more than one and one-half
miles beyond the corporate limits and not included within any other
municipality.
(Ord. 87-4557, passed 11-17-1987; Am. Ord. 98- 4933, passed 3-3-1998; Am. Ord.
2010-5303, passed 6-1-2010; Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
§ 33.130 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   The Coles County Emergency Management Agency is hereby authorized to
assume responsibility for emergency planning and response functions within the
city.
   (B)   The Fire Chief is designated as the city’s liaison to the Coles County
Emergency Management Agency.
(Ord. 2005-5209, passed 9-20-2005)
CHAPTER 34: POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
34.001   Board of Fire and Police Commissioners
   
34.002   Board of Fire and Police Commissioners rules and regulations adopted
by reference
   
34.003   Fee for police and fire examination applicants
Police Department
   
34.015   Membership
   
34.016   Police Chief
   
34.017   Deputy Police Chief
   
34.018   Other police officials and members
   
34.019   Reserved
   
34.020   Powers to arrest; writs
   
34.021   Search warrant
   
34.022   Neglect of duty
   
34.023   Removal from force
   
34.024   Retirement
   
34.025   Police pension fund
   
34.026   City jail
Fire Department
   
34.040   Establishment
   
34.041   Fire Chief
   
34.042   Reserved
   
34.043   Other fire officials
   
34.044   Residency requirement
   
34.045   Vacancies
   
34.046   Removal of members
   
34.047   Compensation
   
34.048   Safety inspection of public buildings
   
34.049   Scene of fire
   
34.050   Reports
   
34.051   Firemen’s Pension Fund
   
34.052   Fire protection services outside corporate limits
   
34.053   Fire Protection and Training Act; participation
   
34.054   Rules, standard operating procedures and guidelines adopted
   
34.055   Municipal ambulance service; emergency rescue service charges
   
34.056   EMT-P license requirement
Response of Police and Fire Departments to  Alarms and Alarm Systems
   
34.070   Purpose
   
34.071   Definitions
   
34.072   Proper alarms systems operation and maintenance
   
34.073   Monitoring process
   
34.074   Alarm system operating instructions
   
34.075   Alarm dispatch request records
   
34.076   System performance reviews
   
34.077   Assessments
   
34.078   Appeals of assessments
   
34.079   Violations
Fire Department Rapid Entry Key Lock Box
   
34.080   Required
   
34.081   Keys required and installation
   
34.082   Access
   
34.083   Limitation of liability
Private Medical Transportation; Ambulance  Service Regulations
   
34.090   Definitions
   
34.091   Ambulance service license
   
34.092   Application procedure
   
34.093   Issuance or denial of license
   
34.094   Expiration of ambulance service license
   
34.095   Renewal application
   
34.096   Ambulance service operation requirements
   
34.097   EMT requirements
   
34.098   Location or change of ambulance service
   
34.099   Approval and notification of use and decommissioning of ambulance
   
34.100   Change in ownership
   
34.101   Provision of ambulance service regardless of ability to pay or
location of service
   
34.102   Reserved
   
34.103   Compliance with emergency dispatch procedures
   
34.104   Monitoring emergency dispatch call
   
34.105   Immediate emergency response required
   
34.106   Response times
   
34.107   Penalty for failure to meet response time standards
   
34.108   Failure to respond to call
   
34.109   Reserved
   
34.110   Authority to promulgate ambulance operation emergency dispatch
procedures
   
34.111   Right to inspect ambulances
   
34.112   Fire Chief’s right to authorize service by unlicensed vehicles
   
34.113   Fines, suspension or revocation of license
   
34.114   Joint training
   
34.115   Required data reporting
   
34.116   Termination of license
   
34.117   Annual license fee review
   
34.118   Appeal right
 
   
34.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.001 BOARD OF FIRE AND POLICE COMMISSIONERS.
   There is hereby created a Board of Fire and Police Commissioners in
accordance with the provisions of ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 10-2.1 et seq. The
members of the Board, before they enter upon the duties of their office, shall
execute a bond to the city in the penal sum of $100 conditioned upon faithful
performance of their duties as members of the Board. The Board of Commissioners
shall make rules for appointments and removals in accordance with the
provisions of the Illinois Revised Statutes.
(‘68 Code, § 2.34)
§ 34.002 BOARD OF POLICE AND FIRE COMMISSIONERS RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The rules and regulations adopted by Ord. 2022-5459, as amended, for the
operation of the Board of Police and Fire Commissioners are hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this code as if fully set out herein.
(Ord. 2012-5353, passed 5-1-2012; Am. Ord. 2013-5364, passed 9-3-2013; Am. Ord.
2017-5399, passed 11-7-2017; Am. Ord. 2021-5445, passed 9-21-2021; Am. Ord.
2022-5459, passed 11-1-2022)
§ 34.003 FEE FOR POLICE AND FIRE EXAMINATION APPLICANTS.
   (A)   The Board of Fire and Police Commissioners shall require that each
applicant for the position of Patrolman and each applicant for the position of
Fireman pay the sum of $20 as a fee for the purpose of defraying a portion of
the cost of the consultant.
   (B)   The fee shall be paid by the applicant not less than ten days prior to
the date of the examination, which date may be extended for just cause at the
discretion of the Chairperson of the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners.
   (C)   That all sums collected pursuant to this section shall be remitted to
the Office of the City Clerk for deposit in the general fund of the city within
three days of payment.
(Ord. 98-4949, passed 6-2-1998; Am. Ord. 99-4982, passed 3-2-1999)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 34.015 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Police Department shall consist of the Police Chief, Deputy Police
Chief, and such Captains, Lieutenants, Sergeants, patrol officers,
telecommunicators, special police, temporary police and other positions as may
be authorized by the City Council. Except for the Police Chief and Deputy
Police Chief positions, sworn officers of the Police Department are appointed,
promoted and disciplined according to standards and procedures managed by the
Board of Fire and Police Commissioners. Appointments and promotions are subject
to ratification by the City Council.
(Ord. 2004-5183, passed 8-3-2004)
§ 34.016 POLICE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Police Chief shall be the highest-ranking position of the Police
Department. The City Manager shall appoint and evaluate the performance of the
Police Chief. The person appointed to the position of Police Chief shall be
nominated solely on the basis of training, qualifications and experience in the
administration of a local law enforcement agency. The City Council and the
Police Chief may enter into an employment agreement with respect to terms and
provisions of employment that may provide for salary, salary adjustments,
fringe benefits, severance provisions and payment and other remuneration and
benefits of office.
   (B)   The Police Chief shall be the departmental director of the Police
Department. The Chief shall manage the affairs of the department subject to
general policy oversight and guidance provided by the City Manager. The Chief
implements departmental strategies consistent with goals and objectives
approved by the City Council. The Chief assigns officers and employees to
different tasks and shifts and evaluates performance of departmental employees.
   (C)   The Police Chief manages the human resource and financial
administration functions of the department with the oversight of and in
coordination with the City Manager, City Attorney and Treasurer. The Chief,
with the approval of the City Council, prescribes departmental policies and
rules as may be necessary to the discipline and efficiency of the police
service. The Chief assists in the negotiation of successor collective
bargaining agreements. The Chief has custody of property of the municipality
assigned to the Police Department.
   (D)   The Police Chief shall cause to be served all writs, summons,
warrants, processes and executions placed in his or her hands. The Chief shall
assist the City Attorney in the prosecution of municipal ordinance violations
and in the collection of fines.
   (E)   The Police Chief shall keep a record of all arrests, the nature of the
charge, the final disposition of the case, the amount of the fine if imposed
and other statistics required by state and federal law enforcement agencies.
From such records, the Chief shall make monthly reports to the City Council of
activities of the department.
   (F)   The Police Chief or his or her designee attends all meetings of the
City Council.
   (G)   If a member of the Mattoon Police Department is appointed Police Chief
prior to being eligible to retire on pension, he or she shall be considered as
on furlough from the rank he or she held immediately prior to his or her
appointment as Chief. If he or she resigns as Chief or is discharged as Chief
prior to attaining eligibility to retire on pension, he or she shall revert to
and be established in whatever rank he or she currently holds, except for
previously appointed positions, and thereafter be entitled to all the benefits
and emoluments of that rank, without regard as to whether a vacancy then exists
in that rank.
   (H)   A Police Chief having been appointed from among members of the Mattoon
Police Department shall be permitted, regardless of rank, to take promotional
exams and be promoted to a higher classified rank than he or she currently
holds, without having to resign as Police Chief.
   (I)   The Police Chief may be removed or discharged from the Police Chief
position by the City Manager with or without cause according to procedures
specified by ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 10-2.1-4. In such case, the City Manager
shall file with the City Council the written reasons for such removal or
discharge, which removal or discharge shall not become effective unless
confirmed by a majority vote of the City Council.
(Ord. 2004-5183, passed 8-3-2004; Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal manager authority to appoint and remove departmental directors,
see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, 5-3-7(2)
§ 34.017 DEPUTY POLICE CHIEF.
   (A)   There is established authority for one Deputy Police Chief position as
may be authorized by the City Council. The Deputy Chief position shall be an
exempt rank immediately below that of Chief.
   (B)   The Deputy Police Chief may be appointed from any rank of sworn, full-
time officers of the Police Department but must have at least five years of
full-time service as a police officer in that department. The Deputy Chief
shall serve at the discretion of the Police Chief, subject to the approval of
the City Manager, and, if removed from that position, shall revert to the rank
currently held without regard as to whether a vacancy exists in that rank.
   (C)   The Deputy Police Chief, having been appointed from any rank of sworn
full-time officers of the Police Department, shall be permitted, regardless of
rank, to take promotional exams and be promoted to a higher classified than he
or she currently holds without having to resign as Deputy Police Chief.
(Ord. 2004-5183, passed 8-3-2004; Am. Ord. 2010-5305, passed 6-1-2010; Am. Ord.
2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 34.018 OTHER POLICE OFFICIALS AND MEMBERS.
   (A)   Captains.
      (1)   There are hereby created five positions within the rank of Captain
in the Police Department of the city, who shall hold office until replaced and
their successor or successors appointed and qualified. The rank of Captain in
the Police Department shall be appointed by the rules and regulations governing
the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners of the city.
      (2)   Any appointment to the rank of Captain in the Police Department
shall be from within the ranks of Lieutenant of the Department.
   (B)   Lieutenants.
      (1)   There are hereby created five positions within the ranks of
Lieutenant in the Police Department of the city, who shall hold office until
replaced and their successor or successors appointed and qualified. The rank of
Lieutenant in the Police Department shall be appointed by the rules and
regulations governing the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners of the city.
      (2)   Any appointment to the rank of Lieutenant in the Police Department
shall be from within the ranks of Sergeants of the Department.
   (C)   Sergeants.
      (1)   There are hereby created five positions within the ranks of
Sergeant in the Police Department of the city, who shall hold office until
replaced and their successor or successors appointed and qualified. The rank of
Sergeant in the Police Department shall be appointed by the rules and
regulations governing the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners of the city.
      (2)   Any appointment to the rank of Sergeant in the Police Department
shall be from the ranks of patrol officers of the Department.
   (D)   Patrol officers.
      (1)   The patrol officers, when on duty, shall devote their entire time
and attention to the discharge of the duties of their office; they shall
observe all the rules and regulations of the Department, and shall to the best
of their ability preserve order, quiet and peace throughout the city, and shall
enforce the laws of the state and the ordinances of the city.
      (2)   They shall report to the Chief all persons known or suspected to be
gamblers, and all houses or places suspected of being gaming houses, houses of
ill-fame, and the like. When it shall come to the knowledge of any police
officer that an offense has been committed he or she shall cause complaint to
be made and the proper witnesses to be subpoenaed and evidence procured for the
successful prosecution of the offender.
(Ord. 2010-5312, passed 12-7-2010; Am. Ord. 2021-5437, passed 2-16-2021)
§ 34.019 RESERVED.
§ 34.020 POWERS TO ARREST; WRITS.
   All police officers shall arrest any person found violating any state law or
city ordinance, when such violation is committed in the presence of the
officer; and when an offense has been committed in the presence of the officer;
and when an offense has been committed, but not within the knowledge of the
officer, and there is reasonable grounds to believe that the person accused has
committed it, such officer shall forthwith cause proper complaint to be made,
and cause a warrant to be issued for the arrest of the accused. It shall be the
duty of policemen, and they shall have the power and authority to serve all
summons and execute all processes placed in their hands for the arrest,
apprehension, trial and commitment of any person charged with the violation of
any ordinance of the city, and may serve writs in all matters pertaining to
violations of the state laws.
(‘68 Code, § 3.07)
§ 34.021 SEARCH WARRANT.
   Where any officer has reasonable cause for belief that personal property
stolen, embezzled or obtained by false pretense, or any gaming implements are
contained in any house, building, apartment, room or place, it shall be his
duty to swear out a search warrant, as is provided by the statute of this state
and to execute the same.
(‘68 Code, § 3.08)
§ 34.022 NEGLECT OF DUTY.
   Any member of the police force who shall neglect or refuse to perform any
duty required of him, or who shall in the discharge of his duty be guilty of
any fraud, extortion, oppression, favoritism or willful wrongs or injustice
shall be subject to the penalty provided for violation of this code and may be
removed from office.
(‘68 Code, § 3.09)
§ 34.023 REMOVAL FROM FORCE.
   Any member of the police force may be suspended or removed for cause.
(‘68 Code, § 3.10)
§ 34.024 RETIREMENT.
   (A)   All patrol officers, officers and Chiefs of Police of the Police
Department may retire from active service upon reaching the age of 63 years.
   (B)   All patrol officers, officers and Chiefs of Police of the Police
Department shall be retired from the Police Department upon reaching the age of
65 years.
(‘68 Code, § 3.11) (Ord. 3678, passed - - )
§ 34.025 POLICE PENSION FUND.
   There is hereby established in the city a police pension fund in accordance
with ILCS Ch. 40, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq. The pension fund shall be
administered by a Board of Trustees as provided by said ILCS Ch. 40, Act 5, §§
3-101 et seq.
(‘68 Code, § 3.13)
§ 34.026 CITY JAIL.
   (A)   The city jail or prison is hereby declared and established in the
rooms provided in the city building. The county jail may be also used as a
prison for the incarceration of persons who shall have been arrested or
convicted of offenses against the ordinances of the city.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall have charge and control of the city jail and
shall be responsible for the custody and safe keeping of every person committed
therein. With the consent of the City Manager or by order of a court he or she
shall be authorized to transfer prisoners to the county jail. For such time as
such prisoner is confined in the county jail, the city shall be liable for the
legal expenses of transferring and the board of such prisoner.
(‘68 Code, § 2.40) (Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 34.040 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established for the city a Fire Department which shall
consist of a Chief of Fire Department, Captains and such number of other
firemen and employees as the Council may from time to time by ordinance or
resolution provide.
(‘68 Code, § 4.01) (Am. Ord. 2018-5410, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 34.041 FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Fire Chief shall be the highest-ranking position of the Fire
Department. The City Manager shall appoint and evaluate the performance of the
Fire Chief. The person appointed to the position of Fire Chief shall be
nominated solely on the basis of training, qualifications and experience in the
administration of a fire department. The City Council and the Fire Chief may
enter into an employment agreement with respect to terms and provisions of
employment that may provide for salary, salary adjustments, fringe benefits,
severance provisions, payment and any other remuneration and benefits of
office.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall be the departmental director of the Fire
Department. The Chief shall manage affairs of the department subject to general
policy guidelines provided by the City Manager. The Chief implements
departmental strategies consistent with the goals and objectives approved by
the City Council. The Chief assigns captains, driver/engineer and firefighters
to different tasks and shifts and evaluates performance of all departmental
employees.
   (C)   The Fire Chief manages the human resource and financial administration
functions of the department with the oversight of and in coordination with the
City Manager, City Attorney and Treasurer. The Chief, with the approval of the
City Council, prescribes departmental policies and rules as may be necessary to
the discipline and efficiency of the fire service. The Chief assists in the
negotiation of successor collective bargaining agreements. The Chief has
custody of property of the municipality assigned to the Fire Department.
   (D)   Investigation of fires; records. The Chief shall investigate the cause
of all fires which shall occur in the city and keep a record of his or her
investigation and the circumstances of each case. The Chief shall insure that
the department works closely with all law enforcement agencies in the
investigation of all fires of a suspicious nature or origin. From such records,
the Chief shall make monthly reports to the City Council of activities of the
Department.
   (E)   The Fire Chief or his or her designee attends all meetings of the City
Council.
   (F)   If a member of the Fire Department is appointed Fire Chief prior to
being eligible to retire on pension, he or she shall be considered as on
furlough from the rank he or she held immediately prior to his or her
appointment as Chief. If he or she resigns as Chief or is not discharged for
cause as Chief prior to attaining eligibility to retire on pension, he or she
shall revert to and be established in whatever rank he or she currently holds,
except for previously appointed positions, and thereafter be entitled to all
the benefits and emoluments of that rank, without regard as to whether a
vacancy then exists in that rank.
   (G)   A Fire Chief having been appointed from among members of the Fire
Department shall be permitted, regardless of rank, to take promotional exams
and be promoted to a higher classified rank than he or she currently holds,
without having to resign as Fire Chief.
   (H)   The Fire Chief may be removed or discharged from the Fire Chief
position with or without cause by the City Manager according to procedures
specified by ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 10-2.1-4. In such case, the City Manager
shall file with the City Council the reasons for such removal or discharge,
which removal or discharge shall not become effective unless confirmed by a
majority vote of the City Council.
(Ord. 2006-5219, passed 10-3-2006; Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal manager authority to appoint and remove departmental directors,
see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, 5-3-7(2)
§ 34.042 RESERVED.
§ 34.043 OTHER FIRE OFFICIALS.
   (A)   Shift Captains.
      (1)   There is hereby created three positions within the rank of Shift
Captain in the Fire Department of said city, who shall hold office until
replaced and their successor or successors appointed and qualified. The rank of
Shift Captain in the Fire Department shall be appointed by the rules and
regulations governing the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners of said city.
      (2)   Any appointment to the rank of Shift Captain in the Fire Department
shall be from within the ranks of Captain of said department.
   (B)   Captains.
      (1)   There is hereby created three positions within the rank of Captain
in the Fire Department of said city, who shall hold office until replaced and
their successor or successors appointed and qualified. The rank of Captain in
the Fire Department shall be appointed by the rules and regulations governing
the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners of said city.
      (2)   Any appointment to the rank of Captain in the Fire Department shall
be from within the ranks of Engineer of said department.
   (C)   Engineers.
      (1)   There are hereby created nine positions within the rank of Engineer
in the Fire Department of said city, who shall hold office until replaced and
their successor or successors appointed and qualified. The rank of Engineer in
the Fire Department shall be appointed by the rules and regulations governing
the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners of said city.
      (2)   Any appointment to the rank of Engineer in the Fire Department
shall be from within the ranks of Firefighter of said department.
   (D)   Cause and origin fire investigators.
      (1)    The City Manager can delegate to the Fire Chief the authority to
appoint any and all members of the Fire Department as cause and origin fire
investigators and to assign to such investigators the responsibility of
determining the cause and origin of suspicious fires within the city; and
      (2)   All members of the Fire Department appointed as a Cause and Origin
Investigator shall possess the following minimum qualifications:
         (a)   Have obtained the certification of Fire Fighter II by the State
of Illinois;
         (b)   Have successfully completed the Fire/Arson Investigation
Training Modules I, II and III as provided by the Fire Service Institute of the
University of Illinois, or equivalent thereof;
         (c)   Have successfully completed a Basic Arson Investigator Course as
approved by the Illinois Law Enforcement Training and Standards Board, or
equivalent thereof;
         (d)   Shall have been appointed as a Certified Fire Investigator by
the Office of the Illinois State Fire Marshal;
         (e)   Shall have been appointed a Certified Arson Investigator by the
Office of the Illinois State Fire Marshal; and
         (f)   Shall have successfully completed a course on the Reid Technique
of Interviewing and Interrogation as offered by John E. Reid and Associates, or
an equivalent thereof.
      (3)   As delegated by the City Manager, the Fire Chief shall make his or
her appointments in his or her sole discretion, and shall have the authority to
remove any such appointment, in his or her sole discretion.
(Ord. 98-4956, passed 7-7-1998; Am. Ord. 2011- 5332, passed 11-15-2011; Am.
Ord. 2023-5467, passed 5-2-2023; Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 34.044 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT.
   Employees shall reside within 20 miles of the corporate boundaries of the
City of Mattoon.
(‘68 Code, § 2.52) (Am. Ord. 73-4259, passed 5-15-1973; Am. Ord. 76-4396,
passed 9-18-1979; Am. Ord. 2012-5358, passed 8-7-2012)
§ 34.045 VACANCIES.
   Any vacancy in the Fire Department shall be filled in accordance with the
rules and regulations of the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners. Only
drivers may write on examinations for Captain.
(‘68 Code, § 4.05)
§ 34.046 REMOVAL OF MEMBERS.
   Any officer or member the Fire Department may be suspended, or removed for
cause.
(‘68 Code, § 4.06)
§ 34.047 COMPENSATION.
   The salaries of the Chief of the Fire Department and other members of the
Fire Department shall be such as the City Council may from time to time by
ordinance provide.
(‘68 Code, § 4.07)
§ 34.048 SAFETY INSPECTION OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
   (A)   The Chief of the Fire Department shall at least once in every six
months inspect or cause to be inspected all public school buildings, public
halls, churches and all buildings used for manufacturing purposes and all
flats, apartments and tenement houses designed or used for the residence of
more than two families, all hotels and lodging houses, for the purpose of
determining the safety of the building, the sufficiency of its doors, passage
ways or aisles and stairway and generally its facilities for egress in case of
fire or other accident happening, the overloading of floors and the storage of
combustibles, and shall cause to be prosecuted all violations of law or
ordinance, in any way concerning the prevention or extinguishment of fires.
   (B)   The Chief and his or her agents or assistants under his or her
direction, are authorized to enter into any premises or buildings in the city
at any and all reasonable hours for the purpose of inspection, relative to
compliance with the ordi nances of the city relating to fire hazards, fire
appliances or apparatus.
   (C)   Whenever upon such inspection any building or structure is in any
respect liable to become dangerous to life or property in panic, or fire, the
Chief shall thereupon issue any orders or directions necessary in his or her
judgment to the owner, lessee or occupant of said premises to alter, remove, or
remedy same within such reasonable time as the Chief may direct and every
owner, lessee and occupant of said premises shall within the time prescribed
within said order and direction cause such alteration, removal or other work
necessary to be done.
   (D)   In the event of the failure of any owner, lessee or occupant to cause
such alteration, removal or remedy or other necessary act, or work necessary to
be done in accordance with the order and direction of the Chief and within the
time prescribed in said order or direction, the Chief shall cause same to be
done or shall close the building, as circumstances may necessitate, and the
person so neglecting to comply with the order and direction of the Chief
aforesaid, shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this section. The refusal
to comply with the orders of the Chief after the expiration of the time limited
in the order and direction shall constitute a separate offense.
(‘68 Code, § 4.09)
   (E)   The Chief of the Fire Department shall examine all buildings and walls
reported dangerous, or damaged by fire, or accident and shall when requested by
the City Manager, examine all buildings under application to raze, enlarge,
alter or rebuild and make a report of the condition thereof to the Council.
(‘68 Code, § 4.12)
(Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 34.049 SCENE OF FIRE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of the Fire Department, if in his or
her power, to attend all fires happening in the city. He or she shall not leave
the city without the consent of the City Manager. (‘68 Code, § 4.11)
   (B)   Powers at fires.
      (1)   The Chief of the Fire Department or other officer in command may
prescribe limits in the vicinity of any fire within which no persons excepting
those who reside therein, firefighters, police officers and those admitted by
order of any officer of the Fire Department, shall be permitted to go. The
Police Department shall on request of the Chief of the Fire Department, or
other officers in command of the Fire Department at any fire, enforce the
provisions of this division.
      (2)   Removal of property. The Chief of the Fire Department shall have
the right and power to cause the removal of any property from any building,
whenever it shall become necessary for the preservation of such property from
fire, or to prevent the spreading of fire or to protect adjoining property.
      (3)   Destroying buildings. The Chief, or in his or her absence the
officer in command at any fire shall have the right and power to direct the
members of the Fire Department to cut down and remove any building, erection or
fence for the purpose of checking the progress of the fire, and the Chief or
officer in command shall have the power to blow up, or cause to be blown up
with powder, or otherwise any building or structure, during the progress of any
fire for the purpose of extinguishing or checking the same.
      (4)   Authority of Chief. Every person who shall be present at a fire,
shall obey the orders of the Chief or other officer in command of the Fire
Department extinguishing the fire and in the removal and protection of
property.
      (5)   Assistance. The Chief or other officer in command of the Fire
Department shall have the power to require the aid of any citizen, inhabitant
or bystander at a fire. Refusal or neglect of any person to comply with such
requisition, shall be a violation of this section. (‘68 Code, § 4.14)
   (C)   No person shall take away any property in the possession of the Fire
Department saved from any fire until proof of ownership is made to the
satisfaction of the Chief of the Fire Department or Acting Chief and his or her
consent obtained thereto. (‘68 Code, § 4.15)
   (D)   The Chief of the Fire Department shall have the right to enter upon
the premises wherein any fire has occurred, if necessary, in order to
investigate the origin of the fire. (‘68 Code, § 4.10)
(Am. Ord. 2018-5410, passed 10-16-2018; Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 34.050 REPORTS.
   (A)   The Chief of the Fire Department shall make a report to the City
Manager once every month showing the number of fires happening during the
month, the causes thereof, all accidents by fire, the number and description of
the buildings destroyed or injured and the amount of property destroyed by
fire.
   (B)   He or she shall in the month of April in each year make a full and
complete report to the City Manager of all transactions in the Department for
the preceding year. Such report shall also show as nearly as can be
ascertained, the number of fires, causes thereof, accidents by fire, the number
and descriptions of the buildings destroyed and injured, together with the
names of the owners and occupants, the amount of property destroyed by fire and
the insurance thereon, together with such other statistics and suggestions he
or she may deem suitable. Such report shall also show all moneys received, from
what source same was received, together with the amounts paid out and for what
paid and also all expenditures of every kind and nature whatsoever an account
of the Fire Department.
(‘68 Code, § 4.13) (Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 34.051 FIREMEN’S PENSION FUND.
   There is hereby established in the city a firemen’s pension fund in
accordance with ILCS Ch. 40, Act 5, §§ 4-101 et seq. The Pension Fund shall be
administered by a Board of Trustees as provided by said ILCS Ch. 40, Act 5, §§
4-101 et seq.
(‘68 Code, § 4.16)
§ 34.052 FIRE PROTECTION SERVICES OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS.
   (A)   All fire and rescue services provided by the Fire Department to or for
the benefit of non-residents of the city shall be provided only upon the
condition that reasonable fees for such services be assessed to such non-
residents.
   (B)   Charges for fire and rescue services shall be assessed at rates
specified in §
35.01(D)(1).
   (C)   Statements for services assessed under this section shall be billed
directly to the property owner, with a copy to any casualty or fire insurance
company identified as providing appropriate coverages to the property owner.
   (D)   All funds collected pursuant to the provisions of this section shall
be paid into the general fund of the city.
(Ord. 99-4983, passed 3-16-1999; Am. Ord. 2010-5288, passed 4-6-2010)
§ 34.053 FIRE PROTECTION AND TRAINING ACT; PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   The city hereby elects to participate in the programs provided for in
the Illinois Fire Protection Training Act.
   (B)   Before an individual may commence regular full-time employment as a
firefighter, he must have been certified by the State Fire Marshal as a
Firefighter II, as having successfully completed an approved training course as
provided in said Act.
   (C)   The Firefighter II training must be completed by the trainee within
his probationary period of 12 months.
   (D)   The Board of Fire and Police Commissioners are hereby instructed and
directed to make the necessary amendments to the Personnel Rules, the Manual of
Rules of the Mattoon Fire Department, and rules of said Board of Fire and
Police Commissioners in order to require that any person appointed to the Fire
Department of the city shall not become a regular member of the Fire Department
unless and until he shall complete, pursuant to said Illinois Fire Protection
and Training Act, the approved training course within 12 months of the date of
his initial employment.
(Ord. 82-4440, passed 10-5-1982)
§ 34.054 RULES, STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES AND GUIDELINES ADOPTED.
   (A)   Mattoon Fire Department rules, standard operating procedures and
guidelines, commonly referred to as the “Red Book”, appended to Ordinance 99-
4984 and marked as Exhibit “A,” are hereby approved and adopted as the rules,
standard operating procedures and guidelines for the City of Mattoon Fire
Department.
   (B)   All ordinances, regulations, memoranda, or any other policies or
procedures in conflict with Exhibit “A” be and are hereby repealed.
   (C)    The residency requirement or right, if any, is not enlarged or
diminished by the adoption of Exhibit “A.”
   (D)   Vested rights heretofore existing in any employee of the Fire
Department is not intended to be effected or compromised by the adoption of
Exhibit “A.”
   (E)   Any current employee disciplinary procedure or any alleged violation
of any Fire Department rule or regulation currently proceeding and not
completed as of the date of the adoption of this section shall continue and be
completed under the provisions of the 1973 “Red Book.”
(Ord. 99-4984, passed 5-18-1999)
§ 34.055 MUNICIPAL AMBULANCE SERVICE; EMERGENCY RESCUE SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   There is hereby established within the Fire Department of the City of
Mattoon, a city ambulance service, under the command of the Fire Chief.
   (B)   The Fire Department, through appropriately trained personnel, shall
operate and maintain emergency vehicles for emergency advanced life support
rescue transport services and, should it deem necessary, emergency non-
transport response.
   (C)   The Fire Department shall provide emergency advanced life support
ambulance rescue services.
   (D)   The charges for services shall be those provided for in §
35.01.
   (E)   The Fire Department, with the advice and consent of the City
Treasurer, shall establish billing practices and procedures; develop
appropriate internal forms for the administration of the billing system;
maintain a system of accounts receivable; render statements for services
provided; and, administer the collection of unpaid accounts. This authority
shall include, subject to approval of the City Council, outsourcing or
contracting of ambulance billing services.
   (F)   It is the intention of the City Council that all of the services
provided under the authority of this section be deemed “rescue” services as
defined by the Local Governmental and Governmental Employees Tort Immunity Act,
specifically ILCS Ch. 745, Act 10, §§ 5-101 et seq.
   (G)   The Mattoon Fire Department shall operate the ambulance service in a
rotation with the existing ambulance services currently serving the City of
Mattoon and the western half of Coles County, including those which may be
established in the future.
(Ord. 2022-5446, passed 2-1-2022)
§ 34.056 EMT-P LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   All personnel hired for the position of firefighter by the City of Mattoon
shall hold a current and valid EMT-P license on their first day of employment
with the city.
(Ord. 2010-5306, passed 7-6-2010)
RESPONSE OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS TO ALARMS AND ALARM SYSTEMS
§ 34.070 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to encourage alarm users and alarm
businesses to maintain the operational reliability and properly use alarm
systems and to reduce or eliminate false alarm dispatches.
   (B)   This subchapter governs systems intended to summon Police and Fire
Department response, and provides penalties for violations, and establishes a
system of administration and appeal of process.
(Ord. 99-4974, passed 8-21-2001)
§ 34.071 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM BUSINESS. The business, by an individual, partnership, corporation or
other entity of selling, leasing maintaining, servicing, repairing, altering,
replacing, moving, installing or monitoring an alarm system in an alarm site.
   ALARM DISPATCH REQUEST. A notification to the police or fire by the alarm
business that an alarm, either manual or automatic has been activated at a
particular alarm site.
   ALARM SITE. A single premises or location served by an alarm system or
systems. Each tenancy, if served by a separate alarm system in a multi-tenant
building or complex shall be considered a separate alarm site.
   ALARM SYSTEM. A device, or series of devices, included but not limited to,
systems interconnected with radio frequencies signals, or telephone systems,
which are designed to discourage crime, or fire, by emitting or transmitting a
remote or local audible, visual or electronic signal indicating an alarm
condition. ALARM SYSTEM does not include:
      (1)   An alarm installed on a vehicle unless the vehicle is permanently
located at a site; or
      (2)   An alarm designated to alert only the inhabitants of a residence or
site.
   ALARM USER. Any person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity who
(which) uses an alarm system and its alarm site.
   ASSESSMENT. A sum of money billed to an alarm user intended to represent
costs of responding to false alarms and to encourage proper maintenance and
operation of the alarm system.
   CHIEF. The Chief of Police or Chief of Fire Department of the city or an
authorized representative.
   CONVERSION. The transaction or process by which one alarm business begins
monitoring of an alarm system previously monitored by another alarm business.
   DURESS ALARM. A silent alarm signal generated by the manual activation of a
device intended to signal a crisis situation requiring a Police or Fire
Department response.
   FALSE ALARM DISPATCH. An alarm dispatch request to the Police or Fire
Department, when the responding agency representative finds no evidence of a
criminal offense or fire emergency after having completed a timely
investigation of the alarm site. An alarm dispatch request which is canceled by
the alarm business or alarm user prior to the time the responding units reaches
the alarm site shall be considered a false alarm dispatch.
   FINE. A sum of money imposed by the Circuit Court Judge for a violation of
this subchapter, if the assessment is not paid.
   HOLDUP ALARM. A silent alarm signal generated by the manual activation of a
device intended to signal a robbery in progress.
   KEYPAD. A device that allows control of an alarm system by the manual
entering of a coded sequence of numbers or letters.
   MONITORING. The process by which an alarm business receives signals from an
alarm system and relays the alarm dispatch request to the Police or Fire
Department for the purpose of summoning the Police or Fire response to the
alarm site.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership, association, organization
or similar entity.
   TAKEOVER. The transaction or process by which an alarm user takes over
control of an existing alarm system which was previously controlled by another
alarm user.
   VERIFY. An attempt, by the alarm business, or its representative, to contact
the alarm site by telephonic or other means, whether or not actual contact with
a person is made, before requesting a police or fire dispatch, in an attempt to
avoid an unnecessary alarm dispatch request.
(Ord. 99-4974, passed 8-21-2001)
§ 34.072 PROPER ALARMS SYSTEMS OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   An alarm user shall:
      (1)   Maintain the premises and the alarm system in a manner that will
minimize or eliminate false alarm dispatches;
      (2)   Make every reasonable effort to respond or cause a representative
to respond to the alarm system’s location within thirty minutes when notified
by the Police or Fire Department to deactivate a malfunctioning alarm system,
to provide access to the premises, or to provide security for the premises;
      (3)   Not manually activate an alarm for any reason other than an
occurrence of an event that the alarm system was intended to report.
   (B)   An alarm user shall adjust the mechanism or cause the mechanism to be
adjusted so that an alarm signal audible on the exterior of an alarm site will
sound no longer than ten minutes after being activated.
   (C)   An alarm user shall have a properly licensed alarm business inspect
his or her alarm system after three false dispatches in a six month period.
After five false alarm dispatches, the alarm user must have a properly licensed
alarm business modify the alarm system to be more false alarm resistant or
provide additional training as appropriate.
(Ord. 99-4974, passed 1-5-1999)
§ 34.073 MONITORING PROCESS.
   (A)   An alarm business performing monitoring services shall:
      (1)   Notify the Police and Fire Department when they are installing an
alarm system and when they are repairing, testing or servicing the alarm
system;
      (2)   Report alarm signals by using telephone numbers designated by the
city;
      (3)   Immediately notify the Police Department of all duress or holdup
alarm signals;
      (4)   Communicate all alarm dispatch requests to the Police Department in
a manner and form determined by the city;
      (5)   Communicate any verified cancellations of alarm dispatch requests
to the Police Department in a manner and form determined by the city.
   (B)   The city shall:
      (1)   Designate a manner, and telephone numbers for the communication of
alarm dispatch requests;
      (2)   Develop a procedure to accept and verify cancellation of alarm
dispatch requests.
(Ord. 99-4974, passed 1-5-1999)
§ 34.074 ALARM SYSTEM OPERATING INSTRUCTIONS.
   An alarm user shall maintain at each alarm site a set of written operating
instructions for each alarm system.
(Ord. 99-4974, passed 1-5-1999)
§ 34.075 ALARM DISPATCH REQUEST RECORDS.
   (A)   The officer responding to an alarm dispatch request shall record such
information as necessary to permit the alarm administrator (Police Dispatcher)
to maintain records, included but not limited to, the following information:
      (1)   Identification of the alarm site;
      (2)   Arrival time at the alarm site and dispatch received time;
      (3)   Date and time of dispatch;
      (4)   Weather conditions;
      (5)   Area and/or sub-area of premise involved;
      (6)   Name of alarm user’s representative on premises, if any;
      (7)   Identification of the responsible alarm business; and/or
      (8)   Unable to locate the address.
   (B)   The responding police officer/fire personnel shall indicate on the
dispatch record whether the dispatch was caused by a criminal offense, an
attempted criminal offense, was weather related, an actual fire alarm request,
or a false alarm dispatch.
   (C)   In case of an assumed false alarm dispatch, the responding police
officer/fire personnel shall leave notice at the alarm site that the Police/
Fire Department has responded to a false alarm dispatch. The notice shall
include the following:
      (1)   The date and time of the police/fire response to the false alarm
dispatch;
      (2)   The identification number and name of the responding police
officer/Fire Department personnel;
      (3)   A statement urging the alarm user to ensure that the alarm system
is properly operated, inspected, and serviced in order to avoid further
penalties.
   (D)   Alarm businesses which perform minoring services must maintain, for a
period of at least one year following request for police/fire dispatch to an
alarm site, records relating to the dispatch. Records must include the name,
address and phone number of the alarm user, the alarm system zones or points
activated, the time of the request for police/fire dispatch. The city may
request copies of such records for individually named alarm users, which shall
be promptly provided to the city within seven days of the request.
(Ord. 99-4974, passed 1-5-1999)
§ 34.076 SYSTEM PERFORMANCE REVIEW.
   If there is a reason to believe that an alarm system is not being used or
maintained in a manner that ensures proper operation and suppresses false
alarms, the city may require a conference with an alarm user and the alarm
business responsible for the repair of the alarm system to review the
circumstances of each false alarm.
(Ord. 99-4974, passed 1-5-1999)
§ 34.077 ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   An alarm user shall be subject to warning and assessments depending on
the number of false alarm dispatches emitted from the alarm system to the Fire
Department within a 12-month period based upon the following schedule.
Number of False Alarm Dispatches Action to be Taken Assessment
Number of False Alarm Dispatches Action to be Taken                 Assessment
1                                On site warning and warning letter $00
2                                On site written notice and         $250
                                 assessment
3                                On site written notice and         $250
                                 assessment
4                                On site written notice and         $250
                                 assessment
5                                On site written notice and         $500
                                 assessment
6                                On site written notice and         $500
                                 assessment
7                                On site written notice and         $500
                                 assessment
8 plus                           On site written notice and         $1000
                                 assessment
 
   (B)   An alarm user shall be subject to warning and assessments depending on
the number of false alarm dispatches emitted from the alarm system to the
Police Department within a 12-month period based upon the following schedule.
Number of False Alarm Dispatches Action to be Taken Assessment
Number of False Alarm Dispatches Action to be Taken                 Assessment
1                                On site warning and warning letter $00
2                                On site warning and warning letter $00
3                                On site warning and warning letter $00
4                                On site written notice and         $25
                                 assessment
5                                On site written notice and         $25
                                 assessment
6                                On site written notice and         $25
                                 assessment
7                                On site written notice and         $75
                                 assessment
8 plus                           On site written notice and         $100
                                 assessment
 
   (C)   Alarm dispatch requests caused by actual criminal offense or with
evidence of a criminal attempt or fire shall not constitute a false alarm
dispatch. Alarm dispatch requests caused by a power outage or other line
interruptions or weather related interruptions which are not within the control
of the alarm user or alarm business shall not be counted as a false alarm
dispatch.
(Ord. 99-4974, passed 1-5-1999; Am. Ord. 2001-5082, passed 8-21-2001)
§ 34.078 APPEALS OF ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   The alarm user may appeal the assessment to the Chief of Police and
the Chief of the Fire Department by filing a written request for hearing
setting forth the reasons for the appeal within ten days after receipt of the
assessment. The filing of such request shall stay the assessment until the
Chief of Police/Chief of the Fire Department or their designee makes a final
decision.
   (B)   The Chief of Police, Chief of the Fire Department or their designee
shall conduct a formal hearing and consider the evidence by any interested
person (s).
   (C)   The Chief of Police and Chief of the Fire Department or their designee
shall make a decision on the basis of a preponderance of the evidence presented
at the hearing including, but not limited to, evidence that a false alarm
dispatch was caused by a defective part that has been repaired, replaced or
that an alarm dispatch was caused by a criminal offense or a fire. The Chief of
Police and Chief of the Fire department or their designee shall affirm, reverse
or modify the assessment.
(Ord. 99-4974, passed 1-5-1999)
§ 34.079 VIOLATIONS.
   It is hereby declared it to be a nuisance and a violation of this subchapter
for any alarm user to so maintain and/or operate one or more alarm sites that
give four or more false alarms in any 12-month period of time.
(Ord. 99-4974, passed 1-5-1999)
FIRE DEPARTMENT RAPID ENTRY KEY LOCK BOX
§ 34.080 REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner or person in control of the following types of buildings
shall install and maintain a Fire Department rapid entry key lock box of a type
approved by the Fire Chief:
      (1)   A structure which contains a fire alarm that uses an automatic
dialer or contains an automatic fire suppression system.
      (2)   Commercial and industrial buildings identified by fire officials as
difficult to access during emergencies.
      (3)   Exception. Any building or structure having an on-site 24-hour
security or maintenance personnel with full access to all portions of the
facility.
   (B)   Persons or entities who own existing buildings or structures which are
subject to the requirements of this chapter shall have two months, after being
notified by the Fire Department of this subchapter, to comply with the
requirements. Persons or entities who construct buildings or structures which
would be subject to the requirements of this chapter shall comply with the
requirements at the time of construction.
   (C)   The Fire Chief may establish rules and regulations for the placement
and maintenance of Fire Department rapid entry key lock boxes within the city,
including but not limited to the specification of approved types of Fire
Department rapid entry key lock boxes.
(Ord. 2016-5383, passed 1-5-2016)
§ 34.081 KEYS REQUIRED AND INSTALLATION.
   (A)   The owner or person in control of buildings or facilities described in
§
34.080, required to have a Fire Department rapid entry key lock box shall cause
a key to be placed in such lock box in accordance with the following:
      (1)   The owner is responsible for ordering and installing the lock box.
      (2)   The Fire Chief shall designate the type of key lock system to be
implemented.
      (3)   The lock box shall be installed on the front of the building near
the main entry door, on the right hand side, between six and eight feet above
the ground, unless approved at a higher or lower level, by the Fire Department.
The Fire Department may wish to locate the lock box in an alternate site in
some cases. The owner should contact the Fire Department prior to mounting the
lock box to ensure proper location.
      (4)   The lock box shall contain the key(s) for the exterior doors, the
keys for all interior doors within the building which control access to shared
systems (HVAC, alarm panels, sprinkler controls and electrical panels). The
keys should be labeled and easily identified.
   (B)   The owner or person in control of any building or facility described
in §
34.080, required to have a Fire Department rapid entry key lock box shall
provide updated keys and information capable of access to all areas of the
facility in such lock box at all times.
(Ord. 2016-5383, passed 1-6-2016)
§ 34.082 ACCESS.
   The owner or person in control of any building or facility described in §
34.080, required to have a Fire Department rapid entry key lock box shall be
present, himself or through his agent, during access to such lock box by the
Fire Department except when the Fire Department has responded to an emergency
at the property.
(Ord. 2016-5383, passed 1-5-2016)
§ 34.083 LIMITATIONS OF LIABILITY.
   The city assumes no liability for any of the following:
   (A)   Any defects in the operation of the Fire Department rapid entry key
lock box, of any of the keys contained within such lock box or any information
stored within the lock box or otherwise provided to the city;
   (B)   The failure or neglect of any owner or person in control of a building
or facility required to have a Fire Department rapid entry key lock box to
provide access to the lock box; or
   (C)   The security of any property required to have a Fire Department rapid
entry key lock box due to access to the lock box by any person.
(Ord. 2016-5383, passed 1-5-2016)
PRIVATE MEDICAL TRANSPORTATION; AMBULANCE SERVICE REGULATIONS
§ 34.090 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVANCED EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN (AEMT). Staff or employees of an
ambulance service operating at the intermediate life support currently licensed
by the Department of Public Health who has completed a Department-approved
course of instruction in specific advanced life support-mobile intensive care
services and who is currently functioning in a program approved by the Illinois
Department of Public Health to provide such services under the supervision and
control of a EMS Medical Director.
   ADVANCED LIFE SUPPORT/MOBILE INTENSIVE CARE (ALS/MIC). An advanced level of
pre-hospital and inter-hospital emergency care that includes basic life support
functions (including cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) plus cardiac
monitoring, cardiac defibrillation, telemetered  electrocardiography,
administration of antiarrhythmic agents, intravenous therapy, administration of
medications, drugs and solutions, use of adjunctive medical devices, trauma
care, and other authorized techniques and procedures) initiated for the
treatment of real or potential acute life threatening conditions under the
direction of a physician licensed to practice medicine in all of its branches
or a registered professional nurse/MICN or registered professional nurse/field
RN, and where authorized by a medical director in an Illinois Department of
Public Health approved advanced life support system.
   ADVANCED PROVIDER. A person who has successfully completed an Illinois
Department of Public Health approved course of instruction in advanced life
support-mobile intensive care services and is currently certified by the
Illinois Department of Public Health as a Paramedic (P).
   AMBULANCE. Any vehicle that is specifically designed, constructed or
modified and equipped, and is intended to be used for, and is maintained or
operated for the emergency transportation of persons who are sick, injured,
wounded or otherwise incapacitated or helpless and is licensed by the State of
Illinois to operate as an ambulance.
   AMBULANCE REVIEW COMMITTEE. The AMBULANCE REVIEW COMMITTEE will review
recommendations of the Fire Chief and make final decisions (a majority vote is
need for final decisions) on all fines, suspensions or revocation of licenses
of an ambulance service for any violation of the provisions of this chapter.
The AMBULANCE REVIEW COMMITTEE is made up of the City Manager, the City Finance
Director and the City Attorney.
   AMBULANCE SERVICE. The operation of an enterprise which has one of its
purposes the operation, or use on the streets, alleys, or any public way within
the city, an ambulance which responds to emergency calls for the transportation
of persons who are reported to be sick, injured, wounded, otherwise
incapacitated or helpless and is licensed as a provider agency with the State
of Illinois.
   AMBULANCE SERVICE LOCATION. The location at which ambulances are stored,
maintained or from which ambulances are dispatched by an ambulance service.
   BASIC LIFE SUPPORT SERVICES. The rendering of basic level of pre-hospital
and inter-hospital emergency care, including but not limited to, airway
management,  cardiopulmonary resuscitation, control of shock and bleeding and
splinting of fractures, as outlined in a basic emergency care course approved
by the Illinois Department of Public Health and meeting the current national
curriculum requirements of the United States Department of Transportation.
   CHANGE IN AMBULANCE. A change by either adding or removing from service an
ambulance from the list of those previously approved by the Fire Chief.
   CHANGE IN AMBULANCE SERVICE LOCATION. A change by either adding or removing
from use as part of the ambulance service storage, dispatch or maintenance
facility used in the ambulance service.
   CONTINUOUS QUALITY IMPROVEMENT. The process by which the performance of
individual ambulance service providers will be continuously monitored to ensure
compliance with operational policies with the objective of identifying areas of
improvement.
   EMERGENCY. A condition or situation in which an individual declares a need
for immediate medical attention or when that need is declared by emergency
medical personnel or a public safety official.
   EMERGENCY RESPONSE BUSINESS RECORDS. Those records kept in the ordinary
course of business which include the staff on duty for the ambulance service at
any time, records which establish the staff’s minimum qualifications required
by this subchapter, documents which record the number of responses to emergency
calls, response times to emergency calls, maintenance records of the ambulance
agency IDPH license, agency certificates of insurance, ambulance inspections
forms, Secretary of State corporation documents listing business name and all
ambulance service trade names, copies of any variance granted by IDPH, signed
mutual aid agreements and survey forms.
   EMERGENCY CALL. The request by radio, telephone, text message,
telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD), any other means of communication,
or in person for an emergency response by the Fire Department or ambulance
service.
   EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN BASIC (EMT-B). Staff or employees of an
ambulance service operating at the basic life support who has successfully
completed a course of instruction in basic life support services as required by
and is currently certified by the  Illinois Department of Public Health in
accordance with standards prescribed by the Emergency Medical Services (EMS)
Systems Act for the State of Illinois or by rules adopted pursuant to said Act,
who provides emergency medical services.
   EMERGENCY NON-TRANSPORT RESPONSE VEHICLE. Any publicly or privately-owned
vehicle that is specifically designed, constructed or modified and equipped,
and is intended to be used for, and is maintained or operated by an ambulance
service licensed in the State of Illinois and by the city for the emergency
response but is not for the transportation of persons who are sick, injured,
wounded or otherwise incapacitated or helpless.
   EMS RESPONSE RULES AND REGULATIONS. Procedures as defined by the city in
conjunction with Cecom and IDPH for the purposes of establishing ambulance
response times and the standards by which ambulances respond.
   FIRE CHIEF. The duly appointed chief of the City of Mattoon Fire Department
or the Fire Chief’s designee.
   FIRE DEPARTMENT. The Fire Department of the City of Mattoon.
   HOSPITAL. The meaning ascribed to that term in the State of Illinois
Hospital Licensing Act, as that Act is now or may hereafter be amended.
   ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH. The Department of Public Health, State
of Illinois, or its successor in function.
   THE INCIDENT COMMAND SYSTEM (ICS). The standardized approach to the command,
control, and coordination of emergency response providing a common hierarchy
within which responders from multiple agencies can be effective.
   INTERMEDIATE LIFE SUPPORT CARE. Intermediate level of pre-hospital and
inter-hospital emergency care that includes BLS care, plus intravenous
cannulation and fluid therapy, invasive airway management, trauma care, and
other authorized techniques and procedures initiated for the treatment of real
or potential acute life-threatening conditions, under the direction of a
physician licensed to practice medicine in all its branches or a pre-hospital
registered professional nurse or registered professional nurse, and where
authorized by a medical director in a Department-approved EMS system.
   MUTUAL AID AGREEMENT. An intergovernmental or interagency agreement
providing for shared and common assistance when requested by one of the member
agencies. The equipment and personnel provided by a mutual aid request may be
predetermined for a particular type of incident or determined at the time of
the request in consideration of available resources.
   PARAMEDIC (P). Staff or employees of an ambulance service operating at the
advanced life support who has successfully completed an Illinois Department of
Public Health approved course of instruction in advanced life support-mobile
intensive care services and is currently certified by the Illinois Department
of Public Health.
   POLICE CHIEF. The duly appointed Chief of the City of Mattoon Police
Department or the Police Chief’s designee.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Department of the City of Mattoon.
   PRE-HOSPITAL REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL NURSE (PHRN). A registered professional
nurse, licensed under the Nurse Practice Act (ILCS Ch. 225, Act 65, §§ 50-1 et
seq.) who has successfully completed supplemental education in accordance with
rules adopted by the Department of Financial and Professional Regulation
pursuant to the Act, and who is approved by an EMS Medical Director (EMSMD) to
practice within an EMS system, Illinois EMS system as emergency medical
services personnel for pre-hospital and inter-hospital emergency care and non-
emergency medical transports.
   REPORTING CYCLE. A one-month period for which a licensed ambulance company
must submit reports of calls to which it responded in that time period.
   SERVICES ZONE. A geographical area defined by boundaries mutually agreed to
by the City of Mattoon Chief and ambulance services and illustrated by a map.
   TRANSFER. A non-emergency transport of a patient from one location to
another.
(Ord. 2018-5406, passed 7-11-2018; Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 34.091 AMBULANCE SERVICE LICENSE.
   (A)   The total number of ambulance service licenses available to be issued
within the city shall be limited to one. The number of licenses shall be
reviewed annually by the City Council, and the number of licenses may be
increased or decreased by the City Council during such review. Prior to the
annual review by the City Council, for each existing license holder, the Fire
Chief shall review emergency response business records, written reports of
response time performance as required by this subchapter, monthly performance
data reports as required by this subchapter, and all other documents of any
kind related to a license holder's responses to emergency calls, including any
data on total number of calls and the number of calls out-of-town ambulance
services have responded to within the city limits and any other documents
deemed necessary to make a report and recommendation to the City Council
regarding the number of licenses.
   (B)   The license holder shall make its best effort to provide all such
information listed in §
34.091 to the Fire Chief within seven days of the Fire Chief’ s written
request. The failure of a license holder to provide such information to the
Fire Chief, the withholding of any portion of such information from the Fire
Chief, or the providing of false or inaccurate information to the Fire Chief
shall serve as the basis for the potential fines, suspension or revocation of
the license by the Ambulance Review Committee pursuant to §
34.113 of this subchapter, or by the City Council at the annual review.
   (C)   The Fire Chief shall review the information provided, and make a
report as to whether each license holder is following the rules of emergency
dispatch promulgated by this subchapter, following the provisions of this
subchapter, and providing timely and appropriate emergency care to the citizens
of Mattoon. The Fire Chief shall provide this report to the City Council prior
to the annual review, along with any recommendations he or she may have
relating to the increase or decrease in the number of licenses. The Fire Chief
may use the information discovered during this review to recommend to fine,
suspend or revoke the license of an existing license holder, pursuant to the
provisions of §
34.113 of this subchapter.
   (D)   Ambulance service license required; exceptions.
      (1)   Unless a license is specifically not required by this section, no
person either as owner,
agent, or otherwise shall furnish, operate, conduct, maintain, advertise, or
otherwise engage in ambulance service in the city without a current ambulance
service license issued pursuant to this subchapter by the city or in violation
of the terms or conditions of the license.
      (2)   No ambulance license is required by:
         (a)   An ambulance service which has no maintenance, dispatch or
storage facilities in the city and which does not respond to an emergency
within the city; or
         (b)   An ambulance service authorized by mutual aid or in accordance
with §
34.112.
         (c)   In the event the ambulance service operates within the city
without a license, the city may issue a notice of violation and a fine in the
minimum amount of $250 and no more than the general penalty of §
10.99 in the City of Mattoon Code of Ordinances, upon conviction.
(Ord. 2018-5406, passed 7-11-2018; Am. Ord. 2019-5422, passed 9-17-2019)
Penalty, See §
34.999
§ 34.092 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The application for license as an ambulance service shall be filed
with the Fire Chief on a form prescribed and furnished by the Fire Chief. The
application shall include but not be limited to the following information:
      (1)   Applicant’s name, address, and trade or other assumed name under
which the applicant proposes to operate the ambulance service.
      (2)   Name and address of each owner of the ambulance service or any
person or entity with more than 10% ownership.
      (3)   Description of each ambulance to be used in the operations during
the period of the license (make, model, year of manufacture, current state
license, color scheme and insignia).
      (4)   Address and location from which an ambulance or ambulances will be
operated, stored, dispatched or maintained by the ambulance service located in
the city.
      (5)   List of personnel of the ambulance service with EMT certification
and the personnel’s respective EMT certifications and required training.
      (6)   Name and phone number of the operations manager.
   (B)   An initial application for an ambulance service license shall be
accompanied by a $3,500 license fee.
(Ord. 2018-5406, passed 7-11-2018)
§ 34.093 ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for an ambulance service license, the
Fire Chief shall cause an investigation of the applicant and the proposed
operations. Such investigation shall be completed within 15 business days from
receipt of the application and license fee unless the ambulance service agrees
to an extension of time.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall approve the issuance of an ambulance service
license to the applicant unless the Fire Chief determines, after reasonable
investigation, that the applicant or the staff proposed to be used by the
applicant, or a vehicle or vehicles proposed to be used by the applicant do not
meet the requirements of this subchapter, or other provisions of this code.
   (C)   Each license shall be issued to the person named in the application
for the ambulances and locations specified in the application. The license may
not be transferred or assigned to any other person other than as indicated in §
34.100.
   (D)   A copy of each license issued by the Fire Chief shall be filed with
the City Clerk.
(Ord. 2018-5406, passed 7-11-2018)
§ 34.094 EXPIRATION OF AMBULANCE SERVICE LICENSE.
   Each license shall expire at midnight on the thirty-first day of December of
the year the license is issued for.
(Ord. 2018-5406, passed 7-11-2018)
§ 34.095 RENEWAL APPLICATION.
   (A)   A renewal application for ambulance service license shall be
accompanied by a $3,500 license fee filed with the Fire Chief on a form
prescribed and furnished by the Fire Chief no sooner than 90 days prior to the
license expiration but no later than 60 days prior to the license expiration.
Failure to submit a license renewal application within the prescribed time
period shall be grounds for denying the renewal license. The ambulance service
denied a renewal license for this reason may apply for a new license at any
time.
   (B)   An application for renewal of an ambulance service license may be
denied for the same reasons that an original application for an ambulance
service license may be denied.
   (C)   Upon receipt of a renewal, the Fire Chief shall review the operations
of the applicant within 15 business days unless the ambulance service agrees to
an extension of time.
(Ord. 2018-5406, passed 7-11-2018) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.096 AMBULANCE SERVICE OPERATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Ambulance availability, design, and equipment requirements.
   (A)   Each ambulance used or proposed to be used in a licensed ambulance
service shall meet or exceed Region 6 requirements now and hereafter as
amended.
   (B)   An ambulance shall be considered available for use by the ambulance
service if it is fully staffed, equipped, and licensed under the sole control
of the ambulance service for its sole use and it is fully operational.
   (C)   On all joint responses within the city the Fire Chief or Police Chief
shall be in command of all incidents. The ambulance service shall assimilate
into the incident command system and operate with the Medical Division under
the medical group. The ambulance service shall maintain authority and
responsibility on all patient care matters and decisions.
   (D)   Each ambulance purchased after July 11, 2018 shall meet the respective
ambulance services’ uniform color scheme and insignia.
   (E)   All ambulances licensed to operate within the city shall be equipped
with radios that have interoperable communications with other local and state
agencies.
(Ord. 2018-5406, passed 7-11-2018) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.097 EMT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   When in use for emergency calls, each ambulance shall have as
personnel in the ambulance at least one paramedic and one EMT-B or two
paramedics on all emergency calls.
   (B)   A pre-hospital registered professional nurse (PHRN) or physician may
be counted as a paramedic or EMT-B for purposes of meeting this section.
   (C)   Additional training requirements for operating within the Mattoon city
limits include the following:
      (1)   Each ambulance unit operating must be staffed by a minimum of one
paramedic trained in National Incidents Management Systems (NIMS) compliant
with certificates in IS 100, 200 and 700.
      (2)   All paramedics and EMT-Bs shall be trained annually on the Mattoon
Fire Department’s Incident Command System. Classes will be scheduled in advance
to allow the license ambulance service to attend.
      (3)   Each ambulance service shall provide a copy of documentation to the
Fire Chief or designee showing annual certification of required training.
      (4)   All licensees must certify the training of their personnel when
renewing their license. All licensees must maintain adequate documentation of
the above required training. Training records must be submitted when requested
to the Fire Chief to ensure compliance with this section.
(Ord. 2018-5406, passed 7-11-2018) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.098 FLOCATION OR CHANGE OF AMBULANCE SERVICE.
   The licensed ambulance service must be located within the city limits. A
licensed ambulance service shall notify the Fire Chief in writing prior to
changing the location of its ambulance service.
(Ord. 2018-5406, passed 7-11-2018) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.099 APPROVAL AND NOTIFICATION OF USE AND DECOMMISSIONING OF AMBULANCE.
   (A)   No person shall operate an ALS ambulance to respond to an emergency
call for or on behalf of a licensed ambulance service unless the ambulance is
approved by the Fire Chief.
   (B)   All requests for approval to use an ambulance under this section shall
be submitted in writing to the Fire Chief on a form provided by the Fire Chief.
   (C)   Once an ambulance is approved to be in service by IDPH, the Fire Chief
shall inspect the ambulance for compliance with this subchapter.
   (D)   A licensed ambulance service shall notify the Fire Chief in writing
within five business days after it permanently ceases use of an ambulance or
other emergency non-transport response vehicle.
(Ord. 2018-5406, passed 7-11-2018) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.100 CHANGE IN OWNERSHIP.
   A licensed ambulance service shall report in writing to the Fire Chief any
change in ownership, other than to immediate family members, 60 calendar days
prior to change in ownership. The Fire Chief may deny issuance of license if
the owners do not meet this code, provisions of an ordinance of the city,
state, federal law or regulation. For purposes of this section, CHANGE IN
OWNERSHIP shall mean the transfer of all or any part of an interest in a sole
proprietorship or partnership or the transfer of more than 5% of the stock of a
private corporation or 25% of the stock of a public corporation.
(Ord. 2018-5406, passed 7-11-2018) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.101 PROVISION OF AMBULANCE SERVICE REGARDLESS OF ABILITY TO PAY OR
LOCATION OF SERVICE.
   Each licensed ambulance service shall provide emergency service within the
city without regard to a person’s ability to pay for such service or the
location of requested services.
(Ord. 2018-5406, passed 7-11-2018) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.102 RESERVED.
§ 34.103 COMPLIANCE WITH EMERGENCY DISPATCH PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Each licensed ambulance service shall comply with all emergency
dispatch procedures established by Cecom.
   (B)   If for any reason a licensed ambulance service is not able to comply
with the operational requirements set forth by Cecom or in this subchapter, it
shall immediately report that status to Cecom. Cecom will be permitted to
provide this information to the Fire Chief.
   (C)   An ambulance service shall not respond to any requests for emergency
assistance unless it is in compliance with the operational requirements set
forth in this subchapter, unless specifically authorized to respond by the Fire
Chief.
   (D)   Personnel affiliated with a licensed ambulance service who wish to
respond to an emergency scene in a vehicle other than an ambulance are required
to:
      (1)   Identify their response over the Mattoon Fire Department frequency;
and
      (2)   Be in compliance with all city, state, or federal laws and
regulations in regards to emergency response; and
      (3)   Be in compliance with the current emergency medical dispatch
system.
   (E)   An ambulance service licensed to operate within the Mattoon city
limits shall have in place and utilize the current system used for emergency
medical dispatch (EMD).
   (F)   In the event the ambulance service fails to meet the emergency
dispatch procedures provided in this section, the city may issue a notice of
violation and a fine in the minimum amount of $250 and no more than the general
penalty of §
10.99, in the City of Mattoon Code of Ordinances, upon conviction.
(Ord. 2018-5406, passed 7-11-2018) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.104 MONITORING EMERGENCY DISPATCH CALL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any ambulance service to respond in the City
of Mattoon to a call for an ambulance made by the Mattoon Fire Department,
Mattoon Police Department or Cecom unless a specific request is directed to the
ambulance service, commonly known as call jumping.
   (B)   In the event the ambulance service responds to an emergency dispatch
call in a manner other than as provided in this section, the city may issue a
notice of violation and a fine in the minimum amount of $250 and no more the
general penalty of §
10.99, in the City of Mattoon Code of Ordinances, upon conviction.
(Ord. 2018-5406, passed 7-11-2018) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.105 IMMEDIATE EMERGENCY RESPONSE REQUIRED.
   Each licensed ambulance service shall immediately respond to any emergency
call for an ambulance directed to that ambulance service and originated by the
Police or Fire Department or any such Department’s official dispatching agency.
If the licensed ambulance service is not able to immediately respond to the
emergency or is not able to respond with an appropriate or requested level of
service, the licensed ambulance service shall immediately report this situation
to the agency and shall follow the directions of that agency regarding the
response.
(Ord. 2018-5406, passed 7-11-2018) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.106 RESPONSE TIMES.
   Response time performance is a key measurement of performance. This
measurement is the determining factor which drives the placement and
redeployment of the system’s resources throughout the entire system. Each
incident will be counted as a single response regardless of the number of units
that respond. Every ambulance service licensed to operate within the Mattoon
city limits shall meet the following response criteria on all calls dispatched
from Cecom:
   (A)   Response times shall be calculated from the hour, minute and second
the call is given by the dispatching agency to the ambulance service, to the
hour, minute and second the ambulance service’s ALS transport unit arrives on
scene.
   (B)   The ALS ambulance shall arrive at the scene of all advanced life
support (ALS) calls as defined by the emergency medical dispatch system within
eight minutes of the time the call was received by the ambulance service from
the dispatching agency. This time criterion must be met on at least 90% of all
such calls received during each calendar month. This applies to all ALS units
on code response.
   (C)   Any ambulance service licensed to operate within the Mattoon city
limits shall provide to the Fire Chief or designee a written monthly report of
response time performance within 30 days from the end of the months reporting
period.
(Ord. 2018-5406, passed 7-11-2018) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.107 PENALTY FOR FAILURE TO MEET RESPONSE TIME STANDARDS.
   (A)   The Fire Chief shall monitor the response times to ensure compliance
with §
34.106.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall recommend fines, suspensions or revocations to
the Ambulance Review Committee in accordance with this section for failure to
comply with §
34.106.
 
Violation                              Fines
Failure to comply with response time   Written warning
standards (first violation)
Failure to comply with response time
standards within 365 days of the       $500
written warning
Failure to comply with response time
standards within 365 days of receiving $750
the previous violation
Failure to comply with response time   $750 or possible suspension or
standards for the fourth time within   revocation of license
365 days of the previous violation
Failure to comply with monthly data    $500 per month, until data is reported
reporting                              to the Fire Chief
Failure to comply with reporting       $500 per month, until training and
training and certification standards   certification standards are reported to
                                       the Fire Chief
 
   (C)   Response time exemptions. Late responses may be excused by the Fire
Chief from financial penalties and from response time compliance reports, for
example:
      (1)   Failure by dispatching agency to give accurate location information
(including address or cross street) to responding unit.
      (2)   Weather conditions which impair visibility or create other unsafe
driving conditions.
      (3)   Wrong address provided by the requesting party.
      (4)   Unavoidable delays caused by road construction or blocked railroad
crossings.
(Ord. 2018-5406, passed 7-11-2018)
§ 34.108 FAILURE TO RESPOND TO CALL.
   Failure to respond to a 911 call due to lack of available ambulances or
transferring the call to another ambulance service may be considered an
incident where the response time was not met.
(Ord. 2018-5406, passed 7-11-2018)
§ 34.109 RESERVED.
§ 34.110 AUTHORITY TO PROMULGATE AMBULANCE OPERATION EMERGENCY DISPATCH
PROCEDURES.
   The Mattoon City Council is hereby granted the authority to promulgate rules
and regulations for governing the emergency dispatch of ambulances in order to
promote the safe response of ambulances in an emergency. These rules and
regulations shall not conflict with IDPH and Cecom guidelines.
(Ord. 2018-5406, passed 7-11-2018)
§ 34.111 RIGHT TO INSPECT AMBULANCES.
   The Fire Chief shall have the right to inspect at any reasonable time all
ALS ambulances and associated equipment used by a licensed ambulance service.
(Ord. 2018-5406, passed 7-11-2018)
§ 34.112 FIRE CHIEF’S RIGHT TO AUTHORIZE SERVICE BY UNLICENSED VEHICLES.
   In the case of an emergency where the number of licensed ambulances
available is determined by the Fire Chief to be insufficient to render the
required emergency ambulance service, the Fire Chief may authorize non-licensed
vehicles which meet IDPH requirements to operate as ambulances in response to
the emergency.
(Ord. 2018-5406, passed 7-11-2018)
§ 34.113 FINES, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The Fire Chief may recommend to the Ambulance Review Committee fines,
suspension or revocation of the license of a licensed ambulance service for any
violations of the provisions of this chapter or any rules or regulations
promulgated to implement the provisions of this subchapter, in accordance with
the provisions of this subchapter or any amendment thereto.
   (B)   The Ambulance Review Committee shall review all the information
presented by the Fire Chief and then make a determination if the fine,
suspension or revocation is warranted and notify the ambulance service of its
findings.
(Ord. 2018-5406, passed 7-11-2018) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.114 JOINT TRAINING.
   Joint training between Fire Department personnel and ambulance service
personnel shall be required for multi-casualty events, Maydays, and live burns.
The Fire Chief shall use his or her best effort to coordinate dates and time to
accommodate all parties involved.
§ 34.115 REQUIRED DATA REPORTING.
   (A)   Licensed ambulance services shall report performance data on a monthly
basis to the Fire Chief. The data shall include but not be limited to:
      (1)   Response time performance.
      (2)   Other information directly related to any licensing requirement of
this chapter.
   (B)   Joint emergency responses by the Fire Department and ambulance service
shall be critiqued for continuous quality improvement/assurance data when the
need arises.
(Ord. 2018-5406, passed 7-11-2018) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.116 TERMINATION OF LICENSE.
   Any ambulance service that plans to cease operations and terminate service
shall make their best effort to notify the city in writing, no less than 180
days from the termination date.
(Ord. 2018-5406, passed 7-11-2018) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.117 ANNUAL LICENSE FEE REVIEW.
   The annual license fee shall be reviewed by the Fire Chief every year and a
report of such review with recommendations shall be submitted to the City
Council.
(Ord. 2018-5406, passed 7-11-2018)
§ 34.118 APPEAL RIGHT.
   (A)   Any denial, suspension, or revocation of a new or renewal license
under this subchapter may be appealed to the City Council by written notice
filed with the City Clerk within ten days of the effective date of such denial,
suspension, or revocation. A suspension or revocation of a license under this
subchapter shall be stayed pending appeal.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall notify the appellant in writing of the date for
the hearing on the appeal. The written notice shall be either served on the
appellant personally on or before five days before the hearing, or by placing
it in a sealed envelope, addressed to the appellant at the address set forth in
the application, and depositing it with the United States Postal Service,
proper first class postage prepaid, on or before seven days before the hearing.
The Mayor may, but is not required to, serve the written notice by certified or
registered mail, as set forth above.
   (C)   The City Council shall conduct a hearing on the appeal within 14 days
of receipt of the written notice of appeal by the City Clerk, at which hearing
the appellant may present witnesses or other evidence opposing the denial,
suspension or revocation. The Fire Chief and/or Ambulance Review Committee may
also present witnesses or other evidence supporting the denial, suspension or
revocation. Both parties shall have the right to cross-examine witnesses. A
record of the hearing shall be made.
   (D)   The City Council shall determine whether the preponderance of the
evidence presented at the hearing supported the decision of the Fire Chief and/
or Ambulance Review Committee to deny, suspend or revoke the license of the
appellant.
   (E)   The City Council shall issue a written decision setting forth its
findings regarding the evidence presented at the hearing, and the decision to
affirm or overrule the decision of the Fire Chief and/or Ambulance Review
Committee. The City Council shall serve a copy of its written decision on the
appellant and the Fire Chief and/or Ambulance Review Committee in writing. The
written decision shall be either served on the parties personally on or before
five days after the date of the hearing, or by placing it in a sealed envelope,
addressed to the respective parties at the address set forth in the application
and at the enforcement officer’s ordinary business address, and depositing it
with the United States Postal Service, proper first class postage prepaid, on
or before five days after the hearing. The City Council may, but is not
required to, serve the written decision by certified or registered mail, as set
forth above.
   (F)   The written decision of the City Council shall be considered a final
decision.
(Ord. 2018-5406, passed 7-11-2018)
§ 34.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person to be found in violation of §§
34.070 through
34.079, shall be assessed a fine in accordance with the general penalty of §
10.99 upon conviction.
   (B)   Any person to be found in violation of §§
34.091 through
34.104, shall be assessed a fine in accordance with the general penalty of §
10.99 upon conviction.
(Ord. 99-4974, passed 1-5-1999; Am. Ord. 2009-5281, passed 9-15-2009; Am. Ord.
2018-5406, passed 7-11-2018)
CHAPTER 35: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Fees and charges
   
35.02   Municipal and fiscal year
   
35.03   Checks; facsimile signatures
   
35.04   Depositories
   
35.05   Investment policy
Purchasing Policies and Procedures
   
35.15   Purpose
   
35.16   Policies
   
35.17   Ethics
   
35.18   Purchase authority
   
35.19   Advertising for bids
   
35.20   Invoice processing
   
35.21   Purchasing procedures
   
35.22   Joint purchasing
   
35.23   Service contracts
   
35.24   Budget amendments
   
35.25   Bond; failure to enter into
   
35.26   Special clauses in contracts
   
35.27   Payment on contract
   
35.28   Contractual liabilities, limitation
   
35.29   Procurements using federal grants
Revolving Loan Fund Lending and Management Procedures
   
35.35   Revolving Loan Fund Committee
   
35.36   Activities
   
35.37   Meetings
   
35.38   Recommendations to City Council
   
35.39   Revolving Loan Fund goals and objectives
   
35.40   Revolving Loan Fund strategy
Budget Officer; Annual Budget
   
35.50   Enabling statutes adopted
   
35.51   Appointment of Budget Officer
   
35.52   Powers and duties of Budget Officer
   
35.53   Compilation and contents of budget
   
35.54   Passage of annual budget
   
35.55   Capital improvement, repair or replacement fund
   
35.56   Revision of annual budget
   
35.57   Funds for contingency purposes
   
35.58   Public inspection, notice and hearing on budget
   
35.59   Abandonment of budget procedures
Interfund Loans
   
35.70   Interfund loans within the Pooled Cash Fund
   
35.71   Other interfund loans
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 FEES AND CHARGES.
   The following lists fees and charges and other information related to
permits and licenses required by the city.
   (A)   Liquor control.
Class of License Fee
Class of License                                        Fee
A, Tavern license                                       $1,500
Initial/new license holder fee                          $5,000
A-NVG, Tavern Non-Video Gaming license                  $1,500
Initial/new license holder fee                          $5,000
B-1, Package license                                    $1,300
Initial/new license holder fee                          $5,000
B-2, Bowling and Hotel license                          $1,500
B2-NVG, Bowling and Hotel Non-Video Gaming license      $1,500
B-3                                                     $5,000
C, Club license                                         $500
D-1, Food, Beer and Wine license                        $800
D-2, Convenience license                                $1,000
Initial/new license holder fee                          $2,500
MWD, Microbrewery, Winery, or Distillery license        $1,400
R, Restaurant license                                   $1,500
T-2, Special Event; T-3, Off- Premise Special Event     $100/day
Caterer                                                 $500
Outdoor Caf                                             $100
VGPS, Video Gaming Parlor Supplementary (if applicable) $10,000
 
   (B)   Police.
(1)   Accident reports                             $5.00
    Standard accident report                       $20.00
    VHS/CD reproduction
(2)   Bonding fees (all)                           $25.00
(3)   Criminal records                             $2.00
    Offense reports (1 or 2 pages)                 $1.00
    Each additional page                           $25.00
    Access & review charge (fingerprints required)
(4)   Faxes                                        $2.00
    First page                                     $1.00
    Each additional page
(5)   Photocopying (per page)                      $.75
(6)   Photos                                       $5.50
    5" x 7" color                                  $7.00
    8" x 10" color                                 $3.50
    5" x 7" black & white                          $5.00
    8" x 10" black & white                         $5.00
    compact disc (each)
(7)   Sex offender registration                    $100.00
    Initial registration                           $100.00
    Annually thereafter
(8)   Fingerprint cards/backgrounds                $25.00
(9)   Tow service rotation fee                     $250.00
(10)   Parking fines                               $20.00
    If paid within 72 hours                        $25.00
If paid after 72 hours
(11)   Impound fee
    If paid within 48 hours                        $150.00
Thereafter an additional $10 per day shall be imposed
 
   (C)   Public works.
 
Yard Waste Facility Fees for Private Contractors
Annual pass                $650/year
Pick-up truck              $10/load
Single axle dumpbody truck $50/load
Tandem axle dumpbody truck $100/load
Semi trailer               $200/load
Trailers will be charged as the nearest conventional load size equivalent
listed above.
 
   (D)   Fire.
      (1)   Fire protection services outside corporate limits.
         (a)   $250 per hour for each Fire Department vehicle involved in the
incident.
         (b)   $70 per hour for each Fire Department employee dispatched for
such services.
         (c)   All hourly charges shall be rounded to the nearest 1/4 hour with
the time calculated from the time that the trucks and fire fighters are
dispatched from the fire station until the trucks and fire fighters return to
the fire station.
         (d)   Minimum charges of $425 shall be assessed for all motor vehicle
collisions.
         (e)   Minimum of $275 is assessed for all motor vehicle fires not
incidental to a motor vehicle collision.
         (f)   All charges shall be due 30 days from the date of the statement,
with 1 1/2% per month late penalty to be charged and collected.
         (g)   Billing procedures for fees to be assessed pursuant to this
section shall be the responsibility of the Fire Chief.
      (2)   Emergency rescue service charges.
         (a)   $650 charge shall be assessed for any vehicle accident that
requires extrication.
         (b)   Residents of the city shall pay $732.79 plus $18 per mile from
the scene to the hospital emergency room for basic life support, "BLS",
treatment.
         (c)   Residents of the city shall pay $1,012 plus $18 per mile from
the scene to the hospital emergency room for advanced life support, "ALS",
treatment.
         (d)   Non-residents of the city shall pay $915.99 plus $18 per mile
from the scene to the hospital emergency room for basic life support, "BLS",
treatment.
         (e)   Non-residents of the city shall pay $1,265.29 plus $18 per mile
from the scene to the hospital emergency room for advanced life support, "ALS",
treatment.
         (f)   Patients shall be charged for advanced life support non-
transport services rendered. Rates for this service shall be $100 for residents
and $150 for a non-resident.
         (g)   The fee for non-emergency standby service to any commercial
enterprise shall be $100 per hour with the exception of special events
authorized by the city administration or the Fire Department and Mattoon
Community Unit #2 sporting events.
         (h)   Resident and non-resident public service calls will be assessed
a charge of $50 per incident, after exceeding four requests per calendar year
at the discretion of the Fire Chief.
         (i)   Ambulance fees shall be evaluated on an annual basis and
adjusted if deemed necessary by the city.
         (j)   The use of any medical equipment by an outside agency may result
in the requesting agency being billed $150 per incident for the equipment. The
fee will be billed directly to the agency requesting the equipment.
   (E)   Community development.
      (1)   Schedule of construction permit fees.
Type of Construction Rate Computation Minimum Fee
Type of Construction              Rate Computation                 Minimum Fee
New construction and additions    Gross area x square foot
exclusive of gas, plumbing,       construction cost index x 0.004  $40 (b)
mechanical, electrical and other  (a)
fees presented on these schedules
Alterations and remodeling        Est. construction costs x 0.004  $40 (b)
Mechanical, HVAC systems & gas    Est. construction costs x 0.004  $40 (b)
systems
Plumbing systems                  Est. construction costs x 0.004  $40 (b)
Water and sewer service renewals  Lump sum                         $40 (b)
Demolition permits                Lump sum                         $25 (b)
Fence construction permits        Lump sum                         $25 (c)
Boulevard, curb and street cut    Lump sum                         $50 (b)
permits:
Additional fee by type of cut
Curb cut                          Lump sum                         $60 (b)
Sidewalk cut                      Lump sum                         $60 (b)
Alley cut                         Lump sum                         $60 (b)
Street cut                        Lump sum                         $250 (b)
Only the $50 minimum fee is
assessed when areas cut are
restored by the property owner,
his or her contractor
Electrical systems                See                              See
                                  35.01(E)(2)                      35.01(E)2
Accessory dwelling unit relative  Lump sum                         $100
permit
Accessory dwelling unit rental    Lump sum                         $500
permit
 
Notes:
         (a)   The International Code Council publishes the Construction Cost
Index, which is usually updated every six months. It reflects average square
foot construction costs based upon typical construction methods for each
occupancy group and type of construction. Whether a specific project is bid at
a cost above or below the index value does not affect the permit fee. This
establishes a “level playing field” for all potential project bidders.
   Square Foot Construction Costs a, b, c, d
Group (2024 International Building Code) IA IB IIA IIB IIIA IIIB IV VA VB
February 2024
Group (2024 International Building Code)                IA     IB     IIA    IIB    IIIA   IIIB   IV     VA     VB
February 2024
A-1   Assembly, theaters, with stage                 330.56 318.80 309.39 297.20 277.71 269.67 287.04 258.79 248.89
A-1   Assembly, theaters, without stage              303.49 291.73 282.32 270.13 250.88 242.84 259.97 231.96 222.06
A-2   Assembly, nightclubs                           272.51 264.43 256.91 248.19 232.76 226.12 239.28 211.57 204.72
A-2   Assembly, restaurants, bars, banquet halls     271.51 263.43 254.91 247.19 230.76 225.12 238.28 209.57 203.72
A-3   Assembly, churches                             308.01 296.25 286.84 274.65 255.52 247.48 264.49 236.60 226.71
A-3   Assembly, general, community halls, libraries, 258.66 246.90 236.50 225.30 205.06 198.01 215.15 186.13 177.24
museums
A-4   Assembly, arenas                               302.49 290.73 280.32 269.13 248.88 241.84 258.97 229.96 221.06
B   Business                                         289.51 279.23 269.21 257.82 235.42 227.07 247.91 210.39 200.78
E   Educational                                      276.33 266.73 258.30 247.60 231.08 219.28 239.09 202.46 195.97
F-1   Factory and industrial, moderate hazard        160.20 152.78 143.34 138.64 123.55 117.41 132.48 102.44 95.93
F-2   Factory and industrial, low hazard             159.20 151.78 143.34 137.64 123.55 116.41 131.48 102.44 94.93
H-1   High hazard, explosives                        149.46 142.04 133.60 127.90 114.12 106.97 121.74 93.00  0.00
H234   High hazard                                   149.46 142.04 269.21 127.90 114.12 106.97 121.74 93.00  85.50
H-5   HPM                                            289.51 279.23 269.21 257.82 235.42 227.07 247.91 210.39 200.78
I-1   Institutional, supervised environment          262.22 252.95 244.31 235.67 215.42 209.47 235.71 193.82 187.73
I-2   Institutional, hospitals                       455.16 444.88 434.86 423.47 399.17 0.00   413.57 374.14 0.00
I-2   Institutional, nursing homes                   315.97 303.75 293.73 282.34 261.43 0.00   272.44 236.40 0.00
I-3   Institutional, restrained                      338.01 327.73 317.71 306.32 285.40 276.05 296.41 260.38 248.77
I-4   Institutional, day care facilities             262.22 252.95 244.31 235.67 215.42 209.47 235.71 193.82 187.73
M   Mercantile                                       203.29 195.21 186.69 178.98 163.28 157.64 170.06 142.09 136.24
R-1   Residential, hotels                            264.67 255.41 246.77 238.13 218.35 212.40 238.17 196.75 190.67
R-2   Residential, multiple family                   221.32 212.06 203.42 194.78 175.96 170.01 194.82 154.36 148.28
R-3   Residential, one- and two-family               209.61 203.74 198.94 195.12 188.41 181.45 191.77 175.86 165.67
R-4   Residential, care/assisted living facilities   262.22 252.95 244.31 235.67 215.42 209.47 235.71 193.82 187.73
S-1   Storage, moderate hazard                       148.46 141.04 131.60 126.90 112.12 105.97 120.74 91.00  84.50
S-2   Storage, low hazard                            147.46 140.04 131.60 125.90 112.12 104.97 119.74 91.00  83.50
U   Utility, miscellaneous                           114.09 107.37 99.89  95.60  85.13  79.54  90.99  67.39  64.19
 
   a.   Private garages use Utility, miscellaneous
   b.   For shell only buildings deduct 20%
   c.   N.P. = not permitted
   d.   Unfinished basements (Group R-3) - $31.50 per sq. ft.
   The fees listed above, if in conflict with the same fees now contained in
this code, shall have precedence.
         (b)   Any person who commences work without obtaining a permit before
the commencement shall be in violation of Chapter 150 and shall pay a permit
fee twice the amount of the fee listed in this chapter and could be liable to
further penalties. (Emergency repairs shall be reported the next business day.)
         (c)   Any person who shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter or replace
any fence, without obtaining a permit before the commencement of work shall be
in violation of this chapter, shall pay a permit fee of $40 and subject to
penalties in accordance with § 10.99.
      (2)   Schedule of electrical permit fees.
         (a)   Fees for branch circuits shall not exceed the cost of new
service fees for the locations at the rate of $22.50 per circuit.
         (b)   For temporary electrical services, $25 residential, $50
commercial.
         (c)   For extending or otherwise altering a circuit, $10.
         (d)   For hooking up a manufactured home or mobile home, $50.
         (e)   For work commencing before permit issuance except for emergency
situations, standard permit fee doubles.
         (f)   For existing services or residential electrical services as
defined by C. 334.10 of the City of Mattoon Electrical Code:
Service Ampere Rating Fee
Service Ampere Rating Fee
100 ampere service    $50
200 ampere service    $80
400 ampere service    $200
600 ampere service    $300
800 ampere service    $400
1,000 ampere service  $500
1,200 ampere service  $600
1,600 ampere service  $800
2,000 ampere service  $1,000
2,500 ampere service  $1,250
3,000 ampere service  $1,500
4,000 ampere service  $2,000
5,000 ampere service  $2,500
6,000 ampere service  $3,000
 
         (g)   For branch service from existing panels:
 
60 ampere or less $30
100 ampere        $40
200 ampere        $80
400 ampere        $100
600 ampere        $150
800 ampere        $300
1,000 ampere      $400
 
         (h)   For service ratings other than those appearing above, the fee
shall be that of the next largest size. All services larger than 6,000 amps
shall be computed at the rate of$10 per kW.
         (i)   For new “commercial construction” and/or existing commercial
structures requiring current transformer metering (321 Ampere or above) as
defined by C. 334.10(1) of the City of Mattoon Electrical Code, the fee will be
calculated at $1 per amp. Services over 6,000 amps shall be calculated per
division (h) above.
         (j)   The foregoing fees shall cover all wiring complete with
fixtures, devices and all associated equipment installed by the permit holder
for the wiring of the building, structure or premises except subsequently
stand-by emergency generators, which require a separate permit.
         (k)   For subsequently installed stand-by generators up to 50kW the
fee shall be $100. This fee shall cover all wiring and equipment required for
the stand-by generator. For generators larger than 50kW the fee will be
calculated at $0.50 per kW.
         (l)   For fire alarm system installation, the permit fee shall be $50.
This fee shall cover all wiring and equipment required for the Fire Alarm
System.
         (m)   When additional inspections are necessary, to remedy a
reoccurring deficiency or error, due to inaccurate or incorrect information,
failure to make necessary repairs, or faulty installations, a charge of $75 per
hour shall be made for each such inspection.
         (n)   All fees shall be made payable to the City of Mattoon and
deposited with the Finance Department before a permit shall be issued.
      (3)   Schedule of sign permit fees.
 
Sign Size                        Fee
(a)   00-24 square feet       $12
(b)   25-48 square feet       $24
(c)   49-72 square feet       $36
(d)   73-96 square feet       $48
(e)   larger than 96 square fe$60
 
      (4)   Zoning ordinance fees.
 
Action                  Fee
Variance                $200
Special use permit      $300
Zoning map amendment    $300
Zoning text change      $200
Planned use development $500
 
   (F)   Finance [reserved].
   (G)   Administration.
      (1)   Auctioneer: $10 per day or $50 per year.
      (2)    Billiard or pool table: $25 per table.
      (3)   Bowling alley: $15 per alley per month or $20 per alley per year.
      (4)   Handbill distributor: $10 per day.
      (5)   Itinerant merchant or transient vendor: $200 per month.
      (6)   Junk dealer: $200 per year.
      (7)   Pawnbroker: $150 per year.
      (8)   Peddler or hawker: One day: $250; One week: $500; One month:
$1,000. However, no license fee for any person selling or peddling goods grown
or produced by the person.
      (9)   Roller skating rink: $50 per year.
      (10)   Second-hand dealer: $50 per year, excluding those dealing in
household furniture only.
      (11)   Video gaming machines: $250 per year for each machine.
      (12)   Quit claim deeds and replacement cemetery deeds: $30 per deed.
      (13)   Birth certificates fees are $18 for the first copy and $5 for each
additional copy.
      (14)   Death certificates fees are $20 for the first copy and $10 for
each additional copy, including the $4 fee remitted to the Illinois Department
of Financial and Professional Regulations (IDFPR) as mandated by Public Act 92-
0141. External corrections of death certificates are assessed an additional $10
fee for the correction and reprinting purposes.
      (15)   Standard copies are $0.25 per page for non-governmental agencies;
however, FOIA fees effective January 1, 2010 are $0.15 per page, but only after
the first 50 pages.
      (16)   Faxed copies are $2 for the first page and $1 for each additional
page, to include FOIA.
      (17)   Standard mailing fees apply for each request.
      (18)   Notary service $1 for each signature; however, Mattoon residents
are exempt.
      (19)   Document charges.
Strategic plan         $15
Zoning map             $30
Zoning ordinance       $15
Sub-division ordinance $10
Electrical ordinance   $7.50
Comprehensive plan     $20
General plan update    $15
TIF I-57               $26.25
Audit reports          $10
Other reports          $0.15 per page
 
      (20)   Garbage hauler: collector license $ 100 per year.
      (21)   Garbage hauler vehicles Class A & B: $100 per year per vehicle.
      (22)   Motorized boats: $60; applies to all motorized boat or craft that
may be lawfully kept or used at Lake Mattoon and Lake Paradise.
      (23)   Non-motorized boats: $10; includes trolling motors.
      (24)   Space/facility rentals: may be reserved one year in advance.
DeMars Fee
DeMars                                                                    Fee
8:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.                                                    $60
4:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m.                                                   $90
8:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m.                                                   $150
Damage deposit                                                            $100
Pavilion
Reservation (per section -3 sections)                                     $15
Bandshell
Reservation                                                               $25
Damage deposit                                                            $50
Lawson
No reservations                                                           $0
Burgess-Osborne
8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.                                                    $50
(No alcohol)
4:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m.                                                   $75
(No alcohol)
8:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m.                                                   $125
(No alcohol)
8:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m.                                                   $400
(Special event with alcohol)
Damage deposit (Auditorium only, no alcohol, no access to changing rooms) $100
Damage deposit (Special event with alcohol, and/or access to changing     $400
rooms)
 
         (a)    Cancellation fee: no refunds within 30 days of reservation
date.
         (b)   Reservation must be paid within 14 days of reserving.
      (25)   Taxicab fees: each taxicab operator shall pay an annual operator’s
license fee of $100. In addition to the operator’s license fee, a license fee
of $100 shall be paid for each taxicab operated up to and including the first
three, and thereafter a license fee of $50 for each taxicab over three so
operated. Each license shall designate the motor and serial number of each cab.
      (26)   Fireworks vendors: each fireworks vendor shall pay a vendor fee of
$2,500 per location.
   (H)   Recreation and cemetery.
      (1)   Campgrounds.
Lake Mattoon East Campground Rental Fee
Lake Mattoon East Campground Rental Fee
                                        Standard lot: $2,100 plus electricity
Seasonal rate (April 15 through October and water
15)                                     Premium lot: $2,300 plus electricity
                                        and water
Electricity - seasonal rate             Actual metered usage, $13.50 per month
                                        minimum
Water                                   $90 ($15 per month)
Winter boat storage                     $150
Extra boat trailer storage at site -    $25
monthly
Tent                                    $20
2nd tent extra people                   $15
Late fee - rent and seasonal dock       $100
Late fee - utilities                    $25
Reconnect fee                            
   after 4 p.m.                      $50
   8 a.m. - 4 p.m. M-F               $25
 
Lake Mattoon Campground West Rental Fee
Lake Mattoon Campground West Rental Fee
Seasonal rate plus electricity - standard lot $1,600
Seasonal plus electricity - premium lot       $1,800
Daily tent rate                               $20
2nd tent - extra people                       $15
Seasonal boat docks                           $300
                                              April 15 to October 15
Late fee - rent                               $100
                                              April 15 to October 15
Late fee - utilities                          $25
                                              April 15 to October 15
 
 
Boat Registration Fee
Per motorized boat     $75
Per non-motorized boat $10
 
 
Sea Wall Barge Permit Fee
Per barge             $500
Pavilion rental daily $50
Return check fee      $25
 
      (2)   Dodge Grove Cemetery.
            1.   Adult grave spaces, not otherwise specifically provided for:
$565.
            2.   Infant grave spaces: $260.
            3.   Military veteran spaces in Section 7 - Division H: $260.
            4.   North/south spaces in Section 15 - Division A (NW): No longer
available.
            5.   Turf level spaces in Section 18 - Division E: $465.
            6.   Pauper spaces in Section 8 - Division F: $180.
            7.   Mausoleum crypt spaces, except top tier: $1,390.
            8.   Top tier mausoleum crypt spaces: $1,185.
         (b)   Charges for opening graves shall be as follows.
            1.   Weekday grave openings: $720.
            2.   Weekday grave openings for paupers: $552.
            3.   Grave openings on Saturdays: $1,000.
            4.   Grave openings on Sundays and holidays: $1,200.
            5.   Weekday openings for infants: $285.
            6.   Weekday cremations: $410.
            7.   Openings for infants and cremations on Saturdays: $565.
            8.   Openings for infants and cremations on Sundays and holidays:
$800.
         (c)   Charges for providing foundations for monuments and mausoleums
are as follows.
            1.   Monument foundations: $55 per foot of length.
            2.   Twenty foot sidewalk: $880.
            3.   Above ground single mausoleum: $695.
            4.   Above ground double mausoleum: $1,360.
         (d)   The charges for miscellaneous services provided by the cemetery
staff are as follows.
            1.   Disinterments or reinterments - in ground burial: $1,235.
            2.   Disinterments or reinterments - from niche or cremations above
or below ground burial: $410
            3.   Trimming shrubs on grave sites: $20 minimum plus $40/hour.
            4.   Dirt for landscaping grave sites: $25/cubic yard.
            5.   Miscellaneous labor services (regular time): $40/hour.
            6.   Overtime labor services (weekdays): $55/hour.
            7.   Overtime labor services (weekends and holidays): $60/hour.
         (e)   Charge for purchase of and placing ashes into an opening in the
cremation niche shall be $650.
      (3)   Farmers market.
 
 
Farmers Market Feet
Reserved section per season - prepaid, non-refundable per space $100
Non-reserved section per week - non- refundable per space       $5
 
      (4)   Duck blind.
 
Duck Blind Application Fee
Duck blind application fee - non-refundable per application $50
 
   (I)   Tourism.
      (1)   Bagelfest fees per vendor: includes a ten-foot by 12-foot space and
electricity.
         (a)   Commercial vendors   $225
         (b)   Craft vendors (private)    $100
         (c)   Food vendors   $300
         (d)   Not for profit vendors    $50
      (2)   Fourth of July/fireworks fees per vendor contract: includes a ten-
foot by 12-foot space and electricity.
         (a) Food vendors   $100
(Ord. 2009-5292, passed 4-6-2010; Am. Ord. 2010-5293, passed 4-6-2010; Am. Ord.
2010-5307, passed 8-17-2010; Am. Ord. 2010-5308, passed 8-17-2010; Am. Ord.
2011-5315, passed 2-22-2011; Am. Ord. 2011-5328, passed 10-4-2011; Am. Ord.
2011-5339, passed 12-6- 2011; Am. Ord. 2012-5344, passed 2-7-2012; Am. Ord.
2012-5351, passed 4-17-2012; Am. Ord. 2012-5355, passed 5-15-2012; Am. Ord.
2013-5360, passed 3-19-2013; Am. Ord. 2013-5363, passed 8-20-2013; Am. Ord.
2014-5370, passed 7-1-2014; Am. Ord. 2015-5374, passed 3-3-2015; Am. Ord. 2015-
5376, passed 4-21-2015; Am. Ord. 2016-5386, passed 4-5-2016; Am. Ord. 2017-
5395, passed 3-21-2017; Am. Ord. 2017-5401, passed 12-19-2017; Am. Ord. 2018-
5404, passed 4-3-2018; Am. Ord. 2018-5405, passed 4-17-2018; Am. Ord. 2018-
5406, passed 7-11-2018; Am. Ord. 2019-5415, passed 4-16-2019; Am. Ord. 2019-
5420, passed 8-20- 2019; Am. Ord. 2021-5439, passed 4-20-2021; Am. Ord. 2022-
5447, passed 2-1-2022; Am. Ord. 2022-5451, passed 4-19-2022; Am. Ord. 2024-
5478, passed 3-19-2024; Am. Ord. 2024-5479, passed 4-16-2024; Am. Ord. 2024-
5482, passed 8-20-2024; Am. Ord. 2024-5484, passed 11-19-2024; Am. Ord. 2025-
5495, passed 5-20-2025)
§ 35.02 MUNICIPAL AND FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year or the municipal year for the city shall begin on the first
day of May of each year and end on the last day of April of the following year.
('68 Code, § 2.19) (Ord. 3524, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 89-4609, passed 5-1-1989;
Am. Ord. 2001-5061, passed 5-1-2001)
§ 35.03 CHECKS; FACSIMILE SIGNATURES.
   The Mayor, City Treasurer and City Clerk of the city are hereby authorized
to sign checks issued by the city by stamping thereon facsimile signatures. At
least one signature on every check issued by the City of Mattoon shall bear an
original signature of the City Treasurer or City Clerk.
(‘68 Code, § 2.53) (Res. 1228, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-
2025)
§ 35.04 DEPOSITORIES.
   (A)   All banks and financial institutions with facilities within the city
limits are hereby designated depositories in which the funds and moneys of the
city, in the custody of the City Treasurer, may be deposited.
   (B)   No bank herein designated as a depository shall be qualified to
receive such funds or moneys until it has furnished the city with copies of the
two last sworn statements of resources and liability, which such bank is
required to furnish to the Auditor of Public Accounts, or to the Comptroller of
Currency.
   (C)   Each bank designated as depository for such funds or moneys shall
furnish the City Council with a copy of all bank statements, which it is
required to furnish to the Auditor of Public Accounts, or the Comptroller of
Currency, while acting as such depository.
   (D)   If such funds or moneys are deposited in a bank herein designated as a
depository, the amounts of such deposits shall not exceed 75% of the capital
stock and surplus of such banks, and the City Treasurer shall not be discharged
from responsibility for any such funds or moneys deposited in any bank in
excess of such limitation.
   (E)   The depositories mentioned herein have furnished that body with copies
of their past two statements as furnished to the Comptroller of Currency, or
Auditor of Public Accounts, which statements are approved and accepted.
   (F)   In addition to depositories defined by this section, the City
Treasurer may deposit funds and money of the city in investment accounts
managed by the Illinois State Treasurer.
(Res. 2001-2423, passed 5-1-2001; Am. Ord. 2005-5203, passed 5-3-2005)
§ 35.05 INVESTMENT POLICY.
   (A)   Policy.  It is the policy of the city to invest public funds in a
manner which will provide the highest investment return with the maximum
security while meeting the daily cash flow demands of the city and conforming
to all federal, state and local statutes governing the investment of public
funds.
   (B)   Scope. This policy includes all funds governed by the City Council.
   (C)   Prudence. Investments shall be made with judgment and care, under
circumstances then prevailing, which persons of prudence, discretion and
intelligence exercise in the management of their own affairs, not for
speculation, but for investment, considering the probable safety of their
capital, as well as the probable income to be derived. The standard of prudence
to be used by investment officials shall be the "prudent person" standard and
shall be applied in the context of managing an overall portfolio.
   (D)   Objective.  
      (1)   The primary objective, in order of priority, shall be:
         (a)   Legality - conformance with federal, state and other legal
requirements.
         (b)   Safety - preservation of capital and protection of investment
principal.
         (c)   Liquidity - maintenance of sufficient liquidity to meet
operating requirements.
         (d)   Yield - attainment of market rates of return.
      (2)   The portfolio shall be reviewed annually as to its effectiveness in
meeting the city's needs for safety, liquidity, rate of return, diversification
and its general performance.
   (E)   Delegation of authority. Management and administrative responsibility
for the investment program is hereby delegated to the Treasurer who, under the
delegation of the City Council, shall establish written procedures for the
operation of the investment program.
   (F)   Ethics and conflicts of interest. Officers and employees involved in
the investment process shall refrain from personal business activity that could
conflict with the proper execution and management of the investment program, or
that could impair their ability to make impartial decisions.
   (G)   Authorized financial dealers and institutions. The City Council will
maintain a list of financial institutions authorized to provide investment
services. In addition, a list will also be maintained of approved security
brokers/dealers selected by credit worthiness.
   (H)   Authorized and suitable investments. Investments may be made in any
type of security allowed for in Illinois statutes regarding the investment of
public funds. Investments shall be made that reflect the cash flow needs of the
fund type being invested.
   (I)   Collateralization. Funds on deposit (checking accounts, certificates
of deposit, etc.) in excess of FDIC limits must be secured by some form of
collateral, witnessed by a written agreement and held at an independent third
party institution in the name of the municipality.
   (J)   Safekeeping and custody. All security transactions, including
collateral for repurchase agreements, entered into by the city, shall be
conducted on a delivery-versus-payment (DVP) basis. Securities will be held by
an independent third party ustodian designated by the Treasurer and evidenced
by safekeeping receipts and a written custodial agreement.
   (K)   Diversification. The city shall diversify its investments to the best
of its ability based on the type of funds invested and the cash flow needs of
those funds. Diversification can be by type of investment, number of
institutions invested in, and length of maturity.
   (L)   Maximum maturities. To the extent possible, the city shall attempt to
match its investments with anticipated cash flow requirements. Unless matched
to a specific cash flow, the city will not directly invest in securities
maturingmore than two years from the date of purchase. Reserve funds may be
invested in securities exceeding ten years if the maturity of such investments
are made to coincide as nearly as practicable with the expected use of the
funds.
   (M)   Internal control. The Treasurer is responsible for establishing and
maintaining an internal control structure designed to insure that the assets of
the city are protected from loss, theft or misuse. The internal control
structure shall be designed to provide reasonable assurance that these
objectives are met. The internal controls shall address the following points:
      (1)   Control of collusion.
      (2)   Separation of transaction authority from accounting (if possible).
      (3)   Custodial safekeeping.
      (4)   Written confirmation of telephone transactions for investments and
wire transfers.
   (N)   Performance standards. This investment portfolio will be managed in
accordance with the parameters specified within this policy. The portfolio
should obtain a comparable rate of return during a market/economic environment
of stable interest rates. Portfolio performance should be compared to
benchmarks with similar maturity, liquidity and credit quality as the
portfolio.
   (O)   Reporting. The Treasurer shall prepare an investment report at least
monthly. The report should be provided to the City Council and available on
request. The report should be in a format suitable for review by the general
public. An annual report should also be provided to the City Council.
   (P)   Marking to market. A statement of the market value of the portfolio
shall be issued to the City Council quarterly.
   (Q)   Investment policy adoption. The investment policy shall be adopted by
the City Council. The policy shall be reviewed on an annual basis by the
Treasurer and any modifications made thereto must be approved by the City
Council.
(Ord. 2007-5238, passed 9-18-2007)
PURCHASING POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
§ 35.15 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of these procedures is to provide direction to the operating
departments in the procurement of goods. When necessary, these procedures will
be revised consistent with current policies and procedures affecting purchasing
and contracting. All personnel will use the procedures so that optimum
efficiency can be obtained in acquiring goods and services.
(Ord. 2011-5318, passed 4-5-2011)
§ 35.16 POLICIES.
   The purchasing standards and procedures set forth herein are designed to:
   (A)   Attain maximum economy in municipal operations to the ultimate
advantage of local taxpayers and residents;
   (B)   Provide equal opportunity for qualified vendors to serve city needs;
   (C)   To exercise fiscal control over purchasing through the use of
procedures;
   (D)   To obtain supplies, equipment and services for the city at the lowest
possible cost;
   (E)   To provide timely and convenient service to our residents.
(Ord. 2011-5318, passed 4-5-2011)
§ 35.17 ETHICS.
   Guidelines set forth in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-9-1 shall apply. No
purchases for personal use will be tolerated.
(Ord. 2011-5318, passed 4-5-2011)
§ 35.18 PURCHASE AUTHORITY.
   (A)   In general, all supplies, materials, equipment and contractual/
professional services required for operational efficiency will have been
included in the annual budget.
   (B)   Purchase of same as required during the fiscal year shall proceed in
accordance with these procedures upon approval of the annual budget by the City
Council.
   (C)   Department directors may authorize purchases, as identified in the
operating budget, up to $9,999.99. The City Manager, or his/her designee, must
approve all purchases in excess of $10,000. Purchases in excess of $25,000
require City Council approval.
   (D)   Each department director of the city shall be responsible for its own
department’s purchasing needs in strict compliance with the procedures set
forth herein.
   (E)   The City Manager, or his/her designee, is responsible for determining
if an item is budgeted, if adequate funds are available and if the proper
purchasing procedures have been followed.
   (F)   If a budgeted expenditure is to be financed by an anticipated grant,
the expenditure shall not be authorized until the grant is actually received or
the City Council has authorized an agreement that assures reimbursement.
   (G)   Contracts for a public improvement or for the maintenance of the
public property of the municipality that will exceed $25,000 may only be
authorized by a contract let to the lowest responsible bidder after advertising
for bids. The specifications for such contracts shall be formally approved by
the City Council before the contract is advertised for bids. The City Council
may waive the bidding process when deemed necessary.
   (H)   Procurements of supplies and services need not be formally advertised
for bids, but departmental directors shall endeavor to locally shop the
procurement, choose from a pre-approved vendor list and assure that the
municipality is receiving the best value for its expenditures.
   (I)   Department directors may authorize expenditures exceeding individual
line item amounts in the approved budget with the prior approval of the City
Manager. A formal budget amendment with City Council approval at a regular or
special meeting, at the time of the transaction or by the end of the fiscal
year, shall be required in all of the following circumstances:
      (1)   For any deviation that would increase the number of full or part-
time positions authorized by the budget;
      (2)   For any deviation from the approved budget that will exceed the
“bottom line” established for total departmental expenditures;
      (3)   For any deviation from the approved budget that will transfer money
between funds; and
      (4)   For expenditures valued greater than $25,000, regardless if the
project or program has been authorized in the approved budget.
   (J)   Procurements shall not be broken up into less expensive transactions
to avoid the expenditure approval limitations prescribed by this policy.
(Ord. 2011-5318, passed 4-5-2011; Am. Ord. 2020-5426, passed 2-4-2020; Am. Ord.
2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 35.19 ADVERTISING FOR BIDS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
35.16, the City Clerk shall advertise procurement contracts for bid at least
once in at least one newspaper of general circulation within the municipality.
Such notice shall contain a statement of the nature, character and extent of
the procurement, referring to specifications on file, at the City Clerk’s
office, and the time and place of the bid opening.
   (B)   The right to reject any or all bids received and the right to award
the procurement to the bidder determined most advantageous to the municipality
shall be contained in the bidding specifications and published with the
advertisement for bids.
   (C)   Bids may be advertised in other forms of vendor communication devoted
to such services and/or sent to vendors who have registered for providing
services and/or commodities to the municipality at the discretion of
departmental directors.
   (D)   Advertising of procurements shall not be required when services and
commodities are acquired pursuant to joint purchasing agreements with other
entities that advertise and seek competitive bids on behalf the municipality.
(Ord. 2011-5318, passed 4-5-2011)
§ 35.20 INVOICE PROCESSING.
   (A)   Generally, the payment process for invoices received shall not be
initiated until such time as goods or services are received and accepted by the
department initiating the purchase. Exceptions to this practice may include
pre-payment of dues and subscriptions, expenses associated with conferences or
training seminars, insurance premiums, certain service contracts and other
purchases where pre-payment is approved by the City Manager.
   (B)   Invoices received directly by Administration will be promptly
forwarded to the department initiating the purchases. In the interest of
expediting payments to vendors, at the time of the order, departments may
request vendors to remit invoices directly to the attention of their
department. It is the responsibility of the department initiating the purchase
to ensure all invoices have been processed and forwarded to the Assistant
Finance Director for payment.
   (C)   All invoices submitted for payment must be approved by the department
director responsible for the purchase. In the absence of the department
director, invoices may be approved by the department director’s immediate
subordinate.
   (D)   Invoices shall be submitted with the account number, the department
director’s initials and date. The Treasurer or City Manager reserve the right
to change the account number charged if he/she believes that the nature of the
goods or services purchased are not properly classified.
   (E)   All approved invoices presented for payment as part of the next
Schedule of Bills must be received by the Finance Department no later than 12
noon on the Wednesday preceding the following Tuesday’s Council meeting.
Invoices received after 12 noon on Wednesday the week prior to a Council
meeting will not be paid until the next regularly scheduled Council meeting.
   (F)   A final copy of the Schedule of Bills will be reviewed by the
Treasurer and provided to the City Manager’s office no later than 1:00 p.m. on
the Friday preceding a City Council meeting.
   (G)   Following City Council approval of invoices, all payments will be
promptly mailed to vendors unless otherwise specified in writing by a
department director. Checks may be held for vendor pick-up following the
Council meeting if prior arrangements are made by the vendor. Unless the
vendor’s representative picking up the check is personally known to city staff,
then the vendor must be notified, they must specify the representative and the
representative will need to show identification before release of the check.
(Ord. 2011-5318, passed 4-5-2011; Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 35.21 PURCHASING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Purchases less than $5,000.
      (1)   Purchases in this category can best be described as those day to
day purchases needed to perform a job or service.
      (2)   Department directors are responsible for the purchases made by
personnel within their department. They may delegate this purchasing authority
to subordinates, but still bear responsibility that these procedures are
followed.
      (3)   Although day to day purchasing will be done without prior approval,
the responsibility still exists for making the most economical purchases. Spot
price checks and surveys must be made from time to time to ensure that the
price being paid is the best price available and that the quality is the best
that is required.
      (4)   Day to day purchasing shall be made through that vendor who offers
the best usable product at the lowest price. Also, accepting deliveries shall
rate preference over picking up where no delivery charges are involved and
there is no immediate need for the item.
      (5)   Invoices are forwarded to the Finance Department with account code,
initials and date for processing.
   (B)   Purchases in excess of $5,000 but less than $10,000.
      (1)   Every effort shall be taken to secure at least three quotations
before deciding on a suggested vendor. The requesting department shall secure
the quotations themselves.
      (2)   In the event that a department director feels that a purchase under
this category should be made from one certain vendor rather than through
quotations, he/she should submit a memo to the City Manager stating the reasons
for the certain vendor preference.
   (C)   Purchases in excess of $10,000.
      (1)   All paperwork for such purchases must be approved by signature of
the City Manager or his/her designee.
      (2)   All other general purchasing policies will apply.
   (D)   Purchases in excess of $25,000.
      (1)   City ordinance requires that all purchases made from one vendor for
the particular item or like types of items exceeding a cost of $25,000 must be
accomplished through formal bidding procedures or by a bid waiver approved by
the City Council. The splitting of a purchase into two or more purchase orders
for the purpose of avoiding the bidding process is not allowed.
      (2)   In certain circumstances it may be felt by the department director
and/or City Manager that the best interests of the city would be served by a
purchase from one particular vendor despite the amount of the purchase being in
excess of $25,000. In such case, a request to waive competitive bidding must be
submitted to the City Council for their consideration and approval.
      (3)   If it is found that an emergency condition exists and a purchase in
excess of $25,000 must be made to remedy the emergency condition, the
department director may make such purchase if verbally authorized by the City
Manager. The department director must report the purchase to the City
Administration by memorandum as expeditiously as possible relating the full
facts concerning the emergency and the costs incurred. A report shall then be
sent to the City Council for their action as may be required. An emergency
condition is described as a condition where the health and/or welfare of the
city or its residents are affected.
   (E)   Petty cash.
      (1)   Petty cash drawers are maintained by the city at the City Clerk’s
office ($200), Police Department ($300), and Finance Department ($300) for the
purpose of reimbursing incidental costs incurred for city operations.
      (2)   The Finance Department’s cash drawer maintains a cash balance of
$400 for the sole purpose of making change for transactions at the cash
register. This drawer is balanced daily as part of the end of the day close
process.
      (3)   Petty cash funds will be used primarily to reimburse employees for
incidental expenses associated with bona fide city operations. Advances may be
requested upon the approval of the department director.
      (4)   All requests for petty cash reimbursement must be submitted with
appropriate receipts and documentation supporting the amount of the request.
All requested information must be completed prior to making any disbursements
including date of request, payee, account number to be charged, amount due,
signature of requestor and a description of the nature of the expense.
      (5)   Unless otherwise authorized by the City Manager or his/her
designee, petty cash reimbursements shall be limited to no more than $50 per
request. Separate requests for one purchase exceeding $50 will not be accepted.
      (6)   Responsibility for the safety, security and proper control of each
petty cash drawer rests with the head of the department to which the drawer is
assigned. Each department director may assign the day to day duties of petty
cash administration to an appropriate custodian. All reimbursements made by the
petty cash custodian must be dated and include the initials of the custodian
disbursing the funds. Advances should be clearly marked on the request and
marked out and revised to the correct total once the proper change is returned
with the receipt.
      (7)   When the balance of the drawer is getting low, the designated
custodian shall prepare a reconciliation of the petty cash fund providing a
count of cash currently in the box as well as a detailed listing of petty cash
reimbursement slips received. Any discrepancies must be documented and reported
to the Treasurer.
      (8)   Unannounced audits of petty cash drawers may be made at any time by
the Treasurer or his/her designee.
   (F)   Declared emergency purchases. If an “emergency” has been declared by
the Mayor, the following guidelines will be observed:
      (1)   Any employee designed by their department director may make
purchases up to $500 in estimated cost;
      (2)   Those emergency purchases with an estimated cost of $500 to $1,000
require the verbal approval of the department director or a designee prior to
expenditure;
      (3)   Those emergency purchases with an estimated cost of $1,000 to
$10,000 for goods and services and up to $25,000 for Public Works construction
or MFT funded projects require the verbal approval of the City Manager or a
designee prior to expenditure;
      (4)   Those purchases in excess of $10,000 for goods and services and
$25,000 for Public Works construction or MFT funded projects; the City Manager
is required to ask the Mayor for approval prior to expenditure. If the Mayor is
unavailable, the City Manager will be authorized to enter into an emergency
purchase with follow-up notification to the Mayor and City Council.
(Ord. 2011-5318, passed 4-5-2011; Am. Ord. 2020-5426, passed 2-4-2020; Am. Ord.
2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 35.22 JOINT PURCHASING.
   (A)   It should be duly noted that joint purchasing should be encouraged
whenever possible.
   (B)   Certain items are annually let for bids by the Procurement Division of
the State of Illinois. Any unit of government in the state may avail themselves
of these bid prices. Purchasing through State Purchasing may satisfy the
requirements for bidding even though the purchases may be in excess of $25,000.
Purchases in excess of $25,000 require City Council approval.
(Ord. 2011-5318, passed 4-5-2011; Am. Ord. 2020-5426, passed 2-4-2020)
§ 35.23 SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   (A)   From time to time, the city enters into contracts for essential
services. The purpose of these contracts is varied and is often entered into
without bids. When bids are waived, a contract is entered into through
negotiations or acceptance of a proposal from the vendor who wishes to supply
the service. It must be remembered that in most cases where bids are waived,
the same legal requirements as in a bid situation still apply.
   (B)   All contracts, to be valid, must be signed by an authorized
representative of the company to supply the services and an authorized
representative of the city. The City Manager, or any authorized department
director may enter into a contract for the city provided that all applicable
procedures such as formal bidding, bid waivers, quotations, and the like have
been met. Copies of the contract are to be immediately forwarded to the City
Clerk and Treasurer to be filed.
(Ord. 2011-5318, passed 4-5-2011; Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 35.24 BUDGET AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The City Manager, as Budget Officer, is authorized to adjust the
budget within the fund or department level as long as the total impact of the
changes do not exceed the original budget for the department or fund. The City
Council must approve all changes that will exceed the total original budget for
a department or fund by ordinance.
   (B)   The City Manager and Treasurer will meet with department directors at
the halfway mark of the fiscal year (after October monthly reports are issued),
again after nine months and at the end of the year to discuss actual fiscal
results compared to the budget. Based on the analysis of the actual revenues
and expenditures, all necessary budget amendments will be documented by
department directors. Generally, line items that are expected to exceed the
budget by greater than $1,000 will be adjusted given that a corresponding line
item can be reduced so that the total budget of the department is not exceeded.
   (C)   All proposed changes that will exceed the originally passed department
budget or fund budget must be presented in ordinance form to the City Council
for approval.
(Ord. 2011-5318, passed 4-5-2011; Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 35.25 BOND; FAILURE TO ENTER INTO.
   The performance of the contract awarded shall be secured by a sufficient
bond. The sufficiency of the bonds, checks or drafts offered in connection with
bids or contracts entered into in pursuance of bids accepted, shall be
determined by the City Manager and City Attorney. In the event of the failure
of any bidder to enter into contract and bond as may be required in said notice
or specifications within ten days after the award has been made by the Council,
or officers aforesaid, the award may be cancelled and the bid of the next
lowest responsible bidder accepted, or all bids may then be rejected and the
Clerk authorized to re-advertise for proposals.
(Ord. 2011-5318, passed 4-5-2011; Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 35.26 SPECIAL CLAUSES IN CONTRACTS.
   A contract shall contain special clauses covering in substance the
following:
   (A)   That it is executed subject to the ordinances of the city (when
letting is pursuant to an ordinance).
   (B)   That the Mayor or other authorized officer of the city may suspend the
work, and the City Council may annul the contract for the failure of the
contractor to perform it according to its terms, provided that such suspension
or annulment shall not affect the right to cover damages on account of such
nonperformance.
   (C)   That no payment shall be made, or liability incurred, under such
contract for any extra work not specified therein, unless agreed to in advance
and in writing by the city.
(Ord. 2011-5318, passed 4-5-2011; Am. Ord. 2011-5319, passed 4-12-2011)
§ 35.27 PAYMENT ON CONTRACT.
   All contracts may provide for the retention by the city of at least 10% of
the contract price until the final completion and acceptance. Partial payments
may be made every month as the work progresses upon the detailed statements of
the contractor, sworn to, certified and approved in the manner provided for the
filing and payment of claims.
(Ord. 2011-5318, passed 4-5-2011; Am. Ord. 2011-5319, passed 4-12-2011)
§ 35.28 CONTRACTUAL LIABILITIES, LIMITATION.
   No contract shall be made by the Council or by any committee or member
thereof, and no expense shall be incurred by any of the officers or departments
of the city, whether the object of the expenditure has been ordered by the
Council or not, unless an appropriation has been previously made concerning
that contract or expense. Any contract made, or any expense otherwise incurred,
in violation of the provisions of this section shall be null and void as to the
city, and no money belonging thereto shall be paid on account thereof. However,
pending the passage of the annual appropriation ordinance for any fiscal year,
the Council may authorize heads of departments or other separate agencies of
the city to make necessary expenditures for the support thereof upon the basis
of the appropriations of the preceding fiscal year. However, if it is
determined by two-thirds vote of the Council at a regularly scheduled meeting
of the Council that it is expedient and in the best public interest to begin
proceedings for the construction of a needed public work, then the provisions
of this section shall not apply to the extent that the Council may employ or
contract for professional services necessary for the planning and financing of
such public work.
(Ord. 2011-5318, passed 4-5-2011)
§ 35.29 PROCUREMENTS USING FEDERAL GRANTS.
   (A)   General procurement standards.
      (1)   The city shall use its own documented procurement procedures which
reflect applicable state, local, and tribal laws and regulations, provided that
the procurements conform to applicable federal law and the standards identified
in this section.
      (2)   The city shall maintain oversight to ensure that contractors
perform in accordance with the terms, conditions, and specifications of their
contracts or purchase orders.
      (3)   (a)   The city shall maintain written standards of conduct covering
conflicts of interest and governing the actions of its employees engaged in the
selection, award and administration of contracts. No employee, officer, or
agent shall participate in the selection, award, or administration of a
contract supported by a federal award if he or she has a real or apparent
conflict of interest. Such a conflict of interest would arise when the
employee, officer, or agent, any member of his or her immediate family, his or
her partner, or an organization which employs or is about to employ any of the
parties indicated herein, has a financial or other interest in or a tangible
personal benefit from a firm considered for a contract. The officers,
employees, and agents of the city shall neither solicit nor accept gratuities,
favors, or anything of monetary value from contractors or parties to
subcontracts. Officers, employees, or agents of the city shall abide by the
Ethics Policy and the Gift Ban Act policy set forth by the city.
         (b)   All affiliate, or subsidiary organizations that are not a state,
local government, or Indian tribe shall also maintain written standards of
conduct covering organizational conflicts of interest. Organizational conflicts
of interest means that because of relationships with an affiliate, or
subsidiary organization, the city is unable or appears to be unable to be
impartial in conducting a procurement action involving a related organization.
      (4)   The city’s procedures shall avoid acquisition of unnecessary or
duplicative items. Consideration should be given to consolidating or breaking
out procurements to obtain a more economical purchase. Where appropriate, an
analysis will be made of lease versus purchase alternatives, and any other
appropriate analysis to determine the most economical approach.
      (5)   To foster greater economy and efficiency, and in accordance with
efforts to promote cost-effective use of shared services across the federal
government, the city encourages entering into state and local intergovernmental
agreements or inter-entity agreements where appropriate for procurement or use
of common or shared goods and services.
      (6)   The city encourages the use of federal excess and surplus property
in lieu of purchasing new equipment and property whenever such use is feasible
and reduces project costs.
      (7)   The city encourages the use of value engineering clauses in
contracts for construction projects of sufficient size to offer reasonable
opportunities for cost reductions. Value engineering is a systematic and
creative analysis of each contract item or task to ensure that its essential
function is provided at the overall lower cost.
      (8)   The city shall award contracts only to responsible contractors
possessing the ability to perform successfully under the terms and conditions
of a proposed procurement. Consideration will be given to such matters as
contractor integrity, compliance with public policy, record of past
performance, and financial and technical resources.
      (9)   The city shall maintain records sufficient to detail the history of
procurement. These records will include, but are not necessarily limited to the
following: rationale for the method of procurement, selection of contract type,
contractor selection or rejection, and the basis for the contract price.
      (10)   (a)   The city may use a time and materials type contract only
after a determination that no other contract is suitable and if the contract
includes a ceiling price that the contractor exceeds at its own risk. Time and
materials type contract means a contract whose cost to a city is the sum of:
            1.   The actual cost of materials; and
            2.   Direct labor hours charged at fixed hourly rates that reflect
wages, general and
administrative expenses, and profit.
         (b)   Since this formula generates an open-ended contract price, a
time-and-materials contract provides no positive profit incentive to the
contractor for cost control or labor efficiency. Therefore, each contract must
set a ceiling price that the contractor exceeds at its own risk. Further, the
city awarding such a contract must assert a high degree of oversight in order
to obtain reasonable assurance that the contractor is using efficient methods
and effective cost controls.
      (11)   The city alone shall be responsible, in accordance with good
administrative practice and sound business judgment, for the settlement of all
contractual and administrative issues arising out of procurements. These issues
include, but are not limited to, source evaluation, protests, disputes, and
claims. These standards do not relieve the city of any contractual
responsibilities under its contracts. The federal awarding agency will not
substitute its judgment for that of the city unless the matter is primarily a
federal concern. Violations of law will be referred to the local, state, or
federal authority having proper jurisdiction.
   (B)   Competition.
      (1)   All procurement transactions shall be conducted in a manner
providing full and open competition consistent with the standards of this
section. In order to ensure objective contractor performance and eliminate
unfair competitive advantage, contractors that develop or draft specifications,
requirements, statements of work, or invitations for bids or requests for
proposals shall be excluded from competing for such procurements. Some of the
situations considered to be restrictive of competition include but are not
limited to:
         (a)   Placing unreasonable requirements on firms in order for them to
qualify to do business;
         (b)   Requiring unnecessary experience and excessive bonding;
         (c)   Noncompetitive pricing practices between firms or between
affiliated companies;
         (d)   Noncompetitive contracts to consultants that are on retainer
contracts;
         (e)   Organizational conflicts of interest;
         (f)   Specifying only a “brand name” product instead of allowing “an
equal” product to be offered and describing the performance or other relevant
requirements of the procurement; and
         (g)   Any arbitrary action in the procurement process.
      (2)   The city shall conduct procurements in a manner that prohibits the
use of statutorily or administratively imposed state, local, or tribal
geographical preferences in the evaluation of bids or proposals, except in
those cases where applicable federal statutes expressly mandate or encourage
geographic preference. Nothing in this section preempts state licensing laws.
When contracting for architectural and engineering (A/E) services, geographic
location may be a selection criterion provided its application leaves an
appropriate number of qualified firms, given the nature and size of the
project, to compete for the contract.
      (3)   The city shall have written procedures for procurement
transactions. These procedures must ensure that all solicitations:
         (a)   Incorporate a clear and accurate description of the technical
requirements for the material, product, or service to be procured. Such
description shall not, in competitive procurements, contain features which
unduly restrict competition. The description may include a statement of the
qualitative nature of the material, product or service to be procured and, when
necessary, must set forth those minimum essential characteristics and standards
to which it must conform if it is to satisfy its intended use. Detailed product
specifications should be avoided if at all possible. When it is impractical or
uneconomical to make a clear and accurate description of the technical
requirements, a “brand name or equivalent” description may be used as a means
to define the performance or other salient requirements of procurement. The
specific features of the named brand which must be met by offers must be
clearly stated; and
         (b)   Identify all requirements which the offerors must fulfill and
all other factors to be used in evaluating bids or proposals.
      (4)   The city shall ensure that all prequalified lists of persons,
firms, or products which are used in acquiring goods and services are current
and include enough qualified sources to ensure maximum open and free
competition. Also, the city shall not preclude potential bidders from
qualifying during the solicitation period.
   (C)   Methods of procurement to be followed. The city shall use one of the
following methods of procurement.
      (1)   Procurement by micro-purchases. Procurement by micro-purchase is
the acquisition of supplies or services, the aggregate dollar amount of which
does not exceed the micro-purchase threshold. To the extent practicable, the
city shall distribute micro-purchases equitably among qualified suppliers.
Micro-purchases may be awarded without soliciting competitive quotations if the
city considers the price to be reasonable.
      (2)   Procurement by small purchase procedures. Small purchase procedures
are those relatively simple and informal procurement methods for securing
services, supplies, or other property that do not cost more than the simplified
acquisition threshold. If small purchase procedures are used, price or rate
quotations shall be obtained from an adequate number of qualified sources.
      (3)   Procurement by sealed bids (formal advertising). Bids are publicly
solicited and a firm fixed price contract (lump sum or unit price) is awarded
to the responsible bidder whose bid, conforming with all the material terms and
conditions of the invitation for bids, is the lowest in price. The sealed bid
method is the preferred method for procuring construction, if the conditions in
division (C)(3)(a) below apply.
         (a)   In order for sealed bidding to be feasible, the following
conditions should be present:
            1.   A complete, adequate, and realistic specification or purchase
description is available;
            2.   Two or more responsible bidders are willing and able to
compete effectively for the business; and
            3.   The procurement lends itself to a firm fixed price contract
and the selection of the successful bidder can be made principally on the basis
of price.
         (b)   If sealed bids are used, the following requirements apply:
            1.   Bids shall be solicited from an adequate number of known
suppliers, providing them sufficient response time prior to the date set for
opening the bids, for local, and tribal governments, the invitation for bids
must be publicly advertised;
            2.   The invitation for bids, which will include any specifications
and pertinent attachments, shall define the items or services in order for the
bidder to properly respond;
            3.   All bids shall be opened at the time and place prescribed in
the invitation for bids, and the bids shall be opened publicly;
            4.   A firm fixed price contract award shall be made in writing to
the lowest responsive and responsible bidder. Where specified in bidding
documents, factors such as discounts, transportation cost, and life cycle costs
shall be considered in determining which bid is lowest. Payment discounts shall
only be used to determine the low bid when prior experience indicates that such
discounts are usually taken advantage of; and
            5.   Any or all bids may be rejected if there is a sound documented
reason.
      (4)   Procurement by competitive proposals. The technique of competitive
proposals is normally conducted with more than one source submitting an offer,
and either a fixed price or cost-reimbursement type contract is awarded. It is
generally used when conditions are not appropriate for the use of sealed bids.
If this method is used, the following requirements apply:
         (a)   Requests for proposals shall be publicized and identify all
evaluation factors and their relative importance. Any response to publicized
requests for proposals shall be considered to the maximum extent practical;
         (b)   Proposals shall be solicited from an adequate number of
qualified sources;
         (c)   The city shall have a written method for conducting technical
evaluations of the proposals received and for selecting recipients;
         (d)   Contracts shall be awarded to the responsible firm whose
proposal is most advantageous to the program, with price and other factors
considered; and
         (e)   The city may use competitive proposal procedures for
qualifications-based procurement of architectural/engineering (A/E)
professional services whereby competitors’ qualifications are evaluated and the
most qualified competitor is selected, subject to negotiation of fair and
reasonable compensation. The method, where price is not used as a selection
factor, can only be used in procurement of A/E professional services. It cannot
be used to purchase other types of services though A/E firms are a potential
source to perform the proposed effort.
      (5)   Reserved.
      (6)   Procurement by noncompetitive proposals. Procurement by
noncompetitive proposals is procurement through solicitation of a proposal from
only one source and may be used only when one or more of the following
circumstances apply:
         (a)   The item is available only from a single source;
         (b)   The public exigency or emergency for the requirement will not
permit a delay resulting from competitive solicitation;
         (c)   The federal awarding agency or pass-through entity expressly
authorizes noncompetitive proposals in response to a written request from the
city; or
         (d)   After solicitation of a number of sources, competition is
determined inadequate.
   (D)   Contracting with small and minority businesses, women’s business
enterprises, and labor surplus area firms.
      (1)   The city shall take all necessary affirmative steps to assure that
minority businesses, women’s business enterprises, and labor surplus area firms
are used when possible.
      (2)   Affirmative steps must include:
         (a)   Placing qualified small and minority businesses and women’s
business enterprises on solicitation lists;
         (b)   Assuring that small and minority businesses, and women’s
business enterprises are solicited whenever they are potential sources;
         (c)   Dividing total requirements, when economically feasible, into
smaller tasks or quantities to permit maximum participation by small and
minority businesses, and women’s business enterprises;
         (d)   Establishing delivery schedules, where the requirement permits,
which encourage participation by small and minority businesses, and women’s
business enterprises;
         (e)   Using the services and assistance, as appropriate, of such
organizations as the Small Business Administration and the Minority Business
Development Agency of the Department of Commerce; and
         (f)   Requiring the prime contractor, if subcontracts are to be let,
to take the affirmative steps listed in division (D)(1)(a) through (e) above.
   (E)   Contract cost and price.
      (1)   The city shall perform a cost or price analysis in connection with
every procurement action in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold
including contract modifications. The method and degree of analysis is
dependent on the facts surrounding the particular procurement situation, but as
a starting point, the city shall make independent estimates before receiving
bids or proposals.
      (2)   The city shall negotiate profit as a separate element of the price
for each contract in which there is no price competition and in all cases where
cost analysis is performed. To establish a fair and reasonable profit,
consideration must be given to the complexity of the work to be performed, the
risk borne by the contractor, the contractor’s investment, the amount of
subcontracting, the quality of its record of past performance, and industry
profit rates in the surrounding geographical area for similar work.
      (3)   Costs or prices based on estimated costs for contracts under the
federal award are allowable only to the extent that costs incurred or cost
estimates included in negotiated prices would be allowable for the city under
this division (E). The city may reference its own cost principles that comply
with the federal cost principles.
      (4)   The cost plus a percentage of cost and percentage of construction
cost methods of contracting shall not be used.
   (F)   Federal awarding agency or pass-through entity review.
      (1)   The city shall make available, upon request of the federal awarding
agency or passthrough entity, technical specifications on proposed procurements
where the federal awarding agency or pass-through entity believes such review
is needed to ensure that the item or service specified is the one being
proposed for acquisition. This review generally will take place prior to the
time the specification is incorporated into a solicitation document. However,
if the city desires to have the review accomplished after a solicitation has
been developed, the federal awarding agency or pass-through entity may still
review the specifications, with such review usually limited to the technical
aspects of the proposed purchase.
      (2)   The city shall make available upon request, for the federal
awarding agency or passthrough entity pre-procurement review, procurement
documents, such as requests for proposals or invitations for bids, or
independent cost estimates, when:
         (a)   The city’s procurement procedures or operation fails to comply
with the procurement standards in this division (F);
         (b)   The procurement is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition
threshold and is to be awarded without competition or only one bid or offer is
received in response to a solicitation;
         (c)   The procurement, which is expected to exceed the simplified
acquisition threshold, specifies a “brand name” product;
         (d)   The proposed contract is more than the simplified acquisition
threshold and is to be awarded to other than the apparent low bidder under a
sealed bid procurement; or
         (e)   A proposed contract modification changes the scope of a contract
or increases the contract amount by more than the simplified acquisition
threshold.
      (3)   The city is exempt from the pre-procurement review in division (F)
(2) above if the federal awarding agency or pass-through entity determines that
its procurement systems comply with the standards of this division (F).
         (a)   The city may request that its procurement system be reviewed by
the federal awarding agency or pass-through entity to determine whether its
system meets these standards in order for its system to be certified.
Generally, these reviews must occur where there is continuous high-dollar
funding, and third party contracts are awarded on a regular basis;
         (b)   The city may self-certify its procurement system. Such self-
certification shall not limit the federal awarding agency’s right to survey the
system. Under a self-certification procedure, the federal awarding agency may
rely on written assurances from the city that it is complying with these
standards. The city shall cite specific policies, procedures, regulations, or
standards as being in compliance with these requirements and have its system
available for review.
   (G)   Bonding requirements. For construction or facility improvement
contracts or subcontracts exceeding the simplified acquisition threshold, the
federal awarding agency or pass-through entity may accept the bonding policy
and requirements of the city provided that the federal awarding agency or
passthrough entity has made a determination that
the federal interest is adequately protected. If such a determination has not
been made, the minimum requirements must be as follows:
      (1)   A bid guarantee from each bidder equivalent to five percent of the
bid price. The “bid guarantee” shall consist of a firm commitment such as a bid
bond, certified check, or other negotiable instrument accompanying a bid as
assurance that the bidder will, upon acceptance of the bid, execute such
contractual documents as may be required within the time specified.
      (2)   A performance bond on the part of the contractor for 100% of the
contract price. A “performance bond” is one executed in connection with a
contract to secure fulfillment of all the contractor’s obligations under such
contract.
      (3)   A payment bond on the part of the contractor for 100% of the
contract price. A “payment bond” is one executed in connection with a contract
to assure payment as required by law of all persons supplying labor and
material in the execution of the work provided for in the contract.
   (H)   Contract provisions. The city’s contracts shall contain the applicable
provisions described in Appendix II to Part 200—Contract Provisions for City
Contracts Under Federal Awards.
(Ord. 2018-5409, passed 10-16-2018)
REVOLVING LOAN FUND LENDING AND MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES
§ 35.35 REVOLVING LOAN FUND COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Established. There is hereby established a Revolving Loan Fund
Committee, to consist of five persons each appointed to two-year terms, with
two of such persons’ terms ending on April 30 of odd-numbered years and three
of such person’s terms ending on April 30 of even-numbered years. Persons
appointed to the Revolving Loan Committee shall be persons having economic
development qualifications or experience. Candidates shall be recommended by
the Mayor and confirmed by majority vote of the City Council. One member of the
Committee shall be a representative of the Mattoon Area Industrial Development
Corporation. When a vacancy occurs on the Committee, the Mayor shall seek
nominations for replacement committee members from the Coles Together Economic
Development Corporation and the Mattoon Chamber of Commerce.
      (1)   The Executive Directors of the Coles Together Economic Development
Corporation and the Mattoon Chamber of Commerce are ex officio non-voting
members of the Committee.
      (2)   The City Manager is the ex officio non-voting Chair of the
Committee.
      (3)   The City Attorney is an ex officio, non-voting member of the
Committee. In the absence of the City Manager, the City Attorney is the ex
officio non-voting Chair of the Committee.
      (4)   The City Clerk shall provide staffing for the Committee, unless the
City Council authorizes a third party contractual agreement for administration
and coordination of the Revolving Loan Fund.
   (B)   Conflict of interest. No person appointed to the Committee shall
participate in any decision with respect to any loan application or other
business brought before the Committee by or from any person with whom that
committee member has had a significant business relationship within two years
prior to the issue being presented to the Committee. Further, committee members
shall not consider any loan application from any person with whom the Committee
member is related by blood or marriage.
   (C)   Rules of procedure. The Revolving Loan Fund Committee shall follow
Roberts Rules of Order.
(Ord. 2003-5163, passed 6-17-2003; Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 35.36 ACTIVITIES.
   The Revolving Loan Fund Committee shall be responsible for the receipt and
due consideration of applications for loans from the Revolving Loan Fund. The
Committee shall not have the power to make final decisions with respect to the
business of the Revolving Loan Fund, but shall have the power to make
recommendations to the City Council regarding Revolving Loan Fund business. The
Committee and the City Council shall be governed by prudent business practices
regarding the business of the Revolving Loan Fund.
(Ord. 2003-5163, passed 6-17-2003)
§ 35.37 MEETINGS.
   The Revolving Fund Loan Committee shall meet not less than once each quarter
and at such other times as business may require.
(Ord. 2003-5163, passed 6-17-2003)
§ 35.38 RECOMMENDATIONS TO CITY COUNCIL.
   The Revolving Fund Loan Committee shall make specific recommendations to the
City Council with respect to loan application procedures, investment
procedures, business practices, and other procedures to be followed by the
municipality in administering the Revolving Loan Fund. The Committee and the
City Council shall, whenever possible, follow good banking practices with
respect to the administration of the Revolving Loan Fund.
(Ord. 2003-5163, passed 6-17-2003)
§ 35.39 REVOLVING LOAN FUND GOALS AND OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   Stimulate economic growth in the city by assisting with the retention
and growth of the existing industrial and commercial base, providing needed
financing to new start-up businesses, encouraging the development of minority
and female owned businesses and providing an incentive for out-of-state
businesses to relocate to the city.
   (B)   Assist new or existing businesses to create and retain jobs.
   (C)   Insure that jobs created or retained by business applicants benefit a
minimum of 51% low-to-moderate income persons in the area with preferential
consideration given to persons who reside within the city.
   (D)   Increase the city property tax and sales tax base.
   (E)   Provide businesses with the opportunity to expand.
   (F)   Encourage and leverage loans to businesses by area private financial
institutions.
(Ord. 2003-5163, passed 6-17-2003)
§ 35.40 REVOLVING LOAN FUND STRATEGY.
   (A)   Eligible uses of funds.
      (1)   Site development/infrastructure extension costs.
      (2)   Construction of new facility or additions.
      (3)   Renovation of existing facilities.
      (4)   Leasehold improvements.
      (5)   Purchase of new or used machinery or equipment.
      (6)   Working capital.
      (7)   For every $15,000 of revolving loan funds provided, one full time
equivalent (FTE) job should be created or retained. One FTE job is a position
consisting of a minimum of 1,950 hours worked a year. The Revolving Loan Fund
participation will be limited to $15,000 per job created or retained, but in no
case will exceed 50% of the total project cost. Jobs created/retained as a
result of Revolving Loan Fund investment are required to be in place within 24
months from the date the loan is closed.
   (B)   Ineligible uses of funds.
      (1)   Refinancing of existing private debts.
      (2)   Financing for speculative activities or purposes (such as
commercial/retail development without lease agreements).
      (3)   Expenses incidental to general marketing activities.
      (4)   Expenses to prepare a CDAP grant application.
      (5)   Except for relocations due to expansion, relocations from within
the State of Illinois are ineligible for Revolving Loan Fund participation,
unless approved by the Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic
Opportunity.
      (6)   Forgivable loans are prohibited.
   (C)   Geographic area. Revolving Loan Funds will be expended for projects
which are located within one and one-half miles of the corporate limits of the
city or which are determined to principally benefit residents of the city.
   (D)   Targets and priorities. The funds will be targeted to assist existing
industrial and commercial firms, start-up businesses, female and minority owned
firms and businesses that will relocate from an out-of-state location on a
first come, first served basis, subject to available funding. Applications that
demonstrate the greatest potential for job creation/retention and meeting the
goals and objectives of the fund will be given the highest priority.
   (E)   Marketing of loan funds. Economic development organizations within
Mattoon will coordinate outreach and marketing endeavors to generate loan
applications. Coles Together, the countywide economic development corporation,
will be the primary contact for marketing loans to the primary job creation
sector and "big box retailers." The Chamber of Commerce will be the primary
contact for marketing loans to the small business retail and service sectors.
Representative outreach and marketing endeavors may include, but will not be
limited to:
      (1)   Sending Revolving Loan Fund information to existing businesses
within the city
      (2)   Including Revolving Loan Fund information in the city's public
relations and marketing endeavors;
      (3)   Participation in business-related seminars or workshops held in the
area;
      (4)   Providing Revolving Loan Fund information to any local
organizations that may represent chapters of the organizations representing
minority groups and offering to periodically speak at meetings of such
organizations;
      (5)   Providing information to area women's entrepreneur associations and
women's service organizations;
      (6)   Publicizing approved loan projects by sending news releases to area
media and holding news conferences, ribbon cuttings and groundbreakings to
encourage media coverage;
      (7)   Area lending institution will be provided with information about
the Revolving Loan Fund and asked to inform potential borrowers of fund
availability.
   (F)   Management plan.
      (1)   The Revolving Loan Fund shall have an administrative organizational
structure sufficient to carry out responsibilities and assurances made to the
State of Illinois for the day to day operations of the Revolving Loan Fund.
      (2)   If an employee of the city is not assigned responsibilities for
administration of the Revolving Loan Fund, a written third-party agreement may
be authorized by the City Council for the administration and coordination of
the Fund by an RLF Fund Coordinator. Minimum terms that shall be included in
the agreement are:
         (a)   A scope of work (with a work description and budget, such as a
breakdown of all fees and costs);
         (b)   Requirements for the maintenance of records and reports;
         (c)   Requirements for the management of the Revolving Loan Fund;
         (d)   Applicability of other program requirements;
         (e)   Provisions for an annual audit of the Revolving Loan Fund;
         (f)   Provisions for suspension and termination of the agreement;
         (g)   Terms that final authority for approving any loans made through
the Revolving Loan Fund shall remain with the City Council.
      (3)   Eligible administrative costs of the Revolving Loan Fund include
salaries, supplies, utilities and similar expenses necessary for managing the
loan portfolio and implementing a revolving loan project. Administrative costs
paid from the Fund shall not exceed 10% of the income received each fiscal year
(loan repayments, interest earned on invested funds).
      (4)   Loan applications will be generated by designated marketing
representatives of Coles Together and the Chamber of Commerce (the Economic
Development Person). The Economic Development Person will generally be the
single point of contact with the applicant. The Economic Development Person
will meet with the applicant, visit the project site, meet with a
representative of the applicant’s participating lending institution, package
the application and forward it for review by the RLF Fund Coordinator and City
Manager. A team consisting of the Economic Development Person, the RLF Fund
Coordinator and the City Administrator will formulate proposed loan terms: the
interest rate, the length of the loan, the security and such other conditions
necessary to insure compliance with the program goals and objectives as well as
consistency with other sources and uses of programs of financial assistance
that may be utilized for the project. After consensus is reached among the team
members as to proposed loan terms, the Economic Development Person will forward
the proposed loan agreement to the applicant for review and approval. If the
loan terms are not acceptable to the applicant, the Economic Development Person
will attempt to broker the loan terms with the RLF Fund Coordinator and the
City Manager in a fashion that will be mutually acceptable to the parties.
      (5)   If the terms are acceptable to the loan applicant, the RLF Fund
Coordinator will prepare a report, schedule and give public notice of a meeting
of the Revolving Loan Advisory Committee to consider the application. The RLF
Fund Coordinator’s report shall include a description of the project, project
costs, sources and uses of funds, the security required, special conditions and
a recommendation for approval or denial. All other information submitted
pertaining to the loan application shall be confidential. The Revolving Loan
Fund Committee will formally approve or deny the application.
      (6)   If the Revolving Loan Fund Committee denies the application, the
loan application procedures shall terminate subject only to an appeal of the
Committee’s decision to the City Council.
      (7)   If the Committee approves the application, the RLF Fund Coordinator
shall forward a report containing the recommendation along with a special
ordinance that would authorize the loan for consideration at the next regularly
scheduled meeting of the City Council. The City Council will formally approve
or deny the application.
      (8)   Loan documents, including commitment agreements, liens, title
policies, security obtained, recordings, transfer tax declarations,
amortization schedules and security releases, shall be completed and maintained
by the RLF Coordinator. The RLF Coordinator shall also monitor repayments of
the loan, job creation and/or retention reports required to be provided semi-
annually until the commitment is met and monitors other special conditions
required by the loan.
      (9)   The City Clerk records payments received on loans made from the
Revolving Loan Fund and files semi-annual reports on principal and interest
recaptured to the Illinois Department of Economic Opportunity. The City Clerk
gives notices to the RLF Coordinator, if a payment becomes more than ten days
past due.
      (10)   Upon notice from the City Clerk of a non-performing loan, the RLF
Coordinator will place a telephone call to the borrower and request payment. At
30 days past due, the City Manager will send a formal letter requesting
payment. Should the payment become 45 days past due, the account receivable
will be referred to the City Attorney for collection. All legal rights will be
exercised by the city to reclaim funds. Legal counsel will be consulted during
foreclosure and liquidation proceedings if events warrant.
   (G)   Assurances. Incidental to the approval of this Revolving Loan Fund
Strategy, the City Council has provided these assurances to the Illinois
Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity.
      (1)   No more than 10% of the annual revenue to the Revolving Loan Fund
will be used for administration of the Fund. Administrative expenses will be
documented via receipts, bills, invoices, and the like.
      (2)   Assistance provided from the Revolving Loan Fund will result in at
least 51% benefit to low-to-moderate income persons and these benefits will be
documented by utilizing Job Training Service providers, Illinois Employment and
Training Centers or the employee certification forms found in the Revolving
Loan Fund Handbook.
      (3)   The city agrees to report semi-annually on the status of the
Revolving Loan Fund to the Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity.
      (4)   Any changes to this Revolving Loan Fund Strategy will be submitted
to the Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity for approval.
      (5)   The city shall agree to pursue legal remedy to recover delinquent
loans. Legal action shall include that authorized by federal and state law,
including, but not limited to, efforts to collect and pursue the interests of
the Revolving Loan Fund through bankruptcy court.
      (6)   A minimum leverage ratio of $1 non-CDAP funds to $1 CDAP Revolving
Loan Funds must be obtained for each project. Revolving Loan Funds may not
comprise more than 50% of the financing for any project.
      (7)   The city shall assure that environmental reviews will be completed
for each project funded as well as prevailing wages paid if applicable.
(Ord. 2003-5163, passed 6-17-2003; Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
BUDGET OFFICER; ANNUAL BUDGET
§ 35.50 ENABLING STATUTES ADOPTED.
   ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 8-2-9.1 through 8-2-9.10 are hereby adopted by a two-
thirds majority vote of the members of the City Council as follows in this
chapter.
(Ord. 2002-5101, passed 2-19-2002)
§ 35.51 APPOINTMENT OF BUDGET OFFICER.
   The City Manager shall designate the Budget Officer, with the approval of
the Council. The Budget Officer shall take an oath and post a bond as provided
in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-10-25. The Budget Officer may hold another
municipal office, either elected or appointed, and may receive compensation for
both offices. The Budget Officer shall serve at the pleasure of the City
Manager.
(Ord. 2002-5101, passed 2-19-2002; Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 35.52 POWERS AND DUTIES OF BUDGET OFFICER.
   The Municipal Budget Officer shall have the following powers and duties.
   (A)   Permit and encourage and establish the use of efficient planning,
budgeting, auditing, reporting, accounting and other fiscal management
procedures in all municipal departments, commissions and boards.
   (B)   Compile an annual budget in accordance with this subchapter.
   (C)   Examine all books and records of all municipal departments,
commissions, and boards which relate to monies received by the municipality,
municipal departments, commissions and boards, and paid out by the
municipality, municipal departments, commissions and boards, debts and accounts
receivable, amounts owed by or to the municipality, municipal departments,
commissions and boards.
   (D)   Obtain such additional information from the municipality, municipal
departments, commissions and boards as may be useful to the budget officer for
purposes, of compiling a municipal budget, such information to be furnished by
the municipality, municipal departments, commissions and boards in the form
required by the budget officer. Any department, commission or board which
refuses to make such information as is requested of it available to the Budget
Officer shall not be permitted to make expenditures under any subsequent budget
for the municipality until such municipal department, commission or board shall
comply in full with the request of the Budget Officer.
   (E)   Establish and maintain such procedures as shall insure that no
expenditures are made by the municipality, municipal departments, commission or
board except as authorized by the budget.
(Ord. 2002-5101, passed 2-19-2002)
§ 35.53 COMPILATION AND CONTENTS OF BUDGET.
   The Budget Officer shall compile a budget, such budget to contain estimates
of revenues available to the municipality for the fiscal year for which the
budget is drafted, together with recommended expenditures for the municipality
and all of the municipality's departments, commissions and boards. Revenue
estimates and expenditure recommendations shall be presented in a manner that
is in conformity with good fiscal management practices. Substantial conformity
to a chart of accounts, now or in the future, recommended by the National
Committee on Governmental Accounting, or the Auditor of Public Accounts of the
State of Illinois, or the Division of Local Governmental Affairs and Property
Taxes of the Department of Revenue of the State of Illinois or successor
agencies shall be deemed proof of conformity. The budget shall contain actual
or estimated revenues and expenditures for the two years immediately preceding
the fiscal year for which the budget is prepared. So far as possible, the
fiscal data for such two preceding fiscal years shall be itemized in a manner
that is in conformity with the chart of accounts approved above. Each budget
shall show the specific fund from which each anticipated expenditures shall be
made.
(Ord. 2002-5101, passed 2-19-2002)
§ 35.54 PASSAGE OF ANNUAL BUDGET.
   Passage of the annual budget by the City Council shall be in lieu of passage
of the appropriation ordinance as required by ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-2-9. The
annual budget shall be published in pamphlet form. The annual budget shall be
adopted by the City Council before the beginning of the fiscal year to which it
applies.
(Ord. 2002-5101, passed 2-19-2002)
§ 35.55 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT, REPAIR OR REPLACEMENT FUND.
   In the preparation, by the Budget Officer of the annual budget, an amount
not to exceed 3% of the equalized assessed value of property subject to
taxation by the municipality may be accumulated in a separate fund for the
purpose of specific capital improvements, repairs and/or replacements of
specific types of municipal equipment or other tangible property, both real and
personal, to be designated as the "Capital Improvement, Repair or Replacement
Fund". Expenditures from the Capital Improvement,- Repair or Replacement Fund
shall be budgeted in the fiscal year in which the capital improvement, repair
or replacement will occur. Upon the completion or abandonment of any object for
which the fund was inaugurated or should any surplus monies remain after the
completion or abandonment of any object for which the fund was established,
then such funds no longer necessary for capital improvement, repair or
replacement shall be transferred into the general corporate fund of the
municipality on the first day of the fiscal year following such abandonment,
completion or discovery of surplus funds.
(Ord. 2002-5101, passed 2-19-2002)
§ 35.56 REVISION OF ANNUAL BUDGET.
   The City Council may delegate authority to heads of municipal departments,
boards or commissions to delete, add to, change or create subclasses within
object classes budgeted previously to the department, board or commission,
subject to such limitation or requirement for prior approval by the Budget
Officer. By a vote of two-thirds of the City Council members then holding
office, the annual budget for the municipality may be revised by deleting,
adding to, changing or creating sub-classes within object classes and object
classes themselves. No revision of the budget shall be made increasing the
budget in the event funds are not available to effectuate the purpose of the
revision.
(Ord. 2002-5101, passed 2-19-2002)
§ 35.57 FUNDS FOR CONTINGENCY PURPOSES.
   The annual budget may contain money set aside for contingency purposes not
to exceed 10% of the total budget, less the amount set aside for contingency
purposes, which monies may be expended for contingencies upon a majority vote
of the Council members then holding office.
(Ord. 2002-5101, passed 2-19-2002)
§ 35.58 PUBLIC INSPECTION, NOTICE AND HEARING ON BUDGET.
   The Budget Officer shall publish and make the tentative annual budget
conveniently available to public inspection in pamphlet form at the office of
the City Clerk and the Public Library for at least ten days prior to the
passage of the annual budget. Not less than one week after the publication of
the tentative annual budget, and prior to final action on the budget, the City
Council shall hold at least one public hearing on the tentative annual budget,
after which hearing or hearings, the tentative budget may be further revised
and passed without any further inspection, notice or hearing. Notice of this
hearing shall be given by publication in a newspaper having a general
circulation in the municipality at least one week prior to the time of the
hearing.
(Ord. 2002-5101, passed 2-19-2002)
§ 35.59 ABANDONMENT OF BUDGET PROCEDURES.
   The City Council may abandon ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 8-2-9.1 through 8-2-9.10
and procedures established by this subchapter by a two-thirds majority vote of
the Council members then holding office.
(Ord. 2002-5101, passed 2-19-2002)
INTERFUND LOANS
§ 35.70 INTERFUND LOANS WITHIN THE POOLED CASH FUND.
   The City Treasurer is hereby authorized to administer an interfund loan
program within the Pooled Cash Fund. The interfund loans administered under
this section must relate to the cash contained in the Pooled Cash Fund. Any
loan made under this section must be short-term in nature and the fund
receiving the loan must have the foreseeable resources to pay the interfund
loan back within a three month period. If the fund receiving the loan does not
have the foreseeable resources to repay the loan within a threemonth period the
interfund loan and/or a permanent transfer of funds must be approved by the
City Council. The interfund loans within the Pooled Cash Fund must be balanced
at the end of every fiscal quarter. Any loan greater than $100,000 that is also
outstanding for longer than seven calendar days must be reported to the City
Manager. Within the above guidelines, the City Treasurer shall make interfund
loans within the Pooled Cash Funds as needed to keep the funds of the city
solvent.
(Ord. 2011-5325, passed 9-6-2011; Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 35.71 OTHER INTERFUND LOANS.
   Interfund lending may be considered as an option to meet an immediate short-
term financing need between funds. The loans shall be accounted for as a
temporary borrowing and this method of short-term financing will only be used
to meet immediate financing needs or temporary cash deficiencies. Any interfund
loans not originating from within the Pooled Cash Fund shall be governed by the
following guidelines:
   (A)   The City Council must, by ordinance or council decision request (CDR),
approve all interfund loans. The ordinance or CDR shall contain the amount of
the loan, the funds involved, the purpose of the loan, the source of funds for
repayment, and provide in the authorization a planned schedule of repayment of
the loan.
   (B)   The borrowing fund must anticipate sufficient revenues to be in a
position over the period of the loan to make the specified principal and
interest payments as required in the authorizing ordinance or resolution.
   (C)   The term of the loan cannot exceed five years.
(Ord. 2011-5325, passed 9-6-2011)
CHAPTER 36: TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax
   
36.02   Municipal Service Occupation Tax
   
36.03   Municipal Leasing Occupation Tax
   
36.04   Municipal Use Tax
   
36.05   Garbage fund tax rate
   
36.06   Simplified municipal telecommunications tax
   
36.07   Electricity tax
   
36.08   Municipal Cannabis Retailers' Occupation Tax
   
36.09   Municipal Grocery Retailers’ and Services Occupation Tax
Municipal Utility Tax
   
36.20   Definitions
   
36.21   Imposition of utility tax
   
36.22   Gas and water tax exceptions
   
36.23   Other payments to city
   
36.24   Report of receipts
   
36.25   Payment of tax
   
36.26   Overpayments
Tax on Gross Rental Receipts from Renting of Hotel or Motel Rooms
or Short-Term Rentals
   
36.45   Tax imposed
   
36.46   Definitions
   
36.47   Tax
   
36.48   Rules and regulations
   
36.49   Books and records
   
36.50   Payment of tax
   
36.51   Collection
   
36.52   Proceed of tax and fines
   
36.53   Suspension of license
   
36.54   Use of receipts
Local Tax Rights and Responsibilities
   
36.65   Title
   
36.66   Scope; application
   
36.67   Definitions
   
36.68   Notices
   
36.69   Late payment; order of payments
   
36.70   Certain credits and refunds
   
36.71   Audit procedure
   
36.72   Appeal
   
36.73   Hearing
   
36.74   Interest and penalties
   
36.75   Abatement
   
36.76   Installment contracts
   
36.77   Statute of limitations
   
36.78   Voluntary disclosure
   
36.79   Publication of tax ordinances
   
36.80   Internal review procedure
Business District Retailers' Occupation Tax; Business District Service
Occupation Tax Business District Hotel Operator's Occupation Tax
   
36.90   Imposition of taxes
 
   
36.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01 MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling tangible personal property at retail in this city at the rate of 1% of
the gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such business while
this ordinance is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of ILCS Ch. 65,
Act 5, § 8-11-1.
   (B)   Every such person engaged in such business in the city shall file on
or before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the State
Department of Revenue required by Section Three of "An Act in Relation to a Tax
upon Persons Engaged in the Business of Selling Tangible Personal Property to
Purchasers for Use or Consumption" approved June 28, 1933, as amended.
   (C)   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the State
Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the
receipts from sales of tangible personal property during the preceding month.
   (D)   The full benefits of the Illinois Retail Occupation Tax Regulation
130.2075, is hereby extended to all contractors and developers who construct
and develop public improvements, the ownership of which is required to be
conveyed to the city, under the city subdivision ordinance or under the terms
of any other ordinance or agreement.
('68 Code, § 33.01) (Ord. 69-4184, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 99-5003, passed 11-16-
1999)
§ 36.02 MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this municipality
in the business of making sales of service at the rate of 1% of the gross
receipts received from such business, in accordance with the provisions of ILCS
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-5.
   (B)   Every serviceperson required to account for Municipal Service
Occupation Tax for the benefit of this municipality shall file, on or before
the last day of each calendar month, the report to the State Department of
Revenue required by Section Nine of the Service Occupation Tax Act.
   (C)   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the State
Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed.
('68 Code, § 33.02) (Ord. 69-4185, passed - - )
§ 36.03 MUNICIPAL LEASING OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
renting or leasing tangible personal property to the users thereof at the rate
of 0.5% of the gross receipts from such renting or leasing made in the course
of such business, in accordance with the provisions of ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-
11-6.
   (B)   Every person engaged in such business in the city shall file with the
State Department of Revenue the return in the manner as required by Section
Five of the "Leasing Occupation Tax Act" as adopted by the Seventy-Fourth
General Assembly.
   (C)   At the time such return is filed, there shall be paid to the State
Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the
receipts from renting or leasing tangible personal property during the
preceding month.
('68 Code, § 33.04) (Ord. 4299, passed - - )
§ 36.04 MUNICIPAL USE TAX.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed in accordance with the provisions of ILCS Ch.
65, Act 5, § 8-11-6 upon the privilege of using in the municipality any item of
tangible personal property which is purchased outside the state at retail from
a retailer, and which is titled or registered with an agency of the state
government. The tax shall be at a rate of 1% of the selling price of such
tangible property, with selling price to have the meaning as defined in the Use
Tax Act, approved July 14, 1955.
   (B)   Such tax shall be collected by the State Department of Revenue for all
municipalities imposing the tax and shall be paid before the title or
certificate of registration for the personal property is issued.
('68 Code, § 33.04) (Ord. 4299, passed - - )
§ 36.05 GARBAGE FUND TAX RATE.
   The maximum tax rate for the collection and disposal of garbage in the city
shall be 14% of the assessed value of all taxable property in the city as
ascertained and set by law.
('68 Code, § 2.48) (Ord. 3701, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 4042, passed - - )
§ 36.06 SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX.
   The rate of the simplified municipal telecommunications tax imposed under
the provisions of Sections 5-25 and 5-30 of the Simplified Municipal
Telecommunications Tax Act, P.A. 92-0526 is imposed at a rate of 6% of gross
charges.
(Ord. 2002-5135, passed 8-20-2002)
§ 36.07 ELECTRICITY TAX.
   (A)   (1)   The privilege of using or consuming electricity acquired in a
purchase at retail and used or consumed within the corporate limits of the
municipality shall be taxed at the following rates, calculated on a monthly
basis for each purchaser.
         (a)   For the first 2,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
0.61 cents per kilowatt-hour;
         (b)   For the next 48,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
0.40 cents per kilowatt-hour;
         (c)   For the next 50,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
0.36 cents per kilowatt-hour;
         (d)   For the next 400,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
0.35 cents per kilowatt-hour;
         (e)   For the next 500,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
0.34 cents per kilowatt-hour;
         (f)   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month: 0.32 cents per kilowatt-hour;
         (g)   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month: 0.315 cents per kilowatt-hour;
         (h)   For the next 5,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month: 0.31 cents per kilowatt-hour;
         (i)   For the next 10,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month: 0.305 cents per kilowatt-hour;
         (j)   For all electricity used or consumed in excess of 20,000,000
kilowatt-hours in a month: 0.30 cents per kilowatt-hour.
      (2)   The tax rates set forth in the preceding table will take effect on
March 1, 2016.
   (B)   Exceptions
      (1)   None of the taxes authorized by this section may be imposed with
respect to any transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to
which the business or privilege may not, under the Constitution and statutes of
the United States, be made the subject of taxation by this state or any
political subdivision thereof; nor shall any persons engaged in the business of
distributing, supplying, furnishing, or selling or transmitting gas, water, or
electricity, or engaged in the business of transmitting messages, or using or
consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at retail, be subject to taxation
under the provisions of this section for those transactions that are or may
become subject to taxation under the provisions of the Municipal Retailers'
Occupation Tax Act as authorized by ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-1; nor shall any
tax authorized by this section be imposed upon any person engaged in a business
or on any privilege unless the tax is imposed in like manner and at the same
rate upon all persons engaged in businesses of the same class in the
municipality, whether privately or municipally owned or operated, or exercising
the same privilege within the municipality.
      (2)   The City of Mattoon, Illinois, an Illinois municipal corporation,
and any account of the City of Mattoon, Illinois are hereby exempt from the
taxes imposed by this section.
   (C)   Additional taxes. Such tax shall be in addition to other taxes levied
upon the taxpayer or its business.
   (D)   Collection. The tax authorized by this section shall be collected from
the purchaser by the person maintaining a place of business in this state who
delivers the electricity to the purchaser. This tax shall constitute a debt of
the purchaser to the person who delivers the electricity to the purchaser and
if unpaid, is recoverable in the same manner as the original charge for
delivering the electricity. Any tax required to be collected pursuant to this
section and any such tax collected by a person delivering electricity shall
constitute a debt owed to the municipality by such person delivering the
electricity. Persons delivering electricity shall collect the tax from the
purchaser by adding such tax to the gross charge for delivering the
electricity. Persons delivering electricity shall also be authorized to add to
such gross charge an amount equal to 3% of the tax to reimburse the person
delivering electricity for the expense incurred in keeping records, billing
customers, preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax and supplying data
to the municipality upon request. If the person delivering electricity fails to
collect the tax from the purchaser, then the purchaser shall be required to pay
the tax directly to the municipality in the manner prescribed by the
municipality. On or before the last day of each month, persons delivering
electricity shall make a return to the city for the preceding month and shall,
at the time of filing such return, pay the municipality the amount of the tax
collected pursuant to this section.
   (E)   Reports to municipality.
      (1)   On or before the last day of each month, each taxpayer who has not
paid the tax imposed by this section to a person delivering electricity as set
forth in division (D) of this section and who is not otherwise exempted from
paying such tax shall make a return to the City Treasurer for the preceding
month stating:
         (a)   His or her name;
         (b)   His or her principal place of business;
         (c)   His or her gross receipts and/or kilowatt-hour usage during the
month upon the basis of which the tax is imposed;
         (d)   Amount of tax;
         (e)   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
      (2)   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the
time of making such return, pay to the city, the amount of tax herein imposed;
provided that in connection with any return, the taxpayer may, if he or she so
elects, report and pay an amount based upon his or her total billings of
business subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made
(exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later
payments based upon any differences between such billings, and the taxable
gross receipts.
   (F)   Credit for overpayment. If it shall appear that an amount of tax has
been paid which was not due under the provisions of this section, whether as
the result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be
credited against any tax due, or to become due, under this section, from the
taxpayer who made the erroneous payment; provided that no amounts erroneously
paid more than three years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so
credited. No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of
this section shall be commenced more than two years after the due date of such
amount.
   (G)   In the event that Public Act 90-561 is declared unconstitutional, or
if the provisions provided herein created by this section are voided by court
action, the provisions of Ordinance No. 98-4958 (commonly known as the Gross
Receipts Utility Tax - see §§
36.20 through
36.26 of this chapter) shall remain in effect in all respects as if it had
never been amended by this subchapter, and any amounts paid to the city by any
person delivering electricity pursuant to this subchapter shall be deemed to
have been paid pursuant to the Gross Receipts Utility Tax as it existed prior
to the passage of this subchapter.
(Ord. 99-4989, passed 6-1-1999; Am. Ord. 2015-5382, passed 12-15-2015; Am. Ord.
2016-5384, passed 1-19-2016)
§ 36.08 MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   Imposition of taxes; rate.
      (1)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling cannabis, other than cannabis purchased under the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, at retail in the city at the rate of 3% of
the gross receipts from these sales made in the course of that business.
      (2)   The imposition of this tax is in accordance with the provisions of
§ 8-11-23, of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-23).
   (B)   Collection of tax by retailers.
      (1)   The tax imposed by this section shall be remitted by such retailer
to the Illinois Department of Revenue (Department). Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this section and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the Department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers may reimburse
themselves for their seller's tax liability hereunder by separately stating
that tax as an additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in
a single amount, with any state tax that sellers are required to collect.
      (2)   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be
assessed as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the
Department. The Department shall have full power to administer and enforce the
provisions of this section.
(Ord. 2020-5428, passed 2-18-2020)
§ 36.09 MUNICIPAL GROCERY RETAILERS’ AND SERVICES OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   Imposition of taxes by grocery retailers; rate.
      (1)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling groceries at retail in this municipality at the rate of 1% of the gross
receipts from such sales made in the course of such business while this section
is in effect.
      (2)   The imposition of this tax is in accordance with and subject to the
provisions of ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-24.
   (B)   Collection of tax by grocery services.
      (1)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this
municipality in the business of making sales of service, who, as an incident to
making those sales of service, transfer groceries as an incident to a sale of
service. The rate of this tax shall be the same rate identified in division (A)
above.
      (2)   The imposition of this tax is in accordance with and subject to the
provisions of ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-24.
   (C)   Both of the taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be
assessed as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the
Department of Revenue of the State of Illinois. The Illinois Department of
Revenue shall have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of this
section.
(Ord. 2025-5496, passed 6-3-2025)
Editor’s note:
   The ordinance enacting this section and the taxes imposed by it take effect
January 1, 2026.
MUNICIPAL UTILITY TAX
§ 36.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. The consideration received for the transmission of messages,
or for distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling gas, electricity or water
for use or consumption and not for resale, as the case may be; and for all
services rendered in connection therewith valued in money, whether received in
money or otherwise, including cash, credit, services and property of every kind
and material and for all services rendered therewith; and shall be determined
without any deduction on account of the cost of transmitting said messages,
without any deduction on account of the cost of the service, product or
commodity supplied, the cost of materials used, labor or service cost, or any
other expenses whatsoever.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, municipal
corporation or political subdivision of this state, or a receiver, trustee,
conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court.
   TRANSMITTING MESSAGES. In addition to the usual and popular meaning of
person to person communication, shall include the furnishing, for a
consideration, of services or facilities (whether owned or leased), or both, to
persons in connection with the transmission of messages where such persons do
not, in turn, receive any consideration in connection therewith, but shall not
include such furnishing of services or facilities to persons for the
transmission of messages to the extent that any such services or facilities for
the transmission of messages are furnished for the consideration, by such
persons to other persons, for the transmission of messages.
('68 Code, § 34.04) (Ord. 66-4054, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 81-4417, passed 7-21-
1981; Am. Ord. 85-4486, passed 8-20-1985; Am. Ord. 4771, passed 3-19-1994; Am.
Ord. 96-4846, passed 4-16-1996; Am. Ord. 98-4958, passed 7-21-1998)
§ 36.21 IMPOSITION OF UTILITY TAX.
   A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following occupations or
privileges:
   (A)   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing, or selling gas for use or consumption within the corporate limits
of the city, and not for resale, at the rate of 5% of the gross receipts
therefrom.
   (B)   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing, or selling water for use or consumption within the corporate limits
of the city, and not for resale, at the rate of 5% of the gross receipts
therefrom.
(‘68 Code, § 34.01) (Ord. 66-4054, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 81-4417, passed 7-21-
1981; Am. Ord. 4771, passed 3-19-1994; Am. Ord. 96-4846, passed 4-16-1996; Am.
Ord. 98-4958, passed 7-21- 1998; Am. Ord. 2002-5135, passed 8-20-2002; Am. Ord.
2016-5384, passed 1-19-2016)
Penalty, see § 36.99
Cross-reference:
   Electricity tax, see §
36.07
§ 36.22 GAS AND WATER TAX EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No tax is imposed by this subchapter with respect to any transaction
in interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to which such business may
not, under the Constitution and statutes of the United States, be made subject
to taxation by this state or any political subdivision thereof; nor shall any
persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing or
selling gas, water or electricity, or engaged in the business of transmitting
messages be subject to taxation under the provisions of this subchapter for
such transactions as are or may become subject to taxation under the provisions
of the Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax Act authorized by ILCS Ch. 65, Act
5, § 8-11-1.3.
   (B)   The City of Mattoon, Illinois, an Illinois municipal corporation, and
any account of the City of Mattoon, Illinois are hereby exempt from the taxes
imposed by this section.
(‘68 Code, § 34.02) (Ord. 66-4054, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 81-4417, passed 7-21-
1981; Am. Ord. 4771, passed 3-19-1994; Am. Ord. 96-4846, passed 4-16-1996; Am.
Ord. 98-4958, passed 7-21- 1998; Am. Ord. 2015-5382, passed 12-15-2015; Am.
Ord. 2016-5384, passed 1-19-2016)
§ 36.23 OTHER PAYMENTS TO CITY.
   Such tax shall be in addition to the payment of money, or value of products
or services furnished to this municipality by the taxpayer as compensation for
the use of its streets, alleys, or other public places, or installation and
maintenance therein, thereon or thereunder of poles, wires, pipes or other
equipment used in the operation of the taxpayers' business.
('68 Code, § 34.03) (Ord. 66-4054, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 81-4417, passed 7-21-
1981; Am. Ord. 4771, passed 3-19-1994; Am. Ord. 96-4846, passed 4-16-1996; Am.
Ord. 98-4958, passed 7-21-1998)
§ 36.24 REPORT OF RECEIPTS.
   This subchapter shall take effect after publication and the tax provided for
herein shall be based on the gross receipts, as herein defined, actually paid
to the taxpayer for services billed on or after September 1.
('68 Code, § 34.05) (Ord. 66-4054, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 81-4417, passed 7-21-
1981; Am. Ord. 4771, passed 3-19-1994; Am. Ord. 96-4846, passed 4-16-1996; Am.
Ord. 98-4958, passed 7-21-1998)
§ 36.25 PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   On or before the last day of October, each taxpayer shall make a
return to the City Treasurer for the month of September, stating:
      (1)   His or her name;
      (2)   His or her principal place of business;
      (3)   His or her gross receipts during those months upon the basis of
which the tax is imposed;
      (4)   Amount of tax;
      (5)   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
   (B)   On or before the last day of every third month thereafter, each
taxpayer shall make a like return to the City Treasurer for a corresponding
three-month period.
   (C)   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the time
of making such return, pay to the City Treasurer, the amount of tax herein
imposed; provided that in connection with any return the taxpayer may, if he or
she so elects, report and pay an amount based upon his or her total billings of
business subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made
(exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later
payments based upon any differences between such billings and the taxable gross
receipts.
('68 Code, § 34.06) (Ord. 66-4054, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 81-4417, passed 7-21-
1981; Am. Ord. 4771, passed 3-19-1994; Am. Ord. 96-4846, passed 4-16-1996; Am.
Ord. 98-4958, passed 7-21-1998)
§ 36.26 OVERPAYMENTS.
   (A)   If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not
due under the provisions of this subchapter, whether as the result of a mistake
of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any tax
due, or to become due, under this subchapter from the taxpayer who made the
erroneous payment; provided that no amounts erroneously paid more than three
years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited.
   (B)   No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of
this subchapter shall be commenced more than three years after the due date of
such amount.
('68 Code, § 34.07) (Ord. 66-4054, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 81-4417, passed 7-21-
1981; Am. Ord. 4771, passed 3-19-1994; Am. Ord. 96-4846, passed 4-16-1996; Am.
Ord. 98-4958, passed 7-21-1998)
TAX ON GROSS RENTAL RECEIPTS FROM RENTING OF HOTEL OR MOTEL ROOMS
OR SHORT-TERM RENTALS
§ 36.45 TAX IMPOSED.
   A tax in the amount of 5% on gross rental receipts is hereby imposed upon
all persons engaged in the business of renting, leasing or letting rooms in a
hotel or motel or short-term rental located within the corporate limits of the
city. A tax in the amount of 6% on gross rental receipts is hereby imposed upon
all persons engaged in the business of renting, leasing or letting rooms in a
hotel or motel or short-term rental located within the business districts of
the city.
(Ord. 91-4662, passed 6-18-1991; Am. Ord. 99- 5002, passed 11-2-1999; Am. Ord.
2025-5488, passed 3-18-2025)
§ 36.46 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GROSS RECEIPTS OR REVENUE. The total of all income or revenue received by
any person subject to the tax provided for in this chapter from the business of
operating a hotel or motel.
   HOTEL OR MOTEL. Any business which derives more than 50% of its gross
receipts from or devotes more than 50% of the floor space under roof in this
building or buildings to the renting or leasing of rooms equipped with one or
more beds.
   PERSON. Any natural person, partnership, corporation or other entity.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL (STR). A rental of a residential home unit for a short
period of time not to exceed 30 days which collects hotel/motel taxes as part
of its operation and employs a property manager. Requires a special use in all
zoning districts, not permitted in industrial districts.
(Ord. 91-4662, passed 6-18-1991; Am. Ord. 2025-5488, passed 3-18-2025)
§ 36.47 TAX.
   (A)   There is levied and imposed upon the use and privilege of renting a
hotel or motel room or short-term rental within the city a tax of 5% of the
rental or leasing charge for each such hotel and motel room and short-term
rental rented for each 24-hour period or any portion thereof; provided,
however, that the tax shall not be levied and imposed upon any person who rents
a hotel or motel room for more than seven consecutive days or upon any person
who works and lives in the same hotel or motel. Short-term rentals are not
subject to the seven-day exclusion and shall pay the levied tax.
   (B)   The tax herein levied shall be paid in addition to any and all other
taxes and charges. It shall be the duty of the owner, manager or operator of
every hotel or motel or short-term rental to pay over to the City Clerk the tax
under procedures prescribed by the City Clerk or as otherwise provided in this
chapter.
   (C)   Every person required to pay the tax levied by this chapter shall
indicate the amount of the tax separately upon any invoice, receipt, statement
or memorandum provided to the customers of the person.
(Ord. 91-4662, passed 6-18-1991; Am. Ord. 99- 5002, passed 11-2-1999; Am. Ord.
2025-5488, passed 3-18-2025)
§ 36.48 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The City Clerk may promulgate rules and regulations not inconsistent with
the provisions of this chapter concerning enforcement and application of this
chapter. The term "rules and regulations" includes, but is not limited to, case
by case determination of whether or not the tax imposed by this chapter
applies.
(Ord. 91-4662, passed 6-18-1991)
§ 36.49 BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   The City Clerk, or any person certified as her or his deputy or
representative, may enter the premises of any hotel or motel or short-term
rental for inspection and examination of books and records in order to
effectuate the proper administration of this chapter and to assure the
enforcement of the collection of the tax imposed. It shall be unlawful for any
person to prevent, hinder, or interfere with the City Clerk or her/his duly
authorized deputy or representative in the discharge of her/his duties and the
performance of this chapter. It shall be the duty of every owner to keep
accurate and complete books and records to which the City Clerk or her/his
deputy or authorized representative shall at all times have access, which
records shall include a daily sheet showing:
   (A)   The number of hotel or motel or short-term rental rooms rented during
the 24-hour period, including multiple rentals of the same rooms where such
shall occur; and
   (B)   The actual hotel or motel or short- term rental tax receipts collected
for the date in question.
(Ord. 91-4662, passed 6-18-1991; Am. Ord. 2025-5488, passed 3-18-2025)
§ 36.50 PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   On a monthly basis, the owner or owners of each hotel or motel or
short-term rental within the city shall file tax returns with the City
Treasurer showing tax receipts with respect to each hotel and motel. This
obligation shall commence on January 1, 1992. The returns shall be filed on or
before the 30th day of the calendar month following the end of the month for
which the return is filed. Forms prescribed by the City Treasurer shall be
used.
   (B)   The first taxing period for the purpose of this chapter shall commence
January 1, 1992, and the tax return and payment for such period shall be due on
or before March 2, 1992. Thereafter reporting periods and tax payments shall be
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The owner shall pay to the
City Treasurer all taxes due at the time of the filing of the return.
   (C)   If for any reason any tax is not paid when due, a penalty at the rate
of 2% per 30-day period, or portion thereof, from the day of delinquency shall
be added and collected. In addition, the general penalty section of the Mattoon
Code of Ordinances (§
10.99) shall apply to any failure to file any return when due or pay any taxes
when owed under this section.
(Ord. 91-4662, passed 6-18-1991; Am. Ord. 2003-5164, passed 7-1-2003; Am. Ord.
2010-5304, passed 6-1-2010; Am. Ord. 2025-5488, passed 3-18-2025)
§ 36.51 COLLECTION.
   Whenever any person shall fail to pay any tax as herein provided, the
corporation counsel shall, upon the request of the City Clerk, bring or cause
to be brought any action to enforce the payment of the tax on behalf of the
city in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 91-4662, passed 6-18-1991)
§ 36.52 PROCEEDS OF TAX AND FINES.
   All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax under this chapter,
including penalties, shall be paid into the treasury of the city and shall be
credited to and deposited in the corporate fund of the city.
(Ord. 91-4662, passed 6-18-1991)
§ 36.53 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   The City Manager, after notice and hearing, may suspend or revoke all city
licenses held by such person provided that the Mayor finds that such person has
willfully avoided payment of the tax imposed by this chapter.
(Ord. 91-4662, passed 6-18-1991; Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 36.54 USE OF RECEIPTS.
   (A)   The amounts collected by the municipality pursuant to this chapter
shall be expended by the municipality solely to promote tourism and conventions
within the municipality or otherwise to attract non-resident overnight visitors
to the municipality. No funds received pursuant to this chapter shall be used
to advertise for or otherwise promote new competition in the hotel business.
   (B)   Expenditures of funds collected by the municipality pursuant to this
chapter shall be subject to an annual budget adopted by the City Council for
the Hotel/Motel Tax Special Revenue Fund before the beginning of the fiscal
year to which it applies. The fiscal year of the municipality begins May 1 and
ends April 30.
   (C)   The Tourism and Arts Director submits requests for appropriation of
Hotel/Motel Tax funds as recommended by the Tourism Advisory Committee. The
City Manager uses the request of the Committee as the starting point for
formulating a tentative budget. The tentative budget is published and made
conveniently available for public inspection for at least ten days prior to the
passage of the budget. Not less than one week after the publication of the
tentative budget and prior to final action on the budget, the City Council
holds at least one public hearing, after which hearing or hearings, the budget
may be further revised and passed without any further inspection, notice or
hearing. Notice of the budget hearing is given by publication in a newspaper
having a general circulation in the municipality at least one week prior to the
time of the hearing.
   (D)   The budget is presented in account code classifications that enable
reporting of financial data by fund, function and objects of expenditure. The
City Council delegates authority for tourism development to delete, add to,
change or create sub-classes within object classes budgeted previously, subject
to prior approval by the City Manager. On recommendation of the Tourism
Advisory Committee and a vote of two- thirds of the City Council members, the
annual budget shall be made increasing the budget in the event funds are not
available to effectuate the purpose of the revision.
   (E)   The Tourism and Arts Director is responsible for managing expenditures
within limits established by the approved budget. No person shall obligate
hotel/motel tax funds for any purpose unless the Tourism and Arts Director has
given prior approval as to budget and account coding by signing a source
document authorizing the transaction. Expenditures greater than $5,000 require
signature approval of the City Manager. The Tourism and Arts Director may
authorize expenditures exceeding individual line item amounts in the approved
budget with the prior approval of the City Manager, but formal City Council
approval at a regular or special meeting shall be required in all of the
following circumstances:
      (1)   For any deviation that would increase the number of full or part-
time positions authorized by the budget;
      (2)   For any deviation from the approved budget that will exceed the
“bottom line” established for total expenditures for the Hotel/Motel Tax Fund;
      (3)   For any deviation from the approved budget that will transfer money
between funds; and
      (4)   For expenditures valued greater than $10,000, regardless if the
project or program has been authorized in the approved budget.
(Ord. 91-4662, passed 6-18-1991; Am. Ord. 2004-5192, passed 10-5-2004; Am. Ord.
2005- 5211, passed 11-15-2005; Am. Ord. 2012-5359, passed 12-18-2012; Am. Ord.
2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
LOCAL TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
§ 36.65 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the "Locally Imposed
and Administered Tax Rights and Responsibility Ordinance.”
(Ord. 2001-5047, passed 1-16-2001)
§ 36.66 SCOPE; APPLICATION.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to the city's procedures
in connection with all of the city's locally imposed and administered taxes.
   (B)   This subchapter shall be liberally construed and administered to
supplement all of the city's tax ordinances. To the extent that any tax
ordinance is in conflict with or inconsistent with this subchapter, this
subchapter shall be controlling.
(Ord. 2001-5047, passed 1-16-2001)
§ 36.67 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The "Local Government Taxpayers' Bill of Rights Act."
   CITY. The City of Mattoon, Illinois.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES. The City of Mattoon's Mayor and City Council.
   LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX or TAX. Each tax imposed by the city
that is collected or administered by the city, not an agency or department of
the state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
Property Tax Code or fees collected by the city other than infrastructure
maintenance fees.
   LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The City Clerk is charged with the administration
and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes, including staff,
employees or agents to the extent they are authorized by the Local Tax
Administrator to act in the Local Tax Administrator's stead. The Local Tax
Administrator shall have the authority to implement the terms of this
subchapter to give full effect to this subchapter. The exercise of such
authority by the Local Tax Administrator shall not be inconsistent with this
subchapter and the Act.
   NOTICE. Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the city's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   TAX ORDINANCE. Each ordinance adopted by the city that imposes any locally
imposed and administered tax.
   TAXPAYER. Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered
tax and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax
is placed and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
city.
(Ord. 2001-5047, passed 1-16-2001)
§ 36.68 NOTICES.
   Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, the
notice is to be in writing mailed not less than seven calendar days prior to
the day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of the
Local Tax Administrator. The notice shall be sent by the Local Tax
Administrator as follows:
   (A)   First Class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the persons' last known address, or
   (B)   Personal service or delivery.
(Ord. 2001-5047, passed 1-16-2001)
§ 36.69 LATE PAYMENT; ORDER OF PAYMENTS.
   (A)   Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to
the city pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is:
      (1)   Physically received by the City of Mattoon on or before the due
date, or
      (2)   Received in an envelope or other container displaying a valid,
readable U. S. Postmark dated on or before the due date, properly addressed to
the city, with adequate postage prepaid.
   (B)   Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied
in the following order:
      (1)   First to the tax due for the applicable period;
      (2)   Second to the interest due for the applicable period; and
      (3)   Third to the penalty for the applicable period.
(Ord. 2001-5047, passed 1-16-2001)
§ 36.70 CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS.
   (A)   The city shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid without
written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally imposed and
administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional by a court
of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed to have paid
the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts upon which to
protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid the taxes
under duress.
   (B)   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be
four or less years after the end of the calendar year in which payment in error
was made. The city shall not grant a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest, or penalties to a person who has not paid the
amounts directly to the city.
   (C)   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as follows:
      (1)   The taxpayer shall submit to the Local Tax Administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         (a)   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         (b)   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         (c)   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the
canceled check or receipt for the payment;
         (d)   The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and,
         (e)   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid, and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the city.
      (2)   Within ten days of the receipt by the Local Tax Administrator of
any claim for a refund or credit, the Local Tax Administrator shall either:
         (a)   Grant the claim; or
         (b)   Deny the claim, in whole or part, together with a statement as
to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      (3)   In the event the Local Tax Administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of 3% per annum, based on a year of 365
days and the number of days elapsed, from the date of the overpayment to the
date of mailing of a refund check or the grant of a credit.
(Ord. 2001-5047, passed 1-16-2001)
§ 36.71 AUDIT PROCEDURE.
   Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this subchapter.
   (A)   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The tax;
      (2)   The time period of the audit; and,
      (3)   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   (B)   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and if the
date and time selected by the Local Tax Administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within 30 days
after the originally designated audit and during normal business hours.
   (C)   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven days and not more
than 30 days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer and the
Local Tax Administrator agreed to some other convenient time. In the event
taxpayer is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question, the
taxpayer may request another date within the 30 days, approved in writing, that
is convenient to the taxpayer and the Local Tax Administrator.
   (D)   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the taxpayer's
business or activities, including original source documents and books of entry
denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given rise to any
tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in the English
language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by the city.
   (E)   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make available
its books and records for inspection by the city. If the taxpayer fails to
provide the documents necessary for audit within the time provided, the Local
Tax Administrator may issue a tax determination and assessment based on the Tax
Administrator's determination of the best estimate of the taxpayer's tax
liability.
   (F)   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within 30 days of the
city's determination of the amount of overpayment.
   (G)   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the Local Tax Administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing such tax.
(Ord. 2001-5047, passed 1-16-2001)
§ 36.72 APPEAL.
   (A)   The Local Tax Administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the Local Tax Administrator's issuance of a protestable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial, or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The
notice shall include the following information.
      (1)   The reason for the assessment;
      (2)   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      (3)   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and,
      (4)   The obligations of the city during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   (B)   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the Local Tax
Administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the
Local Tax Administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting
forth the basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written protest
and petition for hearing must be filed with the Local Tax Administrator within
45 days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination and
assessment.
   (C)   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the
Local Tax Administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within 14 days of receipt of the written protest and petition for hearing,
unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
   (D)   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the
45-day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment shall become a final
bill due and owing without further notice.
   (E)   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the Local Tax Administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than 90 days after the expiration of the 45-day period.
(Ord. 2001-5047, passed 1-16-2001)
§ 36.73 HEARING.
   (A)   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under section nine, above, the Local Tax
Administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any appeal.
   (B)   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance
is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed 14 days.
   (C)   At the hearing the Local Tax Administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit
or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
   (D)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the Local Tax Administrator shall
make a written determination, within ten business days, on the basis of the
evidence presented at the hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be
provided with a copy of the written decision.
(Ord. 2001-5047, passed 1-16-2001)
§ 36.74 INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Tax to be paid within certain time. In the event a determination has
been made that a tax is due and owing, through audit, assessment or other bill
sent, the tax must be paid within the time frame otherwise indicated.
   (B)   Interest. The city hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be 5%
per annum, based on a year of 365 days and the number of days elapsed.
   (C)   Late filing and payment penalties. If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty of 5% of the amount of tax required to be shown as due on a return
shall be imposed; and a late payment penalty of 5% of the tax due shall be
imposed. If no return is filed within the time or manner provided by the
controlling tax ordinance and prior to the city issuing a notice of tax
delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure to file penalty shall be
assessed equal to 25% of the total tax due for the applicable reporting period
for which the return was required to be filed. A late filing or payment penalty
shall not apply if a failure to file penalty is imposed by the controlling
ordinance.
(Ord. 2001-5047, passed 1-16-2001)
§ 36.75 ABATEMENT.
   The Local Tax Administrator shall have the authority to waive or abate any
late filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file penalty if the
Local Tax Administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists for delay or
failure to make a filing.
(Ord. 2001-5047, passed 1-16-2001)
§ 36.76 INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS.
   The city may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The Local Tax
Administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
Local Tax Administrator that the payment is 30 days delinquent, the taxpayer
shall have 14 working days to cure any delinquency. If the taxpayer fails to
cure the delinquency within the 14-day period or fails to demonstrate good
faith in restructuring the installment contract with the Local Administrator,
the installment contract shall be canceled without further notice to the
taxpayer.
(Ord. 2001-5047, passed 1-16-2001)
§ 36.77 STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   The city, through the Local Tax Administrator, shall review all tax returns
in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due and
owing. The taxpayer shall have 45 days after receiving notice of the reviewed
tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax still due and
owing.
   (A)   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four
years after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
   (B)   If any tax return is not filed or if during any four-year period for
which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the City of
Mattoon, the tax paid was less than 75% of the tax due, the statue of
limitations shall be six years maximum after the end of the calendar year in
which return for the applicable period was due or end of the calendar year in
which the return for the applicable period was filed.
   (C)   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer.
(Ord. 2001-5047, passed 1-16-2001)
§ 36.78 VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE.
   For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment from the
Local Tax Administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
Local Tax Administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of 1% per month, for all periods prior to the filing
of the application but not more than four years before the date of filing the
application. A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure application may not
be liable for any additional tax interest, or penalty for any period before the
date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer incorrectly determined
and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is liable for the underpaid
tax along with the applicable interest on the underpaid tax, unless the
underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the taxpayer, in which case
the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The payment of tax and
interest must be made by no later than 90 days after the filing of the
voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to by the Local Tax
Administrator. However, any additional amounts owed as a result of an
underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this section must be
paid within 90 days after a final determination and the exhaustion of all
appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed to by the Local Tax
Administrator, whichever is longer.
(Ord. 2001-5047, passed 1-16-2001)
§ 36.79 PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES.
   Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
Internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the City
Clerk's office.
(Ord. 2001-5047, passed 1-16-2001)
§ 36.80 INTERNAL REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   The Local Tax Administrator shall establish an internal review procedure
regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes. Upon a
determination by the Local Tax Administrator that the lien is valid, the lien
shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is determined to be
improper, the Local Tax Administrator shall:
   (A)   Timely remove the lien at the city’s expense;
   (B)   Correct the taxpayer's credit record; and,
   (C)   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien.
(Ord. 2001-5047, passed 1-16-2001)
BUSINESS DISTRICT RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX; BUSINESS DISTRICT SERVICE
OCCUPATION TAX BUSINESS DISTRICT HOTEL OPERATORS' OCCUPATION TAX
§ 36.90 IMPOSITION OF TAXES.
   (A)   Effective July 1, 2008, a tax is hereby imposed upon all persons
engaged in the business of selling tangible personal property, other than an
item of tangible personal property titled or registered with an agency of this
state's government, at retail within the boundaries of the Broadway East
Business District at the rate of 1% of the gross receipts from such sales made
in the course of such business while this section is in effect; and a tax is
hereby imposed upon all persons engaged within the boundaries of the Broadway
East Business District in the business of making sales of service, at the rate
of 1% of the selling price of all tangible personal property transferred by
such serviceman as an incident to a sale of service; and a tax is hereby
imposed upon all persons engaged within the boundaries of the Broadway East
Business District in the renting, leasing, or letting of hotel rooms at the
rate of 1% of the gross rental receipts from such sales made in the course of
renting, leasing, or letting hotel rooms while this section is in effect. This
"Business District Retailers' Occupation Tax" and this "Business District
Service Occupation Tax" shall not be applicable to the sales of food for human
consumption which is to be consumed off the premises where it is sold (other
than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks and food that has been prepared for
immediate consumption) and prescription and non-prescription medicines, drugs,
medical appliances, modifications to a motor vehicle for the purpose of
rendering it usable by a disabled person, and insulin, urine testing materials,
syringes and needles used by diabetics. This "Business District Hotel
Operators' Occupation Tax" shall not be applicable to gross rental receipts
from the proceeds of renting, leasing, or letting to permanent residents of a
hotel, as defined in the Hotel Operators' Occupation Tax Act, and proceeds from
the tax imposed under subsection (c) of Section 13 of the Metropolitan Pier and
Exposition Authority Act.
   (B)   The imposition of these business district taxes is in accordance with
the provisions of ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-74.3-6(b), (c) and (d). The City
Council shall adopt an ordinance to discontinue these business district taxes
such that said taxes shall not be imposed for more than 23 years, in accordance
with Illinois Law, within the time frame necessary to duly notify the Illinois
Department of Revenue (not less than three months but no more than eight months
prior to discontinuation).
   (C)   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed
as an incident thereto shall be collected, administered, and enforced in
accordance with ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-74.3-6. In accordance with ILCS Ch.
65, Act 5, § 11-74.3-6 the city shall administer, collect and enforce the
Business District Hotel Operators' Occupation Tax.
   (D)   The Municipal Clerk is hereby directed to file a certified copy of
this section with the Illinois Department of Revenue.
(Ord. 2007-5233, passed 4-17-2007; Am. Ord. 2007-5241, passed 9-18-2007; Am.
Ord. 2007-5247, passed 12-4-2007)
§ 36.99 PENALTY.
   Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a fraudulent return,
or who willfully violates any other provision of §
36.07 or §§
36.20 through
36.26 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
not less than $100 nor more than $200 and in addition shall be liable in a
civil action for the amount of tax due.
('68 Code, § 34.08) (Ord. 66-4054, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 81-4417, passed 7-21-
1981; Am. Ord. 4771, passed 3-19-1994; Am. Ord. 96-4846, passed 4-16-1996; Am.
Ord. 98-4958, passed 7-21-1998; Am. Ord. 99-4989, passed 6-1-1999)
CHAPTER 37: EMPLOYEE REGULATIONS
Section
   
37.01   Employee regulations adopted by reference
   
37.02   Employees called to active military service
   
37.03   Drug and alcohol free workplace
   
37.04   Policy prohibiting sexual harassment
§ 37.01 EMPLOYEE REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The employee regulations of the city as set forth in Ordinances 89-4604, 90-
4637, 93-4721, 2006-5217, Resolutions 76-1202, 2001-2457, and all subsequent
amendments thereto, as well as the provisions of 1968 Code §§ 2.46, 2.47, and
2.55 are continued in full force and effect, and are hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this code, the same as if set forth in full
herein. These regulations only apply to employees not represented by a
collective bargaining agent.
(Am. Ord. 2003-5170, passed 10-7-2003; Am. Ord. 2006-5217, passed 6-20-2006;
Am. Ord. 2012-5358, passed 8-7-2012)
§ 37.02 EMPLOYEES CALLED TO ACTIVE MILITARY SERVICE.
   (A)   The municipality shall comply with state and federal laws that govern
military leave, to wit:
      (1)   The Public Employee Armed Services Rights Act, ILCS Ch. 5, Act 330,
§§ 1 et seq., requires Illinois public employers to protect the employment
benefits of employees who are called to active duty that the employees would
have enjoyed had they not been called to active duty. The Act does not
distinguish between employees that joined the military service prior their
employment or after their employment.
      (2)   The Military Leave of Absence Act, ILCS Ch. 5, Act 325, §§ 1 et
seq., requires public employers to permit full-time employees who are members
of any reserve component of the United States Armed Forces or the Illinois
State Militia a leave of absence for any period of time actively spent in
military service, and specifies that seniority and other benefits continue to
accrue during such leave. The law also requires that such employees shall
receive their regular compensation from their public employer during such
leave, minus the amount of the employee's base pay for military activities.
      (3)   The Local Government Employees Benefits Continuation Act, ILCS Ch.
50, Act 140, § 2 prescribes the benefits that employees shall receive for the
duration of the employee's active military service. The law entitles fulltime
employees of local governments to receive the same regular compensation that
they were receiving at the time they were mobilized to active military duty;
plus health insurance and other benefits they were receiving at that time,
minus the amount of their base pay for military service.
      (4)   The Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act, 38
U.S.C. § 4301 entitles regular full-time municipal employees who have been
called for active duty with the armed forces to full reemployment rights upon
their return, as long as such leave does not exceed five years. This federal
law covers all employees who are called to military duty except (1) employees
that have worked for "brief, nonrecurring periods" that cannot be expected to
continue indefinitely or for a significant period of time; and (2) temporary
employees such as seasonal employees.
   (B)   The health insurance plan of the municipality will provide primary
coverage for spouses and dependent children of employees called to active
military duty, whose existing health care providers are not accepted by the
military insurance provider. In these circumstances, the municipality will
underwrite the cost of both the employer and employee share of the cost of the
health plan.
(Ord. 2004-5176, passed 4-6-04)
Editor’s notes:
   ILCS Ch. 5, Act 325 (Military Leave of Absence Act) was repealed by P.A.
100-1101.
   ILCS Ch. 5, Act 330 (Public Employee Armed Services Rights Act) was repealed
by P.A. 100- 1101.
   ILCS Ch. 50, Act 140 (Local Government Employee Benefits Continuation Act)
was repealed by P.A. 100-1101.
§ 37.03 DRUG AND ALCOHOL FREE WORKPLACE.
   (A)   Policy. It is the policy of the city ("employer") that the public has
the right to expect persons employed by the municipality to be free from the
effects of drugs and alcohol during working hours. An employer has the right to
expect its employees to report to work fit and able for duty. In order to
further its goal of obtaining a drug and alcohol free workplace, the employer
is implementing a drug and alcohol testing program intended to help reduce
accidents and casualties in employer's workplace, to help discourage substance
abuse, and to help reduce absenteeism, health care cost, drug and alcohol
related problems. This program will enhance the safety and health of employees.
   (B)   Application. This section applies to all employees of the municipality
not represented by a collective bargaining agent. This section supercedes the
city's personnel code. In the case of conflict, terms and conditions of
collective bargaining agreements shall control.
   (C)   Prohibitions. The employer prohibits the following conduct:
      (1)   Consuming, possessing or being under the influence of alcohol or
illegal drugs (unless in accordance with duty requirements) at any time during
the work day or anywhere on any city premises or job sites, including all
employer buildings, properties (except alcohol which is secured in the
employee's personal vehicle), vehicles, and while engaged in the employer's
business;
      (2)   Selling, purchasing or delivering any illegal drug or alcohol
during the workday or on the employer's premises;
      (3)   An exception to these prohibitions is provided for alcohol
consumption, possessing and selling alcohol at events approved by the City
Council.
   (D)   Discipline. An employee shall be discharged on the first offense if
test results are confirmed positive for banned substance usage or abuse; if the
employee refuses to provide a breath test and urine specimen; attempts to
tamper with or alter the specimen; or fails to cooperate in the testing
procedure (including executing all required documentation). An employee shall
be suspended without pay for 30 days on the first offense if test results are
confirmed positive for alcohol consumption of .04 or more and the employee
accepts voluntary referral and treatment from an Employee Assistance Program.
   (E)   Drug and alcohol testing. The employer shall conduct alcohol and drug
testing as prescribed in this section.
      (1)   Pre-employment testing. All applicants for employment shall be
advised of the employer's alcohol and drug testing requirements at the time of
interview and shall sign a release and consent authorization form for the
tests. All applicants who have successfully completed the employment interview
process shall be required to provide a breath alcohol test and a urine specimen
as part of his or her background investigation. An applicant for employment
shall not be employed if the applicant declines to sign a release and consent
authorization form for alcohol and drug testing; refuses to provide a breath
test and urine specimen; attempts to tamper with or alter the specimen; fails
to cooperate in the testing procedure; or if test results are confirmed
positive for banned substance usage or abuse.
      (2)   Random testing. Employees shall be subject to random drug and
alcohol testing. The testing dates and times shall be unannounced and be done
with unpredictable frequency. The choice of which employees will be tested
shall be made by a third party completely independent from the management of
the employer. The annual percentage random testing rate shall be 10% for
alcohol testing and 50% for drug testing for employees in positions to which
this section applies.
      (3)   Reasonable suspicion testing. When the management of the employer
has reasonable suspicion to believe an employee is under the influence of
alcohol or illegal drugs during the course of the work day, the employer shall
have the right to require the employee to submit to alcohol or drug testing as
set forth in this section. The employer shall verbally explain the reason for
suspicion at the time the employee is requested to take the test. This shall
not preclude the employer from investigating and discovering any additional
evidence to present at a discipline hearing. The management of the employer
must certify reasonable suspicions concerning the affected employee within 48
working hours of any order to submit to the testing.
      (4)   Post-accident testing. Post-accident testing is required whenever
an employee is involved in an accident while driving a vehicle on business of
the employer that involves loss of life, personal injury or a vehicle must be
towed and the driver receives a citation under state or local law.
   (F)   Substances tested. The employer shall conduct alcohol and drug testing
as prescribed in this section or as required by law, whichever is more
stringent.
      (1)   Alcohol. Any alcohol test required by the employer pursuant to this
section will analyze an employee's breath to test for the presence of alcohol.
The alcohol concentration of .04 or more based upon the grams of alcohol per
1,000 ml of blood shall be considered a positive test presumptively concluding
the employee is under the influence of alcohol.
      (2)   Controlled substances. Any drug test required by employer pursuant
to this section will analyze an individual's urine to test for the presence of
drugs identified in ILCS Ch. 720, Act 550, §3(a), ILCS Ch. 720, Act 570, §§20
et seq., and ILCS Ch. 720, Act 580, §§1 et seq. Any levels detected above those
amounts described below shall conclusively deem the employee to be under the
influence of a controlled substance or drug. After detection of a controlled
substance, a confirmatory test will be conducted by the employer at its expense
to determine the level of concentration. Concentrations below levels prescribed
below shall not preclude the employer from proving the employee has consumed or
is under the influence of drugs.
DRUG CONCENTRATION LEVELS
Initial Test Initial Test Level (ng/ml)
DRUG CONCENTRATION LEVELS
Initial Test                         Initial Test Level (ng/ml)
Marijuana metabolites                100
Cocaine metabolites                  300
Opiate metabolites                   300
Phencyclidine                        25
Amphetamines                         1,000
Opiate metabolites for free morphine 25
All other controlled substances      25
Confirmatory Test                    Confirmatory Test Level (ng/ml)
Marijuana metabolites1               15
Cocaine metabolites2                 150
Opiates:
   Morphine                       300
   Codeine                        300
   Phencyclidine                  25
Amphetamines:
   Amphetamine                    500
   Methamphetamine                500
1 Delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol-9carboxylic acid
2 Benzoylecgonine
Any changes to drugs identified in ILCS Ch. 720, Act 550, § 3(a), ILCS Ch.
720, Act 570, §§ 20 et seq., and ILCS Ch. 720, Act 580, §§1 et seq. or to
concentration levels established by the Department of Health and Human
Services levels shall automatically modify the foregoing table.
 
   (G)   Order to submit to testing. The employer shall verbally explain the
reason for testing at the time the employee is ordered to take a test. This
shall not preclude the employer from investigating and discovering any
additional evidence to present at a discipline hearing. Once ordered to submit
to testing, an employee must do so immediately. Within 48 working hours of the
time the employee is ordered to submit to the test, the employer shall provide
the employee with a written notice of the order, setting forth all of the facts
and reasonable inferences drawn from those facts which have formed the basis of
the order to test. The employee shall be permitted to consult with a
representative of his or her choice within 30 minutes of the time the order is
given. No questioning of the employee shall be conducted without first
affording the employee the right to representation or legal counsel of the
employee's choice. Refusal to submit to such testing will subject the employee
to discipline, but taking of the test shall not be construed as a waiver of any
objection or rights the employee may have. The right to representation and/or
legal counsel shall not delay the time in which the employee must take the
test.
   (H)   Place of testing. An employee required to be tested shall be
transported to an appropriate collection facility or testing facility by a
management representative of the employer to await collection and testing.
   (I)   Tests to be conducted. In conducting the testing directed by this
section, the employer shall:
      (1)   Use only a clinical laboratory or hospital facility licensed
pursuant to the Illinois Clinical Laboratory Act or is capable of being
accredited by the National Institute of Drug Abuse (NIDA);
      (2)   Ensure that the laboratory or facility selected confirms to all
NIDA standards;
      (3)   Establish a chain of custody procedure for both sample collection
and testing that will ensure the integrity of the identity of each sample and
test result;
      (4)   Collect a sufficient sample of the body fluid or material from an
employee to allow for initial screening, confirmatory test, and a sufficient
amount to be set aside reserved for later testing if possible and requested by
the employee;
      (5)   Collect samples in such a manner as to ensure a high degree of
security for the sample and its freedom from alteration;
      (6)   Confirm any sample testing positive in the initial screening for
drugs by testing the second portion of the same sample by gas, chromatography,
mass spectrometry (gcms) or an equivalent or better scientifically accurate and
acceptable method that provides quantitative data about the detected drug or
drug metabolites;
      (7)   Provide the employee tested with an opportunity to have the
additional sample tested by a clinical laboratory or hospital facility of the
employee's own choosing, at the employee's own expense provided the employee
notifies the employer within 72 hours of receiving the results of the tests;
      (8)   Require the laboratory or hospital facility report to the employer
that a blood or a urine sample is positive only if both the initial screening
and confirmatory test is positive for a particular drug or alcohol. The
employer may discover the test results if below the levels provided in this
section should it choose to proceed to prove consumption and/or influence of
drugs at levels below the presumption of influence. Should any information
concerning such testing or the results thereof be obtained by the employer
inconsistent with the procedures described herein, the employer will not use
such information in any manner or form adverse to the employee's interests;
      (9)   Provide each employee tested and his or her representative with a
copy of all information and reports received by the employer in connection with
the testing and the results; and
      (10)   Provide that no employee shall be the subject of disciplinary
action that is not without just cause.
   (J)   Right to contest. An employee has a right to file a grievance
according to procedures provided in the personnel code concerning any testing
directed by this section, contesting the basis for the order to submit to the
tests, the administration of the tests, the significance and accuracy of the
tests, the consequences of the testing or results or any other alleged
violation of this testing section.
   (K)   Voluntary request for assistance. An employee who voluntarily comes
forward to request assistance with drug use or alcohol consumption shall be
referred to an employee assistance program, a means by which employees may
obtain treatment. All such requests shall be confidential to the fullest extent
permitted by law and shall not be used in any manner adverse to the employee's
interest except as required for disciplinary action. All requests for employee
assistance shall be included in the employee's file for future disciplinary
consideration. When an employee voluntarily requests assistance, the employer,
in its sole discretion, may determine to retain the employee, reassign the
employee if the employee is otherwise fit for duty or suspend the employee
without pay if the employee is then unfit for duty as determined in the sole
discretion of the employer.
   (L)   Continued employment. Any employee who voluntarily takes treatment for
drug or alcohol dependency shall be subject to periodic, random or reasonable
suspicion drug testing, as a condition of continued employment for up to a
period of 24 months. Continued employment will also be conditioned upon the
employee successfully completing any counseling which may be recommended by the
employee assistance program as part of a program to seek the appropriate
treatment as determined by any physicians involved. The cost of counseling and
treatment shall be borne by the employer, if provided through the employer's
sanctioned employee assistance program.
(Ord. 2005-5205, passed 7-19-2005)
§ 37.04 POLICY PROHIBITING SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   (A)   Prohibition on sexual harassment. It is unlawful to harass a person
because of that person's sex. The courts have determined that sexual harassment
is a form of discrimination under Title VII of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of
1964, as amended in 1991. All persons have a right to work in an environment
free from sexual harassment. Sexual harassment is unacceptable misconduct which
affects individuals of all genders and sexual orientations. It is a policy of
the City of Mattoon to prohibit harassment of any person by any municipal
official, municipal agent, municipal employee or municipal agency or municipal
office on the basis of sex or gender. All municipal officials, municipal
agents, municipal employees and municipal agencies or municipal offices are
prohibited from sexually harassing any person, regardless of any employment
relationship or lack thereof.
   (B)   Definition of sexual harassment. This policy adopts the definition of
sexual harassment as stated in the Illinois Human Rights Act, which currently
defines sexual harassment as:
      (1)   Any unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual favors or any
conduct of a sexual nature when:
         (a)   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or
implicitly a term or condition of an individual's employment;
         (b)   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is
used as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual; or
         (c)   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially
interfering with an individual's work performance or creating an intimidating,
hostile or offensive working environment.
      (2)   Conduct which may constitute sexual harassment includes, but is not
limited to:
         (a)   Verbal harassment. Sexual innuendos, suggestive comments,
Insults, humor, and jokes about sex, anatomy or gender-specific traits, sexual
propositions, threats, repeated requests for dates, or statements about other
employees, even outside of their presence, of a sexual nature.
         (b)   Non-verbal harassment. Suggestive or insulting sounds
(whistling), leering, obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures,
"catcalls", "smacking" or "kissing" noises.
         (c)   Visual. Posters, signs, pin-ups or slogans of a sexual nature,
viewing pornographic material or websites.
         (d)   Physical harassment. Touching, unwelcome hugging or kissing,
pinching, brushing the body, any coerced sexual act or actual assault.
         (e)   Textual/electronic harassment. "Sexting" (electronically sending
messages with sexual content, including pictures and video), the use of
sexually explicit language, harassment; cyber stalking and threats via all
forms of electronic communication (e-mail, text/picture/video messages,
intranet/on-line postings, blogs, instant messages and posts on social network
websites like Facebook and Twitter).
      (3)   The most severe and overt forms of sexual harassment are easier to
determine. On the other end of the spectrum, some sexual harassment is more
subtle and depends, to some extent, on individual perception and
interpretation. The courts will assess sexual harassment by a standard of what
would offend a "reasonable person."
   (C)   Procedure for reporting an allegation of sexual harassment.
   (1)   An employee who either observes sexual harassment or believes herself
or himself to be the object of sexual harassment should deal with the incident
(s) as directly and firmly as possible by clearly communicating her or his
position to the offending employee, and her or his immediate supervisor. It is
not necessary for sexual harassment to be directed at the person making the
report.
      (2)   Any employee may report conduct which is believed to be sexual
harassment, including the following:
         (a)   Electronic/direct communication. If there is sexual harassing
behavior in the workplace, the harassed employee should directly and clearly
express her or his objection that the conduct is unwelcome and request that the
offending behavior stop. The initial message may be verbal. If subsequent
messages are needed, they should be put in writing in a note or a memo.
         (b)   Contact with supervisory personnel. At the same time direct
communication is undertaken, or in the event the employee feels threatened or
intimidated by the situation, the problem must be promptly reported to the
immediate supervisor of the person making the report, a department head, a
director of human resources, an ethics officer, the City Manager or
Administrator, or the chief executive officer of the city. The employee
experiencing what he or she believes to be sexual harassment must not assume
that the employer is aware of the conduct. If there are no witnesses and the
victim fails to notify a supervisor or other responsible officer, the city will
not be presumed to have knowledge of the harassment.
         (c)   Resolution outside city. The purpose of this policy is to
establish prompt, thorough and effective procedures for responding to every
report and incident so that problems can be identified and remedied by the
city. However, all city employees have the right to contact the Illinois
Department of Human Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC) for information regarding filing a formal complaint with
those entities. An IDHR complaint must be filed within 300 days of the alleged
incident(s) unless it is a continuing offense. A complaint with the EEOC must
be filed within 300 days.
      (3)   Allegations of sexual harassment made against an elected official
of the governmental unit by another elected official of a governmental unit. In
addition to the methods of reporting included above, an elected official may
request an independent review of a complaint of sexual harassment by another
elected official. The request shall be made to the human resources director,
the City Manager or Administrator or the chief elected official of the city.
The official receiving the request shall take immediate action in keeping with
the procurement process of the city to retain a qualified individual or entity
for the independent review of the allegations of sexual harassment in violation
of this policy. The outcome of the independent review shall be reported to the
corporate authorities.
      (4)   Documentation of any incident may be submitted with any report
(what was said or done, the date, the time and the location), including, but
not limited to, written records such as letters, notes, memos and telephone
messages.
      (5)   All allegations, including anonymous reports, will be accepted and
investigated regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the city.
However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment charges and
the difficulties associated with their investigation and the questions of
credibility involved, the claimant’s willing cooperation is a vital component
of an effective inquiry and an appropriate outcome.
   (D)   Prohibition on retaliation for reporting sexual harassment
allegations.
      (1)   No city official, city agency, city employee or city agency or
office shall take any retaliatory action against any city employee due to a
city employee’s or official's:
         (a)   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this
policy,
         (b)   The provision of information related to an investigation or
testimony before any public body conducting an investigation, hearing or
inquiry into any violation of this policy, or
         (c)   Assistance with or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this policy.
      (2)   For the purposes of this policy, RETALIATORY ACTION means the
reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer, or
change in the terms or conditions of employment of any city employee that is
taken in retaliation for a city employee’s or official's involvement in
protected activity pursuant to this policy.
      (3)   No individual making a report will be retaliated against even if a
report made in good faith is not substantiated. In addition, any witness will
be protected from retaliation.
      (4)   Similar to the prohibition against retaliation contained herein,
the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 15-10)
provides whistleblower protection from retaliatory action, and this policy
prohibits retaliatory action such as reprimand, discharge, suspension,
demotion, or denial of promotion or transfer that occurs in retaliation for an
employee who does any of the following:
         (a)   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a
public body an activity, policy, or practice of any officer, member, agency, or
other employee that the employee reasonably believes is in violation of a law,
rule, or regulation;
         (b)   Provides information to or testifies before any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry into any violation of a law,
rule, or regulation by any officer, member, agency or other employee; or
         (c)   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act or this policy.
      (5)   Pursuant to the Whistleblower Act (ILCS Ch. 740, Act 174, § 15(a)),
an employer may not retaliate against an employee who discloses information in
a court, an administrative hearing, or before a legislative commission or
committee, or in any other proceeding, where the employee has reasonable cause
to believe that the information discloses a violation of a state or federal
law, rule, or regulation. In addition, an employer may not retaliate against an
employee for disclosing information to a government or law enforcement agency,
where the employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information
discloses a violation of a state or federal law, rule, or regulation. (ILCS Ch.
740, Act 174, § 15(b)).
      (6)   According to the Illinois Human Rights Act (ILCS Ch. 775, Act 5, §
6-101), it is a civil rights violation for a person, or for two or more people
to conspire, to retaliate against a person because he or she has opposed that
which he or she reasonably and in good faith believes to be sexual harassment
in employment, because he or she has made a charge, filed a complaint,
testified, assisted, or participated in an investigation, proceeding, or
hearing under the Illinois Human Rights Act.
      (7)   An employee who is suddenly transferred to a lower paying job or
passed over for a promotion after filing a complaint with IDHR or EEOC, may
file a retaliation charge, either due within 300 days of the alleged
retaliation.
   (E)   Consequences of a violation of the prohibition on sexual harassment.
In addition to any and all other discipline that may be applicable pursuant to
municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreement, any person who violates this policy or the
prohibition on sexual harassment contained in ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 5-65, may
be subject to a fine of up to $5,000 per offense, applicable disciplinary
actions or discharge by the municipality and any applicable fines and penalties
established pursuant to local ordinance, state law or federal law. Each
violation may constitute a separate offense. Any discipline imposed by the
municipality shall be separate and distinct from any penalty imposed by an
ethics commission and any fines or penalties imposed by a court of law or a
state or federal agency.
   (F)   Consequences for knowingly making a false report.
      (1)   A false report is a report of sexual harassment made by an accuser
to accomplish an outcome other than stopping sexual harassment or stopping
retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. A false report is not a report
made in good faith which cannot be proven. Given the seriousness of the
consequences for the accused, a false or frivolous report is a severe offense
that can itself result in disciplinary action. Any person who intentionally
makes a false report alleging a violation of any provision of this policy shall
be subject to disciplinary action or discharge pursuant to applicable municipal
policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/or
collective bargaining agreements.
      (2)   In addition, any person who intentionally makes a false report
alleging a violation of any provision of the State Officials and Employees
Ethics Act to an ethics commission, an inspector general, the State Police, a
State's Attorney, the Attorney General, or any other law enforcement official
is guilty of a Class A misdemeanor. An ethics commission may levy an
administrative fine of up to $5,000 against any person who intentionally makes
a false, frivolous or bad faith allegation.
(Ord. 2017-5400, passed 12-19-2017; Am. Ord. 2018-5412, passed 12-4-2018; Am.
Ord. 2020-5432, passed 6-16-2020)
CHAPTER 38: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
   
38.01   Public records available; fees
   
38.02   Catalogue of public records
   
38.03   Request form
   
38.04   Form for notice of denial of request
   
38.05   Form for notice of unduly burdensome requests
   
38.06   Notice of certain information exempt from inspection; form
§ 38.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE; FEES.
   (A)   Interested persons may secure copies of any nonexempt public record by
written request from the City Clerk's office located at City Hall, 208 North
19th Street, second floor, with the exception of police records.
   (B)   Police records which are not otherwise privileged may be secured from
the Police Chief's office located at City Hall, 208 North 19th Street, first
floor.
   (C)   Such persons that request to the City Clerk's office or Police Chief's
office, City Hall, 208 North 19th Street, Mattoon, Illinois 61938 specifying in
particular the records requested to be disclosed and copied. If said person
desires records be certified, it must be indicated in the request and specify
which records must be certified. Records may be inspected Monday through Friday
from 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
   (D)   (1)   The fees for any such records, if the person requesting the
records wishes them copied are as follows:
         (a)   $.75 per page.
         (b)   Postage fees will be charged on all materials mailed.
      (2)   All fees are due upon receipt of copies. Copies that are to be
mailed will be held until payment is received.
(Ord. 84-1498, passed 6-19-1984)
§ 38.02 CATALOGUE OF PUBLIC RECORDS.
   The city maintains the following types of records:
   (A)   Minutes of the following Boards and Commissions:
      (1)   City Council.
      (2)   Community Planning Commission.
      (3)   Board of Fire and Police Commissioners.
      (4)   Board of Trustees Dodge Grove Cemetery.
      (5)   Electrical Commission.
      (6)   Firemen's Pension Board.
      (7)   Park Board.
      (8)   Police Pension Board.
      (9)   Water Board.
      (10)   Zoning Board of Appeals.
      (11)   Library Board.
   (B)   Personnel records, employees:
      (1)   Salary schedules.
      (2)   Time sheets.
   (C)   Financial records:
      (1)   City Budget.
      (2)   Annual appropriation ordinance.
      (3)   Tax levy ordinance.
      (4)   Annual audits.
      (5)   Bills.
      (6)   Revenue receipts.
      (7)   Vouchers (paid bills).
      (8)   Cancelled checks.
      (9)   Park Board.
      (10)   Sales tax receipts.
      (11)   Utility tax receipts.
      (12)   Real estate tax receipts.
      (13)   Permit fees.
      (14)   License receipts.
      (15)   Annual Treasurer's reports.
   (D)   Permits:
      (1)   Building.
      (2)   Electrical.
      (3)   Water.
      (4)   Sewer.
      (5)   Cut boulevard.
      (6)   Sign.
      (7)   Demolition.
      (8)   Fireworks.
      (9)   Environmental protection permits.
      (10)   Oil well permits.
      (11)   Going out-of-business.
   (E)   Council ordinances.
   (F)   Council resolutions.
   (G)   Correspondence received by municipality.
   (H)   Correspondence from municipality.
   (I)   Bidding specifications, bids, contracts.
   (J)   City maps.
   (K)   Deeds and abstracts; city property.
   (L)   Legal notices; certificates of publication.
   (M)   Fire pension records.
   (N)   Police pension records.
   (O)   Bonds:
      (1)   Public official bonds.
      (2)   Public liability bonds.
      (3)   Liquor license bonds.
      (4)   Plumber's bonds.
      (5)   Electrical contractor's bonds.
   (P)   Animal control records.
   (Q)   Police Department records:
      (1)   Arrest records.
      (2)   Traffic accident reports.
      (3)   Daily log record.
      (4)   Vehicle maintenance.
   (R)   Fire Department records:
      (1)   Fire reports.
      (2)   Fire pension records.
   (S)   Leases.
   (T)   Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund records.
   (U)   Election records.
   (V)   Industrial revenue bond projects.
   (W)   Motor fuel tax records.
   (X)   City insurance:
      (1)   Public liability.
      (2)   Auto.
      (3)   Worker's compensation.
      (4)   Hospitalization-employees.
   (Y)   Birth and death records:
      (1)   Sub-registrar reports.
      (2)   Burial permits.
      (3)   Disinterment-reinterment permits.
   (Z)   City license records:
      (1)   Auctioneer.
      (2)   Coin-operated.
      (3)   Jukebox.
      (4)   Handbill.
      (5)   Liquor.
      (6)   Billiard and pool.
      (7)   Bowling alley.
      (8)   Musical entertainment-dance hall.
      (9)   Taxicab.
      (10)   Transient vendor.
      (11)   Electrical.
      (12)   Trailer park.
      (13)   Junk yard.
      (14)   Pawnbroker.
      (15)   Hunting and fishing.
   (AA)   Cemetery deed books.
   (BB)   Water Department records:
      (1)   Water and sewer bills-customer records.
      (2)   Property abstracts and deeds.
      (3)   Maps; waterlines.
      (4)   Leases.
      (5)   EPA permits.
   (CC)   E.S.D.A. Department records.
      (1)   Federal funding records.
      (2)   Volunteer personnel records.
      (3)   Disaster plans.
      (4)   Safety program records.
      (5)   Volunteer training.
      (6)   ESDA response records.
      (7)   Toxic substances.
   (DD)   Dodge Grove Cemetery records:
      (1)   Maps; plat books.
      (2)   Interment records.
   (EE)   Library records:
      (1)   Annual reports (state).
      (2)   Circulation records.
      (3)   Library cards.
      (4)   Inventory records.
   (FF)   Street Department records:
      (1)   Work reports.
      (2)   Time book.
(Ord. 84-1498, passed 6-19-1984)
§ 38.03 REQUEST FORM.
   CITY OF MATTOON
   CITY HALL
   MATTOON, ILLINOIS
   On the           day of              , 20    , at the hour
of               M., the following individual(s) appeared in person at the
office of the (Police Chief)-(City Clerk) and asked to inspect the following
records:
   Individual (s) making the request:
   Records sought to be inspected:
   The above records were presented to such individual (s) for inspection at
                M. on the        day of           , 20    , except for: (here
insert any records not presented:)
   The reason(s) for not providing the above records (or portion of records)
was
                                                                                               
   Of the records requested, copies of the below records were provided to or
made by the individual(s) making the request:
   Date and Time of Memorandum:
                                                                               
   Signature of Employee:
                                                                                     
   Title of Employee:
                                                                                         
   Witness:
                                                                                                   
(Ord. 84-1498, passed 6-19-1984)
§ 38.04 FORM FOR NOTICE OF DENIAL OF REQUEST.
NOTICE OF DENIAL
Your request for copies of public records has been denied on:
                                                                                     ,
                                        (date)
based on the following:
                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                                                   
Names and titles or positions of each person responsible for the denial:
                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
REQUEST FOR REVIEW RIGHT
Pursuant to law you are entitled to contact the Office of the Attorney
General’s Public Access Counselor (PAC) for a Request for Review on the
decision of denying your request for certain information. Contact information
for the PAC is: Public Access Counselor; Office of the Attorney General; 500 S.
2nd Street; Springfield, Illinois 62701 or at 1-877-299-FOIA (1-877-299-3642)
or at: publicaccess@ilag.gov.
(Ord. 84-1498, passed 6-19-1984; Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 38.05 FORM FOR NOTICE OF UNDULY BURDENSOME REQUESTS.
   CITY OF MATTOON
   CITY HALL
   MATTOON, ILLINOIS
Dear              
   We have been unable to fill your request dated                         
requesting
for the following reason or reasons (check one or more of the following reasons
as appropriate:)
          The requested records are stored in another location.
          The request requires the collection of a large number of records.
          The request is categorical in nature and requires an extensive
search.
          We have failed to located the requested records in our initial
attempt and the search is continuing.
          The requested records require examination by a competent person in
order to determine which, if
any, are exempt under Section 7 of the Act.
          It would unduly burden or interfere with the operations of this city
to fill the request within the initial
seven working days.
          There is a need for consultation with another public body which has a
substantial interest in the
determination or in the subject matter of the request.
   With respect to the records you have requested, such records will be
available to you by                or we will make a decision denying your
request by such date. Such date will be within seven additional working days
from
                                                                                       
(here insert the date of the seventh working day after the original request was
              filed.)
                                    CITY OF MATTOON
                                    By:                                       
                                    Title:                                     
(Ord. 84-1498, passed 6-19-1984)
§ 38.06 NOTICE OF CERTAIN INFORMATION EXEMPT FROM INSPECTION; FORM.
   CITY OF MATTOON
   CITY HALL
   MATTOON, ILLINOIS
Dear                 
   Pursuant to written request of                               , enclosed you
will find copies of the records you have requested. Please note that pursuant
to Section 8 of the Freedom of Information Act, certain material originally
contained in such records has been deleted because such material is exempt
material under Section 7 of the Act.
                                    By:                                       
                                    Title:                                     
(Ord. 84-1498, passed 6-19-84)
CHAPTER 39: CITY POLICIES
Section
   
39.01   Franchises
   
39.02   Claims against city
   
39.03   City building used for municipal offices and purposes
   
39.04   Use of tobacco products in city buildings prohibited
   
39.05   Non-discrimination policy on the basis of disabilities
Cross-reference:
   Waiver or reduction of fees, policy as to, see §
150.70
§ 39.01 FRANCHISES.
   (A)   Before any franchise ordinance passed by the City Council granting to
or vesting in any corporation, partnership or individual the right to furnish
to the city, or its citizens or inhabitants, or granting to such corporation,
partnership or individual the right to use the streets, alleys and other public
places of the city for the purpose of furnishing to the city, or its citizens
or inhabitants or any of them, any gas, water, electricity, heat, ice, traction
service or other public utility shall become effective, said ordinance shall be
posted for a period of not less than ten days in at least four public places in
the city and published at least once each week for two successive weeks in a
newspaper published in the city; provided, that if no petition shall be
presented to the Council as hereinafter provided, within 21 days after the
franchise is so posted and published then the ordinance shall be in full force
and effect.
   (B)   If, within 21 days after the first publication of the ordinance, a
petition shall be filed with the City Clerk, signed by not less than 5% of the
number of voters voting at the last general election in the city asking that
the question of granting a franchise be submitted to a vote, it shall be the
duty of the Council to submit the question to a vote at the next general
election or to call a special election in manner provided by law for the
calling of special elections, to vote upon such question, and if it appears
that a majority of the voters voting upon such question at such election vote
in favor of granting the franchise, then the franchise ordinance shall be in
full force and effect, but if a majority of such votes are against the
proposition, the franchise ordinance shall be null and void, and of no effect.
('68 Code, § 2.13)
§ 39.02 CLAIMS AGAINST CITY.
   All claims against the city shall be filed with the City Clerk. Every claim
must be set out in detail and sworn to before any City Clerk or some other
officer authorized to administer oaths, by the claimant or his authorized
agent. Such affidavit shall state that the claim is just, true and correct, and
that the price charged is not more than reasonable and customary, and that it
has (or has not) been theretofore rejected by the Council or committee. If such
claim is based upon the contract it shall be stated therein, that it is
according to it, as to price, quality, quantity and kind of service performed.
No claim shall be allowed or any warrant drawn for its payment unless these
conditions are complied with. When material has been furnished, or work done on
the order of a properly authorized officer of the city he shall certify such
claim before it is filed with the City Clerk.
('68 Code, § 2.17)
§ 39.03 CITY BUILDING USED FOR MUNICIPAL OFFICES AND PURPOSES.
   The building known as the city building situated on Lots 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and
12, Block 112, in the original town, now City of Mattoon, shall be used for
municipal offices and for municipal purposes as follows: Offices of the Mayor,
City Clerk, City Treasurer, and Police Department, Fire Department and by its
members for sleeping rooms, City Engineer, Board of Local Improvements and such
other city offices and departments as may be accommodated therein from time to
time.
('68 Code, § 2.39)
§ 39.04 USE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS IN CITY BUILDINGS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      (1)   PUBLIC BUILDING. A structure permanently affixed to real estate
owned or controlled by the city, with at least three vertical walls and a roof.
Single family residences are not included in the definition of public building.
      (2)   TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Any product in any form which consists of 51% or
more material obtained from plants commonly referred to as tobacco plants and
is intended to include, but not limited to, cigarettes, cigars, plug tobacco,
chewing tobacco, “snuff,” and pipe tobacco.
   (B)   Prohibition. It shall be unlawful for any person to use any tobacco
product in any public building owned or controlled by the city.
(Ord. 94-4784, passed 9-6-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 39.05 NON-DISCRIMINATION POLICY ON THE BASIS OF DISABILITIES.
   (A)   Purpose. The City of Mattoon has established this policy in accordance
with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 USC 794) as amended.
   (B)   Policy.
      (1)   The City of Mattoon resolves that no otherwise qualified person
shall, on the basis of a physical or mental disability, be excluded from
participation in, be denied the benefits of, or otherwise be subjected to
discrimination under any program or activity in which the City of Mattoon
receives federal financial assistance.
      (2)   The City of Mattoon further resolves that no otherwise qualified
person shall, on the basis of physical or mental disability, be excluded from
participation in, be denied the benefits of, or otherwise be subjected to
discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the City of Mattoon
independent of the funding source.
   (C)   Definitions.
      CITY SERVICES. The City of Mattoon provides a variety of public services
including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Police protection;
         (b)   Fire protection;
         (c)   Parks;
         (d)   Recreational activities;
         (e)   Arts and tourism;
         (f)   Streets;
         (g)   Sidewalks;
         (h)   Public buildings and grounds; and
         (i)   Water and sewer service.
      OTHERWISE QUALIFIED PERSON.
         (a)   With respect to employment, a person with a physical or mental
disability who, with reasonable accommodation, can perform the essential
functions of the job in question.
         (b)   With respect to services, a person with a physical or mental
disability who meets the essential eligibility requirements for the receipt of
such services.
      REFERENCE MATERIALS. Copies of 29 USC 794 and 29 USC 705 (Definitions)
are available on-line and at the City Clerk's Office at 208 North 19th Street,
Mattoon, IL 61938.
      SECTION 504 COORDINATOR. The Section 504 Coordinator for the City of
Mattoon shall be the City Manager, or a duly appointed designee. The contact
information for the Section 504 Coordinator is:
         City of Mattoon Section 504 Coordinator
         Attn: City Administrators Office
         208 North 19th Street
         Mattoon, IL 61938
         217-258-7931
   (D)   Notice of non-discrimination. A notice of non-discrimination is
attached to Ordinance No. 2020-5433 as Exhibit ‘X’ and incorporated herein by
reference. The notice of non-discrimination shall be posted in a conspicuous
location in City Hall.
   (E)   Employment practices.
      (1)   Employment advertisements. Employment advertisements shall include
the following closing “Equal Opportunity Employer: disability/veteran”.
      (2)   Processing of applications. Applications shall not include
questions about mental or physical disabilities. Mental and physical
disabilities shall not be considered during the review of applications for
interview selection. Mental and physical disabilities shall only be taken into
consideration at the time of selection of the final candidate. At that time, a
review shall be performed to determine if "reasonable accommodation" can be
implemented if/when the most qualified candidate is a person with disabilities.
      (3)   Physical requirements and testing criteria. Employment
advertisements and position descriptions may include physical performance
requirements and testing criteria. Physical or testing requirements shall be
reviewed by the Department Director and the City Administrator to verify that
all requirements are necessary for the position.
      (4)   Interviews. All interviews shall be conducted in ADA accessible
facilities. Interview questions shall be consistent from candidate to
candidate, and shall not be discriminatory to persons with disabilities.
      (5)   Confidentially. Disclosure of disabilities and/or requests for
reasonable accommodations shall remain confidential within the interview and
hiring team.
      (6)   Promotions, transfers, demotions, lay-offs, and reinstatements. The
process for promotions, transfers, demotions, lay-offs, and reinstatements
shall follow a similar process as described for hiring. Selection of the most
qualified individual shall be made without consideration of physical or mental
disabilities, then the appropriateness of reasonable accommodations shall be
considered if/when the most qualified candidate is a person with disabilities.
      (7)   Job assignments. Existing accommodations for persons with
disabilities shall be taken into account when making job assignments. Job
assignments shall not be made in a manner which would result in embarrassment
for a person with disabilities.
      (8)   Leave time and benefits. Leave time and other benefits shall be
uniform based on employee job classifications without disparity between persons
with, and without, disabilities.
      (9)   Training. Training opportunities shall be uniform based on employee
job classifications without disparity between persons with, and without,
disabilities.
   (F)   Grievance procedure.
      (1)   Grievances shall be submitted to the City of Mattoon Section 504
Coordinator at 208 N 19th Street, Mattoon, IL 61938, within 30 days of the
action to be investigated.
      (2)   Grievances shall be submitted in writing, and shall include the
following:
         (a)   Grievant's name and address;
         (b)   Grievant's preferred means of contact email, mail, video, phone,
or text; and
         (c)   Brief description of the grievance including the location, date,
and item or action to be investigated.
      (3)   Grievances shall be investigated by the Section 504 Coordinator, or
a duly appointed designee, and a response returned to the grievant within 30
days of receipt.
      (4)   Responses shall include a determination as to whether further
action by the city is warranted, a timeline for such action if deemed
necessary, or a description of why further is not justified.
      (5)   Person's with non-city related complaints, or unsatisfied
grievants, may contact the following agencies:
         (a)   State of Illinois, Office of the Attorney General
            500 S. Second Street
            Springfield, IL 62701
            217-524-2660
            877-844-5461 (TTY);
         (b)   State of Illinois, Secretary of State
            213 State Capital
            Springfield, IL 62756
            800-252-8980
            888-261-7864 (TTY); or
         (c)   Chicago Regional Office/Fair Housing Enforcement Center
            US Department of Housing and Urban Development
            Robert Metcalf Federal Building
            77 West Jackson Boulevard, Room 2101
            Chicago, IL 60604-3507
            312-353-6236
            312-353-7143 (TTY).
(Ord. 2020-5433, passed 6-16-20; Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
Chapter
   
50.   SEWER USE
   
51.   WATER
   
52.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
   
53.   CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
   
54.   YARD WASTE FACILITY
   
55.   INDUSTRIAL PRETREATMENT
CHAPTER 50: SEWER USE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.001   Authority
   
50.002   Definitions
   
50.003   Depositing objectionable waste prohibited
   
50.004   Discharge of untreated sewage or other polluted waters to natural
outlets
   
50.005   Privies, septic tanks and other facilities
   
50.006   Owner's responsibility to install suitable toilet facilities
   
50.007   Tampering with or damaging sewage work equipment or facilities
   
50.008   Right of entry for purpose of inspection; easement on private property
   
50.009   Authorization to enforce regulations
Private Wastewater Disposal System
   
50.025   Connecting building sewer to private sewage disposal system
   
50.026   Written permit to be obtained; permit and inspection fee
   
50.027   Inspection and approval of installation
   
50.028   Compliance with state regulations
   
50.029   Connecting private sewage disposal system to public sewer
   
50.030   Maintenance of private sewage disposal facilities
   
50.031   Noninterference with additional requirements
   
50.032   Connecting building sewer to public sewer
Building Sewers and Connections
   
50.045   Connection of building sewers into public sewer to conform to approved
standards
   
50.046   Connection permit required; fees
   
50.047   Costs of installation of building sewer; indemnification
   
50.048   Separate building sewer provided for every building
   
50.049   Use of old building sewers with new buildings
   
50.050   Laying of building sewer; alignment
   
50.051   Pipe and joint specifications
   
50.052   Size and slope
   
50.053   Elevation of building sewer
   
50.054   Building drains too low to permit gravity flow to public sewer
   
50.055   Extension of sewer to property line of building being served
   
50.056   Connection to sources of surface runoff or ground water
   
50.057   Location of connection
   
50.058   Excavations
   
50.059   Street cut in permanent surfaces
   
50.060   Inspection of connection to public sewer
   
50.061   City Plumbing Code to take precedence
Use of Public Sewers
   
50.074   Discharge of storm water inflow to combined sewer system
   
50.075   Discharge of storm water and other unpolluted drainage
   
50.076   Discharge into certain storm sewers prohibited
Rates and Charges; Billings
   
50.095   Annual estimate
   
50.096   Rates for sewer service
   
50.097   Rates for waste water haulers
   
50.098   [Reserved]
   
50.099   Expenditures
   
50.100   Renewals
   
50.101   Audit
   
50.102   Funding system; bond reserve charge
   
50.103   Periodic revision of sewer charges
 
   
50.900   Conflicting provisions
   
50.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.001 AUTHORITY.
   Pursuant to the requirements of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of
1972, as amended (Public Law 92-500, 33 USC 1251 et seq.) and the Illinois
Environmental Protection Act (Public Act 76-2429, as amended) and the City
Council ordains the following sections in this chapter.
(Ord 87-4536, passed 4-7-87)
§ 50.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCRUED RESERVES. A method of keeping accounts of the segregated resources
over several years to determine the funds available to offset capital
expenditures to maintain an on-going-on-line waste treatment facility.
   ACT. The federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, Public Law 92-500,
33 USC 1251 et seq.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Regional Administrator of Region V of the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency.
   ANY OTHER USER. For the purpose of the user charge and in determining the
surcharge point, any user whose waste is above the average daily concentration
of 200 milligrams per liter BOD and an average daily concentration of 250
milligrams per liter SS.
   APPROVING AUTHORITY. The Superintendent of the Sewer Department.
   AUDIT. An audit by the City Auditor as a separate report from other funds in
accordance with General Services Administration Policy Circular, FMC73-2, as
published on September 27, 1973 and shall cover the following:
      (1)   Financial operations are properly conducted;
      (2)   Financial reports are presented fairly;
      (3)   Applicable laws and regulations have been complied with (see §§
50.095 through
50.101);
      (4)   Resources are managed and used in an economical and efficient
manner;
      (5)   Desired results and objectives are being achieved in an effective
manner; and
      (6)   Records of audit of the I.C.R.S. charges and expenditures are being
retained for the useful life of the improvement.
   AUTHORIZED EXPENDITURES. Those authorized by the City Council made payable
by the City Treasurer from the accounts kept for the expenditures of the user
charge and industrial cost recovery systems. Expenditures from reserves shall
be limited to those for which the reserve was created.
   BASIC USER CHARGE. The basic assessment levied on all users of the public
sewer system.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen, expressed in
milligram per liter, utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter
under standard laboratory procedures in five days at 20°C.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of
the building wall.
   BUILDING DRAIN, SANITARY. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
drainage system which receives the sanitary or industrial sewage only, except
for intentionally admitted infiltration inside the walls of a building and
conveys it to the building sewer beginning three feet outside the building
wall.
   BUILDING DRAIN, STORM. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
drainage system which receives the drainage other than soil or wastewater
inside the walls of a building and conveys it to the storm sewer.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal (also called house connection).
   BUILDING SEWER, SANITARY. A building sewer which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
   BUILDING SEWER, STORM. A building sewer which conveys storm water or other
clear water drainage, but no sanitary or industrial sewage.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT CHARGE. A charge levied on users to improve, extend or
reconstruct the sewage treatment works.
   CITY. The City of Mattoon or its officers acting in a lawful and duly
prescribed way.
   CLASSES OF USERS. The division of wastewater treatment customers by waste
characteristics, and process or discharge similarities: Industrial user;
domestic level user; any other user; commercial shall mean other than domestic
level users, or industrial users or governmental users; and governmental users
shall mean those federal, state or local units of government or quasi-
governmental community project units.
   COMBINED SEWAGE. A combination of both wastewater and storm or surface
water.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer which is designed and intended to receive
wastewater, storm, surface and groundwater drainage.
   CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure located on a site from which industrial wastes
are discharged. Where feasible, the manhole shall have an interior drop. Said
manhole shall be for the purpose of providing access for a city representative
to sample and/or measure discharges.
    DEBT SERVICE CHARGE.
      (1)   The charge and amount paid each billing period for payments of the
current year's principal and interest and coverage of the reserve requirements
of the bonds outstanding as included in the debt service part of the sewer
bill, as distinguished from the user charge system and/or industrial cost
recovery system.
      (2)   The amount to be paid each billing period for payment of interest,
principal and coverage of (loan, bond and the like) outstanding.
   DEPOSITED. Funds placed in the control of the City Treasurer, and if said
deposit is in the form of a bank check, it shall be deemed collected within
this definition until the applicable rules of the bank's collection procedures
are fulfilled.
   DEPRECIATION. An annual operating cost reflecting capital consumption and
obsolescence of real or permanent properties, generally between 15 and 50 years
of useful life.
   DEPRECIATION RESERVE. An account for the segregation of resources to meet
longer term renewal of facilities to accommodate wear or obsolescence of real
or permanent properties, to the extent of physical and/or functional
obsolescence, which also may result in an indirect functional betterment.
   DIRECTOR. The Chief Administrator Officer of the State Environmental
Protection Agency.
   DOMESTIC LEVEL USER. For the purpose of the user charge system and in
determining the surcharge point, a user whose waste is at or below an average
daily concentration of 200 milligrams per liter BOD and an average daily
concentration of 250 milligrams per liter SS, for example, normal domestic
waste.
   DOMESTIC WASTE. The wastewaters from segregated domestic and/or sanitary
conveniences as distinct from wastes from industrial processes.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EFFLUENT CRITERIA. Defined in any applicable NPDES permit.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any of the number of organisms common to the intestinal
tract of man and animals, whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of
pollution.
   FEDERAL ACT. The Federal Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 466 et seq.) as amended,
(Pub. L. 95-217).
   FEDERAL GRANT. The U.S. government participation in the financing of the
Construction of Treatment Works of the Act.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity for wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. Wastewater shall be defined as being free of floatable oil if it does
not, after pretreatment or otherwise, interfere with the flow of sewage in the
sewer, which is to impede the flow by a rate of not less than the equivalent of
the lowest flow in the specific lateral.
   FUNCTION OBSOLESCENCE. The process deficiency of a functional element of a
plant beyond the capacity of a preventative maintenance program such that a new
process device or piece of equipment would be more cost effective.
   FUNCTIONAL BETTERMENT. An improvement in process in increased facilities or
an improvement in process in existing facilities which is directly anticipated
to preclude physical betterment or is an indirect improvement to the process as
a result of renewal on a cost effective basis.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing, and from the commercial handling, storage and sale of produce
and food.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any nontreatable waste product, including
nonbiodegradable dissolved solids.
   INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY FUND. The City Treasurer shall create within the
city accounts, a fund for the accounting of revenue received and expenditures
made from the industrial cost recovery system.
   INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY SYSTEM. The system of charges levied, as
distinguished from the sewer bill whose constituent elements are the user
charge system, the debt service charge and the billing ad collection charge, to
recover from the aggregate of industrial users of a wastewater treatment works
that portion of the grant amount allocable to treatment of wastes from such
users proportionate to the use of the design of such facilities by each
individual industrial user.
   INDUSTRIAL USER.
      (1)   For the purpose of industrial cost recovery system, any
nongovernmental user of publicly owned treatment works identified in the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1972, Office of Management and
Budget, as amended and supplemented, under the following divisions:
         (a)   Division A - Agricultural, forestry and fishing.
         (b)   Division B - Mining.
         (c)   Division D - Manufacturing.
         (d)   Division E - Transportation, communications, electric, gas and
sanitary services.
         (e)   Division I - Services.
      (2)   A user in the divisions listed may be excluded if it is determined
by the Superintendent that the industry will introduce primarily segregated
domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE.  
      (1)   The wastewaters from a combination of liquid and water carried
wastes discharged from any industrial establishment resulting from any process
carried on in that establishment inclusive of effluents from pretreatment
facilities and/or discharges of polluted cooling waters.
      (2)   Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharged, permitted to
flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or business
establishment or process or from the development, recovery or processing of any
natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   INFILTRATION. The water unintentionally entering the public sewer system,
including sanitary building drains and sewers, from the ground, through such
means as, but not limited to, defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or
manhole walls.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW. The water discharge into the public sewage system, including
building storm drains, from such sources as but not limited to, roof leaders,
cellar, yard and area drains, foundation drains, unpolluted cooling water
discharges, drains from springs and swamp areas, manhole covers, cross
connections from storm sewers and/or combined sewers, catch basins, storm
waters, surface runoff, street wash waters or drainage.
   LOCAL CAPITAL COST CHARGE. Charges for costs other than the operation,
maintenance and replacement costs, for example, debt service and capital
improvement costs.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industrial user of the publicly owned
treatment works that: has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work
day; has a flow greater than 10% of the flow carried by the municipal system
receiving the waste; has in its waste, a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as
defined in standards issued under Section 307(a) of the Federal Act; or is
found by the permit issuant authority, in connection with the issuance of the
NPDES permit to the publicly owned treatment works receiving the waste, to have
significant impact, either singly or in combination with other contributing
industries, on that treatment works or upon the quality of effluent from that
treatment works.
   METHOD. The method of depreciation or replacement in terms of governmental
fund accounting procedure, the inverse of which shall be the method of accruing
the offsetting reserve which shall be exactly equal to the expense involved,
and shall be individually applied to each functional element of a treatment
process in terms of annual reserve requirements for the user charge and the
annual re-evaluation of useful life.
   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER. A unit of the concentration of water or wastewater
constituent. It is 0.001 grams of the constituent in 1,000 milliliters of
water. It has replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per million, to
which it is approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of water and
wastewater analysis.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION PERMIT (NPDES). 
      (1)   A permit issued under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination
System for Discharge of Wastewaters to the Navigable Waters of the United
States pursuant to Section 402 of PL 92-500.
      (2)   Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by the
Administration, or, where appropriated by the Director, after enactment of the
Federal Clean Water Act to regulate the discharge of pollutants pursuant to
Section 402 of the Federal Act.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a water course, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface or
groundwater.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. All costs, direct and indirect, not
including debt service, but inclusive of expenditures attributable to
administration, treatment, and collection of waste waters necessary to insure
adequate wastewater treatment on a continuing basis, conform to applicable
regulations, and assure optimal long term facility management.
   PERSON. 
      (1)   Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
      (2)   Any individual, firm, company, association, society or corporation
discharging any wastewater to the receiving facility.
   pH. 
      (1)   The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion
concentration expressed by one of the procedures outlined in the IEPA Division
of Laboratories Manual of Laboratory Methods.
      (2)   The reciprocal of the logarithm of the hydrogen concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams, per liter of solution.
Neutral water for example, has a pH value of seven, and a hydrogen ion
concentration of 10-7.
   PHYSICAL BETTERMENT. The expansions of a physical facility to increase
capacity of the treatment works.
   PHYSICAL OBSOLESCENCE. The material deficiency of a functional element of a
plant to a point that repair as normal or preventative maintenance is not cost
benefit effective.
   POPULATION EQUIVALENT. A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other waste on a treatment works or stream. One population equivalent is 100
gallons of sewage per day, containing .17 pounds of BOD and .20 pounds of
suspended solids.
   PPM. Parts per million by weight.
   PRETREATMENT. 
      (1)   The treatment of wastewaters from sources before introduction into
the wastewater treatment works.
      (2)   The treatment of industrial sewage from privately owned industrial
sources prior to introduction of the waste effluent into a public treatment
works, in accordance with 40 C.F.R. 128.
   PRETREATMENT FACILITY. Any privately owned and operated waste treatment
facility capable of limiting the strength of discharges to the public sewer to
300 MG/liter BOD and 350 MG/liter SS.
   PREVENTIVE MAINTENANCE. Normal equipment maintenance that would maintain the
anticipated useful life of the element of a wastewater treatment works.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned by the city.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than ½-inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. 
      (1)   A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the city. It
shall also include sewers within or outside the city boundaries that serve one
or more persons and ultimately discharge into the city sanitary (or combined
sewer system), even through those sewers may not have been constructed with
city funds.
      (2)   A sewer which is owned and controlled by the city which shall
include the elements of the collection system.
   RECOVERY PERIOD. Thirty years, pertaining to the wastewater treatment
facility constructed under a Federal Grant pursuant to PL 92-500, 33 USC 1251
et seq.
   RECOVERY UNIT CHARGES. The unit charges in parts of dollars that can be
applied to the flow in 100 cubic feet, pounds of BOD, and pounds of SS.
    RENEWAL. The expenditure of reserve funds or other funds to overcome
physical and/or functional consumption of plant capacity or function or
obsolescence of same, in order that the equivalent in function of plant is
present at the end of the anticipated useful life.
   REPLACEMENT.
      (1)   Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment, accessories,
or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the treatment
works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were
designed and constructed. The term OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE includes
replacement.
      (2)   An annual operating cost reflecting capital consumption and
physical and/or functional obsolescence of personal or limited useful life
equipment or appurtenances.
   REPLACEMENT RESERVE. An account for the segregation of resources to meet
capital consumption of personal or limited useful life equipment or
appurtenances.
   RETAINED AMOUNT. The amount of money held in trust and deposit for the
expansion of the facilities together with the interest earned thereon for the
proration of the Industrial Cost Recovery System Fund according to PL 92-500,
33 USC 1251 et seq.
   SAMPLING PROCESS. The securing of wastewater samples by single grab method
and/or composite sampling of five grab samples in eight hours and/or the
samples secured by a 24-hour composite method.
   SANITARY SEWER. 
      (1)   The means of conveyance of the combination of the liquid and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions, including polluted cooling water, domestic and/or industrial
wastes.
      (2)   A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes or a combination
of both, and into which storm, surface, and ground waters are not intentional
admitted.
   SEWAGE. Used interchangeably with WASTEWATER.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including storm, surface and groundwater drainage.
   SEWERAGE. The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
   SEWERAGE FUND. The principal account designation for all revenues received
in the operation of the sewerage systems.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRY. Any industry that will contribute greater than 10% of
the design flow and/or design pollutant loading of the treatment works.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in any quantity of flow which exceeds for any period of
duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour
concentration of lows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the
collection system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition,
at the title of analysis, of "Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater" prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Waterworks Association, and the Water Pollution
Control Federation, and 40 C.F.R. Park 136, 3, 4, and 5, and/or other
recognized procedures by U.S.E.P.A. and State Environmental Protection Agency.
   STATE ACT. The state Anti-Pollution Bond Act of 1970.
   STATE GRANT. The state participation in the financing of the construction of
treatment works as provided for by the State Anti-Pollution Bond Act and for
making such grants as filed with the Secretary of State.
   STORM SEWER.
      (1)   A sewer for conveying water, ground water or unpolluted water from
any source and to which sanitary and/or industrial wastes are not intentionally
admitted.
      (2)   A sewer that carries storm, surface and ground water drainage but
excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
   STORM WATER RUNOFF. That portion of the precipitation that is drained into
the sewers.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the City Sewage Collection and
Treatment Department, or his properly authorized deputy, agent, or
representative acting in a proper and lawful capacity.
   SURCHARGE. 
      (1)   The assessment in addition to the basic user charge for the load of
BOD and SS which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in
strength than normal.
      (2)   The assessment in addition to the basic user charge and debt
service charge which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in
strength than the concentration values established in §§
50.095 through
50.101.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS).
      (1)   Total suspended matter that either floats on the surface of, or is
in suspension in water, wastewater, or other liquids and is removable by
laboratory filtration as prescribed in "Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater" and referred to as nonfilterable residue.
      (2)   Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in suspension in
water, sewage, or industrial waste, and which are removable by a laboratory
filtration device. Quantitative determination of suspended solids shall be made
in accordance with procedures set forth in the State EPA Division of
Laboratories Manual of Laboratory Methods.
   TOTAL SOLIDS. The sum of suspended and dissolved solids.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of equality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria of an applicable NPDES Permit, or water that would not cause violation
of receiving water quality standards of a receiving stream, and would not be
benefited by discharge to the sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment
facilities provided.
   USEFUL LIFE. 
      (1)   The anticipated term in years of physical and/or functional
productivity of elements of and/or the whole wastewater treatment process,
which can be reevaluated as a result of preventative maintenance, renewal which
offsets physical and/or functional obsolescence, renewal of capital elements
due to consumption, and physical and/or functional betterment either direct or
indirect.
      (2)   The estimated period during which the collection system and/or
treatment works will be operated.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost of
operation, maintenance and replacement.
   USER CHARGE SYSTEM. The system of charges that include the charges derived
from estimated annual operation and maintenance requirements for the following
fiscal year, the depreciation and replacement reserve requirements on new and
old facilities as fixed assets, pursuant to Section 204(B) of P 92-500; and 40
CFR 35.935-13 (February 11, 1974 Federal Register).
   USER CLASS. The type of user, residential, institutional/governmental,
commercial, or industrial as defined in this definition.
      (1)   COMMERCIAL USER. Transit lodging, retail and wholesale
establishments or places engaged in selling merchandise, or rendering services.
      (2)   INDUSTRIAL USERS. Establishments engaged in manufacturing
activities involving the mechanical or chemical transformation of materials of
substance into products.
      (3)   INSTITUTIONAL/GOVERNMENTAL USER. Schools, churches, penal
institutions, and users associated with federal, state and local governments.
      (4)   RESIDENTIAL USER. All dwelling units such as houses, mobile homes,
apartments, and permanent multi-family dwellings.
   VOLATILE ORGANIC MATTER. The material in the sewage solids transformed to
gases or vapors when heated at 50° C. for 15 minutes.
   WASTEWATER.
      (1)   The combination of liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial building, industrial plants and institutions, including
unintentionally admitted infiltration (for example, sewage).
      (2)   The spent water of a community. From this standpoint of course, it
may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any
ground water, surface water, and storm water that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
   WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE. The charge per quarter or month levied on all
users of the Wastewater Facilities. The service charge shall be computed as
outlined in §§
50.095 through
50.101, and shall consist of the total or the basic user charge, the local
capital cost and a surcharge, if applicable.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS.
      (1)   The structures, equipment and processes required to collect,
transport and treat domestic industrial wastes and dispose of the effluent and
accumulated residual solids.
      (2)   An arrangement of devices and structures for treating wastewater,
industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous with WASTE TREATMENT
PLANT, WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT.
   WATER COURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water
either continuously or intermittently, including the primary discharge of the
waste treatment plant effluent to an intermittent stream.
   WATER QUALITY STANDARDS. The Water Pollution Regulations of the state.
   WATER SYSTEM. Collectively all facilities for the potable water supply.
(Ord. 87-4536, passed 4-7-1987)
§ 50.003 DEPOSITING OBJECTIONABLE WASTE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city or any area under the jurisdiction of said city any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
( 87-4536, passed 4-7-1987)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.004 DISCHARGE OF UNTREATED SEWAGE OR OTHER POLLUTED WATERS TO NATURAL
OUTLETS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge into any natural outlet within the city,
or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any sewage or other
polluted water, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 87-4536, passed 4-7-1987)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.005 PRIVIES, SEPTIC TANKS AND OTHER FACILITIES.
   Except as provided in this chapter, it shall be unlawful to construct any
privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended to be used
for the disposal of sewage.
(Ord. 87-4536, passed 4-7-1987)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.006 OWNER'S RESPONSIBILITY TO INSTALL SUITABLE TOILET FACILITIES.
   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the city and abutting
on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in
the future be located any public sanitary (or combined) sewer of the city, is
hereby required at his expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein,
and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after date of
official notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is within 200 feet of
the property line.
(Ord. 87-4536, passed 4-7-1987)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.007 TAMPERING WITH OR DAMAGING SEWAGE WORK EQUIPMENT OR FACILITIES.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which
is part of the sewage work. Any person violating this provision shall be
subject to immediate arrest under a charge of disorderly conduct.
(Ord. 87-4536, passed 4-7-1987)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.008 RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR PURPOSE OF INSPECTION; EASEMENT ON PRIVATE
PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Superintendent with proper identification shall be permitted to
enter onto all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling and testing pertinent to the discharge to the public
system. The Superintendent may require additional samples or require a sampling
control manhole in order to facilitate the sampling process.
   (B)   The Superintendent is authorized to obtain information concerning
industrial processes which have a direct bearing on the kind and source of
discharge. The Superintendent shall require plans and specifications for said
private waste system prior to issuing a permit.
   (C)   The Superintendent, with proper identification, shall be permitted to
enter all private properties through which the city holds an easement. Under
the terms of pre-existing conditions, should the city discover sewer lines
lying under private property without duly negotiated easements, the city may
authorize the Superintendent to enter upon and conduct such activities as
necessary to maintain the collection system. The city hereby assumes any
contingent liability for damage to private property as may result from said
actions as determined by the actual status of the physical condition of the
surface land.
(Ord. 87-4536, passed 4-7-1987)
§ 50.009 AUTHORIZATION TO ENFORCE REGULATIONS.
   Pursuant to its authority to make, enact and enforce ordinances for
improvement, care and protection of the city and its waste treatment system,
and of its public water supply outside the city, and of standards for control
of subdivisions within 1½ miles of the city limits, the officers and employees
of the city are hereby authorized to enforce this chapter and other amenable
laws and ordinances or other agencies which are conducive to the preservation
of public health, comfort and welfare and which may render the waste discharges
harmless insofar as reasonably possible to do so.
(Ord. 87-4536, passed 4-7-1987)
PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL SYSTEM
§ 50.025 CONNECTING BUILDING SEWER TO PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.
   Where a public sanitary (or combined) sewer is not available under the
provisions of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 87-4536, passed 4-7-1987)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.026 WRITTEN PERMIT TO BE OBTAINED; PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEE.
   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system, the
owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Superintendent. The
application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the city which
the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other
information as deemed necessary by the Superintendent. A permit and inspection
fee of $90 shall be paid to the city at the time the application is filed.
(Ord. 87-4536, passed 4-7-1987)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.027 INSPECTION AND APPROVAL OF INSTALLATION.
   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Superintendent.
He shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction and, in
any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the Superintendent when
the work is ready for final inspection, and before any underground portions are
covered. The inspection shall be made within 48 hours of the receipt of written
notice by the Superintendent under ordinary business conditions.
(Ord. 87-4536, passed 4-7-1987)
§ 50.028 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE REGULATIONS.
   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendation of the State Private Sewage
Disposal Licensing Act and Code and with the State Environmental Protection
Agency. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is
less than 44,000 square feet (approximately one acre). No septic tank or
cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
(Ord. 87-4536, passed 4-7-1987)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.029 CONNECTING PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private sewage disposal system, as provided in this chapter, a direct
connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this chapter,
and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage disposal facilities
shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
(Ord. 87-4536, passed 4-7-1987)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.030 MAINTENANCE OF PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL FACILITIES.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times, and at no expense to the city.
(Ord. 87-4536, passed 4-7-1987)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.031 NONINTERFERENCE WITH ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the state, County
Health Department or other authority.
(Ord. 87-4536, passed 4-7-1987)
§ 50.032 CONNECTING BUILDING SEWER TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be connected
to said sewer within 60 days and the private sewage disposal system shall be
cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank run gravel or dirt.
(Ord. 87-4536, passed 4-7-1987)
Penalty, see § 50.999
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 50.045 CONNECTION OF BUILDING SEWERS INTO PUBLIC SEWER TO CONFORM TO APPROVED
STANDARDS.
   The connections of building sewers into the public sewer shall conform to
the aforesaid requirements or to the standards of Water Pollution Control
Federation Manual of Practice 29, whichever standard is more severe. Any
deviation from the described procedures and materials must be approved by the
Superintendent.
(Ord. 87-4536, passed 4-7-1987)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.046 CONNECTION PERMIT REQUIRED; FEES.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover or make any connection with, or
opening into, any public sewer without obtaining a permit signed by the
Superintendent.
   (B)   The sewer permit shall distinguish between residential, commercial and
industrial users. The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans and
specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of
the Superintendent.
   (C)   (1)   Permit fees shall be:
 
User                      Fee
Residential               $ 70
Per Unit for Multi-Family 35
Commercial                90
Industrial                150
      (2)   Fees shall be payable to the City Treasurer for deposit to the
sewer utility fund on issuing of the permit.
(Ord. 87-4536, passed 4-7-1987)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.047 COSTS OF INSTALLATION OF BUILDING SEWER; INDEMNIFICATION.
   All costs incidental to the installation of the building sewer shall be paid
by the applicant. The applicant shall indemnify the city from any loss or
damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the
building sewer.
(Ord. 87-4536, passed 4-7-1987)
§ 50.048 SEPARATE BUILDING SEWER PROVIDED FOR EVERY BUILDING.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building. Any pre-existing connections that serve two or more buildings shall
be separated and made separate and distinct sewer connections within one year
from May 30, 1975.
(Ord. 87-4536, passed 4-7-1987)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.049 USE OF OLD BUILDING SEWERS WITH NEW BUILDINGS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings after
approval by the Superintendent.
(Ord. 87-4536, passed 4-7-1987)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.050 LAYING OF BUILDING SEWER; ALIGNMENT.
   The building sewer must be:
   (A)   More than three feet from any bearing wall.
   (B)   More than three feet deep.
   (C)   Uniform in alignment except changes in direction may be allowed if
centered on a suitable cleanout.
(Ord. 87-4536, passed 4-7-1987)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.051 PIPE AND JOINT SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   A building sewer shall be:
      (1)   Cast-iron soil pipe, ASTM Specification A-74, as revised; or
      (2)   Vitrified clay sewer pipe, ASTM Specification C-13 or C-200 as
revised; or
      (3)   Other suitable material allowed by the National Plumbing Code,
except bituminized fiber pipe.
   (B)   Joints shall be tight and waterproof.
   (C)   Any part of the building sewer that is located within ten feet of a
water service pipe shall be constructed of cast iron soil pipe with lead
joints. Cast-iron pipe may be specified by the Superintendent when adjacent to
tree roots.
(Ord. 87-4536, passed 4-7-1987)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.052 SIZE AND SLOPE.
   The size and slope of the sewer shall be subject to the approval of the
Superintendent, but shall not be less than four inches in diameter, and with a
slope of 1/8-inch per foot.
( 87-4536, passed 4-7-1987)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.053 ELEVATION OF BUILDING SEWER.
   The building sewer shall be brought to the building at an elevation below
the basement floor, except on approval of the Superintendent, overhead plumbing
may be provided.
(Ord. 87-4536, passed 4-7-1987)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.054 BUILDING DRAINS TOO LOW TO PERMIT GRAVITY FLOW TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity
flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain shall be lifted
by artificial means and discharged to the building sewer. Plans and
specifications for the installation of equipment to lift said sanitary sewage
shall be approved by the Superintendent prior to the start of any plumbing
activity.
(Ord. 87-4536, passed 4-7-1987)
§ 50.055 EXTENSION OF SEWER TO PROPERTY LINE OF BUILDING BEING SERVED.
   When a building is more than 200 feet from an existing sewer and a sewer or
sewers are to be installed, the extension shall be not less than an eight-inch
sewer to the property line of the building being served. Said sewer extension
shall be dedicated to the city for ownership and maintenance and shall be
designed and constructed in accordance with all rules and regulations of the
city, and the State Environmental Protection Agency.
(Ord. 87-4536, passed 4--1987)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.056 CONNECTION TO SOURCES OF SURFACE RUNOFF OR GROUND WATER.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation
drains, area way drains or other sources of surface runoff or ground water to a
building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer or combined sewer.
(Ord. 87-4536, passed 4-7-1987; Am. Ord. 91-4653, passed 3-5-1991)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.057 LOCATION OF CONNECTION.
   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be made at
the "Y" branch, if such branch is available; a neat hole may be cut into the
public sewer to receive the building sewer, with entry in the downstream
direction at an angle of about 45 degrees. All connections of four- or six-inch
sewer service taps onto city 12-inch sewers or smaller shall be made with a
saddle fitting, unless otherwise approved before tapping by the Plumbing
Inspector. The Inspector will consider the depth and condition of the sewer
main in deciding if the saddle fitting will be required. Standard tee or "Y"
fittings may be used for connections to the system in lieu of saddle fittings.
The invert of the building sewer at the point of connection shall be at the
same or at a higher elevation than the invert of the public sewer, but no
higher than a point one-half the vertical distance between the invert and the
crown of the sewer. Manholes shall be constructed at any junction of an eight-
inch diameter line or larger into a public sewer.
(Ord. 87-4536, passed 4-7-1987; Am. Ord. 2004-5188, passed 10-5-2004)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.058 EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   Excavation work shall be:
      (1)   Open trench work with proper shoring unless otherwise approved by
the Superintendent.
      (2)   In compliance with ASTM Specification C 12-58-T for pipelaying and
backfill, except no backfill shall be placed until the work has been inspected.
Any backfill on street locations requires sand or screening material suitably
compacted.
   (B)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the Superintendent,
and any other governmental agency affected.
   (C)   No person shall excavate on city property without furnishing the city
a certificate of insurance and procuring a bond as required in §
99.06.
(Ord. 87-4536, passed 4-7-1987)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.059 STREET CUT IN PERMANENT SURFACES.
   Where required to cross a concrete street to hook a building to a main
sewer, the lateral shall be installed by boring or jacking. Any opening in any
city right-of-way shall conform to the requirements in §§
99.05 and
99.06.
(Ord. 87-4536, passed 4-7-1987; Am. Ord. 2004-5188, passed 10-5-2004)
§ 50.060 INSPECTION OF CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Superintendent
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Superintendent
or his representative. In no event shall the connection be covered until
inspected by the Superintendent.
(Ord. 87-4536, passed 4-7-1987)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.061 CITY PLUMBING CODE TO TAKE PRECEDENCE.
   Unless specifically mentioned, nothing in this chapter shall take precedence
over the city Plumbing Code.
(Ord. 87-4536, passed 4-7-1987)
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 50.074 DISCHARGE OF STORM WATER INFLOW TO COMBINED SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   Any new construction which contributes storm water inflow to the
combined sewer system shall be designed to minimize or delay the contribution
of storm water inflow into the combined sewer system.
   (B)   All new construction in areas served by a combined sewer system shall
be designed such that the domestic waste connection is separate and distinct
from any sources of storm water inflow. The domestic waste line shall be
connected to the combined sewer system. The storm water shall be outlet onto
the ground, into the street, or into a natural drainage way.
   (C)   All existing sources of storm water inflow connected to an existing
combined sewer shall be removed and connected to a dedicated storm sewer system
within 90 days notice if a dedicated storm sewer connection is made available.
   (D)   Owners of combined sewer systems tributary to the city's sewer system
shall be required to establish procedures to comply with requirements of this
section and the city's National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES)
permit.
(Ord. 91-4653, passed 3-5-91; Am. Ord. 2012- 5349, passed 4-3-2012)
§ 50.075 DISCHARGE OF STORM WATER AND OTHER UNPOLLUTED DRAINAGE.
   (A)   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the city. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of the State EPA, to a
storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
(Ord. 87-4536, passed 4-7-1987)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.076 DISCHARGE INTO CERTAIN STORM SEWERS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Route 45 storm sewer. No person shall discharge any sanitary sewage or
industrial waste water into any storm sewer constructed by the state to drain
such four-lane paved highway which extends in a northerly direction from the
north side of Prairie Avenue to the south side of DeWitt Avenue in the city.
('68 Code, § 9.15) (Ord. 3884, passed - - )
   (B)   Route 17 storm sewer. No person shall discharge any sanitary sewage or
industrial waste water into any storm sewers constructed by the state to drain
such dual 24-foot pavement on Charleston Avenue extending in an easterly
direction from Sixth Street to the east city limits and on Logan Street
extending in a northerly direction from Charleston Avenue to Broadway Avenue
and on Broadway Avenue extending in an easterly direction from Logan Street to
the east city limits of the city.
('68 Code, § 9.16) (Ord. 3895, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 50.999
   (C)   Route 16 and Lerna Road storm sewer. It shall be unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation to connect or cause to be connected any drain
carrying or to carry any toilet, sink, basement, septic tank, cesspool,
industrial waste or any fixture or device discharging polluting substances into
any storm sewer constructed as part of this improvement.
(Ord. 2009-5270, passed 1-20-2009)
Penalty, see § 50.999
RATES AND CHARGES; BILLINGS
§ 50.095 ANNUAL ESTIMATE.
   The city’s Public Works Director and/or Treasurer shall annually estimate
the funds required for the next fiscal year operation and maintenance
requirements and billing and collection expenses. The applicable amounts of
moneys for depreciation and re placement reserves shall be included in the
estimate as well as the applicable debt service requirements. This estimate
shall be made in a form of a recommendation to the City Council as an annual
revision of the sewer charge rates consisting of the user charge, debt service
charge and billing and collection charge.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 50.096 RATES FOR SEWER SERVICE.
   Effective May 1, 2025 the rates for sewer service shall be:
   (A)   For sewer service inside the city limits for each billing period:
      (1)   A billing fee of $2.12 per bill shall be charged for all users.
      (2)   A rate of $7.54 per 100 cubic feet of potable water use shall be
charged for all domestic level users as defined in § 50.002.
      (3)   Users, other than domestic level users, shall be billed according
to the following:
         (a)   A user fee of $5.17 per 100 cubic feet.
         (b)   A debt service fee of $2.37 per 100 cubic feet.
         (c)   A surcharge of $0.71 per pound of BOD in excess of 200 mg/l.
         (d)   A surcharge of $1.11 per pound of SS in excess of 250 mg/l.
   (B)   For sewer service outside the city limits for each billing period:
      (1)   A billing fee of $2.12 per bill shall be charged for all users.
      (2)   A rate of $10.71 per 100 cubic feet of potable water use shall be
charged for all domestic level users as defined in § 50.002.
      (3)   Users, other than domestic level users, shall be billed according
to the following:
         (a)   A user fee of $5.18 per 100 cubic feet.
         (b)   A debt service fee of $5.52 per 100 cubic feet.
         (c)   A surcharge of $0.71 per pound of BOD in excess of 200 mg/l.
         (d)   A surcharge of $1.11 per pound of SS in excess of 250 mg/l.
(Ord. 2022-5442, passed 6-1-2021; Am. Ord. 2021-5443, passed 6-1-21021; Am.
Ord. 2022-5452, passed 4-19-2022; Am. Ord. 2023-5463, passed 4-18-2023; Am.
Ord. 2024-5480, passed 4-16-2024; Am. Ord. 2025-5491, passed 4-15-2025)
§ 50.097 RATES FOR WASTE WATER HAULERS.
   Effective May 01, 2023 the rates for waste haulers who deliver directly to
the Waste Water Treatment Plant shall be as follows:
   (A)   The fee for disposal and treatment of landfill lechate shall be $0.06/
gallon.
   (B)   The fee for disposal and treatment of digested sludge shall be $0.18/
pound.
   (C)   The fee for disposal and treatment of fat, oil, and grease (FOG) shall
be:
      (1)   Tanks of 1,500 gallons, or less, for FOG waste originating from
businesses located inside the city limits = $75/tank.
      (2)   Tanks of 1,500 gallons, or less, for FOG waste originating from
businesses located outside the city limits = $110/tank.
      (3)   Tanks of 1,500 to 3,500 gallons for FOG waste originating from
businesses located inside the city limits = $0.05/gallon.
      (4)   Tanks of 1,500 to 3,500 gallons for FOG waste originating from
businesses located outside the city limits = $0.075/gallon.
      (5)   Tanks exceeding 3,500 gallons for FOG waste originating from
businesses located inside the city limits = $500/tank.
      (6)   Tanks exceeding 3,500 gallons for FOG waste originating from
businesses located outside the city limits = $750/tank.
   (D)   The fee for disposal and treatment of septic waste and chemical toilet
waste shall be:
      (1)   Tanks of 1,500 gallons, or less, for waste originating from inside
the city limits = $35/tank.
      (2)   Tanks of 1,500 gallons, or less, for waste originating from outside
the city limits = $50/tank.
      (3)   Tanks of 1,500 to 3,500 gallons for waste originating from inside
the city limits = $0.03/gallon.
      (4)   Tanks of 1,500 to 3,500 gallons for waste originating from outside
the city limits = $0.045/gallon.
      (5)   Tanks exceeding 3,500 gallons for waste originating from inside the
city limits = $300/tank.
      (6)   Tanks exceeding 3,500 gallons for waste originating from outside
the city limits = $450/tank.
(Ord. 2023-5464, passed 4-18-2023)
§ 50.098 [RESERVED].
§ 50.099 EXPENDITURES.
   Expenditures may be made by the City Treasurer upon authorization by the
City Council from the accounts kept for the user charge system, debt service
charge and billing and collection charge. Such expenditures shall be from a
general revenue account although costed to specific revenue elements of the
cumulative charges of the sewer bill.
   (A)   Depreciation reserve expenditures. Expenditures from the accrued
depreciation reserve on facilities shall be limited to renewals to accommodate
physical and/or functional wear and obsolescence of real or permanent
properties, to the extent such is necessary over and above an ongoing
maintenance program to maintain the anticipated useful life. Such expenditures
might indirectly result in physical and/or functional betterments.
   (B)   Replacement reserve expenditures. Expenditures from the accrued
replacement reserve on facilities shall be limited to renewals to accommodate
wear of physical elements of limited life elements or part thereof (15 years or
less) and/or movable property, which would result in an extended useful life or
meet the anticipated useful life. Such expenditures might indirectly result in
limited physical and/or functional betterment.
(Ord. 87-4536, passed 4-7-1987)
§ 50.100 RENEWALS.
   Such renewals shall be capital expenditures which shall cause the annual
estimate for accrued reserves from depreciation and replacement to be evaluated
in terms of extended useful life as a result of preventative maintenance
programs, or such renewals. The expenditures to overcome physical and/or
functional obsolescence shall be capitalized against the element of the
facility and costed to the fixed assets group of accounts as an improvement to
such element. Future estimates of accrued reserve requirements shall be
evaluated and reflected in the depreciation and replacement reserve
requirements.
(Ord. 87-4536, passed 4-7-1987)
§ 50.101 AUDIT.
   An audit shall be performed annually as a separate report from the general
city audit in terms of Federal Management Circular 73-2. Such audit shall be
performed by a qualified auditor selected by and separate from the executive
management of the sewer utility.
(Ord. 87-4536, passed 4-7-1987)
§ 50.102 FUNDING SYSTEM; BOND RESERVE CHARGE.
   (A)   The city shall annually, in its budgeting process, determine the
amount of revenue to be raised with the other charges in order to adequately
fund the sewer utility and comply with the applicable provisions of any bond
ordinances. These bond reserve requirements are concurrent and are not limiting
on the reserves of the user charge system created by federal law.
   (B)   The sewer bill moneys for the user charge system debt service charge
and billing and collection charge shall fund the following user charge accounts
and debt service accounts and shall satisfy the revenue bond accounts for any
bond issues:
User Charge Fund Accounts
User charge operation and maintenance
User charge depreciation account
User charge replacement account
Debt service charge
User charge billing charge
User charge equity in utility
Revenue Bond Fund Accounts
Sewerage fund
Sewerage operation and maintenance account
Sewerage contingent account
Sewerage depreciation account
Sewerage fund
Sewerage operation and maintenance account
Surplus account
   (C)   Standard fund account procedures shall be followed with entries made
to record revenues and expenditures from the foregoing accounts, with the most
stringent requirements of federal, state or local law applying and/or the more
severe requirements of professional accounting practice.
 
           Sewer Bill                Flow  BOD   SS
           User charge               .7472 .1988 .2798
User charge Bill collection surcharge .1988 .2798  
           Debt service charge       0     0     0
 
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 50.103 PERIODIC REVISION OF SEWER CHARGES.
   The city shall revise the sewer charges periodically in accordance with the
flow and strength of waste determined under §
50.119.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 50.900 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   All other ordinances and parts of other ordinances inconsistent or
conflicting with any part of this subchapter, are hereby repealed to the extent
of the inconsistency or conflict.
(Ord. 99-4993, passed 7-20-1999; Am. Ord. 2008-5255, passed 6-3-2008)
§ 50.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter shall constitute
a violation of a general ordinance of the city with such minimum penalty as may
be the discontinuation of service to said facility and/or a fine to be
determined by a court of competent jurisdiction in an amount not to exceed the
general penalty of §
10.99, in addition to the city's costs and fees and court costs incurred in
securing compliance, which may include any expense, loss or damage occasioned
by reason of such violation.
(Ord. 87-4536, passed 4-7-1987; Am. Ord. 2009-5281, passed 9-15-09)
   (B)   Penalties pertaining to §§
50.115 through
50.131.
      (1)   Civil penalties.
         (a)   Any user which has violated or continues to violate §§
50.115 through
50.131, any order or wastewater discharge permit thereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement shall be liable to the Chief Operator for
a maximum civil penalty of $1,000 per violation per day. In the case of a
monthly or other long-term average discharge limit, penalties shall accrue for
each day during the period of the violation.
         (b)   The Chief Operator may recover reasonable attorney's fees, court
costs, and other expenses associated with enforcement activities, including
sampling and monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred
by the city.
         (c)   In determining the amount of civil liability, the court shall
take into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to,
the extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration, any
economic benefit gained through the user's violation, corrective actions by the
user, the compliance history of the user, and any other factor as justice
requires.
         (d)   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a prerequisite
for taking any other action against a user.
      (2)   Prosecution.
         (a)   Any user that willfully or negligently violates any provision of
§§
50.115 through
50.131, any orders or wastewater discharge permits issued thereunder, or any
pretreatment requirement shall upon conviction be guilty of a petty offense,
punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000 per violation per day.
         (b)   Any user that willfully or negligently introduces any substance
into the POTW which causes personal injury or property damage shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and be subject to a fine from $500 to
$1,000 per violation per day. This penalty shall be in addition to any other
cause of action for personal injury or property damage available under state
law.
         (c)   Any user that knowingly makes any false statements,
representations, or certifications in any application, record, report, plan or
other documentation filed, or required to be maintained, pursuant to §§
50.115 through
50.131, wastewater discharge permit or order, or who falsifies, tampers with or
knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under
those sections shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than
$1,000 per violation per day.
      (3)   Cease and desist orders. When the Chief Operator finds that a user
is violating this subchapter, the user's wastewater discharge permit, any order
issued hereunder or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, or that the
users past violations are likely to recur, the Chief Operator may issue an
order to the user directing it to cease and desist all such violations and
directing the user to:
         (a)   Immediately comply with all requirements;
         (b)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operations and/or terminating the discharge;
         (c)   Issuance of a cease and desist order shall not be aprerequisite
to taking any other action against the user.
      (4)   Emergency suspensions. The Chief Operator may immediately suspend a
user discharge (after informal notice to the user) whenever such suspension is
necessary in order to stop an actual or threatened discharge that reasonably
appears to present or cause an imminent or substantial endangerment to the
health or welfare of persons. The Chief Operator may also immediately suspend a
user's discharge (after notice and opportunity to respond) that threatens to
interfere with the operation of the POTW, or which presents or may present an
endangerment to the environment.
         (a)    Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall
immediately stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user's
failure to immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the Chief
Operator shall take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate
severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW,
its receiving stream, or endangerment to any individuals. The Chief Operator
shall allow the user to recommence its discharge when the user has demonstrated
to the satisfaction of the city that the period of endangerment has passed.
         (b)   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any
discharge presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written
statement describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures
taken to prevent any future occurrence to the Chief Operator.
         (c)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring a
hearing prior to any emergency suspension under this section.
(Ord. 99-4993, passed 7-20-1999; Am. Ord. 2003-5165, passed 8-5-2003)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Definitions
   
51.002   Removal of or tampering with city appliances and equipment; negligence
   
51.003   Potable water wells
Terms and Conditions of Service
   
51.015   Application
   
51.016   Permit and meter required
   
51.017   Application for water pipe connection; form
   
51.018   Access to premises
   
51.019   Release of city from liability
   
51.020   Special permission required to supply others with water
   
51.021   Bill adjustments; leaks in service lines, fixtures or hydrants
   
51.022   Continuous service; disclaimer
   
51.023   Multiple service in same premises
   
51.024   Assignment
   
51.025   Special agreements
   
51.026   Modification of agreement
Installation of Water Service
   
51.040   Permits and inspector fees
   
51.041   Owner's consent to occupancy
   
51.042   Right of city to specify sizes of equipment
   
51.043   Equipment to be furnished and maintained by customer
   
51.044   Materials furnished by city; charges
   
51.045   Meter locations
   
51.046   [Reserved]
   
51.047   Maintenance of service lines
   
51.048   [Reserved]
   
51.049   Cross or interconnections
   
51.050   Abandoned service connections
   
51.051   Separate lines to premises
   
51.052   Fire hydrants
   
51.053   Private fire protection
   
51.054   Installations to be done by licensed plumbers
Water Meters
   
51.065   Meters furnished by city
   
51.066   Testing of meters
   
51.067   Quantity of water used recorded by meter
Rates and Charges; Billings
   
51.080   Reasonable rates for use of water; enforcement of statutory lien
   
51.081   Definitions
   
51.082   Application for water service
   
51.083   Turning on
   
51.084   Deposit
   
51.085   Accounting for deposits; application to accounts
   
51.086   Deposit refunds or credits
   
51.087   Monthly payment
   
51.088   Late fee
   
51.089   Late notice
   
51.090   Non-payment
   
51.091   Disconnection for non-payment
   
51.092   Bad checks or bank drafts
   
51.093   Reconnection
   
51.094   Obstruction of meter
   
51.095   Preferred landlord agreements
   
51.096   Preferred contractor agreements
   
51.097   [Reserved]
   
51.098   Rates for water service
   
51.099   Rates for non-metered private protection and automatic sprinkler
system
   
51.100   Sufficiency of rates
   
51.101   Monthly bills
   
51.102   Payments by mail
   
51.103   Liability of customer for payment of bills
   
51.104   Accounts sent to collections
Cross-reference:
   Cross-connection control, see
Chapter 53
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Mattoon, Illinois.
   CUSTOMER. The person who has executed the paperwork necessary for water
service with the City Finance Department.
   DEPARTMENT. The Water Department of the city.
   TENANT. Any person occupying premises under lease, oral or written, from the
property owner, and obtaining water service from the city.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.002 REMOVAL OF OR TAMPERING WITH CITY APPLIANCES AND EQUIPMENT;
NEGLIGENCE.
   (A)   All meters, piping and other appliances and equipment furnished by and
at the expense of the city, which may at any time be in said service line
shall, unless otherwise expressly provided herein, be and remain the property
of the city, and the customer shall protect such property from loss or damage
and no one who is not an agent of the city shall be permitted to remove or
tamper with such property.
   (B)   The customer shall be responsible for any damage to meter, meter
housing, cover, transponder, transponder connections and the like, which may
result from his or her negligent act, but specifically the following will be
considered negligence on the part of the customer: the backing up into the
meter of hot water from heating plant or water heater, thereby damaging parts
in meter, the driving over, or location of driveway over meter setting, without
properly reinforcing the area over meter setting, thereby damaging the meter
setting, or the meter, or both; removal of or damaging the transponder or its
wiring; and any other negligent act, whether by design, or accident. In case of
such damage, the city will make the necessary repairs and charge same to
customer, the costs of same to be collected from said customer in like manner
as are water bills and subject to the penalty of suspended service, until paid.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.003 POTABLE WATER WELLS.
   (A)   Use of groundwater as a potable water supply prohibited. Except for
such uses or methods in existence before the effective date of the ordinance
codified herein, the use or attempt to use as a potable water supply
groundwater from within the corporate limits of the city, as potable water
supply, by the installation or drilling of wells or by any other method is
hereby prohibited. This prohibition expressly includes the City of Mattoon.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be subject
to a fine of up to $750 for each violation.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
limited liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company,
trust, estate, political subdivision, or any other legal entity, or their legal
representatives, agents or assigns.
   POTABLE WATER. Any water used for human or domestic consumption, including,
but not limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming, washing dishes,
or preparing foods.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF SERVICE
§ 51.015 APPLICATION.
   These terms and conditions shall apply to all services connected to the
city’s mains.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.016 PERMIT AND METER REQUIRED.
   No person shall take any water from any main, hydrant or other portion of
the city’s water plant or distribution system except upon written application
to the Public Works Director and the issuance by the Public Works Director of a
permit in accordance with the rules and regulations of the city; and no permit,
other than a permit for a temporary water supply or service under rates
applicable thereto, shall be issued for any water supply or service unless the
same be measured through a meter in accordance with the rules and regulations
of the city.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.017 APPLICATION FOR WATER PIPE CONNECTION; FORM.
   (A)   Each applicant for water supply or service shall file with the city an
application therefor, in writing, setting
forth the name of such applicant, the location of the premises for which such
supply or service is sought, the name of the owner of the premises if other
than applicant, the nature and size of such service and the extent of such
supply and the proposed use thereof.
   (B)   The form of the application for water pipe connection shall be as
follows:
      Address _______________________________________ ________
      Application for service pipe connection to City of Mattoon.
      I desire to make service pipe connections with _____for a supply of water
on the following premises, _______________________________________
________________
      Owned by _______________________________________ _______
      Address _______________________________________ _________
      Occupied by _______________________________________ _____
      Lot ______ Block ______________ Street ___________________
         I agree that the pipes and fixtures used shall be only such as are
approved by the city and that same shall be placed in accordance with all
applicable building code and public works regulations of the city. The pipes
and fixtures are described as follows: _______________________________ And
should I ever desire changes of any kind made in my water service pipes or
fixtures, before any such changes are made I agree to first make formal
application to the city.
               Signed _____________________________________
         The above application is accepted __________________________
               Superintendent
         The work as per specifications herewith (Over) is completed and ready
for your inspection.
      Date ____________________ 20____   Plumber
________________________________________
On reverse side of card is location of service box, size of corporation cock,
size and style of service pipe and remarks.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.018 ACCESS TO PREMISES.
   The properly authorized agents of the city shall at all times have free
access to the customer’s premises for the purpose of inspection of the
customer’s installation and of examining, repairing or removing the city’s
meters or other property, and for such purpose the customer hereby authorizes
and requests his or her landlord, if any, to permit such access to the
premises. Should the city determine that any customer has blocked or otherwise
prevented the city from accessing the water meter and that the city needs
access to read the meter or disconnect water service, customer authorizes the
city to remove any blockage to read the water meter or disconnect water
service, including but not limited to, the towing of any vehicle blocking the
water meter. Any costs associated with removing any blockage shall be paid by
the customer.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.019 RELEASE OF CITY FROM LIABILITY.
   The customer agrees that the city shall not be liable for damages resulting
to the customer or to third persons from the use of water or the presence of
the city’s appliances in the customer’s premises unless due to willful default
or neglect on the part of the city. Whenever, upon application, the city turns
on water service, it is assumed that the piping and fixtures of the customer
are in condition to receive and hold water in such quantities and at such
pressures as is usual and at such higher pressures during the period when fire
pressure is being carried, and the city shall not be liable for accidents,
breaks, leakage, or damage by reason of its service to the customer.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.020 SPECIAL PERMISSION REQUIRED TO SUPPLY OTHERS WITH WATER.
   No customer shall supply water from the city’s mains to any other person,
except under purely temporary arrangement and then only by special permission
from the Public Works Director.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.021 BILLING ADJUSTMENTS; LEAKS IN SERVICE LINES, FIXTURES OR HYDRANTS.
   (A) The City Treasurer and City Manager have the authority to order that a
customer’s service not be discontinued, to delay service disconnections, to
accept partial payments, to adjust or waive fees, penalties and charges, and to
make billing adjustments. The Treasurer’s adjustment authority shall not exceed
a value of $1,000.00. Adjustments valued in excess of $1,000 require formal
approval by the City Council.
   (B)   Upon discovery of a leak in service lines, fixtures, hydrants or
valves on the customer’s side of a water meter, written notice will be given by
the Finance Department to the customer to make necessary repairs.
   (C)   If a leak occurs on a service line, fixture, hydrant or valve on the
customer’s side and if it can be reasonably determined that the customer could
not have easily ascertained that such a leak existed, an adjustment may be made
in the customer’s water and sewer bill. Such adjustments shall be made in
accordance with the following procedures:
      (1)   The average monthly water bill during the preceding 12 months shall
be computed and deducted from the bill accumulated during the period of the
concealed leakage.
      (2)   From the remainder, the customer shall be credited an amount equal
to 50% of the remainder.
      (3)   The City Treasurer may require written evidence that repairs were
made to the customer’s service line or fixtures before approving an adjustment
authorized by this section, if the Treasurer has reason to believe that the
excess water consumption was not caused by estimated or erroneous meter
readings.
      (4)   Billing adjustments are allowed only once per customer in a 12-
month rolling period.
   (D)   No further billing adjustment shall be made to sewer charges for any
reason, including the filling of a swimming pool.
   (E)   No billing adjustments shall apply to leakage from any service line
that is constructed of unapproved plastic materials. All plastic material used
in service lines must meet city and state plumbing codes.
   (F)   Customers who have received a billing adjustment due to a high bill
may enter into a payment arrangement with the city whereby the adjusted bill is
paid off over time. All subsequent bills must be paid in a timely manner in
order for the payment arrangement to remain in effect.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021; Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 51.022 CONTINUOUS SERVICE; DISCLAIMER.
   The city shall not be responsible for any failure to supply water or for
interruption of the supply, if such failure or interruption is without willful
default or negligence on its part. This disclaimer of responsibility shall
apply to any damage to boilers, water heaters, refrigerators or any other
device.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.023 MULTIPLE SERVICE IN SAME PREMISES.
   Where more than one customer is to have water service in the same building,
the owner, or principal tenant, shall make application and be responsible for
water used. In case it is desired to have separate meters for such services,
the installation shall be made as for individual service, in accordance with
regulations. The owner of such premises may make installation of check meters
at his or her own expense, but the city assumes no responsibility for accuracy
of same, nor for the collection of water bills thereunder.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.024 ASSIGNMENT.
   The benefits and obligations of the agreement shall begin when the city
commences to supply water service hereunder and shall inure to and be binding
upon the successors, assigns, executors or administrators as the case may be,
of the original parties hereto, for the full term hereof, provided that no
assignment thereof shall be made by the customer without first obtaining the
city’s written consent.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.025 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   In cases of unusual and out-of-ordinary installations requiring special
provisions, the foregoing conditions of service will apply, but the city may
impose such additional terms and conditions as may fit the individual
installation.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.026 MODIFICATION OF AGREEMENT.
   No agent has the power to amend, modify or alter an agreement or waive any
of its conditions or to bind the city by making any promises or representations
not contained herein.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
INSTALLATION OF WATER SERVICE
§ 51.040 PERMITS AND INSPECTOR FEES.
   The customer shall agree to secure and pay for all necessary municipal
permits for the installation and operation of the piping and other equipment
used in connection with water service to his or her premises.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.041 OWNER'S CONSENT TO OCCUPANCY.
   In case the customer is not the owner of the premises or of intervening
property between the customer’s premises and the city’s mains, the customer
shall agree to obtain from the proper owner, or owners, the necessary consent
to the connection of service, installation and maintenance in said premises and
in or about such intervening property of all such piping or other equipment, as
may be necessary or convenient for the supplying of water services hereunder.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.042 RIGHT OF CITY TO SPECIFY SIZES OF EQUIPMENT.
   The city reserves the right to specify sizes of fixtures, piping and the
like which shall be used by the customer in connecting the customer’s equipment
to the city’s service mains.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.043 EQUIPMENT TO BE FURNISHED AND MAINTAINED BY CUSTOMER.
   All piping and other equipment used in connection with water services in the
customer’s premises or connecting said premises with the city’s service,
furnished by the customer, shall be suitable for the purpose thereof and shall
be maintained by the customer at all times in conformity with the requirements
of the constituted authorities and with the rules and regulations of the city
in force from time to time.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.044 MATERIALS FURNISHED BY CITY; CHARGES.
   (A)   For water services of two inches or less the city will furnish the
tapping saddle, corporation stop, meter yoke, water meter and transmitter,
meter pit and lid. The city will furnish the equipment and labor to tap the
water main. The customer shall furnish all remaining labor, equipment, and
materials including the excavation and preparation of the water main for the
tap, the installation of the service lines, and the customer’s connection to
the meter installation. The following charges shall apply:
 
Tap                 Fee
For 3/4 inch line   $650
For 1 inch line     $950
For 1-1/2 inch line $2,800
For 2 inch line     $3,150
 
   (B)   If larger than two-inch service is desired, the hook-up shall be made
by using a tapping sleeve and valve approved by the city, installed and
supplied by the owner customer. If a three-inch line/meter is desired, the city
shall make a four-inch tap which the customer can reduce to a three-inch line/
meter. For four- to six-inch and eight-inch taps, the city will tap the main
for the following charges:
 
Tap             Fee
For 4-inch line $1,300
For 6-inch line $1,300
For 8-inch line $1,300
 
   (C)   For larger than eight-inch taps, the owner will call in an outside
firm which is approved by the city to tap the main at the owner’s expense.
   (D)   All meters of three inches or larger and all compound meters,
including the meter pit and lid, shall be provided by the customer and
installed under the directions of the city.
   (E)   Buried water service lines shall be: Type K Copper, Polyethylene (SDR-
9, CTS), AWWA C-900 PVC, or Class 52 Ductile Iron. A 12 gauge copper tracer
wire shall be installed with plastic service lines. Three-inch or larger meters
shall have valves on both sides to facilitate removal. Meter housings shall be
approved by the plumbing inspector prior to installation, and in general shall
be sized to permit easy removal of the meter. The city shall accept maintenance
responsibility for all outdoor meter pit installations after completion. The
customer shall have maintenance responsibility for indoor meter installations.
The city will provide replacement meters and/or transmitters for indoor
installations.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.045 METER LOCATIONS.
   Meter pits for two-inch and smaller meters shall be located near the
property line between the city and the customer. The design details and
locations for three-inch and larger meters shall be submitted to the plumbing
inspector for review and approval.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.046 [RESERVED].
§ 51.047 MAINTENANCE OF SERVICE LINES.
   For buried meter pit locations, the city will maintain the service line from
the water main to the meter pit. For indoor meter locations, the city will
maintain the service line from the water main to the property line.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.048 [RESERVED].
§ 51.049 CROSS OR INTERCONNECTIONS.
   The installation of water service from the mains of the city shall be
separate and independent of any other water connection or service of any
description. Cross connection from any other supply such as private wells,
cisterns, or other water systems, whether operated by pumps or not, shall be
absolutely prohibited, and the existence of such cross or interconnections
shall be cause for immediate suspension of water service from the mains of the
city, and no notice of such suspension is required. Only the definite
destruction of such cross connections shall be considered in the resumption of
service to premises affected.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.050 ABANDONED SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   All service connections to mains that may become useless due to laying
larger or newer service lines shall be disconnected and shut off at corporation
stop on main by the owner, or customer. In case the owner or customer making
such new installation shall neglect or refuse to cut off and disconnect such
abandoned service connection, the city shall do such work and charge and
collect from owner, or customer, the cost of the work subject to the provisions
as is the collecting of regular bills.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.051 SEPARATE LINES TO PREMISES.
   (A)   A separate service line is required for each customer. (Separate
residences, commercial buildings, or industrial buildings may not share common
service lines.)
   (B)   In the case of a multi-tenant residential, commercial, or industrial
building, the building or complex may be considered one customer. In the case
of a mobile home park, the mobile home park may be considered one customer.
   (C)   Service lines may not cross adjacent properties. Service lines may not
be placed along the frontage of adjacent properties. All water lines that are
placed along the frontage of adjacent properties are considered water mains,
and are required to be designed and constructed to those standards. The minimum
size for a new city water main is six inches.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.052 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   No person, save and except members of the Fire Department, private
fire departments, or employees of the city shall open any fire hydrant on the
mains of the city.
   (B)   No person, without lawful authority, shall take water from any public
fire hydrant of the waterworks of this city, or shall remove the cover
therefrom, or place any earth or other material therein, or in any other way
insure, destroy, or damage any such hydrant or any pipe or main, or appliance
thereunto belonging.
   (C)   No person shall in any manner obstruct the use of any fire hydrant or
have or place any material or vehicle in front thereof, or within ten feet from
either side thereof.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.053 PRIVATE FIRE PROTECTION.
   The city shall be prepared to accept application for service to private fire
hydrants, supply tanks, sprinkler systems and other appurtenances on the
premises of customers. The applicant for this class of service shall submit
plans of the installation in detail, showing layout of system, required sizes
of service lines and such other information as will make clear the probable
demands of the installations. The city will consent to such installation when
the size and condition of its mains are adequate for the purpose, and the city
will impose such conditions of service as may be necessary for individual
installations. The city will not obligate itself to furnish continuous service,
or go beyond diligent effort to supply service or particular pressures, any
more than its general obligations to all other customers. Any such
installations shall be made at the entire expense of the owner, and subject to
the direction and supervision of the city. Such installations shall be
exclusively for fire protection uses, and no connection for any other use shall
be made thereon. The city shall have free access to the entire installation for
inspection purposes and in case of violation of the terms of the installation,
shall have the right to terminate service.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.054 INSTALLATIONS TO BE DONE BY LICENSED PLUMBERS.
   The connecting and laying of service pipe lines and the installation of
meters shall be done by a plumber licensed by the state, as provided by law and
under the supervision of the city.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
WATER METERS
§ 51.065 METERS FURNISHED BY CITY.
   The water used shall be measured by a meter or meters to be furnished by the
city and installed by the customer at a point most convenient for the city’s
service, and upon the registration of said meter or meters all bills shall be
calculated. If more than one meter is installed on different classes of
service, each meter shall be considered by itself in calculating the amount of
any bills. When more than one meter is installed hereunder, on the same class
of service, the sum of the registration shall in all cases be taken as the
total registration.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.066 TESTING OF METERS.
   The city shall have the right to remove and test any meter at any time and
to place another in its place. All meters before being placed in service shall
be tested for accuracy within 2% either over or under absolute accuracy.
Whenever the customer disputes the accuracy of the meter, he or she may request
that it be tested. In making the test, the meter will be placed on test in its
unchanged state after being removed from the customer’s service. The customer,
or his or her representative, shall be offered the opportunity to be present
during the making of the test, and the meter test operator will explain the
procedure. No charge will be made for the test, and affected billing for water
will be adjusted according to the results of test.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.067 QUANTITY OF WATER USED RECORDED BY METER.
   The quantity of water recorded by the meter shall be presumed to be the
amount of water passing through the meter, which amount shall be conclusive as
to both the customer and the city, except when the meter is found to be
registering inaccurately, or has ceased to register. In such cases the quantity
of water used will be determined by the average registration of the meter in a
corresponding past period when practicable, or by the average registration of
an accurate meter in a following period, whichever method is deemed
representative by the city.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
RATES AND CHARGES; BILLINGS
§ 51.080 REASONABLE RATES FOR USE OF WATER; ENFORCEMENT OF STATUTORY LIEN.
   It is hereby declared that the business of supply and distribution of water
is essential to the health, safety and industry of the city, and that for the
purpose of maintaining such supply, reasonable rates for the use of water are
established. The continuance of such water, supply and its distribution is
dependent on the collection of such rates, and recognition of this is accorded
by the creation of a lien by ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-139-8.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.081 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AVERAGE MONTHLY BILL. The total of the 12 previous months’ water and sewer
bills for any address, divided by 12. If the account is new, or has less than
12 months’ previous consumption experience, the City  Treasurer in his or her
sole discretion shall use judgment to determine the average monthly bill taking
into consideration the actual consumption history for the account and
consumption by other customers with similar structures or similar uses.
   COMMERCIAL ACCOUNT/INDUSTRIAL ACCOUNT. Any account not meeting the
definition of a residential account.
   RESIDENTIAL ACCOUNT. An account for water or sewer service to a structure
having not more than four apartments or separate dwelling units; or, any
account serving any single dwelling unit in a structure having more than four
such dwelling units.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.082 APPLICATION FOR WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   An application for water or sewer service shall be made in person at
the Finance Department Office between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:30 p.m.
Alternatively, application for service may be made on-line via the city’s web
site. An agreement must be signed by the applicant demonstrating that the
applicant will be responsible for payment of bills when due and compliance with
ordinances governing the municipal water and sewer systems. Applicants shall
provide proper government-issued picture identification. In addition, homeowner
applicants must provide proof of ownership. Applicants who are not the owner of
the property to which service is being requested must show a copy of a rental
agreement, lease agreement or permission by the property owner to occupy the
property. Applications for service received after 3:00 p.m. will normally be
connected the next business day. Applications for new service received after 3:
00 p.m. and requiring same day service will pay a $50 “after hours” service
fee. Any customer requesting a service connection on holidays or weekends will
also be charged a $50 “after hours” service fee.
   (B)   All persons desiring to connect to, or otherwise be a customer of, the
waterworks system of the city shall, prior to being connected to said
waterworks system execute a certain water service agreement in that form
provided in division (C) of this section. The City Treasurer or his or her
designee is hereby authorized to execute said water service agreement on behalf
of the city. The original water service agreement shall be placed on file in
the Finance Department.
   (C)   The form of the water service agreement shall be as follows:
   WATER SERVICE AGREEMENT
By this Water Service Agreement (hereinafter referred to as “Agreement”)
executed by and between the City of Mattoon, Illinois, a municipal corporation
(hereinafter referred to as “City”) and _____________ (hereinafter referred to
as “Customer”) and in consideration of the terms, conditions, covenants and
mutual benefits contained herein, it is hereby agreed that:
   1.   Customer is a tenant in or the owner of certain real estate legally
described in the attached Exhibit “A” and desires that the City supply water
service to said real estate. (A Customer requesting service for areas presently
within the Mattoon City Limit Boundaries shall list the street address for the
area to be served but is not required to attach a legal description.)
   2.   City is the owner and operator of a waterworks system as defined in
ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-139-1, and desires to supply water service to said
real estate.
   3.   City shall supply water service to Customer in accordance with its rate
schedule, rules and regulations, as amended from time to time by the City,
governing the rate, use, maintenance, construction, and management of the City
waterworks system.
   4.   Customer shall comply with all rate schedules, rules and regulations,
as amended from time to time by the City, governing the rate, use, maintenance,
construction, and management of the City waterworks system. A summary of some
of the important regulations are listed below, Customers are directed to the
City Code of Ordinances for a full listing of the rate schedules, rules and
regulations.
      (a)   Water bills are due on the same day each month and it is not
possible to change the due date.
      (b)   If the Mattoon Finance Department has not received the full amount
due on the due date shown on the bill, a late fee 10% of the balance due will
be added to the account.
      (c)   Late notices will be mailed to all accounts having an outstanding
balance as of 4:30 p.m. on the due date as shown on the bill. The late notice
shall state the full amount due, including any late fees, and shall state the
date the service will be shut off for non-payment (disconnection date) if the
full amount due is not received by 8:30 a.m. on the disconnection date. The
disconnection date shall be at least 10 days after the due date as shown on the
bill.
      (d)   If the Mattoon Finance Department has not received the payment by
8:030 a.m. on the disconnection date, the account will be charged a $25 non-
payment fee and may be subject to immediate disconnection.
      (e)   If service is disconnected for non-payment, all past due amounts
and fees must be paid before service will be restored. The payment must be made
by cash, money order or credit card, checks will not be accepted.
      (f)   If a bank returns a Customer’s check or bank draft unpaid, for any
reason, that Customer’s service will be immediately disconnected without
further notice to the Customer.
      (g)   A $25 fee will be charged for all returned checks or bank drafts.
      (h)   If service is disconnected for a returned check or bank draft, all
past due amounts on the account, including the returned check fee, must be paid
before service will be restored. The payment must be made by cash, money order
or credit card, checks will not be accepted.
      (i)   Deposits are required for all new water service accounts unless (1)
Customer has a landlord or contractor agreement with the City; (2) Customer has
current water service with the City and has made on time payments on that
service for the last eighteen months; or (3) on receipt of a letter from
another utility that provided service to the applicant and gives evidence of
the applicant’s good credit history.
      (j)   After completing 18 months of initial consecutive service with no
late payments, deposit refunds will be credited to the Customer’s account. If
Customer has not made timely payments over the initial 18 months of service,
the deposit shall be credited to Customer account upon 18 consecutive months of
timely payments and application therefor.
      (k)   A fee of $50 will be charged for any same day new service
connection required after 3:00 p.m.
      (l)   Payments may be placed in the drop box located in the parking lot
North of City Hall. This drop box is emptied at 8:30 a.m. and 2:30 p.m. daily.
   5.   In the event that any part of the real estate identified in Exhibit “A”
is at the time of the signing of this Agreement outside the corporate limits of
the City and if at any time any part of the real estate becomes contiguous to
the corporate boundaries of the City, the Customer shall execute the petition
to annex. Customer shall execute the petition within 30 days of the receipt of
a written request from the City to do so, and shall do any and all acts
necessary to complete the petition. The City shall disconnect water service to
the Customer if the Customer fails or otherwise refuses to execute such
petition to annex, or otherwise fails to do any act necessary to annex said
real estate into the corporate boundaries of the City.
Customer: ______________________________ Date:_____________
Water Service Billing Address: _______________________________
   City of Mattoon, Coles County, Illinois
   By: _____________________________
   Title: ________ ___________________
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.083 TURNING ON.
   No water from the city water system shall be turned on for service into any
premises by any person other than the employee of the city assigned to that
duty by his or her supervisor. Water turned on by unauthorized persons shall
subject the customer to a fee of $50 plus water and sewer usage.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.084 DEPOSIT.
   A deposit of $60 for residential service and $100 for commercial service
shall be made with each such application. This sum is to be retained by the
city to ensure timely payment of all water and sewer bills. The City Treasurer
may waive the deposit for customers who have a history of 18 most recent,
consecutive months of timely payments with the city or on receipt of a letter
from another utility that provided service to the applicant and gives evidence
of the applicant’s good credit history.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.085 ACCOUNTING FOR DEPOSITS; APPLICATION TO ACCOUNTS.
   The Finance Department shall strictly account for all customer deposits. In
the event any water or sewer account remains unpaid after service is
disconnected, the deposit shall be credited to the customer’s account to the
extent of such delinquency.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.086 DEPOSIT REFUNDS OR CREDITS.
   When service to the customer is discontinued permanently, the deposit, less
any amount still due for water or sewer service, shall be refunded without
interest. After completing 18 months of initial consecutive service with no
late payments, the Finance Department will initiate deposit refunds that will
be credited to customer accounts. If a customer has not made timely payments
over the initial 18 months of service, the deposit shall be credited to
customer accounts upon 18 consecutive months of timely payments and application
therefor.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.087 MONTHLY PAYMENT.
   Water and sewer usage shall be billed and paid for on a monthly basis.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.088 LATE FEE.
   If the City Finance Department has not received the full amount due on the
due date shown on the bill, a late fee of 10% of the balance due will be added
to the account.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.089 LATE NOTICE.
   Late notices will be mailed to all accounts having an outstanding balance as
of 4:30 p.m. on the due date as shown on the bill. The late notice shall state
the full amount due, including any late fees, and shall state the date the
service will be shut off for non-payment (disconnection date) if the full
amount due is not received by 8:30 a.m. on the disconnection date. The
disconnection date shall be at least ten days after the due date as shown on
the bill.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.090 NON-PAYMENT.
   If the City Finance Department has not received the payment by 8:30 a.m. on
the disconnection date, as defined in §
51.089, the account will be charged a $25 non-payment fee.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.091 DISCONNECTION FOR NON-PAYMENT.
   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to customers by
reason of non-payment of bills, only after notice is given.
   (A)   The city’s utility bills shall contain provisions to the effect that
all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth on the bill;
   (B)   For any bill that is not paid by the due date, a late notice will be
mailed containing a disconnect date that will apply if the bill is not paid
within ten days of the original due date. For bills that are not paid within
ten days of the original due date, service may be discontinued for non-payment;
   (C)   The meter shall be read at the time of disconnection and any
unauthorized use beyond said meter reading shall subject the customer to a fee
of $50 plus water and sewer usage.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.092 BAD CHECKS OR BANK DRAFTS.
   Any customer who has a bank draft that is rejected or who has tendered a
check to the city which is thereafter returned by the bank for any reason will
be charged a $25 service fee. Water service shall be immediately disconnected
until the proper payment is made in full. A check may not be used to pay for a
returned check.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.093 RECONNECTION.
   Service reconnection shall not occur until full payment, by cash or credit
card, is made to the Finance Department. Reconnections will be processed in the
order in which payments were received. Reconnections will be made after all of
the day’s disconnections are complete and after the connection of any new
applications. All attempts will be made to reconnect service on the same day.
However, if any customer requires a reconnection after 4:30 p.m. that same day,
such reconnection shall be subject to a fee of $50 for “after hours” service.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.094 OBSTRUCTION OF METER.
   A customer may be assessed a $50 fee plus any towing and/or impounding fees
that are incurred to enable access to a meter. The authority for the city to
tow or impound vehicles obstructing meters is provided at §
51.18.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.095 PREFERRED LANDLORD AGREEMENTS.
   By advance payment of a nonrefundable $100 fee, a landlord with multiple
rental properties may sign an agreement with the Finance Department to enable
the landlord to make service connects and disconnects during times of tenant
vacancies for properties listed in the agreement by a phone call to the Finance
Department. The landlord accounts shall be protected by a password to identify
the landlord, his or her representative over the phone. As a term of such
agreements, the landlord shall provide the city with the name of tenants.
Landlords with past due account balances with the city shall be denied service
until accounts have been paid in full. If a landlord declines this preferred
service, he or she shall be required to follow the application and deposit
rules for an individual applicant for water and sewer service.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.096 PREFERRED CONTRACTOR AGREEMENTS.
   By advance payment of a nonrefundable $100 fee, a contractor may sign an
agreement with the Finance Department to enable the contractor to make service
connects and disconnects during times of to properties for which they have
taken out a plumbing permit by a phone call to the Finance Department. The
contractor accounts shall be protected by a password to identify the contractor
or his or her representative over the phone. Contractors with past due account
balances with the city shall be denied service until accounts have been paid in
full. If a contractor declines this preferred service, he or she shall be
required to follow the application and deposit rules for an individual
applicant for water and sewer service.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.097 [RESERVED].
§ 51.098 RATES FOR WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   Effective May 1, 2025 the rates for water service shall be:
      (1)   There shall be assessed a monthly meter charge according to the
size of the meter for each service as follows:
         (a)   Residential:
            1.   For a 5/8-inch meter, the base fee shall be $2.54.
            2.   For a 3/4-inch meter, the base fee shall be $8.57.
            3.   For a 1-inch meter, the base fee shall be $12.84.
         (b)   Commercial:
            1.   For a 5/8-inch meter, the base fee shall be $8.57.
            2.   For a 3/4-inch meter, the base fee shall be $12.84.
            3.   For a 1-inch meter, the base fee shall be $17.14.
            4.   For a 1-1/2-inch meter, the base fee shall be $25.71.
            5.   For a 2-inch meter, the base fee shall be $34.24.
            6.   For a 3-inch meter, the base fee shall be $68.37.
            7.   For a 4-inch meter, the base fee shall be $102.47.
            8.   For a 6-inch meter, the base fee shall be $136.73.
            9.   For an 8-inch meter, the base fee shall be $171.30.
      (2)   Where there is more than one meter per customer, the monthly meter
charge shall apply to each meter.
      (3)   In addition to the monthly meter charge, the following schedule of
rates shall be used to calculate the monthly billing for each customer:
         (a)   For potable water usage inside the city limits for each billing
period:
            1.   The first 2,000 cubic feet (14,980 gallons) or less shall be
$4.69 per 100 cubic feet.
            2.   The next 298,000 cubic feet (2,232,020 gallons) shall be $3.74
per 100 cubic feet.
            3.   Usage over 300,000 cubic feet (2,247,000 gallons) shall be
$2.96 per 100 cubic feet.
         (b)   For potable water usage outside the city limits for each billing
period:
            1.   The first 2,000 cubic feet (14,980 gallons) or less shall be
$7.25 per 100 cubic feet.
            2.   The next 298,000 cubic feet (2,232,020 gallons) shall be $5.71
per 100 cubic feet.
            3.   Usage over 300,000 cubic feet (2,247,000 gallons) shall be
$4.60 per 100 cubic feet.
   (B)   Effective May 1, 2025 the fee for routine laboratory testing of water
samples shall be $20 per sample.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021; Am. Ord. 2021-5443, passed 6-1-2021; Am. Ord.
2022-5452, passed 4-19-2022; Am. Ord. 2023-5463, passed 4-18-2023; Am. Ord.
2024-5480, passed 4-16-2024; Am. Ord. 2025-5491, passed 4-15-2025)
§ 51.099 RATES FOR NON-METERED PRIVATE PROTECTION AND AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER
SYSTEM.
   Private fire protection service lines, connected to tank, hydrant, sprinkler
system or other devices, shall be used exclusively for fire fighting purposes
and no connection for other purposes shall be made on such lines. The monthly
rates shall be as follows:
   (A)   For four-inch line, $60.00, per month.
   (B)   For six-inch line, $80.00, per month.
   (C)   For eight-inch line, $100.00, per month.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.100 SUFFICIENCY OF RATES.
   If at any time the rates for water service fixed by this chapter are
insufficient to provide the necessary funds required for the operating and
maintenance of the water system, the City Council shall take the necessary
steps to fix such rates as will produce adequate revenues for said purposes.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.101 MONTHLY BILLS.
   Bills shall be rendered monthly for service hereunder, unless otherwise
specified. The term (month) for billing purposes hereunder shall mean the
period between any two consecutive regular readings, by the city of the meters
at the premises, such readings to be taken as nearly as may be possible and
practicable every 30 days.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.102 PAYMENTS BY MAIL.
   If payment is made by mail, the stub of the bill must accompany the
customer’s check, and both must be received at the office of the Finance
Department not later than the due date on the bill.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.103 LIABILITY OF CUSTOMER FOR PAYMENT OF BILLS.
   Customers are liable for payment of all water used on premises, and for all
other expense, properly charged to the service in accordance with the terms of
this contract, and this liability shall continue until all charges are paid in
full and until written notice has been received by the Finance Department that
water service is no longer desired. Customers are liable for all water shown to
have passed through meter, whether by use, wastage or leakage.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
§ 51.104 ACCOUNTS SENT TO COLLECTIONS.
   Disconnected accounts with unpaid balances will receive two final billing
notifications after which the account will be turned over to the city’s
collection agent.
(Ord. 2021-5442, passed 6-1-2021)
CHAPTER 52: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Responsibility of owner or occupant
   
52.03   Containers
   
52.04   Segregation of garbage and refuse
   
52.05   Disposal of garbage or refuse by owner or occupant
   
52.06   Burning of garbage or refuse
   
52.07   Depositing garbage or refuse on premises of another person
   
52.08   Keeping bulk waste in public view
   
52.09   Leaf and yard waste collection policy
   
52.10   Illegal dumping or scavenging from roll- off container or roll-off
container site
Garbage Collectors
   
52.20   Permit and license required
   
52.21   Collector license fee
   
52.22   Collection vehicles; classification; fees
   
52.23   Spills to be picked up
Enforcement
   
52.35   Enforcement of restrictions
Site Approval of New Pollution Control Facilities
   
52.45   Definitions
   
52.46   Notice of intent to make application
   
52.47   Application for site location approval
   
52.48   Public hearing
   
52.49   City Council approval
   
52.50   Application fees
 
   
52.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Open burning prohibited, see §
92.35
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BULK WASTE. Bulk waste shall include large items no longer operable or
useful, and stored in such a fashion as to expose them to weather and the
elements, which items shall include, but are not limited to: washers, dryers,
refrigerators, freezers, stoves, televisions, water heaters, indoor furniture,
bed springs, mattresses, carpets, couches, chairs, cushions, or any other items
larger than four cubic feet which are exposed to the elements, but not designed
or intended for use outside of structures.
   COLLECTOR. Any person who transports garbage, refuse or bulk waste for hire.
   GARBAGE. Rejected food wastes resulting from the handling, preparation,
cooking, spoilage and table leftovers.
   HEALTH OFFICER. That person appointed to hold the office of Health Officer
for the city, or his or her designee.
   OCCUPANT. The head of a family, proprietor of hotel, restaurant or store, or
other person, living on, conducting business on, or otherwise occupying
premises.
   OWNER. A person or persons holding legal title to premises.
   REFUSE. All discarded or abandoned matter that is not garbage or bulk waste.
(Ord. 86-4509, passed 6-17-1986; Am. Ord. 94-4766,
passed 3-15-1994)
§ 52.02 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER OR OCCUPANT.
   It is the responsibility of the owner or occupant to clean up any garbage or
refuse which is found on their premises not in containers.
(Ord. 86-4509, passed 6-17-1986; Am. Ord. 94-4766, passed 3-15-1994)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.03 CONTAINERS.
   The owner or occupant of any premises in the city shall provide containers
for garbage and refuse.
(Ord. 86-4509, passed 6-17-1986; Am. Ord. 94-4766, passed 3-15-1994)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.04 SEGREGATION OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE.
   Segregation of garbage and refuse matter by an owner or occupant shall be
dependent upon the type of license held by the collector with whom an owner or
occupant contracts. It shall be prohibited for an owner or occupant to dispose
of garbage and refuse in the same container if pickup is made by a collector
holding a Class B collection license. Only those collectors holding a Class A
collection license shall pick up unsegregated garbage and refuse.
(Ord. 86-4509, passed 6-17-1986; Am. Ord. 94-4766, passed 3-15-1994)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.05 DISPOSAL OF GARBAGE OR REFUSE BY OWNER OR OCCUPANT.
   Any owner or occupant may himself or herself dispose of garbage or refuse
from the premises owned or occupied by him or her, provided he or she adheres
to the requirements of this chapter, and provided disposal of the same is made
only in licensed landfills.
(Ord. 86-4509, passed 6-17-1986; Am. Ord. 94-4766, passed 3-15-1994)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.06 BURNING OF GARBAGE OR REFUSE.
   It is unlawful to burn garbage or refuse within the corporate limits of the
city.
(Ord. 86-4509, passed 6-17-1986; Am. Ord. 94-4766, passed 3-15-1994)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.07 DEPOSITING GARBAGE OR REFUSE ON PREMISES OF ANOTHER PERSON.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit garbage or refuse in a
container located on the premises of any other person, without the consent of
such other person.
(Ord. 94-4766, passed 3-15-1994)
§ 52.08 KEEPING BULK WASTE IN PUBLIC VIEW.
   It shall be unlawful to keep, store, deposit, or accumulate bulk waste on
open porches, car ports, open garages, pavilions, or other structure, where the
items are in public view.
(Ord. 94-4766, passed 3-15-1994)
§ 52.09 LEAF AND YARD WASTE COLLECTION POLICY.
   The leaf and yard waste collection policy, set forth below, is hereby
approved.
   (A)   This policy applies to leaves, sticks, brush, grass and other yard
waste vegetation generated by private residential properties within the city.
   (B)   Persons residing within the corporate limits of the city may take
leaves, sticks, brush, grass and other yard waste vegetation to the Street
Department yard and deposit such vegetation during the following schedule:
between April 1 and November 30 of each year, on Mondays through Fridays
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m., and on Saturdays between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m.; between December 1 and March 31 of each year,
on Mondays through Fridays between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m.
   (C)   The Street Department will have areas designated for each type of
waste and the persons delivering the waste must deposit the waste in the
designated areas. All bags and other containers must be removed by the person
depositing the waste.
   (D)   Leaves and yard waste vegetation will not be received at the Street
Department on holidays for city employees.
   (E)   The Street Department will collect leaves which have been generated on
private residential properties in the city only if the leaves have been bagged
in paper bags of at least 30 gallon capacity. Each resident must supply his or
her own bags and the bags must be of paper composition. No plastic bags will be
collected. No loose leaves raked to the curb line from private property owners
will be collected. No loose leaves raked to the curb lien from private property
owners will be collected.
   (F)   The leaf collection, as indicated by division (E) above, will be done
by Street Department employees only during a four-week time period. The
collection period will be determined by the Street Department and published
through the Mattoon Journal Gazette.
   (G)   Leaf collection will occur on a regular schedule, weather permitting.
On Mondays, leaf collection will occur in the Northeast quadrant of the city
bounded on the west by 19th Street and on the south by Charleston Avenue.
(Illinois State Route 16). On Tuesdays, leaf collection will occur in the
northwest quadrant of the city bounded on the east by 19th street and on the
south by Western Avenue. On Wednesdays, leaf collection will occur in the
southwest quadrant of the city bounded on the north by Western Avenue and on
the East by the Illinois Central Railroad right-of-way. On Thursdays, leaf
collection will occur in the southeast quadrant of the city bounded on the west
by the Illinois Central Railroad right-of-way and on the North by Illinois
State Route 16. Fridays will be used as a day for collecting areas which may
have been missed due to weather, volume or other reasons.
   (H)   A copy of the Leaf Collection Map for scheduling purposes is appended
to Resolution No. 98-2129 and marked as Exhibit 1.
   (I)   No brush or other vegetation which have been generated from private
properties will be collected by city employees. Such brush and vegetation must
be handled by the property owner and will be received at the Street Department
during the hours indicated in division (B) above.
(Res. 98-2129, passed 10-20-1998)
§ 52.10 ILLEGAL DUMPING OR SCAVENGING FROM ROLL-OFF CONTAINER OR ROLL-OFF
CONTAINER SITE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      (1)   ILLEGAL DUMPING. The placement of any material or solid waste in or
around the site of the roll- off container provided by the city for recycling
activities and shall include the placement of garbage or other materials not
specifically permitted to be placed in the roll-off containers provided by the
city.
      (2)   RECYCLABLE. The following: aluminum, bi-metal cans, tin/steel cans,
newsprint, corrugated cardboard, clear glass, brown glass, #1 soda bottles
(“PETE”), #2 natural milk jugs and #2 detergent colored bottles (“HDPE”).
      (3)   ROLL-OFF CONTAINER. That container provided by the city and the
state of Illinois, Department of Energy and Natural Resources for the
collection of recyclables and the site upon which it is placed.
      (4)   SCAVENGING. To collect, obtain, possess or pickup any recyclable
item placed in or around the site of the roll-off container.
      (5)   SITE. An area specifically identified by signs at the location of
the roll-off container, but an area not less than a 30-foot radius of the
position or location of the roll-off container.
      (6)   SOLID WASTE. All materials other than “recyclable” as defined in
this section.
   (B)   Activities or conduct prohibited.
      (1)   It is hereby declared to be a violation of this section for any
person or persons to scavenge any recyclable materials from the roll-off
container or from the site of the roll-off container.
      (2)   It is hereby declared to be a violation of this section for any
person or persons to illegally dump in the roll-off container or on the site of
the roll-off container.
   (C)   Signs. A sign providing notice to all persons listing those categories
of recyclable materials which may be deposited and providing notice that
illegal dumping is prohibited, contrary to law, and subject to punishment as
provided in this chapter shall be prominently displayed at each site of each
roll-off container.
(Ord. 95-4813, passed 7-18-1995)
GARBAGE COLLECTORS
§ 52.20 PERMIT AND LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any collector to conduct his business in the city
unless permitted and licensed by the city.
(Ord. 86-4509, passed 6-17-1986; Am. Ord. 94-4766, passed 3-15-1994)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.21 COLLECTOR LICENSE FEE.
   A collector license shall be issued to any qualified applicant upon the
payment of the annual fee per §
35.01.
(Ord. 86-4509, passed 6-17-1986; Am. Ord. 94-4766, passed 3-15-1994; Am. Ord.
2009-5284, passed 12-15-2009)
§ 52.22 COLLECTION VEHICLES; CLASSIFICATION; FEES.
   (A)   Collection vehicles operated within the city upon city streets, alleys
and other public ways shall be classified and licensed per the following.
License fee amounts are per §
35.01. License fees shall be paid prior to the start of the license year, which
shall be from August 1 through July 31 of the following year.
      (1)   Class A: Completely enclosed, leak proof, garbage or refuse
vehicles with self compactors shall be classified and licensed as Class A
vehicles. Vehicles classified as Class A and licensed as Class A vehicles shall
be permitted to pick up garbage and refuse without segregation.
      (2)   Class B: All other collection vehicles not meeting the criteria as
set forth for Class A vehicles shall be classified and licensed as Class B
collection vehicles. Vehicles classified as Class B and licensed as Class B
vehicles shall be permitted to collect refuse and bulk waste only. Class B
collection vehicles are strictly prohibited from collecting garbage. Class B
vehicles must be covered with suitable covers when transporting refuse to
prevent refuse items from escaping the body of the vehicle.
   (B)   All collection vehicles shall be emptied at a properly licensed
landfill.
   (C)   All collection vehicles shall be properly cleaned, disinfected and
sanitized to prevent the attraction of insects and vermin.
   (D)   Each vehicle for which an annual fee is paid will be issued a sticker
indicating that the vehicle is licensed and the sticker must be placed on the
front windshield of the vehicle near the right lower corner in such a fashion
as to not obscure the vision of the operator of the vehicle.
   (E)   All license fees collected pursuant to this section shall normally be
used for the improvement and maintenance of alleys and streets.
(Ord. 86-4509, passed 6-17-1986; Am. Ord. 94-4766, passed 3-15-1994; Am. Ord.
98-4965, passed 11-17-1998; Am. Ord. 2009-5284, passed 12-15-2009)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.23 SPILLS TO BE PICKED UP.
   All collectors must pick up any spillage which occurs during their
collection operations at the time of the occurrence.
(Ord. 86-4509, passed 6-17-1986; Am. Ord. 94-4766, passed 3-15-1994)
Penalty, see § 52.99
ENFORCEMENT
§ 52.35 ENFORCEMENT OF RESTRICTIONS.
   In the event that any owner or occupant of real estate locate within the
corporate limits of the city shall violate §
52.08, then:
   (A)   A police officer, Building Inspector, or designated member of the Fire
Department shall serve a notice upon the alleged violator by certified mail or
personal service, demanding that the owner or occupant abate the violation by
removing the bulk waste within ten days of the date of the service of the
notice.
   (B)   In the event that the owner or occupant fails to abate the violation
as provided in division (A) of this section, the city may seek an order of the
County Circuit Court, in conjunction with an ordinance violation charge,
seeking court authority to enter the real estate upon which the bulk waste is
stored or deposited and effect removal thereof by city forces or by employing a
contractor for that purpose.
   (C)   In the event that the city forces or a contractor is employed for the
purpose of abating the violation as provided in divisions (A) and (B) of this
section, the cost of abating the ordinance violation shall be a lien upon the
premises with priority as provided in Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-20-13. An itemization
of the costs shall be forwarded by certified mail or by personal service to the
owner of the premises and recorded with the County Recorder of Deeds in the
manner provided by Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-20-13.
   (D)   Costs incurred by the city and which may become a part of the lien as
provided in division (C) of this section, and shall include labor costs,
equipment costs, and/or contractor's fees necessarily incurred for the removal
and disposal of the bulk waste.
   (E)   The owner or occupant may be charged with an ordinance violation
seeking an appropriate fine for each offense.
(4766, passed 3-15-1994; Am. Ord. 94-4766, passed 3-15-1994)
SITE APPROVAL OF NEW POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITIES
§ 52.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENCY. Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   BOARD. Illinois Pollution Control Board.
   POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITIES. Any waste storage site, sanitary landfill,
waste disposal site, waste transfer station, waste treatment/processing
facility or waste incinerator that accepts waste from or that serves an area
that exceeds or extends over the boundaries of incorporated City of Mattoon.
      (1)   A NEW POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITY is:
         (a)   A pollution control facility initially permitted for development
or construction after July 1, 1981; or
         (b)   The area of expansion beyond the boundary of a currently
permitted pollution control facility; or
         (c)   A permitted pollution control facility requesting approval to
store, dispose of, transfer or incinerate, for the first time, any special or
hazardous waste.
      (2)   The following are not regional pollution control facilities:
         (a)   Sites or facilities located within the boundary of a local
general purpose unit of government and intended to serve only that entity;
         (b)   Federally controlled waste storage sites regulated under 40 CFR,
Part 761.42;
         (c)   Sites or facilities used by any person conducting a waste
storage, waste treatment, waste disposal, waste transfer or waste incineration
operation, or a combination thereof for wastes generated by such person's own
activities, when such wastes are stored, treated, disposed of, transferred or
incinerated within the site or facility owned, controlled or operated by such
person, or when such wastes are transported within or between sites or
facilities owned, controlled or operated by such person;
         (d)   Sites or facilities at which the state is performing removal or
remedial action pursuant to hazardous wastes;
         (e)   Pollution control facilities as defined in the Central Midwest
Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Compact;
         (f)   Abandoned quarries used solely for the disposal of concrete,
earth materials, gravel, or aggregate debris resulting from road construction
activities conducted by a unit of government or construction activities due to
the construction and installation of underground pipes, lines, conduit or wires
off of the premises of a public utility company which are conducted by a public
utility; or
         (g)   Sites or facilities used by any person to specifically conduct a
landscape composting operation.
(Ord. 2001-5096, passed 12-21-2001)
§ 52.46 NOTICE OF INTENT TO MAKE APPLICATION.
   (A)   At least 14 days prior to filing an PCF application with City of
Mattoon, the applicant shall notify, in written form, either in person or by
registered mail (return receipt requested) the following:
      (1)   All owners of all property within the subject area not solely owned
by the applicant;
      (2)   All owners identified from the tax records of the Coles County
Clerk, of property within 250 feet in each direction of the lot line of the
subject property. In computing the 250 feet requirement, all feet occupied by
all public roads, streets; alleys and other public ways shall be excluded. In
no event shall this requirement exceed 400 feet, including public streets,
alleys and other public ways; and
      (3)   Members of the General Assembly from the legislative district in
which the proposed facility is located.
   (B)   At least 14 days prior to filing an application with the city, notice
shall be published in (two) newspapers of the largest general circulation in
the region. Such notice shall state:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The location of the proposed site;
      (3)   The nature and size of the development;
      (4)   The nature of the activity proposed;
      (5)   The probable life of the activity;
      (6)   The date when the request for site approval will be submitted to
the city; and
      (7)   A description of the right of persons to comment on such request.
(Ord. 2001-5096, passed 12-21-2001)
§ 52.47 APPLICATION FOR SITE LOCATION APPROVAL.
   (A)   The applicant shall file in the office of the City Clerk, 20 copies of
the following:
      (1)   The application (attached to Ordinance 2001-5096 as Exhibit "A" and
hereby incorporated by reference) and required attachments;
      (2)   Information and documentation (on the form attached to Ordinance
2001-5096 as Exhibit "B" and hereby incorporated by reference) which supports
the application based on criteria established in the ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, §
39.2;
      (3)   Copies of all documents submitted to the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency in connection with the applicant's application for Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency permits for siting approval, except trade
secrets as determined under ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, § 7.1.
   (B)   Upon receipt of any such request, the City Clerk shall date stamp the
same and immediately deliver the request to the Coles County Regional Planning
and Development Commission.
   (C)   No application for site approval shall be deemed to have been filed or
accepted for filing unless all of the required attachments have been included.
In order to determine that all attachments have been submitted, Coles County
Regional Planning and Development Commission staff shall review the request to
determine if the application is complete. The intent of this review is to
minimize delays that may be caused by an incomplete application. If complete,
the application will have been considered to have been filed as of the date it
was stamp dated by the City Clerk.
   (D)   (1)   Within 20 working days of receipt of the request, the Coles
County Regional Planning and Development Commission shall notify the applicant
and the City Clerk:
         (a)   That the application is complete and is accepted for filing; or,
         (b)   That the application is not complete, specifying the
deficiencies. Should the application be deemed incomplete, it is considered not
filed and is not subject to further action being taken.
      (2)   If the application is deemed complete, the City Clerk shall within
five working days of notice that the application is deemed complete to forward
one set of the request and all attachments to:
         (a)   City Council Members;
         (b)   City Legal Counsel;
         (c)   Street Department;
         (d)   Highway Department;
         (e)   Fire Department;
         (f)   Coles County Health Department;
         (g)   Coles County Regional Planning and Development Commission;
         (h)   Township Supervisor (proposed Township site);
         (i)   General Assembly Members from legislative districts affected.
   (E)   All such documents filed in the office of the City Clerk shall be
available for public inspection and may be copied upon payment of the actual
cost of reproduction.
   (F)   Any person may file written comments concerning the application with
the City Clerk. The City Council shall consider any comment received or
postmarked not later than 30 days after the date of the last public hearing.
   (G)   The City Clerk shall date stamp the written comment and immediately
forward one copy to each of the persons/agencies outlined in division (D) of
this section. The City Clerk will note the date of the postmark on the envelope
in receiving the copy.
(Ord. 2001-5096, passed 12-21-2001)
§ 52.48 PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   At least one public hearing shall be held by the City Council no
sooner than 90 days but no later than 120 days from receipt of the application
for site approval.
   (B)   Within 60 days of receipt of the application, the City Manager shall
notify the applicant, in writing, of the scheduled public hearing date.
   (C)   The applicant shall be responsible for publishing notice of the public
hearing in two newspapers of the largest general circulation in the city. The
applicant shall also notify by certified mail all members of the General
Assembly from the district in which the proposed site is located, and the
agency.
   (D)   The public hearing shall develop a record sufficient to form the basis
of appeal of the decision in accordance with ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, § 40.1.
   (E)   The City Manager shall appoint an independent hearing officer to
preside over and conduct the public hearing. The City Manager may request that
the City Legal Counsel, the Coles County Regional Planning and Development
Commission and the County Health Department be present at the hearing to assist
the hearing officers.
   (F)   The hearing officer, based upon the application, written comments,
transcript of the public hearing and other pertinent documents, shall determine
compliance or noncompliance with the review criteria and make recommendations
on site approval to the City Manager no sooner than 30 days after the last
public hearing but no later than 60 days after the last public hearing.
   (G)   Any time prior to completion by the applicant of the presentation of
the applicant is factual evidence and an opportunity for cross-questioning by
the City Council representatives and any participants, the applicant may file
not more than one amended application upon payment of additional fees pursuant
to §
52.50 in an additional period of 90 days.
(Ord. 2001-5096, passed 12-21-2001; Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 52.49 CITY COUNCIL APPROVAL.
   (A)   No sooner than 30 days after the last public hearing; but no later
than 180 days from the receipt of the application for site approval, the City
Manager shall approve or deny the application for a new pollution control
facility site.
   (B)   After reviewing the recommendation of the hearing officer, the City
Manager shall base its decision on the application for a new pollution control
facility in accordance with ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, § 39.2(a), as follows:
      (1)   The facility is necessary to accommodate the waste needs of the
area it is intended to serve;
      (2)   The facility is so designed, located and proposed to be operated
that the public health, safety and welfare will be protected;
      (3)   The facility is located so as to minimize incompatibility with the
character of the surrounding area and to minimize the effect on the value of
the surrounding property;
      (4)   The facility is located outside the boundary of the 100-year flood
plain or the site is flood-proofed;
      (5)   The plan of operations for the facility is designed to minimize the
danger to the surrounding area from fire, spills, or other operational
accidents;
      (6)   The traffic patterns to or from the facility are so designed as to
minimize the impact on existing traffic flows;
      (7)   If the facility will be treating, storing or disposing of hazardous
waste, an emergency response plan exists for the facility, which includes
notification, containment and evacuation procedures to be used in case of an
accidental release;
      (8)   If the facility is to be located in a county where the County Board
has adopted a solid waste management plan, the facility is consistent with that
plan; and
      (9)   If the facility will be located within a regulated recharge area,
any applicable requirements specified by the City Manager or City Council for
such areas have been met;
      (10)   The City Manager may also consider as evidence the previous
operating experience and the past records of convictions or admissions of
violations of the applicant (and any subsidiary or parent corporation) of any
state and/or federal Pollution Control Facilities (PCF) laws, policies, and
regulations.
   (C)   A statement of the decision, reasons for the decision based on the
criteria, and conditions imposed by the City Manager or the City Council shall
be made in writing. The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and the
applicant shall be notified by registered mail of the decision.
   (D)   The City Manager’s written decision and any imposed conditions shall
be made available for public inspection at the office of the City Clerk and may
be copied upon payment of the actual cost of reproduction.
   (E)   If there is no final action by the City Manager within 180 days of the
filing of the application for site approval, the applicant may deem the request
approved.
(Ord. 2001-5096, passed 12-21-2001; Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 52.50 APPLICATION FEES.
   (A)   No new pollution control facility site application shall be accepted
until the following filing fees are paid:
      (1)   Sanitary landfill, refuse derived fuel facilities and/or
incinerators - $200,000;
      (2)   Mixed waste processing facilities - $75,000; and
      (3)   Waste transfer stations - $50,000. All application fees shall be
made payable to the City of Mattoon and shall be paid to the City Treasurer's
Office.
   (B)   The applicant shall be responsible for any costs that may be incurred
above the application fee during the application process. The additional costs
incurred during the application process exceeding the application fee shall be
submitted by the applicant for payment as they are incurred. Further, for any
projected costs above the application fee, the city has the right to request
payment for any projected cost above the fee; the costs to be paid by the
applicant within 30 days of the request by the city.
   (C)   The fees collected hereunder shall be used only to defray the costs
incurred by the city in connection with site approval applications, which may
include professional consultants hired to provide technical assistance. Any
remainder after final resolution shall be refunded to the applicant.
(Ord. 2001-5096, passed 12-21-2001)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any section of this chapter.
Any violation of this chapter shall be deemed a petty offense and the general
penalty of §
10.99 shall apply upon conviction. Each day of violation shall be deemed a
separate offense.
(Ord. 86-4509, passed 6-17-1986; Am. Ord. 94-4766, passed 3-15-1994; Am. Ord.
95-4813, passed 7-18-1995; Am. Ord. 2009-5281, passed 9-15-2009)
CHAPTER 53: CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Compliance with Illinois Plumbing Code
   
53.02   Connection of private, auxiliary or emergency water supply
   
53.03   Surveys and investigations
   
53.04   Right of entry of officials
   
53.05   Discontinuance of water service for violation
   
53.06   Cost of clean-up to be borne by owner
Water Department Rules and Regulations Concerning Cross-Connection
   
53.20   Cross-connection general policy
   
53.21   Definitions
   
53.22   Water system
   
53.23   Cross-connection prohibited
   
53.24   Survey and investigations; responsibilities of water consumer
   
53.25   Where protection required
   
53.26   Type of protection required
   
53.27   Backflow prevention devices
   
53.28   Inspection and maintenance
   
53.29   Booster pumps
   
53.30   Violations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 COMPLIANCE WITH ILLINOIS PLUMBING CODE.
   All plumbing installed and connected to the city water system, shall be
installed in accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 890.
If in accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code or in the judgment of the
Superintendent of Water, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary
for the safety of the public water supply system, the Superintendent of Water
will give notice to the water customer to install such an approved device
immediately. The water customer shall, at his or her own expense, install such
an approved device at a location and in a manner in accordance with the
Illinois Plumbing Code, Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and all
applicable local regulations, and shall have inspections and tests made of such
approved devices upon installation and as required by the Illinois Plumbing
Code, Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and local regulations.
(Ord. 97-4883, passed 3-18-1997)
§ 53.02 CONNECTION OF PRIVATE, AUXILIARY OR EMERGENCY WATER SUPPLY.
   No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be established
or maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a private,
auxiliary or emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply
of the city may enter the supply or distribution system of the municipality,
unless such private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the method of
connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the
Superintendent of Water and the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
(Ord. 97-4883, passed 3-18-1997)
§ 53.03 SURVEYS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of Water to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of commercial industrial and other properties served
by the public water supply to determine whether actual or potential hazards to
the public water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be
made a matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every two years,
or as often as the Superintendent of Water shall deem necessary. Records of
such surveys shall be maintained and available for review for a period of at
least five years.
(Ord. 97-4883, passed 3-18-1997)
§ 53.04 RIGHT OF ENTRY OF OFFICIALS.
   That the approved cross-connection control device inspector shall have the
right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to
the public water supply or distribution system of the city water system for the
purpose of verifying the presence or absence of cross-connections, and that the
Water Superintendent or his or her authorized agent shall have the right to
enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public
water supply or distribution system of the city water system for the purpose of
verifying information submitted by the customer regarding the required cross-
connection control inspection. On demand the owner, lessees or occupants of any
property so served shall furnish to the Superintendent of Water any information
which he or she may request regarding the piping system or systems or water use
on such property. The refusal of such information, when demanded, shall, within
the discretion of the Superintendent of Water, be deemed evidence of the
presence of improper connections as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 97-4883, passed 3-18-1997)
§ 53.05 DISCONTINUANCE OF WATER SERVICE FOR VIOLATION.
   The Superintendent of Water of the city water system is hereby authorized
and directed to discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof,
the water service to any property wherein any connection in violation of the
provisions of this chapter is known to exist, and to take such other
precautionary measures as he or she may deem necessary to eliminate any danger
of contamination of the public water supply distribution mains. Water service
to such property shall not be restored until such conditions have been
eliminated or corrected in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, and
until a reconnection fee of $ 25 is paid to the Water Department. Immediate
disconnection with verbal notice can be effected when the Superintendent of
Water is assured that imminent danger of harmful contamination of the public
water supply system exists. Such action shall be followed by written
notification of the cause of disconnection. Immediate disconnection without
notice to any party can be effected to prevent actual or anticipated
contamination or pollution of the public water supply, provided that, in the
reasonable opinion of the Superintendent of Water or the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency, such action is required to prevent actual or potential
contamination or pollution of the public water supply. Neither the public water
supply, the Superintendent of Water, or its agents or assigns shall be liable
to any customer for any injury, damages or lost revenues which may result from
termination of the customer’s water supply in accordance with the terms of this
chapter, whether or not the termination was with or without notice.
(Ord. 97-4883, passed 3-18-1997)
§ 53.06 COST OF CLEAN-UP TO BE BORNE BY OWNER.
   The consumer responsible for back siphoned or back pressured material or
contamination through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply
system occurs through an illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed,
maintained or repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear
the cost of clean-up of the potable water supply system.
(Ord. 97-4883, passed 3-18-1997)
WATER DEPARTMENT RULES AND REGULATIONS CONCERNING CROSS-CONNECTION
§ 53.20 CROSS-CONNECTION GENERAL POLICY.
   The following rules and regulations are hereby adopted for the Water
Department.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of these rules and regulations is:
      (1)   To protect the public water supply system from contamination or
pollution by isolating within the customer's water system contaminants or
pollutants which could backflow through the service connection into the public
water supply system.
      (2)   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross-
connections, actual or potential, between the public or consumer's potable
water system and nonpotable water systems, plumbing fixtures and sources or
systems containing substances of unknown or questionable safety.
      (3)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will prevent the contamination or pollution of the
public and consumer's potable water systems.
   (B)   Application. These rules and regulations shall apply to all premises
served by the public potable water supply system of the city.
   (C)   Policy. The owner or official custodian shall be responsible for
protection of the public water supply system from contamination due to backflow
or back-siphonage of contaminants through the customer's water service
connection. If, in the judgment of the Superintendent of Water or his or her
authorized representative, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary
for the safety of the public water supply system, the Superintendent of Water
shall give notice to the consumer to install such approved backflow prevention
device at each service connection to the premises. The consumer shall
immediately install such approved device or devices at his or her own expense
failure, refusal or inability on the part of the consumer to install such
device or devices immediately shall constitute grounds for discontinuing water
service to the premises until such device or devices have been installed. The
consumer shall retain records of installation, maintenance, testing and repair
as required in §
53.24(D)(4) below for a period of at least five years. The Superintendent of
Water may require the consumer to submit a cross-connection inspection report
to the Water Department to assist in determining whether or not service line
protection will be required. All cross-connection inspections shall be
conducted by a Cross-Connection Control Device Inspector certified by the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
(Ord. 97-4883, passed 3-18-1997)
§ 53.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENCY. Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   APPROVED. Backflow prevention devices or methods approved by the Research
Foundation for Cross-Connection Control of the University of Southern
California, Association of State Sanitary Engineers, American Water Works
Association, American National Standards Institute or certified by the National
Sanitation Foundation.
   AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM. Any water source or system on or available to the
premises other than the public water supply system and includes the water
supplied by the system. These auxiliary waters may include water from another
purveyor's public water supply system or water from a source such as wells,
lakes, or streams, or process fluids or used water. These waters may be
polluted or contaminated or objectionable or constitute a water source or
system over which the water purveyor does not have control.
   BACKFLOW. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances into
the distribution pipes of a potable water system from any source other than the
intended source of the potable water supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. Any device, method, or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system. All devices used for
backflow prevention in Illinois must meet the standards of the Illinois
Plumbing Code and the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   CONSUMER or CUSTOMER. The owner, official custodian or person in control of
any premises supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water system.
   CONSUMER'S WATER SYSTEM. Any water system located on the customer's
premises. A building plumbing system is considered to be a customer's water
system.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water by entrance of any
substance to a degree which could create a health hazard.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and the
other a substance of unknown or questionable safety or quality, whereby there
may be a flow from one system into the other.
      (1)   DIRECT CROSS-CONNECTION. A cross-connection formed when a water
system is physically joined to a source of unknown or unsafe substance.
      (2)   INDIRECT CROSS-CONNECTION. A cross-connection through which an
unknown substance can be forced, drawn by vacuum or otherwise introduced into a
safe potable water system.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of single, independently
acting check valves approved under AS SE Standard 1015. A double check valve
assembly must include tight shutoff valves located at each end of the assembly
and suitable connections for testing the water-tightness of each check valve.
   FIXED PROPER AIR GAP. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the water discharge point and the flood level rim of the
receptacle.
   HEALTH HAZARD. Any condition, device or practice in a water system or its
operation resulting from a real or potential danger to the health and well-
being of consumers. The word “severe” as used to qualify “health hazard,” means
a hazard to the health of the user that could be expected to result in death or
significant reduction in the quality of life.
   INSPECTION. A plumbing inspection to examine carefully and critically all
materials, flutters, plopping and appurtenances, appliances and installations
of a plumbing system for compliance with requirements of the Illinois Pluming
Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 890.
   NON POTABLE WATER. Water not safe for drinking, personal, or culinary use as
determined by the requirements of 35 Ill. Adm. Code 604.
   PLUMBING. The acute installation, repair, maintenance, alteration or
extension of a plumbing system by any person. Plumbing includes all pulping,
flutters, appurtenances and appliances for a supply of water for all purposes,
including without limitation lawn sprinkler systems, from the source of a
private water supply on the premises or from the maintain the street, alley or
at the curb to within and about any building or buildings where a person or
persons live, work or assemble. Plumbing includes all pulping, from discharge
of pumping units to and including pressure tanks in water supply systems.
Plumbing includes all piping, fixtures, appurtenances, and appliances for a
building drain and a sanitary drainage and related ventilation system of any
building or buildings where a person or persons live, work or assemble from the
point of connection of such building drain to the building sewer or private
sewage disposal system five feet beyond the foundation walls.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological, or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as
to constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
   POTABLE WATER. Water which meets the requirements of 35 Ill. Adm. Code 604
for drinking, culinary, and domestic purposes.
   POTENTIAL CROSS-CONNECTION. A fixture or appurtenance with threaded hose
connection, tapered spout, or other connection which would facilitate extension
of the water supply line beyond its leggy termination point.
   PROCESS FLUIDS. Any fluid or solution which may be chemically, biologically
or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration such as would
constitute a health, polytonal, or system hazard if introduced into the public
or a consumer's potable water system. This includes but is not limited to:
      (1)   Polluted or contaminated waters;
      (2)   Process waters;
      (3)   Used waters originating from the public water supply system which
may have deteriorated in sanitary quality;
      (4)   Cooling waters;
      (5)   Questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells,
lakes, streams, or irrigation systems;
      (6)   Chemicals in solution or suspension;
      (7)   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis and other liquid and gaseous fluids
used in industrial or other processes, or for fire fighting purposes;
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. All mains, pipes and structures through which water is
obtained and distributed to the public, including wells and well structures,
intakes and cribs, pumping stations, treatment plants, reservoirs, storage
tanks and appurtenances, collectively or severally, actually used or intended
for use for the purpose of furnishing water for drinking or general domestic
use and which serve at least 15 service connections or which regularly serve at
least 25 persons at least 60 days per year. A public water supply is either a
community water supply or a non-community water supply.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. A device containing a
minimum of two independently acting check valves together with an automatically
operated pressure differential relief valve located between the two check
valves and approved under AS SE Standard 1013. During normal flow and at the
cessation of normal flow, the pressure between these two checks shall be less
than the supply pressure. In case of leakage of either check valve, the
differential relief valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall operate to
maintain the pressure between the check valves at less than the supply
pressure. The unfit must include tightly closing shutoff valves located at each
end of the device, and each device shall be fitted with properly located test
cocks.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The opening, including all fittings and appurtenances,
at the water main through which water is supplied to the user.
   SURVEY. The collection of information pertaining to a customer's piping
system regarding the location of all connection to the public water supply
system and must include the location, type and most recent inspection and
testing date of all cross-connection control devices and methods located within
that customer's piping system. The survey must be in written form, and should
not be an actual plumbing inspection.
   SYSTEM HAZARD. A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable or
degrading material not dangerous to health may enter the public water supply
system or a consumer's potable water system.
   USED WATER. Any water supplied by a public water supply system to a
consumers water system after it has passed through the service connection and
is no longer under the control of the water supply official custodian.
   WATER PURVEYOR. The owner or official custodian of a public water system.
(Ord. 97-4883, passed 3-18-1997)
§ 53.22 WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   The water system shall be considered as made up of two parts: the
public water supply system and the consumer's water system.
   (B)   The public water supply system shall consist of the source facilities
and the distribution system, and shall include all those facilities of the
potable water system under the control of the Superintendent of Water up to the
point where the consumer's water system begins.
   (C)   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized in
the production, treatment, storage, and delivery of water to the public water
supply distribution system.
   (D)   The public water supply distribution system shall include the network
of conduits used to deliver water from the source to the consumer's water
system.
   (E)   The consumer's water system shall include all parts of the facilities
beyond the service connection used to convey water from the public water supply
distribution system to points of use.
(Ord. 97-4883, passed 3-18-1997)
§ 53.23 CROSS-CONNECTION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Connection between potable water systems and other systems or
equipment containing water or other substances of unknown or questionable
quality are prohibited except when and where approved cross-connection control
devices or methods are installed, tested and maintained to insure proper
operation on a continuing basis.
   (B)   (1)   No physical connection shall be permitted between the potable
portion of a supply and any other water supply not of equal or better
bacteriological and chemical quality as determined by inspection and analysis
by the Agency.
      (2)   There shall be no arrangement or connection by which an unsafe
substance may enter a supply.
(Ord. 97-4883, passed 3-18-1997)
§ 53.24 SURVEYS AND INVESTIGATIONS; RESPONSIBILITIES OF WATER CONSUMER.
   (A)   The consumer's premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
approved cross-connection control device inspector for the inspection of the
presence or absence of cross-connection within the consumer's premises, and
testing, repair and maintenance of cross-connection control devices within the
consumer's premises.
   (B)   On request by the Superintendent of Water, or his or her authorized
representative, the consumer shall furnish information regarding the piping
system or systems or water use within the customer's premises. The consumer's
premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the Superintendent of Water
for the verification of information submitted by the inspection consumer to the
public water supply custodian regarding cross-connection inspection results.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to arrange
periodic surveys of water use practices on his or her premises to determine
whether there are actual or potential cross-connections to his or her water
system through which contaminants or pollutants could backflow into his or her
or the public potable water system. All cross-connection control or other
plumbing inspections must be conducted in accordance with ILCS Ch. 225, Act
320, § 3.
   (D)   It is the responsibility of the water consumer to prevent backflow
into the public water system by ensuring that:
      (1)   All cross-connections are removed or approved cross-connection
control devices are installed for control of backflow and back-siphonage.
      (2)   Cross-connection control devices shall be installed in accordance
with the manufacturer's instructions.
      (3)   Cross-connection control devices shall be inspected at the time of
installation and at least annually by a person approved by the Agency as a
cross-connection control device inspector (CCCDI). The inspection of mechanical
devices shall include physical testing in accordance with the manufacturer's
instructions.
      (4)   Testing and records.
         (a)   Each device shall be tested at the time of installation and at
least annually or more frequently if recommended by the manufacturer.
         (b)   Records submitted to the community public water supply shall be
available for inspection by agency personnel in accordance with ILCS Ch. 415,
Act 5, § 4.
         (c)   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most
recent test, name of CCCDI, and type and date of repairs.
         (d)   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
            1.   Date of each test;
            2.   Name and approval number of person performing the test;
            3.   Test results;
            4.   Repairs or servicing required;
            5.   Repairs and date completed, and
            6.   Serving performed and dated completed.
(Ord. 97-4883, passed 3-18-1997)
§ 53.25 WHERE PROTECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code
890 and the agency's regulations 35 Ill. Adm. Code 680. In addition, an
approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each service line to
a consumer's water system serving premises, where in the judgement of the
Superintendent of Water, actual or potential hazards to the public water supply
system exist.
   (B)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer's water system serving premises where the following
conditions exist:
      (1)   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless such auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source by the Superintendent of Water and
the source is approved by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
      (2)   Premises on which any substance is handled which can create an
actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system. This shall
include premises having sources or systems containing process fluids or waters
originating from the public water supply system which are no longer under the
sanitary control of the Superintendent of Water.
      (3)   Premise having internal cross-connections that, in the judgement of
the Superintendent of Water and/or the Cross-Connection Control Device
Inspector, are not correctable or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it
impractical to determine whether or not cross-connections exist.
      (4)   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibition or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a complete
cross-connection survey.
      (5)   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or re-established.
   (C)   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code
890 and. the Agency's regulations 35 Ill. Adm. Code 653. In addition, an
approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each service line to
a consumer's water system serving, but not necessarily limited to, the
following types of facilities unless the Superintendent of Water determines
that no actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system exists:
      (1)   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics, nursing homes;
      (2)   Laboratories;
      (3)   Piers, docks, waterfront facilities;
      (4)   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping station or storm water
pumping stations;
      (5)   Food or beverage processing plants;
      (6)   Chemical plants;
      (7)   Metal plating industries;
      (8)   Petroleum precessing or storage plants;
      (9)   Radioactive material precessing plants or nuclear reactors;
      (10)   Car washes;
      (11)   Pesticide, or herbicide or extermination plants and trucks;
      (12)   Farm service and fertilizer plants and trucks.
(Ord. 97-4883, passed 3-18-1997)
§ 53.26 TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The type of protection required under §
53.25(B)(l), (B)(2) and (B)(3) of these regulations shall depend on the degree
of hazard which exists as follows:
      (1)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation shall be installed
where the public water supply system may be contaminated with substances that
could cause a severe health hazard.
      (2)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly shall be installed where the
public water supply system may be contaminated with a substance that could
cause a system or health hazard.
      (3)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly or a double check valve
assembly shall be installed where the public water supply system may be
polluted with substances that could cause a pollution hazard not dangerous to
health.
   (B)   The type of protection required under §
53.25(B)(4) and (B)(5) of these regulations shall be an approved fixed proper
air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention device.
   (C)   Where a public water supply or an auxiliary water supply is used for a
fire protection system, reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall be
installed on fire safety systems connected to the public water supply when:
      (1)   The fire safety system contains antifreeze, fire retardant or other
chemicals;
      (2)   Water is pumped into the system from another source;
      (3)   Water flows by gravity from a non-potable source or water can be
pumped into the fire safety system from any other source; or
      (4)   There is a connection whereby another source can be introduced into
to the fire safety system.
   (D)   All other fire safety systems connected to the potable water supply
shall be protected by a double check valve assembly on metered service lines
and a double detector check valve assembly on unmetered service lines.
(Ord. 97-4883, passed 3-18-1997)
§ 53.27 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   (A)   All backflow prevention devices or methods required by these rules and
regulations shall be approved by the Research Foundation for Cross-Connection
Control of the University of Southern California, American Water Works
Association, American Society of Sanitary Engineering, or American National
Standards Institute or certified by the National Sanitation Foundation to be in
compliance with applicable industry specification.
   (B)   Installation of approved devices shall be made in accordance with the
manufacturer's instructions. Maintenance as recommended by the manufacturer of
the device shall be performed. Manufacturer's maintenance manual shall be
available on-site.
(Ord. 97-4883, passed 3-18-1997)
§ 53.28 INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on which backflow
prevention devices required by these regulations are installed to have
inspection, tests, maintenance and repair made in accordance with the following
schedule or more often where inspections indicate a need or are specified in
manufacturer's instructions.
      (1)   Fixed proper air gap separation shall be inspected to document that
a proper vertical distance is maintained between the discharge point of the
service line and the flood level rim of the receptacle at the time of
installation and at least annually thereafter. Corrections to improper or by
passed air gaps shall be made within 24 hours.
      (2)   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested at time
of installation and at least annually thereafter, and required service
performed within five days.
      (3)   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies shall be
tested at the time of installation and at least annually or more frequently if
recommended by the manufacturer, and required service performed within five
days.
   (B)   Testing shall be performed by a person who has been approved by the
agency as competent to service the device. Proof of approval shall be in
writing.
   (C)   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most recent
test or visual inspection, name of tester, and type and date of repairs.
   (D)   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
      (1)   Date of each test or visual inspection;
      (2)   Name and approval number of person performing the test or visual
inspection;
      (3)   Test results;
      (4)   Repairs or servicing required;
      (5)   Repairs and date completed; and
      (6)   Servicing performed and date completed.
   (E)   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by these regulations are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the
consumer without delay as required by division (A) above of this section.
   (F)   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the
Superintendent of Water.
(Ord. 97-4883, passed 3-18-1997)
§ 53.29 BOOSTER PUMPS.
   (A)   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, such pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cut-off
device designed to shut-off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to 20 psi or less.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the water consumer to maintain the low
pressure cut-off device in proper working order and to certify to the
Superintendent of Water, at least once a year, that the device is operable.
(Ord. 97-4883, passed 3-18-1997)
§ 53.30 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The Superintendent of Water shall deny or discontinue, after
reasonable notice to the occupants thereof, the water service to any premises
wherein any backflow prevention device required by these regulations is not
installed, tested, maintained and repaired in a manner acceptable to the
Superintendent of Water, or if it is found that the backflow prevention device
has been removed or bypassed, or if an unprotected cross-connection exists on
the premises, or if a low pressure cut-off required by these regulations is not
installed and maintained in working order.
   (B)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance
with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of Water,
and the required reconnection fee is paid.
   (C)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects on conformance
with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of
Utilities/Operations.
   (D)   Neither the city water system, the Superintendent of Water, or its
agents or assigns shall be liable to any customers of the water system for any
injury, damages or lost revenues which may result from termination of the
customer’s water supply in accordance with the terms of this chapter, whether
or not said termination of the water supply was with or without notice.
   (E)   The consumer responsible for back-siphoned material or contamination
through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs
through an illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed, maintained or
repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of
clean-up of the potable water supply system.
   (F)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall
be served with written notice stating the notice of the violation and providing
a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender
shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all
violation.
   (G)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, in
addition to the fine provided, shall become liable to the city for any expense,
loss or damage occasioned by the city by reason of such violation, whether the
same was caused before or after notice.
(Ord. 97-4883, passed 3-18-1997)
CHAPTER 54: YARD WASTE FACILITY
Section
   
54.01   Definitions
   
54.02   Intended use of facility
   
54.03   Prohibited activities
   
54.04   Fees for residents
   
54.05   Fees for landscaping, mowing and private contractors
   
54.06   Site access and hours
 
   
54.99   Penalties
§ 54.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION DEBRIS. All materials generated from
residential, commercial, or industrial construction and/or demolition including
lumber.
   GENERAL CONTRACTOR. A contractor whether licensed or unlicensed that
typically engages in: residential, commercial, industrial, heavy/highway,
excavation, or utility construction and/or demolition.
   HOUSEHOLD WASTE. All forms of household waste, trash, garbage, litter, or
refuse including, but not limited to: fabric, food stuffs, glass, metal, paper,
plastic, and/or rubber.
   LANDSCAPING CONTRACTOR. A contractor whether licensed or unlicensed that
typically engages in planting and maintenance of landscaping areas such as
shrubs, flowers, and other ornamental plantings.
   LUMBER. Wood which has been cut into building materials and used in
household, commercial, or industrial construction.
   MOWING CONTRACTOR. Any company or individual whether licensed or unlicensed
hired to maintain grass lawns.
   PAPER YARD WASTE BAGS. Paper bags specifically designed and sold for the
collection, storage, transportation, and disposal of yard waste.
   PLASTIC BAGS. Plastic trash bags manufactured and sold for the storage and
disposal of household trash.
   PRIVATE CONTRACTOR. Any company or individual whether licensed or unlicensed
hired to transport or dispose of yard waste.
   ROOT BALLS. A mass of roots and soil resulting from the excavation of a
tree, tree stump, or shrub.
   TREE CONTRACTOR. A contractor whether licensed or unlicensed that
specializes in tree, limb, and stump removal.
   YARD WASTE. Leaves, limbs, grass clippings, and landscape waste.
   YARD WASTE FACILITY. The facility owned and operated by the city at 320
Shelby Avenue.
(Ord. 2017-5401, passed 12-19-2017)
§ 54.02 INTENDED USE OF FACILITY.
   The yard waste facility is intended to provide a site for disposal of yard
waste generated within the city limits of the city. The facility is open to
those individuals or companies owning residential, commercial, or industrial
property in the city limits of the city.
(Ord. 2017-5401, passed 12-19-2017)
§ 54.03 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Disposal of any material other than yard waste and paper yard waste
bags, including but not limited to: construction and demolition debris,
household waste, lumber, and plastic bags.
   (B)   Disposal of yard waste by general and tree contractor except when
disposing of their own yard waste from their real estate located in the city
limits of the city.
   (C)   Disposal of root balls in excess of 12 inches in diameter.
   (D)   Disposal of yard waste in excess of seven inches in length.
   (E)   Disposal of yard waste generated from real estate located outside the
city limits of the city.
   (F)   Disposal of yard waste by a private contractor without payment of the
fees established in §
54.05.
   (G)   Disposal of yard waste not in accordance with the regulations for site
access and hours established in §
54.06.
   (H)   Yard waste may not be disposed at the yard waste facility in equipment
borrowed from, or rented from, a general contractor or tree contractor.
(Ord. 2017-5401, passed 12-19-2017; Am. Ord. 2019-5421, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 54.04 FEES FOR RESIDENTS.
   There shall be no fee for owners and/or tenants of residential, commercial,
or industrial real estate located within the city limits of the city for the
disposal of yard waste generated from their real estate located within the city
limits of the city.
(Ord. 2017-5401, passed 12-19-2017)
§ 54.05 FEES FOR LANDSCAPING, MOWING AND PRIVATE CONTRACTORS.
   The fee structure for private contractors shall be as follows:
 
Yard Waste Facility Fees for Private Contractors
Annual pass                $650/year
Pick-up truck              $10/load
Single axle dumpbody truck $50/load
Tandem axle dumpbody truck $100/load
Semi trailer               $200/load
Trailers will be charged as the nearest conventional load size equivalent
listed above.
 
(Ord. 2017-5401, passed 12-19-2017)
§ 54.06 SITE ACCESS AND HOURS.
   (A)   Residents shall enter the site from the west gate located near the
intersection of Logan Street and Shelby Avenue. Disposal of yard waste for
residents shall be allowed from sunrise to sunset, seven days per week, or as
otherwise posted at the gate.
   (B)   Private contractors shall enter the site from the east gate at the
Public Works Building at 401 Dewitt Avenue East. All private contractors shall
check-in at the Public Works Building, pay the appropriate fees, and provide
documentation that the yard waste to be disposed of was generated within the
city limits of the city. The procedures for acceptance and verification of said
documentation shall be set by the Public Works Department. The procedures for
collection of fees and annual permits shall be set by the Public Works
Department, access for private contractors shall be limited to the normal
business hours of the Public Works Department. Said hours are currently 7:00
A.M. to 3:00 P.M., Monday through Friday, except for holidays observed by the
city.
(Ord. 2017-5401, passed 12-19-2017)
§ 54.99 PENALTIES.
   Penalties for violations of prohibited activities listed in §
54.03 shall be a fine not less than $50, not more than $750 for each offense in
accordance with §
10.99.
(Ord. 2017-5401, passed 12-19-2017)
CHAPTER 55: INDUSTRIAL PRETREATMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
55.001   Purpose and policy
   
55.002   Administration
   
55.003   Abbreviations
   
55.004   Definitions
General Sewer Use Requirements
   
55.010   Prohibited discharge standards
   
55.011   National categorical pretreatment standards
   
55.012   State of Illinois pretreatment standards
   
55.013   Local limits
   
55.014   City’s right of revision
   
55.015   Dilution
Pretreatment of Waste Water
   
55.020   Pretreatment facilities
   
55.021   Additional pretreatment measures
   
55.022   Accidental discharge/slug discharge control plans
   
55.023   Hauled waste water
Individual Waste Water Discharge Permits
   
55.030   Waste water analysis
   
55.031   Individual waste water discharge permit requirement
   
55.032   Individual waste water discharge permitting; existing connections
   
55.033   Individual waste water discharge permitting; new connections
   
55.034   Individual waste water discharge permit application contents
   
55.035   Reserved
   
55.036   Application signatories and certifications
   
55.037   Individual waste water discharge permit decisions
Individual Waste Water Discharge Permit Issuance
   
55.045   Individual waste water discharge permit duration
   
55.046   Individual waste water discharge permit contents
   
55.047   Reserved
   
55.048   Permit modification
   
55.049   Individual waste water discharge permit transfer
   
55.050   Individual waste water discharge permit revocation
   
55.051   Individual waste water discharge permit reissuance
   
55.052   Regulation of waste received from other jurisdictions
Reporting Requirements
   
55.060   Baseline monitoring reports
   
55.061   Compliance schedule progress reports
   
55.062   Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadline
   
55.063   Periodic compliance reports
   
55.064   Reports of changed conditions
   
55.065   Reports of potential problems
   
55.066   Reports from unpermitted users
   
55.067   Notice of violation/repeat sampling and reporting
   
55.068   Reserved
   
55.069   Analytical requirements
   
55.070   Sample collection
   
55.071   Date of receipt of reports
   
55.072   Recordkeeping
   
55.073   Certification statements
Compliance Monitoring
   
55.080   Right of entry; inspection and sampling
   
55.081   Search warrants
Confidential Information
   
55.090   Confidential information
Publication of Users in Significant Non- Compliance
   
55.100   Publication of users in significant non-compliance
Administrative Enforcement Remedies
   
55.110   Notification of violation
   
55.111   Consent orders
   
55.112   Show cause hearing
   
55.113   Compliance orders
   
55.114   Cease and desist orders
   
55.115   Administrative fines
   
55.116   Emergency suspensions
   
55.117   Termination of discharge
Judicial Enforcement Remedies
   
55.125   Injunctive relief
   
55.126   Reserved
   
55.127   Criminal prosecution
   
55.128   Remedies nonexclusive
Supplemental Enforcement Action
   
55.135   Reserved
   
55.136   Reserved
   
55.137   Reserved
   
55.138   Payment of outstanding fees and penalties
   
55.139   Water supply severance
Affirmative Defenses to Discharge Violations
   
55.145   Upset
   
55.146   Prohibited discharge standards
   
55.147   Bypass
   
55.148   Reserved
Miscellaneous Provisions
   
55.155   Reserved
   
55.156   Severability
Effective Date
   
55.160   Effective date
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 55.001 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for users of the publicly owned
treatment works for the City of Mattoon and enables the city to comply with all
applicable state and federal laws, including the Clean Water Act (33 United
States Code [U.S.C.] §§ 1251 et seq.) and the general pretreatment regulations
(Title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations [CFR] Part 403). The objectives of
this chapter are:
   (A)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works that will interfere with its operation;
   (B)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works that will pass through the publicly owned treatment works,
inadequately treated, into receiving waters, or otherwise be incompatible with
the publicly owned treatment works;
   (C)   To protect both publicly owned treatment works personnel who may be
affected by wastewater and sludge in the course of their employment and the
general public;
   (D)   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludge
from the publicly owned treatment works; and
   (E)   To enable the city to comply with its national pollutant discharge
elimination system permit conditions, sludge use and disposal requirements, and
any other federal or state laws to which the publicly owned treatment works is
subject.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.002 ADMINISTRATION.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, the Waste Water Treatment Plant
Superintendent shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this
chapter. Any powers granted to or duties imposed upon the Superintendent may be
delegated by the Superintendent to a duly authorized city employee.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.003 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations, when used in this chapter, shall have the
designated meanings:
      BOD - Biochemical Oxygen Demand.
      BMP - Best Management Practice.
      BMR - Baseline Monitoring Report.
      CFR - Code of Federal Regulations.
      CIU - Categorical Industrial User.
      COD - Chemical Oxygen Demand.
      EPA - U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
      gpd - gallons per day.
      IU - Industrial User.
      mg/l - milligrams per liter.
      NPDES - National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.
      NSCIU - Non-Significant Categorical Industrial User.
      O&M - Operation and Maintenance.
      POTW - Publicly Owned Treatment Works.
      RCRA - Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.
      SIU - Significant Industrial User.
      SNC - Significant Noncompliance.
      TRC - Total Residual Chlorine.
      TSS - Total Suspended Solids.
      U.S.C. - United States Code.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.004 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless a provision explicitly states otherwise, the following terms and
phrases, as used in this chapter, shall have the meanings hereinafter
designated.
   ACT or “THE ACT.” The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. Regional Administrator, USEPA Region 5 77 West Jackson
Boulevard, Chicago IL 60604-3590.
   AUTHORIZED or DULY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE USER.
      (1)   If the user is a corporation:
         (a)   The president, secretary, treasurer, or a vice president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision making functions for the corporation; or
         (b)   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or
operating facilities, provided the manager is authorized to make management
decisions that govern the operation of the regulated facility including having
the explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment
recommendations, and initiate and direct other comprehensive measures to assure
long term environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations; can
ensure that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather
complete and accurate information for individual wastewater discharge permit
requirements; and where authority to sign documents has been assigned or
delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate procedures.
      (2)   If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general
partner or proprietor, respectively.
      (3)   If the user is a federal, state, or local governmental facility: a
director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation
and performance of the activities of the government facility, or their
designee.
      (4)   The individuals described in divisions (1) through (3) above, may
designate a duly authorized representative if the authorization is in writing,
the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the
overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or having
overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and the
written authorization is submitted to the city.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
for five days at 20 degrees centigrade, usually expressed as a concentration
(e.g., mg/l).
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES or BMPs. Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices to implement
the prohibitions listed in Section 2.1 A and B [40 CFR 403.5(a)(1) and (b)].
BMPs include treatment requirements, operating procedures, and practices to
control plant site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal, or
drainage from raw materials storage.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Any regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in accordance with §§
307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. section 1317) that apply to a specific
category of users and that appear in 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts 405
471.
   CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL USER. An industrial user subject to a categorical
pretreatment standard or categorical standard.
   CITY. The City of Mattoon, Coles County, Illinois or the City Council of the
City of Mattoon, Coles County, Illinois.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or COD. A measure of the oxygen required to oxidize
all compounds, both organic and inorganic, in water.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. The City of Mattoon.
   DAILY MAXIMUM. The arithmetic average of all effluent samples for a
pollutant collected during a calendar day.
   DAILY MAXIMUM LIMIT. The maximum allowable discharge limit of a pollutant
during a calendar day. Where daily maximum limits are expressed in units of
mass, the daily discharge is the total mass discharged over the course of the
day. Where daily maximum limits are expressed in terms of a concentration, the
daily discharge is the arithmetic average measurement of the pollutant
concentration derived from all measurements taken that day.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency or, where appropriate, the Regional Water Management Division Director,
the Regional Administrator, or other duly authorized official of said agency.
   EXISTING SOURCE. Any source of discharge that is not a NEW SOURCE.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample that is taken from a waste stream without regard to
the flow in the waste stream and over a period of time not to exceed 15
minutes.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any waste in such concentrations to be classified as
"hazardous" under 40 CFR Part 261.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE. The introduction of pollutants into the
POTW from any nondomestic source.
   INSTANTANEOUS LIMIT. The maximum concentration of a pollutant allowed to be
discharged at any time, determined from the analysis of any discrete or
composited sample collected, independent of the industrial flow rate and the
duration of the sampling event.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge that, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment
processes or operations or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and
therefore, is a cause of a violation of the city's NPDES permit or of the
prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with any of the
following statutory/regulatory provisions or permits issued thereunder, or any
more stringent state or local regulations: § 405 of the Act; the Solid Waste
Disposal Act, including Title II commonly referred to as the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); any state regulations contained in any
state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the Solid Waste
Disposal Act; the Clean Air Act; the Toxic Substances Control Act; and the
Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act.
   LOCAL LIMIT. Specific discharge limits developed and enforced by the city
upon industrial or commercial facilities to implement the general and specific
discharge prohibitions listed in 40 CFR 403.5(a)(1) and (b).
   MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis
wastes.
   MONTHLY AVERAGE. The sum of all "daily discharges" measured during a
calendar month divided by the number of "daily discharges" measured during that
month.
   MONTHLY AVERAGE LIMIT. The highest allowable average of "daily discharges"
over a calendar month, calculated as the sum of all "daily discharges" measured
during a calendar month divided by the number of "daily discharges" measured
during that month.
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which there
is (or may be) a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under section 307(c)
of the Act that will be applicable to such source if such standards are
thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section, provided that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility, or installation is
constructed at a site at which no other source is located; or
         (b)   The building, structure, facility, or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
         (c)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility, or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
      (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the
criteria of divisions (1)(b) or (c) above but otherwise alters, replaces, or
adds to existing process or production equipment.
      (3)   Construction of a new source as defined under this division has
commenced if the owner or operator has:
         (a)   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous onsite
construction program:
            1.   Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
            2.   Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation, or removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which
is necessary for the placement, assembly, or installation of new source
facilities or equipment; or
         (b)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility,
engineering, and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation
under this definition.
   NONCONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling that does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product, or
finished product.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United
States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any
requirement of the city's NPDES permit, including an increase in the magnitude
or duration of a violation.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity, or any other legal entity; or their legal representatives, agents, or
assigns. This definition includes all federal, state, and local governmental
entities.
   pH.  A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution, expressed in
standard units.
   POLLUTANT. Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter backwash,
sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes,
biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded
equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, municipal, agricultural and industrial
wastes, and certain characteristics of wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS,
turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity, or odor).
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to, or in lieu of, introducing such pollutants into the POTW.
This reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical, or
biological processes; by process changes; or by other means, except by diluting
the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by an applicable
pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment imposed on a user, other than a pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS or STANDARDS. Pretreatment standards shall mean
prohibited discharge standards, categorical pretreatment standards, and local
limits.
   PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS or PROHIBITED DISCHARGES. Absolute
prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these prohibitions
appear in §
55.010.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS or POTW. A treatment works, as defined by
Section 212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. section 1292), which is owned by the city.
This definition includes any devices or systems used in the collection,
storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation of sewage or industrial wastes
of a liquid nature and any conveyances, which convey wastewater to a treatment
plant.
   SEPTIC TANK WASTE. Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, and septic tanks.
   SEWAGE. Human excrement and gray water (household showers, dishwashing
operations, etc.).
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SIU). Except as provided in divisions (3) and
(4) of this definition, a significant industrial user is:
      (1)   An industrial user subject to categorical pretreatment standards;
or
      (2)   An industrial user that:
         (a)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gpd or more of process
wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and boiler
blowdown wastewater);
         (b)   Contributes a process waste stream which makes up 5% or more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment
plant; or
         (c)   Is designated as such by the city on the basis that it has a
reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's operation or for
violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
      (3)   The city may determine that an industrial user subject to
categorical pretreatment standards is a non significant categorical industrial
user rather than a significant industrial user on a finding that the industrial
user never discharges more than 100 gallons per day (gpd) of total categorical
wastewater (excluding sanitary, non contact cooling and boiler blowdown
wastewater, unless specifically included in the pretreatment standard) and the
following conditions are met:
         (a)   The industrial user, prior to city's finding, has consistently
complied with all applicable categorical pretreatment standards and
requirements;
         (b)   The industrial user annually submits the certification statement
required in §
55.073(B), together with any additional information necessary to support the
certification statement; and
         (c)   The industrial user never discharges any untreated concentrated
wastewater.
      (4)   Upon a finding that a user meeting the criteria in division (2) of
this division has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's
operation or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement, the city
may at any time, on its own initiative or in response to a petition received
from an industrial user, and in accordance with procedures in 40 CFR 403.8(f)
(6), determine that such user should not be considered a significant industrial
user.
   SLUG LOAD or SLUG DISCHARGE. Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration,
which could cause a violation of the prohibited discharge standards in §
55.010. A slug discharge is any discharge of a non routine, episodic nature,
including but not limited to an accidental spill or a non customary batch
discharge, which has a reasonable potential to cause interference or pass
through, or in any other way violate the POTW's regulations, local limits or
permit conditions.
   STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation, including snowmelt.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The person designated by the city to supervise the operation
of the POTW, and who is charged with certain duties and responsibilities by
this chapter. The term also means a duly authorized representative of the
superintendent.
   TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS or SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that
floats on the surface of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater, or other
liquid, and that is removable by laboratory filtering.
   USER or INDUSTRIAL USER. A source of indirect discharge.
   WASTEWATER.  Liquid and water carried industrial wastes and sewage from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
facilities, and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are
contributed to the POTW.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or TREATMENT PLANT. That portion of the POTW
which is designed to provide treatment of municipal sewage and industrial
waste.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
GENERAL SEWER USE REQUIREMENTS
§ 55.010 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   (A)   General prohibitions. No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW any pollutant or wastewater which causes pass through
or interference. These general prohibitions apply to all users of the POTW
whether or not they are subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any
other national, state, or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions. No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW the following pollutants, substances, or wastewater:
      (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of
less than 140 degrees F (60 degrees C) using the test methods specified in 40
CFR 261.21.
      (2)   Wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or more than 12, or otherwise
causing corrosive structural damage to the POTW or equipment.
      (3)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction
of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference, but in no case solids
greater than three inch(es) or 75 centimeters in any dimension.
      (4)   Pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.),
released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause interference
with the POTW.
      (5)   Wastewater having a temperature greater than 140 degrees F (60
degrees C), or which will inhibit biological activity in the treatment plant
resulting in interference, but in no case wastewater which causes the
temperature at the introduction into the treatment plant to exceed 104 degrees
F (40 degrees C).
      (6)   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil, or products of
mineral oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through.
      (7)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors, or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems.
      (8)   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points designated
by the superintendent in accordance with §
55.023.
      (9)   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids, or other wastewater
which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to
create a public nuisance or a hazard to life, or to prevent entry into the
sewers for maintenance or repair.
      (10)   Wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts color to the treatment plant's
effluent, thereby violating the city's NPDES permit.
      (11)   Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes except in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
      (12)   Sludges, screenings, or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes.
      (13)   Medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the
superintendent in an individual wastewater discharge permit.
      (14)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant's effluent to fail toxicity test.
      (15)   Detergents, surface active agents, or other substances which might
cause excessive foaming in the POTW.
      (16)   Fats, oils, or greases of animal or vegetable origin in
concentrations greater than 100 mg/l.
      (17)   Wastewater causing two readings on an explosion hazard meter at
the point of discharge into the POTW, or at any point in the POTW, of more than
5% or any single reading over 10% of the lower explosive limit of the meter.
      (18)   Hazardous wastes as defined by 40 CFR Part 261.
   Pollutants, substances, or wastewater prohibited by this section shall not
be processed or stored in such a manner that they could be discharged to the
POTW.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.011 NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Users must comply with the Categorical Pretreatment Standards found at 40
CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts 405-471.
   (A)   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms
of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the
superintendent may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in accordance
with divisions (D) and (E).
   (B)   When the limits in a categorical pretreatment standard are expressed
only in terms of mass of pollutant per unit of production, the superintendent
may convert the limits to equivalent limitations expressed either as mass of
pollutant discharged per day or effluent concentration for purposes of
calculating effluent limitations applicable to individual industrial users.
   (C)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the superintendent
shall impose an alternate limit in accordance with 40 CFR 403.6(e).
   (D)   When a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms of
pollutant concentrations, an industrial user may request that the city convert
the limits to equivalent mass limits. The determination to convert
concentration limits to mass limits is within the discretion of the
superintendent. The city may establish equivalent mass limits only if the
industrial user meets all the conditions set forth in divisions (D)(1)(a)
through (D)(1)(e) of this section.
      (1)   To be eligible for equivalent mass limits, the industrial user
must:
         (a)   Employ, or demonstrate that it will employ, water conservation
methods and technologies that substantially reduce water use during the term of
its individual wastewater discharge permit;
         (b)   Currently use control and treatment technologies adequate to
achieve compliance with the applicable categorical pretreatment standard, and
not have used dilution as a substitute for treatment;
         (c)   Provide sufficient information to establish the facility's
actual average daily flow rate for all waste streams, based on data from a
continuous effluent flow monitoring device, as well as the facility's long-term
average production rate. Both the actual average daily flow rate and the long-
term average production rate must be representative of current operating
conditions;
         (d)   Not have daily flow rates, production levels, or pollutant
levels that vary so significantly that equivalent mass limits are not
appropriate to control the discharge; and
         (e)   Have consistently complied with all applicable categorical
pretreatment standards during the period prior to the industrial user's request
for equivalent mass limits.
      (2)   An industrial user subject to equivalent mass limits must:
         (a)   Maintain and effectively operate control and treatment
technologies adequate to achieve compliance with the equivalent mass limits;
         (b)   Continue to record the facility's flow rates through the use of
a continuous effluent flow monitoring device;
         (c)   Continue to record the facility's production rates and notify
the Superintendent whenever production rates are expected to vary by more than
20% from its baseline production rates determined in division (D)(1)(c) of this
section. Upon notification of a revised production rate, the Superintendent
will reassess the equivalent mass limit and revise the limit as necessary to
reflect changed conditions at the facility; and
         (d)   Continue to employ the same or comparable water conservation
methods and technologies as those implemented pursuant to division D(1)(a) of
this section so long as it discharges under an equivalent mass limit.
      (3)   When developing equivalent mass limits, the Superintendent:
         (a)   Will calculate the equivalent mass limit by multiplying the
actual average daily flow rate of the regulated process(es) of the industrial
user by the concentration-based daily maximum and monthly average standard for
the applicable categorical pretreatment standard and the appropriate unit
conversion factor;
         (b)   Upon notification of a revised production rate, will reassess
the equivalent mass limit and recalculate the limit as necessary to reflect
changed conditions at the facility; and
         (c)   May retain the same equivalent mass limit in subsequent
individual wastewater discharger permit terms if the industrial user's actual
average daily flow rate was reduced solely as a result of the implementation of
water conservation methods and technologies, and the actual average daily flow
rates used in the original calculation of the equivalent mass limit were not
based on the use of dilution as a substitute for treatment pursuant to §
55.015. The industrial user must also be in compliance with §
55.147 regarding the prohibition of bypass.
   (E)   The Superintendent may convert the mass limits of the categorical
pretreatment standards of 40 CFR Parts 414, 419, and 455 to concentration
limits for purposes of calculating limitations applicable to individual
industrial users. The conversion is at the discretion of the Superintendent.
   (F)   Once included in its permit, the industrial user must comply with the
equivalent limitations developed in this section in lieu of the promulgated
categorical standards from which the equivalent limitations were derived.
   (G)   Many categorical pretreatment standards specify one limit for
calculating maximum daily discharge limitations and a second limit for
calculating maximum monthly average, or four-day average, limitations. Where
such standards are being applied, the same production or flow figure shall be
used in calculating both the average and the maximum equivalent limitation.
   (H)   Any industrial user operating under a permit incorporating equivalent
mass or concentration limits calculated from a production-based standard shall
notify the Superintendent within two business days after the user has a
reasonable basis to know that the production level will significantly change
within the next calendar month. Any user not notifying the Superintendent of
such anticipated change will be required to meet the mass or concentration
limits in its permit that were based on the original estimate of the long term
average production rate.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.012 STATE OF ILLINOIS PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Users must comply with State of Illinois Pretreatment Standards codified in
Title 35 Illinois Administrative Code (IAC) Part 307, Sewer Discharge Criteria.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.013 LOCAL LIMITS.
   (A)   The Superintendent is authorized to establish local limits pursuant to
40 CFR 403.5(c).
   (B)   The following pollutant limits are established to protect against pass
through and interference. No person shall discharge wastewater containing in
excess of the following daily maximum limits:
      0.1      mg/l arsenic
      5.0      mg/l barium
      0.05      mg/l cadmium
      1.7      mg/l chromium
      1.2      mg/l copper
      0.15      mg/l cyanide
      15.0      mg/l fluoride
      10.0      mg/l iron
      1.5      mg/l lead
      1.0      mg/l manganese
      0.0005   mg/l mercury
      0.2      mg/l molybdenum
      1.47      mg/l nickel
      2.0      mg/l phenols
      1.0      mg/l selenium
      5.0      mg/l silver
      1.3      mg/l zinc
   The above limits apply at the point where the wastewater is discharged to
the POTW. All concentrations for metallic substances are for total metal unless
indicated otherwise.
   The Superintendent may impose mass limitations in addition to the
concentration based limitations above.
   (C)   The Superintendent may develop Best Management Practices (BMPs), by
ordinance or in individual wastewater discharge permits, to implement local
limits and the requirements of §
55.010.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.014 CITY’S RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The city reserves the right to establish, by ordinance or in individual
wastewater discharge permits, more stringent standards or requirements on
discharges to the POTW consistent with the purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.015 DILUTION.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water, or in any way attempt
to dilute a discharge, as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with a discharge limitation unless expressly
authorized by an applicable pretreatment standard or requirement. The
Superintendent may impose mass limitations on users who are using dilution to
meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements, or in other cases when
the imposition of mass limitations is appropriate.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
PRETREATMENT OF WASTE WATER
§ 55.020 PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Users shall provide wastewater treatment as necessary to comply with this
chapter and shall achieve compliance with all categorical pretreatment
standards, local limits, and the prohibitions set out in §
55.010 within the time limitations specified by EPA, or the Superintendent,
whichever is more stringent. Any facilities necessary for compliance shall be
provided, operated, and maintained at the user's expense. Detailed plans
describing such facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to the
Superintendent for review, and shall be acceptable to the Superintendent before
such facilities are constructed. The review of such plans and operating
procedures shall in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of
modifying such facilities as necessary to produce a discharge acceptable to the
city under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.021 ADDITIONAL PRETREATMENT MEASURES.
   (A)   Whenever deemed necessary, the Superintendent may require users to
restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain
wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate
points of discharge, separate sewage waste streams from industrial waste
streams, and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and
determine the user's compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The Superintendent may require any person discharging into the POTW to
install and maintain, on their property and at their expense, a suitable
storage and flow control facility to ensure equalization of flow. An individual
wastewater discharge permit may be issued solely for flow equalization.
   (C)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand; except that
such interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All interception
units shall be of a type and capacity approved by the Superintendent, and shall
be so located to be easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Such
interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned, and repaired by the user at their
expense.
   (D)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.022 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE/SLUG DISCHARGE CONTROL PLANS.
   The Superintendent shall evaluate whether each SIU needs an accidental
discharge/slug discharge control plan or other action to control slug
discharges. The Superintendent may require any user to develop, submit for
approval, and implement such a plan or take such other action that may be
necessary to control slug discharges. Alternatively, the Superintendent may
develop such a plan for any user. An accidental discharge/slug discharge
control plan shall address, at a minimum, the following:
   (A)   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges.
   (B)   Description of stored chemicals.
   (C)   Procedures for immediately notifying the Superintendent of any
accidental or slug discharge, as required by §
55.065.
   (D)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.023 HAULED WASTE WATER.
   (A)   Septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW only at locations
designated by the Superintendent, and at such times as are established by the
Superintendent. Such waste shall not violate §§
55.010 or
55.011 of this chapter or any other requirements established by the city. The
Superintendent may require septic tank waste haulers to obtain individual
wastewater discharge permits.
   (B)   The Superintendent may require haulers of industrial waste to obtain
individual wastewater discharge permits. The Superintendent may require
generators of hauled industrial waste to obtain individual wastewater discharge
permits. The Superintendent also may prohibit the disposal of hauled industrial
waste. The discharge of hauled industrial waste is subject to all other
requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Industrial waste haulers may discharge loads only at locations
designated by the Superintendent. No load may be discharged without prior
consent of the Superintendent. The Superintendent may collect samples of each
hauled load to ensure compliance with applicable standards. The Superintendent
may require the industrial waste hauler to provide a waste analysis of any load
prior to discharge.
   (D)   Industrial waste haulers must provide a waste tracking form for every
load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the
industrial waste hauler, permit number, truck identification, names and
addresses of sources of waste, and volume and characteristics of waste. The
form shall identify the type of industry, known or suspected waste
constituents, and whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous wastes.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
INDIVIDUAL WASTE WATER DISCHARGE PERMITS
§ 55.030 WASTE WATER ANALYSIS.
   When requested by the Superintendent, a user must submit information on the
nature and characteristics of its wastewater within 30 days of the request. The
Superintendent is authorized to prepare a form for this purpose and may
periodically require users to update this information.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.031 INDIVIDUAL WASTE WATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   No significant industrial user shall discharge wastewater into the
POTW without first obtaining an individual wastewater discharge permit from the
Superintendent, except that a significant industrial user that has filed a
timely application pursuant to §
55.032 of this chapter may continue to discharge for the time period specified
therein.
   (B)   The Superintendent may require other users to obtain individual
wastewater discharge permits as necessary to carry out the purposes of this
chapter.
   (C)   Any violation of the terms and conditions of an individual wastewater
discharge permit shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and subjects the
wastewater discharge permittee to the sanctions set out in §§
55.110 through
55.117. Obtaining an individual wastewater discharge permit does not relieve a
permittee of its obligation to comply with all federal and state pretreatment
standards or requirements or with any other requirements of federal, state, and
local law.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.032 INDIVIDUAL WASTE WATER DISCHARGE PERMITTING; EXISTING CONNECTIONS.
   Any user required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit who
was discharging wastewater into the POTW prior to the effective date of this
chapter and who wishes to continue such discharges in the future, shall, within
60 days after said date, apply to the Superintendent for an individual
wastewater discharge permit in accordance with §
55.034, and shall not cause or allow discharges to the POTW to continue after
90 days of the effective date of this chapter except in accordance with an
individual wastewater discharge permit issued by the Superintendent.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.033 INDIVIDUAL WASTE WATER DISCHARGE PERMITTING; NEW CONNECTIONS.
   Any user required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit who
proposes to begin or recommence discharging into the POTW must obtain such
permit prior to the beginning or recommencing of such discharge. An application
for this individual wastewater discharge permit, in accordance with §
55.034, must be filed at least 30 days prior to the date upon which any
discharge will begin or recommence.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.034 INDIVIDUAL WASTE WATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATION CONTENTS.
   (A)   All users required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit
must submit a permit application. The Superintendent may require users to
submit all or some of the following information as part of a permit
application:
      (1)   Identifying information.
         (a)   The name and address of the facility, including the name of the
operator and owner.
         (b)   Contact information, description of activities, facilities, and
plant production processes on the premises.
      (2)   Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control permits
held by or for the facility.
      (3)   Description of operations.
         (a)   A brief description of the nature, average rate of production
(including each product produced by type, amount, processes, and rate of
production), and standard industrial classifications of the operation(s)
carried out by such user. This description should include a schematic process
diagram, which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from the regulated
processes;
         (b)   Types of wastes generated, and a list of all raw materials and
chemicals used or stored at the facility which are, or could accidentally or
intentionally be, discharged to the POTW;
         (c)   Number and type of employees, hours of operation, and proposed
or actual hours of operation;
         (d)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day); and
         (e)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and
details to show all sewers, floor drains, and appurtenances by size, location,
and elevation, and all points of discharge.
      (4)   Time and duration of discharges.
      (5)   The location for monitoring all wastes covered by the permit.
      (6)   Flow measurement.  Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined waste
stream formula set out in §
55.011(C).
      (7)   Measurement of pollutants.
         (a)   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process and any new categorically regulated processes for existing
sources.
         (b)   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and
concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the
Superintendent, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated
process.
         (c)   Instantaneous, daily maximum, and long-term average
concentrations, or mass, where required, shall be reported.
         (d)   The sample shall be representative of daily operations and shall
be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in §
55.069. Where the standard requires compliance with a BMP or pollution
prevention alternative, the user shall submit documentation as required by the
Superintendent or the applicable standards to determine compliance with the
standard.
         (e)   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set out
in §
55.070.
      (8)   Any requests for a monitoring waiver (or a renewal of an approved
monitoring waiver) for a pollutant neither present nor expected to be present
in the discharge based on §
55.063(B).
      (9)   Any other information as may be deemed necessary by the
Superintendent to evaluate the permit application.
   (B)   Incomplete or inaccurate applications will not be processed and will
be returned to the user for revision.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.035 RESERVED.
§ 55.036 APPLICATION SIGNATORIES AND CERTIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All wastewater discharge permit applications, user reports and
certification statements must be signed by an authorized representative of the
user and contain the certification statement in §
55.073(A).
   (B)   If the designation of an authorized representative is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the
overall operation of the facility or overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company, a new written authorization satisfying the
requirements of this section must be submitted to the Superintendent prior to
or together with any reports to be signed by an authorized representative.
   (C)   A facility determined to be a non significant categorical industrial
user by the Superintendent pursuant to the definitions in §
55.004 must annually submit the signed certification statement in §
55.073(B).
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.037 INDIVIDUAL WASTE WATER DISCHARGE PERMIT DECISIONS.
   The Superintendent will evaluate the data furnished by the user and may
require additional information. Within 30 days of receipt of a complete permit
application, the Superintendent will determine whether to issue an individual
wastewater discharge permit. The superintendent may deny any application for an
individual wastewater discharge permit.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
INDIVIDUAL WASTE WATER DISCHARGE PERMIT ISSUANCE
§ 55.045 INDIVIDUAL WASTE WATER DISCHARGE PERMIT DURATION.
   An individual wastewater discharge permit shall be issued for a specified
time period, not to exceed five years from the effective date of the permit. An
individual wastewater discharge permit may be issued for a period less than
five years, at the discretion of the Superintendent. Each individual wastewater
discharge permit will indicate a specific date upon which it will expire.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.046 INDIVIDUAL WASTE WATER DISCHARGE PERMIT CONTENTS.
   An individual wastewater discharge permit shall include such conditions as
are deemed reasonably necessary by the Superintendent to prevent pass through
or interference, protect the quality of the water body receiving the treatment
plant's effluent, protect worker health and safety, facilitate sludge
management and disposal, and protect against damage to the POTW.
   (A)   Individual wastewater discharge permits must contain:
      (1)   A statement that indicates the wastewater discharge permit issuance
date, expiration date and effective date.
      (2)   A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is nontransferable
without prior notification to the city in accordance with §
55.049, and provisions for furnishing the new owner or operator with a copy of
the existing wastewater discharge permit.
      (3)   Effluent limits, including best management practices, based on
applicable pretreatment standards.
      (4)   Self monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification, and record-
keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification of
pollutants (or best management practice) to be monitored, sampling location,
sampling frequency, and sample type based on federal, state, and local law.
      (5)   The process for seeking a waiver from monitoring for a pollutant
neither present nor expected to be present in the discharge in accordance with
§
55.063(B).
      (6)    A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements, and any applicable
compliance schedule. Such schedule may not extend the time for compliance
beyond that required by applicable federal, state, or local law.
      (7)   Requirements to control slug discharge, if determined by the
Superintendent to be necessary.
      (8)   Any grant of the monitoring waiver by the Superintendent (§
55.063(B)) must be included as a condition in the user's permit.
   (B)   Individual wastewater discharge permits may contain, but need not be
limited to, the following conditions:
      (1)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge, and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      (2)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology,
pollution control, or construction of appropriate containment devices, designed
to reduce, eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the
treatment works;
      (3)   Requirements for the development and implementation of spill
control plans or other special conditions including management practices
necessary to adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated, or non-routine
discharges.
      (4)   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW.
      (5)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the POTW.
      (6)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment, including flow measurement devices.
      (7)   A statement that compliance with the individual wastewater
discharge permit does not relieve the permittee of responsibility for
compliance with all applicable federal and state pretreatment standards,
including those which become effective during the term of the individual
wastewater discharge permit.
      (8)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Superintendent to
ensure compliance with this chapter, and state and federal laws, rules, and
regulations.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.047 RESERVED.
§ 55.048 PERMIT MODIFICATION.
   (A)   The Superintendent may modify an individual wastewater discharge
permit for good cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
      (1)   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state, or local
pretreatment standards or requirements;
      (2)   To address significant alterations or additions to the user's
operation, processes, or wastewater volume or character since the time of the
individual wastewater discharge permit issuance;
      (3)   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
      (4)   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat
to the city's POTW, city personnel, or the receiving waters;
      (5)   Violation of any terms or conditions of the individual wastewater
discharge permit;
      (6)   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required reporting;
      (7)   Revision of or a grant of variance from categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to 40 CFR 403.13;
      (8)   To correct typographical or other errors in the individual
wastewater discharge permit; or
      (9)   To reflect a transfer of the facility ownership or operation to a
new owner or operator where requested in accordance with §
55.049.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.049 INDIVIDUAL WASTE WATER DISCHARGE PERMIT TRANSFER.
   Individual wastewater discharge permits may be transferred to a new owner or
operator only if the permittee gives at least 30 days advance notice to the
Superintendent and the Superintendent approves the individual wastewater
discharge permit transfer. The notice to the Superintendent must include a
written certification by the new owner or operator which:
   (A)   States that the new owner and/or operator has no immediate intent to
change the facility's operations and processes.
   (B)   Identifies the specific date on which the transfer is to occur.
   (C)   Acknowledges full responsibility for complying with the existing
individual wastewater discharge permit.
   Failure to provide advance notice of a transfer renders the individual
wastewater discharge permit void as of the date of facility transfer.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.050 INDIVIDUAL WASTE WATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REVOCATION.
   The Superintendent may revoke an individual wastewater discharge permit for
good cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
   (A)   Failure to notify the Superintendent of significant changes to the
wastewater prior to the changed discharge.
   (B)   Failure to provide prior notification to the Superintendent of changed
conditions pursuant to §
55.064.
   (C)   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts in
the wastewater discharge permit application.
   (D)   Falsifying self monitoring reports and certification statements.
   (E)   Tampering with monitoring equipment.
   (F)   Refusing to allow the Superintendent timely access to the facility
premises and records.
   (G)   Failure to meet effluent limitations.
   (H)   Failure to pay fines.
   (I)   Failure to pay sewer charges.
   (J)   Failure to meet compliance schedules.
   (K)   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the wastewater discharge
permit application.
   (L)   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of business
ownership of a permitted facility.
   (M)   Violation of any pretreatment standard or requirement, or any terms of
the wastewater discharge permit or this chapter.
   Individual wastewater discharge permits shall be voidable upon cessation of
operations or transfer of business ownership. All individual wastewater
discharge permits issued to a user are void upon the issuance of a new
individual wastewater discharge permit to that user.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.051 INDIVIDUAL WASTE WATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REISSUANCE.
   A user with an expiring individual wastewater discharge permit shall apply
for individual wastewater discharge permit reissuance by submitting a complete
permit application, in accordance with §
55.034, a minimum of 30 days prior to the expiration of the user's existing
individual wastewater discharge permit.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.052 REGULATION OF WASTE RECEIVED FROM OTHER JURISDICTIONS.
   (A)   If another municipality, or user located within another municipality,
contributes wastewater to the POTW, the Superintendent shall enter into an
inter-municipal agreement with the contributing municipality.
   (B)   Prior to entering into an agreement required by division (A) above,
the Superintendent shall request the following information from the
contributing municipality:
      (1)   A description of the quality and volume of wastewater discharged to
the POTW by the contributing municipality;
      (2)   An inventory of all users located within the contributing
municipality that are discharging to the POTW; and
      (3)   Such other information as the Superintendent may deem necessary.
   (C)   An inter-municipal agreement, as required by division (A) above, shall
contain the following conditions:
      (1)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to adopt a sewer
use ordinance which is at least as stringent as this chapter and local limits,
including required Baseline Monitoring Reports (BMRs) which are at least as
stringent as those set out in §
55.013. The requirement shall specify that such ordinance and limits must be
revised as necessary to reflect changes made to the city's ordinance or local
limits;
      (2)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to submit a revised
user inventory on at least an annual basis;
      (3)   A provision specifying which pretreatment implementation
activities, including individual wastewater discharge permit issuance,
inspection and sampling, and enforcement, will be conducted by the contributing
municipality; which of these activities will be conducted by the
Superintendent; and which of these activities will be conducted jointly by the
contributing municipality and the Superintendent;
      (4)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to provide the
Superintendent with access to all information that the contributing
municipality obtains as part of its pretreatment activities;
      (5)   Limits on the nature, quality, and volume of the contributing
municipality's wastewater at the point where it discharges to the POTW;
      (6)   Requirements for monitoring the contributing municipality's
discharge;
      (7)   A provision ensuring the Superintendent access to the facilities of
users located within the contributing municipality's jurisdictional boundaries
for the purpose of inspection, sampling, and any other duties deemed necessary
by the Superintendent; and
      (8)   A provision specifying remedies available for breach of the terms
of the inter-municipal agreement.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
§ 55.060 BASELINE MONITORING REPORTS.
   (A)   Within either 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on a category
determination under 40 CFR 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing
categorical industrial users currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge
to the POTW shall submit to the Superintendent a report which contains the
information listed in division (B) below. At least 90 days prior to
commencement of their discharge, new sources, and sources that become
categorical industrial users subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable
categorical standard, shall submit to the Superintendent a report which
contains the information listed in division (B) below. A new source shall
report the method of pretreatment it intends to use to meet applicable
categorical standards. A new source also shall give estimates of its
anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
   (B)   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below.
      (1)   All information required in §
55.034(A)(1)(a), §
55.034(A)(2), §
55.034(A)(3)(a), and §
55.034(A)(6).
      (2)   Measurement of pollutants.
         (a)   The user shall provide the information required in §
55.034(A)(7)(a) through (d).
         (b)   The user shall take a minimum of one representative sample to
compile that data necessary to comply with the requirements of this division.
         (c)   Samples should be taken immediately downstream from pretreatment
facilities if such exist or immediately downstream from the regulated process
if no pretreatment exists. If other wastewaters are mixed with the regulated
wastewater prior to pretreatment the user should measure the flows and
concentrations necessary to allow use of the combined waste stream formula in
40 CFR 403.6(e) to evaluate compliance with the pretreatment standards. Where
an alternate concentration or mass limit has been calculated in accordance with
40 CFR 403.6(e) this adjusted limit along with supporting data shall be
submitted to the control authority.
         (d)   Sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with §
55.069;
         (e)   The Superintendent may allow the submission of a baseline report
which utilizes only historical data so long as the data provides information
sufficient to determine the need for industrial pretreatment measures;
         (f)   The baseline report shall indicate the time, date and place of
sampling and methods of analysis, and shall certify that such sampling and
analysis is representative of normal work cycles and expected pollutant
discharges to the POTW.
      (3)   Compliance certification.  A statement, reviewed by the user's
authorized representative as defined in §
55.004 and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements.
      (4)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be
required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the
user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M must be provided. The
completion date in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date
established for the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule
pursuant to this section must meet the requirements set out in §
55.061.
   (C)   Signature and report certification. All baseline monitoring reports
must be certified in accordance with §
55.073(A) and signed by an authorized representative as defined in §
55.004.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.061 COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE PROGRESS REPORTS.
   The following conditions shall apply to the compliance schedule required by
§
55.060(B)(4):
   (A)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation);
   (B)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine months;
   (C)   The user shall submit a progress report to the Superintendent no later
than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the final date of
compliance including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule; and
   (D)   In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such progress
reports to the Superintendent.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.062 REPORTS ON COMPLIANCE WITH CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD DEADLINE.
   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the
Superintendent a report containing the information described in §
55.034(A)(6) and (7) and §
55.060(B)(2). For users subject to equivalent mass or concentration limits
established in accordance with the procedures in §
55.011, this report shall contain a reasonable measure of the user's long term
production rate. For all other users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of
production (or other measure of operation), this report shall include the
user's actual production during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance
reports must be signed and certified in accordance with §
55.073(A). All sampling will be done in conformance with §
55.070.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.063 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   All significant industrial users must, at a frequency determined by
the Superintendent, submit no less than twice per year (June and December)
reports indicating the nature, concentration of pollutants in the discharge
which are limited by pretreatment standards and the measured or estimated
average and maximum daily flows for the reporting period. In cases where the
pretreatment standard requires compliance with a Best Management Practice (BMP)
or pollution prevention alternative, the user must submit documentation
required by the Superintendent or the pretreatment standard necessary to
determine the compliance status of the user.
   (B)   The city may authorize an industrial user subject to a categorical
pretreatment standard to forego sampling of a pollutant regulated by a
categorical pretreatment standard if the industrial user has demonstrated
through sampling and other technical factors that the pollutant is neither
present nor expected to be present in the discharge, or is present only at
background levels from intake water and without any increase in the pollutant
due to activities of the industrial user. This authorization is subject to the
following conditions:
      (1)   The waiver may be authorized where a pollutant is determined to be
present solely due to sanitary wastewater discharged from the facility provided
that the sanitary wastewater is not regulated by an applicable categorical
standard and otherwise includes no process wastewater.
      (2)   The monitoring waiver is valid only for the duration of the
effective period of the individual wastewater discharge permit, but in no case
longer than five years. The user must submit a new request for the waiver
before the waiver can be granted for each subsequent individual wastewater
discharge permit. See §
55.034(A)(8).
      (3)   In making a demonstration that a pollutant is not present, the
industrial user must provide data from at least one sampling of the facility's
process wastewater prior to any treatment present at the facility that is
representative of all wastewater from all processes.
      (4)   The request for a monitoring waiver must be signed in accordance
with §
55.004, and include the certification statement in §
55.073(A).
      (5)   Non-detectable sample results may be used only as a demonstration
that a pollutant is not present if the EPA approved method from 40 CFR Part 136
with the lowest minimum detection level for that pollutant was used in the
analysis.
      (6)   Any grant of the monitoring waiver by the Superintendent must be
included as a condition in the user's permit. The reasons supporting the waiver
and any information submitted by the user in its request for the waiver must be
maintained by the Superintendent for three years after expiration of the
waiver.
      (7)   Upon approval of the monitoring waiver and revision of the user's
permit by the Superintendent, the industrial user must certify on each report
with the statement in §
55.073(C) below, that there has been no increase in the pollutant in its waste
stream due to activities of the industrial user.
      (8)   In the event that a waived pollutant is found to be present or is
expected to be present because of changes that occur in the user's operations,
the user must immediately comply with the monitoring requirements of §
55.063(A), or other more frequent monitoring requirements imposed by the
Superintendent, and notify the Superintendent.
      (9)   This provision does not supersede certification processes and
requirements established in categorical pretreatment standards, except as
otherwise specified in the categorical pretreatment standard.
   (C)   All periodic compliance reports must be signed and certified in
accordance with §
55.073(A).
   (D)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user's discharge.
Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly
operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all times. The
failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working order shall
not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are unrepresentative
of its discharge.
   (E)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any regulated pollutant at the appropriate sampling location more
frequently than required by the Superintendent, using the procedures prescribed
in §
55.070, the results of this monitoring shall be included in the report.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.064 REPORTS OF CHANGED CONDITIONS.
   Each user must notify the Superintendent of any significant changes to the
user's operations or system which might alter the nature, quality, or volume of
its wastewater at least 30 days before the change.
   (A)   The Superintendent may require the user to submit such information as
may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the
submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under §
55.034.
   (B)   The Superintendent may issue an individual wastewater discharge permit
under §
55.051 or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under §
55.048 in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed conditions.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.065 REPORTS OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS.
   (A)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-
customary batch discharge, a slug discharge or slug load, that might cause
potential problems for the POTW, the user shall immediately telephone and
notify the Superintendent of the incident. This notification shall include the
location of the discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, if known,
and corrective actions taken by the user.
   (B)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user's bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees who to call in the event of a
discharge described in division (A) above. Employers shall ensure that all
employees who could cause such a discharge to occur are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
   (C)   Significant industrial users are required to notify the Superintendent
immediately of any changes at its facility affecting the potential for a slug
discharge.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.066 REPORTS FROM UNPERMITTED USERS.
   All users not required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit
shall provide appropriate reports to the Superintendent as the Superintendent
may require.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.067 NOTICE OF VIOLATION/REPEAT SAMPLING AND REPORTING.
   If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must notify
the Superintendent within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation. The user
shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of the
repeat analysis to the Superintendent within 30 days after becoming aware of
the violation. Resampling by the industrial user is not required if the city
performs sampling at the user's facility at least once a month, or if the city
performs sampling at the user facility between the time when the initial
sampling was conducted and the time when the user or the city receives the
results of this sampling, or if the city has performed the sampling and
analysis in lieu of the industrial user.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.068 RESERVED.
§ 55.069 ANALYTICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted as
part of a wastewater discharge permit application or report shall be performed
in accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 CFR Part 136 and amendments
thereto, unless otherwise specified in an applicable categorical pretreatment
standard. If 40 CFR Part 136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques
for the pollutant in question, or where the EPA determines that the Part 136
sampling and analytical techniques are inappropriate for the pollutant in
question, sampling and analyses shall be performed by using validated
analytical methods or any other applicable sampling and analytical procedures,
including procedures suggested by the Superintendent or other parties approved
by the EPA.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.070 SAMPLE COLLECTION.
   Samples collected to satisfy reporting requirements must be based on data
obtained through appropriate sampling and analysis performed during the period
covered by the report, based on data that is representative of conditions
occurring during the reporting period.
   (A)   Except as indicated in divisions (B) and (C) below, the user must
collect wastewater samples using 24 hour flow proportional composite sampling
techniques, unless time proportional composite sampling or grab sampling is
authorized by the Superintendent. Where time proportional composite sampling or
grab sampling is authorized by the city, the samples must be representative of
the discharge. Using protocols (including appropriate preservation) specified
in 40 CFR Part 136 and appropriate EPA guidance, multiple grab samples
collected during a 24 hour period may be composited prior to the analysis as
follows: for cyanide, total phenols, and sulfides the samples may be composited
in the laboratory or in the field; for volatile organics and oil and grease,
the samples may be composited in the laboratory. Composite samples for other
parameters unaffected by the compositing procedures as documented in approved
EPA methodologies may be authorized by the city, as appropriate. In addition,
grab samples may be required to show compliance with instantaneous limits.
   (B)   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, total phenols,
sulfides, and volatile organic compounds must be obtained using grab collection
techniques.
   (C)   For sampling required in support of baseline monitoring and 90 day
compliance reports required in §§
55.060 and
55.062, a minimum of four grab samples must be used for pH, cyanide, total
phenols, oil and grease, sulfide and volatile organic compounds for facilities
for which historical sampling data do not exist; for facilities for which
historical sampling data are available, the Superintendent may authorize a
lower minimum. For the reports required by §
55.063, the industrial user is required to collect the number of grab samples
necessary to assess and assure compliance with applicable pretreatment
standards and requirements.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.071 DATE OF RECEIPT OF REPORTS.
   Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date
postmarked. For reports, which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail
facility serviced by the United States Postal Service, the date of receipt of
the report shall govern.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.072 RECORDKEEPING.
   Users subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter shall retain,
and make available for inspection and copying, all records of information
obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this chapter, any
additional records of information obtained pursuant to monitoring activities
undertaken by the user independent of such requirements, and documentation
associated with Best Management Practices established under §
55.013(C). Records shall include the date, exact place, method, and time of
sampling, and the name of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses
were performed; who performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or
methods used; and the results of such analyses. These records shall remain
available for a period of at least three years. This period shall be
automatically extended for the duration of any litigation concerning the user
or the city, or where the user has been specifically notified of a longer
retention period by the Superintendent.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.073 CERTIFICATION STATEMENTS.
   (A)   Certification of permit applications, user reports and initial
monitoring waiver. The following certification statement is required to be
signed and submitted by users submitting permit applications in accordance with
§
55.036; users submitting baseline monitoring reports under §
55.060(B)(5); users submitting reports on compliance with the categorical
pretreatment standard deadlines under §
55.062; users submitting periodic compliance reports required by §
55.063(A) - (D), and users submitting an initial request to forego sampling of
a pollutant on the basis of §
55.063(B)(4). The following certification statement must be signed by an
authorized representative as defined in §
55.004:
I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations.
   (B)   Annual certification for non-significant categorical industrial users.
A facility determined to be a non significant categorical industrial user by
the Superintendent pursuant to §
55.104 and §
55.036(C) must annually submit the following certification statement signed in
accordance with the signatory requirements in §
55.004. This certification must accompany an alternative report required by the
Superintendent:
Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly responsible for managing
compliance with the categorical Pretreatment Standards under 40 CFR ____, I
certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief that during the period
from __________, ________ to ________, ________ [months, days, year]:
         (a)   The facility described as ____________________ [facility name]
met the definition of a non significant categorical industrial user as
described in §
55.004;
         (b)   The facility complied with all applicable pretreatment standards
and requirements during this reporting period; and
         (c)   The facility never discharged more than 100 gallons of total
categorical wastewater on any given day during this reporting period.
      This compliance certification is based on the following information.
      _______________________________________ _________
      _______________________________________ _________
   (C)   Certification of pollutants not present. Users that have an approved
monitoring waiver based on §
55.063(B) must certify on each report with the following statement that there
has been no increase in the pollutant in its waste stream due to activities of
the user.
Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly responsible for managing
compliance with the Pretreatment Standard for 40 CFR _______ [specify
applicable National Pretreatment Standard part(s)], I certify that, to the best
of my knowledge and belief, there has been no increase in the level of ______
[list pollutant(s)] in the wastewaters due to the activities at the facility
since filing of the last periodic report under §
55.063(A).
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
COMPLIANCE MONITORING
§ 55.080 RIGHT OF ENTRY; INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   The Superintendent shall have the right to enter the premises of any user to
determine whether the user is complying with all requirements of this chapter
and any individual wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder. Users
shall allow the Superintendent ready access to all parts of the premises for
the purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination and copying, and the
performance of any additional duties.
   (A)   Where a user has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, the Superintendent shall be permitted to enter
without delay for the purposes of performing specific responsibilities.
   (B)   The Superintendent shall have the right to set up on the user's
property, or require installation of, such devices as are necessary to conduct
sampling and/or metering of the user's operations.
   (C)   The Superintendent may require the user to install monitoring
equipment as necessary. The facility's sampling and monitoring equipment shall
be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the user
at its own expense. All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality
shall be calibrated annually to ensure their accuracy.
   (D)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the user
at the written or verbal request of the Superintendent and shall not be
replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be born by the user.
   (E)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Superintendent access to the
user's premises shall be a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.081 SEARCH WARRANTS.
   If the Superintendent has been refused access to a building, structure, or
property, or any part thereof, and is able to demonstrate probable cause to
believe that there may be a violation of this chapter, or that there is a need
to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling program
of the city designed to verify compliance with this chapter or any permit or
order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety and
welfare of the community, the Superintendent may seek issuance of a search
warrant from an appropriate Coles County Court through the City Attorney.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
§ 55.090 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, surveys, wastewater
discharge permit applications, individual wastewater discharge permits, and
monitoring programs, and from the Superintendent's inspection and sampling
activities, shall be available to the public without restriction, unless the
user specifically requests, and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of
the Superintendent, that the release of such information would divulge
information, processes, or methods of production entitled to protection as
trade secrets under applicable state law. Any such request must be asserted at
the time of submission of the information or data. When requested and
demonstrated by the user furnishing a report that such information should be
held confidential, the portions of a report which might disclose trade secrets
or secret processes shall not be made available for inspection by the public,
but shall be made available immediately upon request to governmental agencies
for uses related to the NPDES program or pretreatment program, and in
enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the report. Wastewater
constituents and characteristics and other effluent data, as defined at 40 CFR
2.302 shall not be recognized as confidential information and shall be
available to the public without restriction.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
PUBLICATION OF USERS IN SIGNIFICANT
NON-COMPLIANCE
§ 55.100 PUBLICATION OF USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NON-COMPLIANCE.
   The Superintendent shall publish annually, in a newspaper of general
circulation that provides meaningful public notice within the jurisdictions
served by the POTW, a list of the users which, at any time during the previous
12 months, were in significant noncompliance with applicable pretreatment
standards and requirements. The term significant noncompliance shall be
applicable to all significant industrial users (or any other industrial user
that violates divisions (C), (D) or (H) of this section) and shall mean:
   (A)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which 66% or more of all the measurements taken for the same pollutant
parameter taken during a six month period exceed (by any magnitude) a numeric
pretreatment standard or requirement, including instantaneous limits as defined
in §§
55.010 through
55.015;
   (B)   Technical Review Criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those in
which 33% or more of wastewater measurements taken for each pollutant parameter
during a six month period equals or exceeds the product of the numeric
pretreatment standard or requirement including instantaneous limits, as defined
by §§
55.010 through
55.015 multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oils and
grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
   (C)   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement as
defined by §§
55.010 through
55.015 (daily maximum, long term average, instantaneous limit, or narrative
standard) that the Superintendent determines has caused, alone or in
combination with other discharges, interference or pass through, including
endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public;
   (D)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment to
the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the Superintendent's
exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
   (E)   Failure to meet, within 90 days of the scheduled date, a compliance
schedule milestone contained in an individual wastewater discharge permit or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction, or
attaining final compliance;
   (F)   Failure to provide within 45 days after the due date, any required
reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance with
categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self monitoring reports,
and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
   (G)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
   (H)   Any other violation(s), which may include a violation of Best
Management Practices, which the Superintendent determines will adversely affect
the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment program.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES
§ 55.110 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Superintendent may serve upon that user a written notice of
violation. Within 30 days of the receipt of such notice, an explanation of the
violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to
include specific required actions, shall be submitted by the user to the
Superintendent. Submission of such a plan in no way relieves the user of
liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of
violation. Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the
Superintendent to take any action, including emergency actions or any other
enforcement action, without first issuing a notice of violation.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.111 CONSENT ORDERS.
   The Superintendent may enter into consent orders, assurances of compliance,
or other similar documents establishing an agreement with any user responsible
for noncompliance. Such documents shall include specific action to be taken by
the user to correct the noncompliance within a time period specified by the
document. Such documents shall have the same force and effect as the
administrative orders issued pursuant to §§
55.113 and
55.114 of this chapter and shall be judicially enforceable.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.112 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   The Superintendent may order a user which has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, to appear before the Superintendent and show cause why the
proposed enforcement action should not be taken. Notice shall be served on the
user specifying the time and place for the meeting, the proposed enforcement
action, the reasons for such action, and a request that the user show cause why
the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the meeting
shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt
requested) at least 30 days prior to the hearing. Such notice may be served on
any authorized representative of the user as defined in §
55.004 and required by §
55.036(A). A show cause hearing shall not be a bar against, or prerequisite
for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.113 COMPLIANCE ORDERS.
   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Superintendent may issue an order to the user responsible for
the discharge directing that the user come into compliance within a specified
time. If the user does not come into compliance within the time provided, sewer
service may be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, devices, or
other related appurtenances are installed and properly operated. Compliance
orders also may contain other requirements to address the noncompliance,
including additional self monitoring and management practices designed to
minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the sewer. A compliance order
may not extend the deadline for compliance established for a pretreatment
standard or requirement, nor does a compliance order relieve the user of
liability for any violation, including any continuing violation. Issuance of a
compliance order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any
other action against the user.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.114 CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS.
   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, or that the user's past violations are likely to recur, the
Superintendent may issue an order to the user directing it to cease and desist
all such violations and directing the user to:
   (A)   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
   (B)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be needed
to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including halting
operations and/or terminating the discharge. Issuance of a cease and desist
order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other
action against the user.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.115 ADMINISTRATIVE FINES.
   (A)   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Superintendent may fine such user in an amount not to exceed
$1,000. Such fines shall be assessed on a per-violation, per-day basis. In the
case of monthly or other long-term average discharge limits, fines shall be
assessed for each day during the period of violation.
   (B)   Unpaid charges, fines, and penalties shall, after 60 calendar days, be
assessed an additional penalty of 10% of the unpaid balance, and interest shall
accrue thereafter at a rate of 1½% per month. A lien against the user's
property shall be sought for unpaid charges, fines, and penalties.
   (C)   Users desiring to dispute such fines must file a written request for
the Superintendent to reconsider the fine along with full payment of the fine
amount within 30 days of being notified of the fine. Where a request has merit,
the Superintendent may convene a hearing on the matter. In the event the user's
appeal is successful, the payment, together with any interest accruing thereto,
shall be returned to the user. The Superintendent may add the costs of
preparing administrative enforcement actions, such as notices and orders, to
the fine.
   (D)   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.116 EMERGENCY SUSPENSIONS.
   The Superintendent may immediately suspend a user's discharge, after
informal notice to the user, whenever such suspension is necessary to stop an
actual or threatened discharge, which reasonably appears to present, or cause
an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons.
The Superintendent may also immediately suspend a user's discharge, after
notice and opportunity to respond, that threatens to interfere with the
operation of the POTW, or which presents, or may present, an endangerment to
the environment.
   (A)   Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall immediately
stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user's failure to
immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the Superintendent
may take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate severance of the
sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW, its receiving
stream, or endangerment to any individuals. The Superintendent may allow the
user to recommence its discharge when the user has demonstrated to the
satisfaction of the Superintendent that the period of endangerment has passed,
unless the termination proceedings in §
55.117 of this chapter are initiated against the user.
   (B)   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement,
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence, to the Superintendent prior to the date of any
show cause or termination hearing under §§
55.112 or
55.117.
   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing prior to
any emergency suspension under this section.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.117 TERMINATION OF DISCHARGE.
   In addition to the provisions in §
55.050, any user who violates the following conditions is subject to discharge
termination:
   (A)   Violation of individual wastewater discharge permit conditions;
   (B)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
   (C)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater
volume, constituents, and characteristics prior to discharge;
   (D)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the purpose of
inspection, monitoring, or sampling; or
   (E)   Violation of the pretreatment standards in §§
55.010 through
55.015.
   Such user will be notified of the proposed termination of its discharge and
be offered an opportunity to show cause under §
55.112 why the proposed action should not be taken. Exercise of this option by
the Superintendent shall not be a bar to, or a prerequisite for, taking any
other action against the user.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES
§ 55.125 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   When the city finds that a user has violated, or continues to violate, any
provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge permit, or order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the city
may petition the Coles County Circuit Court through the City Attorney for the
issuance of a temporary or permanent injunction, as appropriate, which
restrains or compels the specific performance of the individual wastewater
discharge permit, order, or other requirement imposed by this chapter on
activities of the user. The city may also seek such other action as is
appropriate for legal and/or equitable relief, including a requirement for the
user to conduct environmental remediation. A petition for injunctive relief
shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action
against a user.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.126 RESERVED.
§ 55.127 CRIMINAL PROSECUTION.
   (A)   A user who willfully or negligently violates any provision of this
chapter, an individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder,
or any other pretreatment standard or requirement shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000 per
violation, per day. Violators may be committed to the county jail as provided
by law until such fine, penalty, and costs are fully paid. No imprisonment,
however, shall exceed six months for any one offense.
   (B)   A user who willfully or negligently introduces any substance into the
POTW which causes personal injury or property damage shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of a misdemeanor and be subject to a penalty of at least $1,000. This
penalty shall be in addition to any other cause of action for personal injury
or property damage available under state law. Violators may be committed to the
county jail as provided by law until such fine, penalty, and costs are fully
paid. No imprisonment, however, shall exceed six months for any one offense.
   (C)   A user who knowingly makes any false statements, representations, or
certifications in any application, record, report, plan, or other documentation
filed, or required to be maintained, pursuant to this chapter, individual
wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or who falsifies,
tampers with, or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method
required under this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of
not more than $1,000 per violation, per day. Violators may be committed to the
county jail as provided by law until such fine, penalty, and costs are fully
paid. No imprisonment, however, shall exceed six months for any one offense.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.128 REMEDIES NONEXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies provided for in this chapter are not exclusive. The
Superintendent may take any, all, or any combination of these actions against a
noncompliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in
accordance with the city's enforcement response plan. However, the
Superintendent may take other action against any user when the circumstances
warrant. Further, the Superintendent is empowered to take more than one
enforcement action against any noncompliant user.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
SUPPLEMENTAL ENFORCEMENT ACTION
§ 55.135 RESERVED.
§ 55.136 RESERVED.
§ 55.137 RESERVED.
§ 55.138 PAYMENT OF OUTSTANDING FEES AND PENALTIES.
   The Superintendent may decline to issue or reissue an individual wastewater
discharge permit to any user who has failed to pay any outstanding fees, fines
or penalties incurred as a result of any provision of this chapter, a previous
individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.139 WATER SUPPLY SEVERANCE.
   Whenever a user has violated or continues to violate any provision of this
chapter, an individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder,
or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, water service to the user
may be severed. Service will recommence, at the user's expense, only after the
user has satisfactorily demonstrated its ability to comply.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS
§ 55.145 UPSET.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, upset means an exceptional incident
in which there is unintentional and temporary noncompliance with categorical
pretreatment standards because of factors beyond the reasonable control of the
user. An upset does not include noncompliance to the extent caused by
operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate
treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or improper
operation.
   (B)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action brought
for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the requirements
of division (C), below, are met.
   (C)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall
demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or other
relevant evidence that:
      (1)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
      (2)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workman like manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
      (3)   The user has submitted the following information to the
Superintendent within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset [if this
information is provided orally, a written submission must be provided within
five days]:
         (a)   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
         (b)   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times or,
if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
         (c)   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
   (D)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
   (E)   Users shall have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
   (F)   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or fails.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.146 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   A user shall have an affirmative defense to an enforcement action brought
against it for noncompliance with the general prohibitions in §
55.010(A) or the specific prohibitions in §
55.010(B)(3) through 55.010(B)(18) if it can prove that it did not know, or
have reason to know, that its discharge, alone or in conjunction with
discharges from other sources, would cause pass through or interference and
that either:
   (A)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was in
compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass through or
interference; or
   (B)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change substantially
in nature or constituents from the user's prior discharge when the city was
regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case of interference,
was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal requirements.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.147 BYPASS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section:
      (1)   Bypass means the intentional diversion of waste streams from any
portion of a user's treatment facility.
      (2)   Severe property damage means substantial physical damage to
property, damage to the treatment facilities which causes them to become
inoperable, or substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can
reasonably be expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. Severe property
damage does not mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
   (B)   A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause pretreatment
standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is for essential
maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not subject to
the provision of divisions (C) and (D) of this section.
   (C)   Bypass notifications.
      (1)   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the Superintendent, at least ten days before the date of
the bypass, if possible.
      (2)   A user shall submit oral notice to the Superintendent of an
unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within 24
hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission shall
also be provided within five days of the time the user becomes aware of the
bypass. The written submission shall contain a description of the bypass and
its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times, and, if
the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to
continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent
reoccurrence of the bypass. The Superintendent may waive the written report on
a case by case basis if the oral report has been received within 24 hours.
   (D)   Bypass.
      (1)   Bypass is prohibited, and the Superintendent may take an
enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless:
         (a)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury,
or severe property damage;
         (b)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
         (c)   The user submitted notices as required under division (C) of
this section.
      (2)   The Superintendent may approve an anticipated bypass, after
considering its adverse effects, if the Superintendent determines that it will
meet the three conditions listed in division (D)(1) of this section.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 55.148 RESERVED.
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 55.155 RESERVED.
§ 55.156 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter is invalidated by any court of competent
jurisdiction, the remaining provisions shall not be affected and shall continue
in full force and effect.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
EFFECTIVE DATE
§ 55.160 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect immediately following its
passage, approval, and publication in pamphlet form, as provided by law.
(Ord. 2019-5416, passed 5-21-2019)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
Chapter
   
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
71.   RULES OF OPERATION
   
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
APPENDIX: SNOW ROUTE SIGN
   
73.   BICYCLES
   
73A.   LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC AND LOW-SPEED GAS BICYCLES
   
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
   
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
   
76.   GOLF CARTS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Certain provisions of state act regulating traffic adopted by reference
   
70.03   Soliciting contributions
Traffic Signs, Signals and Markings
   
70.15   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
70.16   Placement of traffic-control devices
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Words and phrases used in this title have the meanings respectively ascribed
to them in Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 1-100 et seq.
(Ord. 2008-5254, passed 5-6-2008)
§ 70.02 CERTAIN PROVISIONS OF STATE ACT REGULATING TRAFFIC ADOPTED BY
REFERENCE.
   The following enumerated sections of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-201 et seq.,
exclusive of any provisions thereof relating to the penalties or the punishment
to be imposed for violation of sections, are adopted and by reference made a
part of this code with the same force and effect as though set forth here
verbatim; and the terms "this act" wherever used in any such section shall mean
this title of the municipal code, whenever necessary to effectuate the meaning
of the section:
   11-201      Provisions refer to vehicles upon highways - exceptions
   11-203      Obedience to police officers
   11-204      Fleeing or attempting to elude a peace officer
   11-205      Public officer and employees to obey Act - exceptions
   11-206      Persons riding animals or driving animal-drawn vehicles
   11-306      Traffic-control signal legend
   11-307      Pedestrian-control signals
   11-308      Lane-control signals
   11-309      Flashing signals
   11-310      Display of unauthorized signs, signals, or markings
   11-311      Interference with official traffic-control devices or railroad
signs or signals
   11-401      Motor vehicle accidents involving death or personal injuries
   11-402      Motor vehicle accident involving damage to vehicle
   11-403      Duty to give information and render aid
   11-404      Duty upon damaging unattended vehicle or other property
   11-407      Immediate notice of accident
   11-501      Driving while under the influence of alcohol, other drugs,
intoxicating compounds or any combination thereof
   11-503      Reckless driving; aggravated reckless driving
   11-506      Street racing; aggravated street racing
   11-601      General speed restrictions
   11-605      Special speed limit while passing schools
   11-606      Minimum speed regulation
   11-701      Drive on right side of roadway - exceptions
   11-702      Passing vehicles proceeding in opposite directions
   11-703      Overtaking a vehicle on the left
   11-704      When overtaking on the right is permitted
   11-705-706   Limitations on overtaking on the left
   11-708      One-way roadways and rotary traffic islands
   11-709      Driving on roadways laned for traffic
   11-710      Following too closely
   11-803      Starting parked vehicle
   11-804      When signal required
   11-805      Signal by hand or arm or signal device
   11-806      Method of giving hand and arm signals
   11-901      Vehicles approaching or entering intersection
   11-902      Vehicle turning left
   11-903      Vehicle entering stop crosswalk
   11-904      Vehicles entering stop or yield intersection
   11-906      Vehicle entering highway from private road or driveway
   11-907      Operation of vehicles on approach of authorized emergency
vehicles
   11-1001   Pedestrian obedience to traffic control devices and traffic
regulations
   11-1002   Pedestrians' right-of-way at crosswalks
   11-1003   Crossing at other than crosswalks
   11-1004   Pedestrian with disabilities; right-of-way
   11-1005   Pedestrians to use right half of crosswalks
   11-1006   Pedestrians soliciting rides or business
   11-1007   Pedestrians walking on highways
   11-1201   Obedience to signal indicating approach of train
   11-1202   Certain vehicles must stop at all railroad grade crossings
   11-1203   Moving heavy equipment at railroad grade crossing
   11-1205   Emerging from alley, building, or private road or driveway
   11-1301   Stopping, standing or parking outside of business or residence
district
   11-1302   Officers authorized to remove vehicles
   11-1303   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited in specified places
   11-1304   Additional parking regulations
   11-1401   Unattended motor vehicle
   11-1402   Limitations on backing
   11-1403   Riding on motorcycles
   11-1406   Obstruction to driver's view or driving mechanism
   11-1407   Opening and closing vehicle doors
   11-1408   Riding in house trailers
   11-1410   Coasting prohibited
   11-1411   Following fire apparatus prohibited
   11-1412   Crossing fire hose
   11-1413   Depositing material on highway prohibited
   11-1414   Approaching, overtaking and passing school bus
   11-1415   School buses stopping, loading and discharging passengers on one-
way roadways on highways having 4 or more lanes
   11-1416   Obstructing person in highways
   11-1421   Conditions for operating ambulances and rescue vehicles
   11-1507   Lamps and other equipment on bicycles
   12-101      Scope and effect of equipment requirements
   12-201      When lighted lamps are required
   12-202      Clearance, identification and side marker lamps
   12-204      Lamp or flag on projecting load
   12-205      Lamps on other vehicles and equipment
   12-207      Spot lamps and auxiliary driving lamps
   12-210      Use of head lamps and auxiliary driving lamps
   12-211      Number of driving lamps required or permitted
   12-212      Special restrictions on lamps
   12-301      Brakes
   12-401      Restriction as to tire equipment
   12-502      Mirrors
   12-503      Windshields must be unobstructed and equipped with wipers
   12-602      Mufflers, prevention of noise
   15-102      Width of vehicles
   15-103      Height of vehicles
   15-105      Projecting loads on passenger vehicles
   15-107      Length of vehicles
   15-108      Planking edge of a pavement
   15-109      Spilling loads on highways prohibited
   15-111      Wheel and axle loads and gross weights
(Ord. 2008-5254, passed 5-6-2008)
§ 70.03 SOLICITING CONTRIBUTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall stand on a state highway for the purpose of soliciting
contributions from the occupant of a motor vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall stand upon a road of municipal jurisdiction unless the
soliciting agency shall be:
      (1)   Registered with the Attorney General as a charitable organization
as provided by "An act to regulate solicitation and collection of funds for
charitable purposes, providing for violations thereof, and making an
appropriation therefor," approved July 26, 1963, as amended; and
      (2)   Liable for any injuries to any person or property during the
solicitation which is causally related to an act of ordinary negligence of the
soliciting agent.
   (C)   Any person engaged in the act of solicitation shall be at least 18
years of age and shall be wearing a high visibility vest, except a person of
high school age may assist with solicitation if the charitable organization
provides adult supervision and evidence of written parental consent. Any person
engaged in the act of solicitation must be prepared to provide any police
officer with the name and contact point of his or her agency supervisor who
authorized said person to solicit funds on behalf of the agency. Failure to
provide satisfactory accurate information will result in the immediate shut-
down of that person's solicitations.
   (D)   Solicitations may occur only between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00
p.m. and only two weekends per calendar year per charitable organization. A
WEEKEND is defined as any consecutive two days within any week of the calendar
year.
   (E)   The Chief of Police shall designate and pre- approve intersections at
which solicitations may be conducted. Solicitations shall not occur at an
intersection where there is a signalized traffic control device.
   (F)   An application to solicit contributions from a road of municipal
jurisdiction shall be made to the Police Department at least two months before
the solicitation is planned to occur, but no earlier than January 2 of the year
in which the solicitation will occur unless such solicitation will occur on or
before February 28. The application shall be accompanied by evidence that the
charitable organization is registered with the Attorney General and engaged in
a statewide fundraising activity. A certificate of insurance in limits not less
than $1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 in the aggregate shall be
provided with the application naming the city as an additional insured.
Preference for dates of solicitations shall be given in order of submission,
i.e. "first come, first served."
   (G)   Every person who is convicted of a violation of this section shall be
guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2008-5254, passed 5-6-2008)
Penalty, see § 70.99
TRAFFIC SIGNS, SIGNALS AND MARKINGS
§ 70.15 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   It is unlawful for the driver or operator of a vehicle or for a pedestrian
to disobey any traffic-control device or sign officially erected in and upon
any street or public thoroughfare within the city, and any such traffic-control
device or sign shall be considered as officially erected when placed and
erected upon the direction or order of the appropriate official or authority
having the charge and supervision thereof.
(Ord. 2008-5254, passed 5-6-2008)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.16 PLACEMENT OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The city shall follow the standards and guidance contained in the most
recent Manual for Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD) published by the U.S.
Department of Transportation's Federal Highway Administration and the Illinois
Supplement to the MUTCD published by the Illinois Department of Transportation.
The Illinois Supplement shall supersede where there is a conflict in standards.
The only exceptions to this policy are listed in division (B) of this section.
   (B)   The city amends and appends the guidance in Section 2B.07 of the MUTCD
to the following:
      Multi-way stops. Multi-way stops are warranted if one of the following
conditions is met:
         1)   Volume of traffic is approximately the same in any direction.
         2)   Traffic signals are warranted per MUTCD 4C.01.
         3)   Crash record report indicates 5 crashes in a 12-month period.
         4)   Volume of the major street exceeds 200 vehicles per hour for any
eight-hour period, and the minor street has a volume that exceeds 150 vehicles,
pedestrians, and bicycles per hour for any eight-hour period.
         5)   80% of condition #3 and Condition #4 are met.
         6)   There is a visibility problem at the intersection.
         7)   There is a left turn conflict. The minor street has a volume of
left turns onto the major street that exceeds 60 vehicles per hour over any
eight-hour period.
         8)   Vehicle traffic conflicts with high volume of pedestrian traffic.
Special consideration will be given to areas adjacent to parks and schools.
(Ord. 2008-5254, passed 5-6-2008)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provisions of this traffic code for which another
penalty is not already otherwise provided, shall, upon conviction, be subject
to a fine of not more than the general penalty of §
10.99.
(Ord. 2008-5254, passed 5-6-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-5281, passed 9-15-09)
CHAPTER 71: RULES OF OPERATION
Section
   
71.01   Speed limits
   
71.02   Limitations on u-turns
   
71.03   Driving on sidewalks
   
71.04   Hauling trash on streets; scattering materials
§ 71.01 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle upon the streets of the city at any
time in excess of the following speed limits, which speed limits are hereby
declared to be the reasonable and safe absolute maximum speed limits in the
zones indicated:
      (1)   The business district of the city includes the following areas:
Broadway Avenue from Fourteenth Street through Twenty-First Street inclusive;
Western Avenue from Nineteenth Street through Twenty-Second Street inclusive;
and Fourteenth, Fifteenth, Sixteenth, and Seventeenth Streets from Charleston
Avenue to Richmond Avenue. Within this business district, the speed limit is 20
miles per hour;
      (2)   For the following areas, 35 miles per hour Broadway Avenue East
east of main entrance of Cross County Mall; Dettro Drive from Remington Drive
to Country Club Road; all of Dewitt Avenue; Forty-Third Street from Western
Avenue to Route 121;
      (3)   On streets, thoroughfares and drives within parks owned and
operated by the city, 10 miles per hour.
   (B)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to
impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic except when
reduced speed is necessary for safe operation or in compliance with law.
(Ord. 2008-5254, passed 5-6-2008)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.02 LIMITATIONS ON U-TURNS.
   It is unlawful for any person driving or operating a vehicle of any kind or
character to make a complete turn or to turn around for the purpose of
proceeding back in the same direction from which they came at any intersection
of any street or alley within the following designated streets:
   (A)   Broadway Avenue from Fourteenth Street through Twenty- First Street
inclusive;
   (B)   Western Avenue from Nineteenth Street through Twenty-Second Street
inclusive; and
   (C)   At the intersection of Fourteenth, Fifteenth, Sixteenth, and
Seventeenth Streets with Charleston Avenue to Richmond Avenue.
(Ord. 2008-5254, passed 5-6-2008)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.03 DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall drive any vehicle upon or along any sidewalk, except at
crosswalks. No person shall park a vehicle on any sidewalk.
(Ord. 2008-5254, passed 5-6-2008)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.04 HAULING TRASH ON STREETS; SCATTERING MATERIALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle upon the streets of
this city overloaded with trash, coal, sand, gravel, cinders, or to use
vehicles for the hauling of the same whose beds are in such condition as to
scatter such coal, trash, sand, gravel and cinders along and upon such streets;
and where necessary to prevent trash from being blown or scattered on the
streets, such vehicles shall be equipped with covers.
(Ord. 2008-5254, passed 5-6-2008)
Penalty, see § 70.99
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Manner of parking
   
72.02   Prohibited parking
   
72.03   Special no parking or loading zones
   
72.04   Vehicle and truck limited parking
   
72.05   Prohibited vehicles
   
72.06   Rental space in parking lots; towing of unauthorized vehicles
   
72.07   Parking of trucks
Developed Parking on City Right- of-Way
   
72.30   Developed parking on city right-of-way
Enforcement
   
72.40   Impounding of vehicles
   
72.41   Presumption of responsibility
Snow Routes
   
72.55   Snow emergency
   
72.56   Snow route streets
   
72.57   Impoundment of illegally parked vehicles
   
72.58   Parking in city lots
   
72.59   Signs placed in snow route area
   
72.60   Notices
 
   
Appendix:    Snow Route Sign
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 MANNER OF PARKING.
   Vehicles shall be parked parallel to and not more than 12 inches from the
curb on all streets, except where angular parking is provided for.
(Ord. 2008-5254, passed 5-6-2008; Am. Ord.2012-5346, passed 3-6-2012) Penalty,
see §
35.01(B)(11)
§ 72.02 PROHIBITED PARKING.
   (A)   It is unlawful to park a vehicle in and upon any street, public
thoroughfare, or other public place contrary to any posted regulations or any
official marking governing such parking.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked in an alley except for the purpose of
actually loading or unloading.
(Ord. 2008-5254, passed 5-6-2008; Am. Ord.2012-5346, passed 3-6-2012) Penalty,
see §
35.01(B)(11)
Cross-reference:
   No parking on certain streets, see
Ch. 75, Sch. I
§ 72.03 SPECIAL NO PARKING OR LOADING ZONES.
   (A)   No parking spaces will be permitted in front of building entrances
according to the following conditions:
      (1)   Any owner or occupant of such building, adjacent to a street or
alley desiring a certain no-parking space immediately in front of the entrance
to such building, shall make application to the Council, setting forth all
relevant information and stating the number of feet and the time desired for
such purposes. The City Council shall have authority to grant or refuse such
restrictions or limitations as they may fix.
      (2)   In case such application is granted, the Council shall issue to the
applicant a permit setting forth the location of such no-parking space, the
number of feet frontage and the time limits fixed, and such other limitations
as may be pertinent. Such permit may, at any time, be withdrawn or further
limited by the Council. To enforce the provisions of such permit, any holder of
the same shall have the right to place no-parking signs on the sidewalk within
the time fixed in such permit, marking the limits of such no-parking space.
Such signs shall be of the exact size, character and description required by
the Council but shall be provided at the expense of the holder of the permit
and shall bear the number of the permit issued.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park within such designated no
parking spaces except for the purpose of loading or unloading.
(Ord. 2008-5254, passed 5-6-2008; Am. Ord.2012-5346, passed 3-6-2012) Penalty,
see §
35.01(B)(11)
§ 72.04 VEHICLE AND TRUCK LIMITED PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle exceeding 12,000 pounds in gross
vehicle weight rating on the public right-of-way for a period in excess of 30
minutes unless the vehicle is being loaded or unloaded.
(Ord. 2008-5254, passed 5-6-2008; Am. Ord.2012-5346, passed 3-6-2012) Penalty,
see §
35.01(B)(11)
§ 72.05 PROHIBITED VEHICLES.
   (A)   The following vehicles are prohibited from being parked on any city
right-of-way in excess of 30 minutes:
      (1)   Any trailer;
      (2)   Motor home;
      (3)   Campers;
      (4)   Boat/boat trailer;
      (5)   Unlicensed vehicle.
   (B)   There shall be an exception which allows for service trailers owned by
contractors to park a trailer adjacent to a property where the contractor is
making improvements. This exception shall only apply during the period the
contractor is working on the site and can extend through evenings but in no
case longer than seven days.
(Ord. 2008-5254, passed 5-6-2008; Am. Ord.2012-5346, passed 3-6-2012) Penalty,
see §
35.01(B)(11)
§ 72.06 RENTAL SPACE IN PARKING LOTS; TOWING OF UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Available rental space in off-street parking lots, as determined by
the authority in charge of parking, and as marked and designated therein, may
be rented at the then current monthly rate per space upon terms subject to
revocation by the city at any time. Application for such rental space shall be
made at the office of the City Clerk, and upon payment of the rental charge in
advance rental permit will be issued by the City Clerk.
   (B)   (1)   The Police Department and all members thereof are hereby
authorized to remove and tow away or have removed or towed away by commercial
towing service any unauthorized car or other unauthorized vehicle parked in a
space rented on a monthly basis.
      (2)   Such unauthorized vehicle shall only be removed and towed away upon
request by the person entitled to use such rented space and only upon the
signature of the person entitled to use such rented space on a complaint
alleging an appropriate ordinance violation.
      (3)   It is hereby ordained and declared to be public nuisance for any
person to park an unauthorized vehicle in any parking space rented on a monthly
basis.
      (4)   The penalties as provided in §
35.01(B)(11) shall be assessed for any violation of this section and the costs
of towing and storage of any vehicle towed and stored pursuant to this division
shall be assessed upon plea or conviction in addition to any fine or costs of
prosecution.
(Ord. 2008-5254, passed 5-6-2008; Am. Ord.2012-5346, passed 3-6-2012) Penalty,
see §
35.01(B)(11)
§ 72.07 PARKING OF TRUCKS.
   It shall be unlawful to park any truck, tractor trailer, or combination
thereof having a weight of more than 12,000 pounds in gross vehicle weight
rating in any city parking lot.
(Ord. 2008-5254, passed 5-6-2008; Am. Ord.2012-5346, passed 3-6-2012) Penalty,
see §
35.01(B)(11)
DEVELOPED PARKING ON CITY RIGHT- OF-WAY
§ 72.30 DEVELOPED PARKING ON CITY RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOULEVARD. The area existing between the edge of the traveled/parking
surface of any street without curbs and the property line parallel to such
street.
      DEVELOPED BOULEVARD. The area existing between the traveled/parking
surface of any street and the curb line of any street and the property line
parallel to such street which has been developed for parking purposes.
      IMPROVED BOULEVARD. The area existing between the curb line of any street
improved with curbs and the property line parallel to such street.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area reserved for public use, located between privately
owned parcels.
   (B)   Boulevard parking prohibited. The parking of motor vehicles on any
Improved Boulevard is hereby declared to be illegal and a violation of this
subchapter. The creation of a developed boulevard contrary to the terms of this
section is hereby declared to be illegal and is a violation of this subchapter.
   (C)   Boulevard permit procedure. Any owner, occupier or developer of real
estate located within any commercial or industrial zoned district may be
allowed to use the right-of-way contiguous to said one property as developed
parking for motor vehicles provided that:
      (1)   An application for developed right-of-way parking shall be
submitted to the Building Inspector at City Hall, 208 North 19th Street,
Mattoon, Illinois.
      (2)   The application shall indicate the following information: name and
address of the property owner; name and address of the occupier; the reason
that right-of-way parking is requested; whether or not the boulevard parking
requested is necessary to meet the minimum regulations for off-street parking
found in §
159.47; the existing use of the real estate located immediately adjacent to the
proposed right-of-way parking area; and, the proposed use of the adjacent real
estate for which right-of-way parking is requested.
      (3)   A drawing showing the location of the area for which the permit is
sought and showing the length and width of the area to be developed as
boulevard parking shall be provided with the application.
      (4)   Developed Boulevard parking is permitted only if the following
conditions are met:
         (a)   No more than 60% of the city right-of-way can be used as vehicle
parking.
         (b)   For every 50 feet or less of city right-of-way to be utilized
for vehicle parking, one city-approved tree must be planted at the expense of
the property owner.
         (c)   The parking can be developed and used without creating unsafe
conditions for pedestrians or motor vehicle traffic.
         (d)   The parking can be developed and used without creating undue
access problems for any municipal or public utilities.
      (5)   A permit fee per § 35.0l(E)(1) shall be paid to the city before any
application will be considered.
      (6)   Boulevard parking shall not be allowed on any boulevard located
adjacent to any Illinois State Highway or federal highway unless a permit for
such parking is first granted by the Illinois Department of Transportation and
submitted with the application.
(Ord. 2016-5390, passed 9-20-2016)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 72.40 IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLES.
   If any vehicle is found parked upon any street or alley in violation of the
provisions of this chapter and shall not be removed or claimed within one hour
after notice to remove the same has been left within or affixed to the same by
a police officer, such car shall be removed by the police and impounded until
the lawful owner is found, at which time the vehicle shall be delivered to the
owner upon payment of all charges incurred in removing and impounding the same
and the payment of all penalties imposed by reason of the unlawful parking or
other unlawful use of the vehicle.
(Ord. 2008-5254, passed 5-6-2008)
§ 72.41 PRESUMPTION OF RESPONSIBILITY.
   The fact that a motor vehicle which is illegally parked is registered in the
name of a person shall be considered prima facie proof that such person was in
control of the motor vehicle at the time of such parking, and is subject to the
penalty provided therefor.
(Ord. 2008-5254, passed 5-6-2008; Am. Ord.2012-5346, passed 3-6-2012) Penalty,
see §
35.01(B)(11)
SNOW ROUTES
§ 72.55 SNOW EMERGENCY.
   In the event that snow and/or ice accumulates within the city at a depth of
two or more inches a "snow and ice emergency" will automatically be in effect
for the streets listed in §
72.56.
(Ord. 2008-5254, passed 5-6-2008)
§ 72.56 SNOW ROUTE STREETS.
   (A)   In the event of a "snow and ice emergency", it is hereby ordained that
having a vehicle parked on the following streets, and not in the manner
described in division (B) below, during such snow emergency before the snow is
removed is unlawful:
   Broadway Avenue between Fourteenth and Twenty-First Streets;
   Western Avenue from Nineteenth to Twenty-First Streets;
   Fourteenth Street from Wabash to Richmond Avenues;
   Fifteenth Street from Wabash to Richmond Avenues;
   Sixteenth Street from Wabash to Richmond Avenues;
   Seventeenth Street from Wabash to Broadway Avenues.
   (B)   If the snow and ice emergency is declared on an even numbered day then
parking during the ice and snow emergency shall be allowed on the side of the
street with the even numbered postal addresses. Consequently, if the snow and
ice emergency is declared on an odd numbered day then parking hours during the
ice and snow emergency shall be allowed on the side of the street with the odd
numbered postal addresses
(Ord. 2008-5254, passed 5-6-2008; Am. Ord.2011-5330, passed 10-18-2011)
§ 72.57 IMPOUNDMENT OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   In the event that any motor vehicle is parked on any of the streets
mentioned in §
72.56 during any "snow and ice emergency", the Chief of Police, or his or her
duly designated representative, or the Public Works Director, or his or her
duly designated representative, may, at his or her discretion, order that the
illegally parked motor vehicle be towed to a place of impoundment, with all
towing and storage costs to be paid by the owner or possessor of the motor
vehicle.
(Ord. 2008-5254, passed 5-6-2008)
§ 72.58 PARKING IN CITY LOTS.
   In the event that a "snow and ice emergency" occurs pursuant to this
subchapter, owners or possessors of motor vehicles that would otherwise be
parked in the snow route area, as set forth in §
72.56, may park their vehicle in any city controlled parking lot, provided that
such vehicle is removed from the parking lot by 7:00 a.m.
(Ord. 2008-5254, passed 5-6-2008)
§ 72.59 SIGNS PLACED IN SNOW ROUTE AREA.
   Signs shall be placed in the snow route area, set forth in §
72.56, with language substantially similar to the language appearing in the
appendix following this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-5254, passed 5-6-2008)
§ 72.60 NOTICES.
   The Chief of Police and Public Works Director, or their duly designated
representatives, are hereby authorized to prepare notices regarding the
establishment of snow routes, and the applicable penalties for violation of
this subchapter, and are authorized to distribute such notices to residents,
occupants, and owners of real properties located in or near the snow route
areas designated in §
72.56.
(Ord. 2008-5254, passed 5-6-2008; Am. Ord. 2012-5346, passed 3-6-2012) Penalty,
see §
35.01(B)(11)
APPENDIX: SNOW ROUTE SIGN
SNOW
ROUTE
NO PARKING
AFTER 2 INCH SNOWFALL
UNTIL SNOW IS REMOVED
VEHICLES WILL
BE TOWED AT
OWNERS EXPENSE
EXHIBIT A
(Ord. 2008-5254, passed 5-6-2008)
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   Definition
   
73.02   Traffic laws apply to persons riding bicycles
   
73.03   Responsibility of parent or guardian
Licenses
   
73.15   Application and tag
   
73.16   Issuance; term
   
73.17   Inspections
   
73.18   Transfer of ownership
Operation of Bicycles
   
73.30   Lamps and other equipment on bicycles
   
73.31   Riding on seats
   
73.32   Riding on sidewalks in business district
   
73.33   Dangerous riding
   
73.34   Pedestrians right-of-way
   
73.35   Speed
   
73.36   Clinging to vehicles
   
73.37   Riding in group
   
73.38   Carrying articles
   
73.39   Trick riding
   
73.40   Parking bicycles
 
   
73.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BICYCLE. A light, two-wheel device, having wheels 20 inches or greater in
diameter, with tires inflated, propelled by human power.
('68 Code, § 39.01) (Ord. 3549, passed - - )
§ 73.02 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY TO PERSONS RIDING BICYCLES.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be subject to the
provisions of the traffic regulations applicable to the driver of a vehicle
except as to regulations which by their nature can have no application.
('68 Code, § 39.03) (Ord. 3549, passed - - )
§ 73.03 RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENT OR GUARDIAN.
   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not authorize or
knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the provisions of
this chapter.
('68 Code, § 39.02(b)) (Ord. 3549, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 73.99
LICENSES
§ 73.15 APPLICATION AND TAG.
   Application for a bicycle license shall be made to the Chief of Police upon
a form provided by the Chief of Police. Upon receipt of such application the
Chief of Police shall provide, at the expense of the city, a tag he shall cause
to be attached to the frame of the bicycle in a substantial manner. The removal
of any such tag, except by proper authority, shall be a violation of this
section.
('68 Code, § 39.04(c)) (Ord. 3549, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.16 ISSUANCE; TERM.
   All bicycle licenses issued under this Code are for an indefinite term and
are perpetual.
§ 73.17 INSPECTIONS.
   The Chief of Police shall have authority to inspect all bicycles for
mechanical fitness, and may refuse to grant or may revoke the license of any
bicycle in unsafe mechanical condition.
('68 Code, § 39.05) (Ord. 3549, passed - - )
§ 73.18 TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP.
   It shall be the duty of every person who sells or transfers ownership of any
bicycle to report within five days of the date of such sale or transfer to the
Chief of Police, the name and address of the person to whom the bicycle was
sold or transferred. It shall be the duty of the purchaser or transferee of
such bicycle to apply for a transfer of the registration thereof within five
days of the sale or transfer.
('68 Code, § 39.07) (Ord. 3549, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 73.99
OPERATION OF BICYCLES
§ 73.30 LAMPS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   Brakes. Every bicycle when operated upon a street shall be equipped
with a brake adequate to control the movement of and to stop such bicycle
whenever necessary.
   (B)   Lamps and reflectors. Every bicycle operated on a street at night
shall be equipped with a lamp on the front exhibiting a white light visible
from a distance of at least 500 feet to the front and with a red reflector not
less than 1½ inches in diameter on the rear. Every such reflector shall be so
designed and maintained as to be visible at night from all distances within 300
feet to 50 feet from such bicycle when directly in front of a motor vehicle
displaying lawfully lighted head lamps. A lamp exhibiting a red light visible
from a distance of 300 feet to the rear may be used in addition to the rear
reflector.
   (C)   Signal. No person shall ride a bicycle on a street unless it is
equipped with a bell or other device capable of giving a signal audible for a
distance of at least 100 feet; except that no bicycle shall be equipped with
nor shall any person use upon a bicycle any siren or whistle.
('68 Code, § 39.06) (Ord. 3549, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.31 RIDING ON SEATS.
   (A)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than upon the
permanent and regular seat attached thereto, nor carry any other person upon
such bicycle other than upon a firmly attached and regular seat thereon, nor
shall any person ride upon a bicycle other than as above authorized.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
('68 Code, § 39.09(a)) (Ord. 3549, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.32 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS IN BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   No bicycle shall be ridden upon a sidewalk in any business district of the
city.
('68 Code, § 39.09(b)) (Ord. 3549, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.33 DANGEROUS RIDING.
   No bicycle shall be ridden at any time in any place in such a manner as to
be dangerous to persons or property.
('68 Code, § 39.09(c)) (Ord. 3549, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.34 PEDESTRIANS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Bicycles shall at all times be ridden in such a manner as to yield the
right-of-way to pedestrians.
('68 Code, § 39.09(d)) (Ord. 3549, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 64-4014, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.35 SPEED.
   No person riding a bicycle shall ride faster than is reasonable and proper
in regard to the safety of the rider and others.
('68 Code, § 39.09(e)) (Ord. 3549, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.36 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   A person riding upon any bicycle shall not attach the same or himself to any
moving vehicle upon a roadway.
('68 Code, § 39.09(f)) (Ord. 3549, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.37 RIDING IN GROUP.
   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two abreast
except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
('68 Code, § 39.09(g)) (Ord. 3549, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.38 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person riding a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or article which
prevents the rider from keeping both hands upon the handlebar.
('68 Code, § 39.09(h)) (Ord. 3549, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.39 TRICK RIDING.
   No rider of a bicycle shall remove both hands from the handlebars, or feet
from the pedals, or practice any acrobatic or fancy riding on any street; nor
shall any person operating a bicycle upon a street participate in any race for
speed or endurance contest with any other vehicle, except under permit from and
under the supervision of the Chief of Police.
('68 Code, § 39.09(i)) (Ord. 3549, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.40 PARKING BICYCLES.
   No person shall park a bicycle in such a manner as to interfere with
pedestrians or persons getting into or out of vehicles.
('68 Code, § 39.09(j)) (Ord. 3549, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   It is a misdemeanor for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required in this chapter.
('68 Code, § 39.02(a))
   (B)   Every person convicted of a violation of any provision of this chapter
shall be punished by a fine of not more than $10 or by revocation of such
person's bicycle license tag for a period not to exceed six months or by
impounding of such person's bicycle for a period not to exceed 30 days or any
combination thereof.
('68 Code, § 39.10) (Ord. 3549, passed - - )
CHAPTER 73A: LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC AND LOW-SPEED GAS BICYCLES
Section
   
73A.01   Definitions
   
73A.02   Registration; fees
   
73A.03   Application of traffic laws
   
73A.04   Impoundment
 
   
73A.99   Penalty
§ 73A.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLE. A bicycle equipped with fully operable pedals
and an electric motor of less than 750 watts, where such motor:
      (1)   Provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to
provide assistance when the bicycle reaches a speed of 20 miles per hour; or
      (2)   May be used exclusively to propel the bicycle and is not capable of
providing assistance when the bicycle reaches a speed of 20 miles per hour; or
      (3)   Provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to
provide assistance when the bicycle reaches a speed of 28 miles per hour.
   LOW-SPEED GAS BICYCLE. A two- or three-wheeled device with fully operable
pedals and a gasoline motor of less than one horsepower, whose maximum speed on
a paved level surface, when powered solely by such a motor while ridden by an
operator who weighs 170 pounds, is less than 20 miles per hour.
(Ord. 2021-5444, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 73A.02 REGISTRATION; FEES.
   (A)   Commencing September 1, 2021, any resident within the city owning and
operating a low-speed electric bicycle or a low-speed gas bicycle within the
city shall register the same with the Police Department. The owner shall
furnish the Police Department with his or her name and address, the make and
serial number of the low-speed electric or low-speed gas bicycle, and any other
information as the Police Department may require.
   (B)   Such registration shall be made to the Chief of Police upon a form
provided by the Chief of Police. Upon receipt of such application, the Chief of
Police shall provide, at the expense of the city, a tag he or she shall cause
to be firmly attached to the frame of the bicycle in such a manner as the Chief
of Police shall prescribe. The removal of any such tag, except by proper
authority, shall be a violation of this section.
   (C)   The owner shall pay an annual registration fee for any low-speed
electric or low-speed gas bicycle of $50, which shall be due at the time of
registration. Any such registration payment made by the owner before September
1, 2021, shall make the registration valid until September 1, 2022. Any such
registration payment made after September 1, 2021, shall make the registration
valid until the following September 1, at which time the owner’s annual fee
shall again be due and payable. All such registration fee payments shall be
made at the Mattoon Police Department.
   (D)   The Chief of Police, or any official he or she shall designate, shall
have authority to inspect all low-speed electric or low-speed gas bicycles for
mechanical fitness, and may refuse to grant or may revoke the registration of
any low-speed electric or low-speed gas bicycle deemed to be in unsafe
mechanical condition.
   (E)   Any person who fails to register their low-speed electric or low-speed
gas bicycle and to pay the registration fee within the time frame required by
this chapter shall be assessed a late fee of $10, which shall be due in
addition to the registration fee set forth herein and in addition to any
penalty provided for in §
73A.99.
   (F)   It shall be the duty of every person who sells or transfers ownership
of any low-speed electric or low-speed gas bicycle to report within five days
of the date of such sale or transfer to the Chief of Police, the name and
address of the person to whom the bicycle was sold or transferred. It shall be
the duty of the purchaser or transferee of such low-speed electric or low-speed
gas bicycle to apply for a transfer of the registration thereof within five
days of the sale or transfer.
(Ord. 2021-5444, passed 8-3-2021) Penalty, see §
73A.99
§ 73A.03 APPLICATION OF TRAFFIC LAWS.
   Every person riding a low-speed electric or low-speed gas bicycle upon a
roadway within the city shall be subject to all of the provisions of this
title, as well as the laws of this state and the Mattoon City Code applicable
to low-speed electric or low-speed gas bicycles.
(Ord. 2021-5444, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 73A.04 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Impoundment. In addition to fines as set forth in §
73A.99 , any person who has been issued a citation for the same offense under
this chapter within a 12-month period of time shall, at the time of issuance of
the second such citation for the same offense, be required to surrender the
low-speed electric bicycle or low-speed gas bicycle to the police officer or
other authorized officer of the city who issues the citation. The surrendered
low-speed electric bicycle or low-speed gas bicycle shall be impounded and held
by the Police Department and shall be returned to the owner only after one of
the following conditions is met:
      (1)   The person to whom the citation was issued has paid all outstanding
fines or registration fees related to both citations as well as an
administrative fee to the city for impoundment in the amount of $150.
      (2)   The person to whom the citation was issued has presented to the
Police Department proof that a determination of not guilty was entered by the
city hearing officer for the second cited offense which resulted in the
impoundment of the low-speed electric or low-speed gas bicycle.
   (B)   Failure to retrieve impounded bicycle.
      (1)   If a low-speed electric or low-speed gas bicycle impounded pursuant
to this chapter is not retrieved from the Police Department within 35 days
after the entry of a determination of liability or non-liability by the hearing
officer with regard to the citation resulting in impoundment of the low-speed
electric or low-speed gas bicycle, the Chief of Police shall send written
notice to the owner thereof that the low-speed electric or gas bicycle will be
deemed abandoned and disposed of by the Police Department if it is not
retrieved by the owner within thirty 30 days of the date of said notice.
      (2)   If the low-speed electric or gas bicycle remains unclaimed 30 days
after the provision of a notice as described in division (B)(1) above, the
Police Department may dispose of said low-speed electric or low-speed gas
bicycle as it sees fit.
      (3)   Any payment received by the Police Department in exchange for the
low-speed electric or low-speed gas bicycle will be applied to any fines and
fees owed by the owner from whom it was impounded.
(Ord. 2021-5444, passed 8-3-2021) Penalty, see §
73A.99
§ 73A.99 PENALTY.
   Any person found to be in violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter
shall be subject to a fine of no less than $100 nor more than $750 for each
such violation. Every day that a violation occurs shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 2021-5444, passed 8-3-2021)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   One-way streets
   
II.   Stop signs
   
III.   Yield signs
SCHEDULE I. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on any street
designated as a one-way street by ordinance in any direction other than that so
designated.
ONE-WAY STREETS
STREET LOCATION DIRECTION ORD. NO. DATE
ONE-WAY STREETS
STREET                     LOCATION                    DIRECTION  ORD. NO. DATE
                           From Twenty-first Street on
Champaign Avenue           the east to Thirty-third    Eastbound  —      —
                           Street on the west
                           From Twenty-first Street on
Moultrie Avenue            the east to Thirty-third    Eastbound  —      —
                           Street on the west
                           From Seventeenth Street on
Lafayette Avenue           the west to Sixth Street on Eastbound  —      —
                           the east
                           From Twenty-first Street on
Shelby Avenue              the east to Thirty-third    Westbound  —      —
                           Street on the west
                           From Twenty-first Street on
Richmond Avenue            the east to Thirty-third    Westbound  —      —
                           Street on the west
                           From Seventeenth Street on
Wabash Avenue              the west to Sixth Street on Westbound  —      —
                           the east
Thoroughfare adjacent to
the west side of Illinois  Between Charleston Avenue   Northbound 3698     —
Central Railraod right-of- and Broadway Avenue
way
 
      (2)   The Public Works Director shall cause to be placed appropriate
signs as needed so as to designate said streets as one-way streets.
      (3)   The penalties for violation of this section shall be a fine of not
less than $10 or more than $100.
   (B)   Use of alley, one-way traffic. It shall be unlawful to operate any
vehicle on any alley designated as one-way by ordinance in any direction other
than that so designated.
 
USE OF ALLEYS, ONE-WAY TRAFFIC
DESCRIPTION                                                       ORD. NO. DATE
Traffic on that portion of the alley lying between Fourteenth
Street and Fifteenth Street in Block 138 of the Original Town,    4247     —
now City of Mattoon, is permitted in one direction only, from
west to east.
The owner of Lot 10 of Block 138 aforesaid shall grant to the use
of the public a strip of ground consisting of 20 feet in width
along the west side of Lot 10 of said block 138 and a tract of
ground described as beginning at the Southwest corner of Lot 3 of
said Block 138, thence east 20 feet, thence north ten feet,
thence west 20 feet, thence south ten feet to the place of        4247     —
beginning, for the purpose of regulating traffic moving in said
portion of alley aforesaid south and to said Charleston Avenue;
however, the present owner of said Lot 20 reserves the right to
construct and maintain its drive-up island, canopy and supports
therefor to within ten feet of the west line of said Lot 10.
The boulevard along the south end of Lots 10 and 11 and 12 of
said Block 138 and the boulevard along the east side of Lots 1
and 12 of said Block 138, which are now planted in grass, may     4247     —
hereafter be paved by the owner of said lots and used as a plaza
in connection with its business use of the premises, subject to
all pre-existing easements.
The owner of Lots 1, 2, 3, 10, 11 and 12 of said Block 138 shall
be permitted henceforth to have three entrances or exits
connecting Broadway Avenue on the north of said premises to its
premises and two entrances or exits on the south of its premises  4247     —
from or to Charleston Avenue and their premises, provided,
however, approval for the foregoing changes is acceptable to the
state.
 
(Ord. 2008-5254, passed 5-6-2008
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE II. STOP SIGNS.
   Where stop signs control the right-of-way at an intersection.
   (A)   The following intersection is an all-way, six-way stop intersection:
      Western Avenue and Commercial Avenue and 21st Street.
   (B)   The following intersections are all-way, four-way stop intersections:
FOUR-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS
Street Intersects with
FOUR-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS
Street            Intersects with
Dewitt Avenue     Logan Street
Dewitt Avenue     6th Street
Dewitt Avenue     14th Street
Richmond Avenue   Logan Street
Richmond Avenue   6th Street
Richmond Avenue   10th Street
Richmond Avenue   12th Street
Richmond Avenue   14th Street
Richmond Avenue   15th Street
Western Avenue    32nd Street
Western Avenue    43rd Street
Broadway Avenue   Logan Street
Broadway Avenue   2nd Street
Broadway Avenue   6th Street
Charleston Avenue 21st Street
Marshall Avenue   14th Street
Marion Avenue     25th Street
Oklahoma Avenue   6th Street
Rudy Avenue       9th Street
Rudy Avenue       14th Street
 
   (C)   The following intersections are all-way, three-way stop intersections:
THREE-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS
Street Intersects with
THREE-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS
Street               Intersects with
Prairie Avenue       20th Street
Broadway Avenue      Swords Drive
Broadway Avenue      17th Street
Lafayette Avenue     Logan Street
Walnut Avenue        26th Street
Oak Avenue           30th Street
Richmond Avenue East Holiday Road
Richmond Avenue      21st Street
 
   (D)   The following intersections are two-way stop intersections:
TWO-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS
Street Stops Approaching
TWO-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS
Street            Stops Approaching
Grant Avenue      33rd Street
Washington Avenue 20th Street
Platt Avenue      33rd Street
Moultrie Avenue   6th Street
Moultrie Avenue   10th Street
Moultrie Avenue   12th Street
Moultrie Avenue   15th Street
Moultrie Avenue   19th Street
 
TWO-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS
Street Stops Approaching
TWO-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS
Street            Stops Approaching
Moultrie Avenue   21st Street
Shelby Avenue     6th Street
Shelby Avenue     10th Street
Shelby Avenue     14th Street
Shelby Avenue     15th Street
Shelby Avenue     19th Street
Shelby Avenue     33rd Street
Champaign Avenue  12th Street
Champaign Avenue  14th Street
Chamapign Avenue  15th Street
Champaign Avenue  19th Street
Champaign Avenue  21st Street
Richmond Avenue   33rd Street
Prairie Avenue    10th Street
Prairie Avenue    19th Street
Prairie Avenue    21st Street
Prairie Avenue    27th Street
Prairie Avenue    32nd Street
Prairie Avenue    33rd Street
Prairie Avenue    34th Street
Broadway Avenue   21st Street
Broadway Avenue   24th Street
Pine Avenue       27th Street
Commercial Avenue 27th Street
Wabash Avenue     6th Street
Wabash Avenue     16th Street
Wabash Avenue     17th Street
Lafayette Avenue  6th Street
Lafayette Avenue  Lake Land Blvd
 
TWO-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS
Street Stops Approaching
TWO-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS
Street        Stops Approaching
Edgar Avenue  9th Street
Edgar Avenue  14th Street
Edgar Avenue  15th Street
Edgar Avenue  16th Street
Edgar Avenue  17th Street
Marion Avenue 6th Street
Marion Avenue 16th Street
Marion Avenue 17th Street
Marion Avenue Lake Land Blvd
Marion Avenue 22nd Street
Marion Avenue 23rd Street
Marion Avenue 24th Street
Marion Avenue 26th Street
Marion Avenue 27th Street
Marion Avenue 30th Street
Marion Avenue 33rd Street
Walnut Avenue Lake Land Blvd
Walnut Avenue 27th Street
Walnut Avenue 30th Street
Oak Avenue    14th Street
Oak Avenue    Lake Land Blvd
Oak Avenue    19th Street
Maple Avenue  14th Street
Maple Avenue  Lake Land Blvd
Maple Avenue  19th Street
Dakota Avenue Lake Land Blvd
 
TWO-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS
Street Stops Approaching
TWO-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS
Street              Stops Approaching
Essex Avenue        Lake Land Blvd
Essex Avenue        27th Street
Oklahoma Avenue     9th Street
Oklahoma Avenue     Lake Land Blvd
Olive Avenue        17th Street
Olive Avenue        Lake Land Blvd
Bell Avenue         12th Street
Bell Avenue         14th Street
Annis Avenue        12th Street
Annis Avenue        14th Street
Stinson Avenue      12th Street
Stinson Avenue      14th Street
Warren Avenue       17th Street
2nd Division Street Dewitt Avenue
Division Street     Dewitt Avenue
Division Street     Richmond Avenue
Division Street     Prairie Avenue
1st Street          Dewitt Avenue
1st Street          Richmond Avenue
1st Street          Broadway Avenue
1st Street          Charleston Avenue
2nd Street          Dewitt Avenue
2nd Street          Richmond Avenue
2nd Street          Broadway Avenue
3rd Street          Dewitt Avenue
4th Street          Dewitt Avenue
4th Street          Illinois Avenue
5th Street          Dewitt Avenue
 
TWO-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS
Street Stops Approaching
TWO-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS
Street      Stops Approaching
5th Street  Lafayette Avenue
6th Street  Illinois Avenue
7th Street  Dewitt Avenue
7th Street  Broadway Avenue
7th Street  Charleston Avenue
7th Street  Marshall Avenue
8th Street  Dewitt Avenue
8th Street  Broadway Avenue
8th Street  Marshall Avenue
9th Street  Dewitt Avenue
9th Street  Broadway Avenue
10th Street Dewitt Avenue
10th Street Broadway Avenue
10th Street Charleston Avenue
10th Street Wabash Avenue
10th Street Lafayette Avenue
11th Street Dewitt Avenue
11th Street Richmond Avenue
11th Street Broadway Avenue
11th Street Charleston Avenue
12th Street Broadway Avenue
12th Street Charleston Avenue
12th Street Dewitt Avenue
12th Street Wabash Avenue
12th Street Lafayette Avenue
12th Street Marshall Avenue
12th Street Rudy Avenue
13th Street Dewitt Avenue
13th Street Broadway Avenue
13th Street Charleston Avenue
 
TWO-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS
Street Stops Approaching
TWO-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS
Street      Stops Approaching
13th Street Lafayette Avenue
13th Street Marshall Avenue
15th Street Wabash Avenue
15th Street Lafayette Avenue
15th Street Marshall Avenue
16th Street Richmond Avenue
16th Street Lafayette Avenue
16th Street Marshall Avenue
17th Street Dewitt Avenue
17th Street Warren Avenue
17th Street Marshall Avenue
18th Street Dewitt Avenue
18th Street Richmond Avenue
20th Street Dewitt Avenue
20th Street Champaign Avenue
20th Street Richmond Avenue
21st Street Dewitt Avenue
22nd Street Dewitt Avenue
22nd Street Moultrie Avenue
22nd Street Shelby Avenue
22nd Street Champaign Avenue
22nd Street Richmond Avenue
22nd Street Western Avenue
22nd Street Prairie Avenue
23rd Street Dewitt Avenue
23rd Street Western Avenue
23rd Street Marshall Avenue
24th Street Dewitt Avenue
 
TWO-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS
Street Stops Approaching
TWO-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS
Street         Stops Approaching
24th Street    Charleston Avenue
24th Street    Marshall Avenue
25th Street    Dewitt Avenue
25th Street    Western Avenue
25th Street    Marshall Avenue
26th Street    Dewitt Avenue
26th Street    Western Avenue
26th Street    Marshall Avenue
27th Street    Dewitt Avenue
27th Street    Marshall Avenue
27th Street    Western Avenue
28th Street    Dewitt Avenue
28th Street    Marshall Avenue
28th Street    Marion Avenue
29th Street    Dewitt Avenue
29th Street    Western Avenue
29th Street    Marshall Avenue
30th Street    Dewitt Avenue
30th Street    Western Avenue
31st Street    Dewitt Avenue
31st Street    Western Avenue
32nd Street    Dewitt Avenue
32nd Street    Marshall Avenue
32nd Street    Marion Avenue
33rd Street    Dewittt Avenue
33rd Street    Marshall Avenue
34th Street    Western Avenue
35th Street    Marshall Avenue
43rd Street    State Route 121
Remington Road Swords Drive
 
   (E)   The following intersections are one-way stop intersections:
ONE-WAY STOP INTERSECTION
Street Stops Approaching Direction
ONE-WAY STOP INTERSECTION
Street            Stops Approaching Direction
Evergreen Court   19th Street       from the west
Fort Worth Way    Swords Drive      from the east
Hayes Avenue      State Route 45    from the west
Hayes Avenue      33rd Street       from the east
Douglas Avenue    19th Street       from the west
Grant Avenue      State Route 45    from the west
Remington Road    Dettro Drive      from the east
Washington Avenue State Route 45    from the west
Washington Avenue 19th Street       from the west
Washington Avenue 29th Street       from the west
Piatt Avenue      State Route 45    from the west
Moultrie Avenue   Logan Street      from the west
Moultrie Avenue   27th Street       from the west
Moultrie Avenue   33rd Street       from the west
Shelby Avenue     Logan Street      from the west
Shelby Avenue     12th Street       from the east
Shelby Avenue     13th Street       from the west
Shelby Avenue     21st Street       from the east
Shelby Avenue     27th Street       from the east
Samsa Road        Lerna Road        from the east
Swords Drive      Remington Road    from the north
Buxton Road       Lerna Road        from the east
Champaign Avenue  10th Street       from the west
Champaign Avenue  27th Street       from the west
Champaign Avenue  33rd Street       from the west
Richmond Avenue   35th Street       from the east
Western Heights   43rd Street       from the east
Prairie Avenue    Logan Street      from the west
 
ONE-WAY STOP INTERSECTION
Street Stops Approaching Direction
ONE-WAY STOP INTERSECTION
Street                Stops Approaching Direction
Prairie Avenue        2nd Street        from the east
Pine Avenue           32nd Street       from the east
Cedar Avenue          32nd Street       from the east
West Park Plaza       Park Street       from the west
Chestnut Avenue       Park Street       from the east
Commercial Avenue     32nd Street       from the east
Wabash Avenue         Logan Street      from the west
Wabash Avenue         6th Street        from the east
Wabash Avenue         9th Street        from the east
Wabash Avenue         14th Street       from the east
Wabash Avenue         Lake Land Blvd    from the east
Wabash Avenue         21st Street       from the east
Hurst Drive           Miller Drive      from the west
Hurst Drive           Lerna Road        from the east
Thomason Drive        Lerna Road        from the east
LaFayette Avenue East Odd Fellow Road   from the east
Lafayette Avenue      9th Street        from the west
Lafayette Avenue      14th Street       from the west
Lafayette Avenue      17th Street       from the west
Broadway Avenue       32nd Street       from the west
Edgar Avenue          Lake Land Blvd    from the east
Edgar Avenue          6th Street        from the west
Marshall Avenue       6th Street        from the west
Marion Avenue         9th Street        from the east
Marion Avenue         14th Street       from the west
Marion Avenue         16th Street       from the west
Marion Avenue         19th Street       from the east
 
ONE-WAY STOP INTERSECTION
Street Stops Approaching Direction
ONE-WAY STOP INTERSECTION
Street          Stops Approaching Direction
Walnut Avenue   14th Street       from the west
Walnut Avenue   19th Street       from the east
Walnut Avenue   33rd Street       from the east
Lincoln Avenue  9th Street        from the east
Oak Avenue      27th Street       from the west
Williams Court  9th Street        from the east
Dakota Avenue   6th Street        from the west
Dakota Avenue   9thStreet         from the east
Dakota Avenue   14th Street       from the west
Dakota Avenue   19th Street       from the east
Dakota Avenue   27th Street       from the east
Essex Avenue    6th Street        from the east
Essex Avenue    14th Street       from the west
Essex Avenue    19th Street       from the east
Oklahoma Avenue 14th Street       from the west
Oklahoma Avenue 19th Street       from the east
Olive Avenue    14th Street       from the west
Olive Avenue    19th Street       from the east
Rudy Avenue     19th Street       from the east
Bell Avenue     9th Street        from the west
Bell Avenue     17th Street       from the east
Annis Avenue    9th Street        from the west
Stinson Avenue  9th Street        from the west
Stinson Avenue  17th Street       from the east
Wright Avenue   17th Street       from the west
Wright Avenue   Lake Land Blvd    from the east
 
ONE-WAY STOP INTERSECTION
Street Stops Approaching Direction
ONE-WAY STOP INTERSECTION
Street              Stops Approaching     Direction
South l9th Street   State Route 45        from the west
Miller Road         State Route 16        from the south
McFall Road         Broadway Avenue East  from the north
Dettro Drive        Country Club Road     from the north
Platt Avenue        Dewitt Avenue         from the north
Odd Fellow Road     LaFayette Avenue East from the south
Crestview Drive     LaFayette Avenue East from the north
Crestview           Crestview Drive       from the north
Holiday Road        Broadway Avenue East  from the north
Maj.Gen Phipps Road Richmond Avenue East  from the south
Maj.Gen Phipps Road Broadway Avenue East  from the north
Logan Street        Platt Avenue          from the south
2nd Division Street Platt Avenue          from the south
1st Division Street Piatt Avenue          from the south
Division Street     Broadway Avenue       from the north
1st Street          Piatt Avenue          from the south
2nd Street          Platt Avenue          from the south
2nd Street          Charleston Avenue     from the north
2nd Street          Oklahoma Avenue       from the south
3rd Street          Platt Avenue          from the south
3rd Street          Richmond Avenue       from the north
3rd Street          Charleston Avenue     from the north
Elm Ridge           Lafayette Avenue      from the south
4th Street          Platt Avenue          from the south
4th Street          Broadway Avenue       from the south
4th Street          Lafayette Avenue      from the north
5th Street          Platt Avenue          from the south
 
ONE-WAY STOP INTERSECTION
Street Stops Approaching Direction
ONE-WAY STOP INTERSECTION
Street          Stops Approaching Direction
5th Place       Marion Avenue     from the south
5th Street      Oklahoma Avenue   from the south
5th Street      Illinois Avenue   from the north
6th Street      County Highway 18 from the south
6th Street      Piatt Avenue      from the north
6th Street      Woodlawn Avenue   from the north
7th Street      Richmond Avenue   from the south
Illinois Avenue Oklahoma Avenue   from the south
8th Street      Richmond Avenue   from the south
Woodlawn Avenue Oklahoma Avenue   from the south
9th Street      Richmond Avenue   from the south
9th Street      Old State Road    from the north
10th Street     Marshall Avenue   from the north
11th Street     Marshall Avenue   from the north
14th Street     Platt Avenue      from the south
14th Street     Old State Road    from the south
15th Street     Dewitt Avenue     from the south
16th Street     Platt Avenue      from the north
17th Street     Champaign Avenue  from the north
17th Street     Rudy Avenue       from the south
19th Street     Marshall Avenue   from the south
Kinsel Road     Marshall Avenue   from the south
22nd Street     Charleston Avenue from the south
22nd Street     Marshall Avenue   from the south
23rd Street     Charleston Avenue from the south
30th Street     Marshall Avenue   from the south
 
ONE-WAY STOP INTERSECTION
Street Stops Approaching Direction
ONE-WAY STOP INTERSECTION
Street                      Stops Approaching Direction
34th Street                 Marshall Avenue   from the south
36th Street                 Marshall Avenue   from the south
Powell Lane                 State Route 121   from the north
El Rancho Drive             Western Avenue    from the south
Noyes Court                 Western Avenue    from the north
Melody Lane                 Western Avenue    from the south
Arbor Lane                  Briar Lane        from the east
Arbor Drive                 Arbor Lane        from the north
Arbor Drive                 Briar Lane        from the east
Westview Drive              Western Avenue    from the north
Briar Lane                  State Route 16    from the north
Country Gardens East        Western Avenue    from the north
Country Gardens West        Western Avenue    from the north
Western Heights             Western Avenue    from the north
43rd Street                 State Route 16    from the north
South 19th Street Spur Road 19th Street       from the south
17th Street                 Broadway Avenue   from the south
Wooddell Way                Dettro Drive      from the east
 
(Ord. 2008-5254, passed 5-6-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-5274, passed 3-17- 2009; Am.
Ord. 2011-5322, passed 6-7-2011; Am. Ord. 2011-5327, passed 10-4-2011; Am. Ord.
2012-5357, passed 8-7-2012; Am. Ord. 2021-5436, passed 1-19-2021; Am. Ord.
2024-5483, passed 11-5-2024)
SCHEDULE III. YIELD SIGNS.
   Where yield signs control the right of way at an intersection. The following
intersections are yield intersections:
YIELD INTERSECTIONS
Street Yields approaching
YIELD INTERSECTIONS
Street        Yields approaching
Hayes Avenue  11th Street
Grant Avenue  20th Street
Platt Avenue  12th Street
Platt Avenue  13th Street
Shelby Avenue 34th Street
Oak Avenue    17th Street
Maple Avenue  17th Street
Dakota Avenue 17th Street
7th Street    Platt Avenue
8th Street    Platt Avenue
34th Street   Platt Avenue
5th Street    Moultrie Avenue
4th Street    Moultrie Avenue
24th Street   Moultrie Avenue
20th Street   Shelby Avenue
24th Street   Shelby Avenue
18th Street   Champaign Avenue
24th Street   Champaign Avenue
32nd Street   Champaign Avenue
8th Street    Prairie Avenue
9th Street    Prairie Avenue
11th Street   Prairie Avenue
23rd Street   Prairie Avenue
25th Street   Prairie Avenue
26th Street   Prairie Avenue
 
YIELD INTERSECTIONS
Street Yields approaching
YIELD INTERSECTIONS
Street           Yields approaching
30th Street      Prairie Avenue
31st Street      Prairie Avenue
Briar Lane       Melody Lane
Hickory lane     Melody Lane
Lafayette Avenue Charleston Avenue
Pine Avenue      Commercial Avenue
Cedar Avenue     Commercial Avenue
Division Street  Wabash Avenue
1st Street       Wabash Avenue
2nd Street       Wabash Avenue
3rd Street       Wabash Avenue
4th Street       Wabash Avenue
10th Street      Edgar Avenue
13th Street      Edgar Avenue
8th Street       Marion Avenue
31st Street      Marion Avenue
34th Street      Marion Avenue
35th Street      Marion Avenue
Swords Drive     Roundabout
Wooddell Way     Roundabout
 
(Ord. 2008-5254, passed 5-6-2008; Am. Ord. 2024-5483, passed 11-5-2024)
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Section
   
I.   No parking on certain streets
   
II.   Diagonal parking
   
III.   Parking prohibited during certain times
   IV.   Two hour parking
   V.   Thirty minute parking
SCHEDULE I. NO PARKING ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   (A)   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, parking is hereby
prohibited at all times at the following locations:
NO PARKING
STREET FROM TO SIDE ORD. NO. DATE
NO PARKING
STREET        FROM              TO                SIDE      ORD. NO.  DATE
McFall Road   North terminus    Broadway Avenue   East/west 2004-5189 9-7-2004
                                East
Swords Drive  Broadway Avenue   Remington Road    East/west 2004-5189 9-7-2004
              East
Dettro Drive  State Route 16    Country Club Road East/west 2004-5189 9-7-2004
Holiday Road  North terminus    Broadway Avenue   East/west 2004-5189 9-7-2004
                                East
Major General Richmond Avenue   Broadway Avenue   East/west 2004-5189 9-7-2004
Phipps        East              East
Logan Street  Dewitt Avenue     Lafayette Avenue  East/west 2004-5189 9-7-2004
6th Street    County Highway 18 Marshall Avenue   East/west 2004-5189 9-7-2004
10th Street   Dewitt Avenue     Broadway Avenue   East/west 2004-5189 9-7-2004
12th Street   Dewitt Avenue     Charleston Avenue East/west 2004-5189 9-7-2004
14th Street   Charleston Avenue Marshall Avenue   East/west 2004-5189 9-7-2004
15th Street   Richmond Avenue   Entrance of Post  East/west 2004-5189 9-7-2004
                                Office
15th Street   Marshall Avenue   Alley south of    East/west 2004-5189 9-7-2004
                                Marshall Avenue
Lake Land     Charleston Avenue South city limit  East/west 2004-5189 9-7-2004
Boulevard
19th Street   Dewitt Avenue     Charleston Avenue East/west 2004-5189 9-7-2004
19th Street   North city limit  Washington Avenue East/west 2004-5189 9-7-2004
South 19th    South terminus of North 250 feet    East/west 2004-5181 6-15-04
Street        the 2700 block
21st Street   Broadway Avenue   Marshall Avenue   East/west 2004-5189 9-7-2004
25th Street   Marion Avenue     Walnut Avenue     East/west 2004-5189 9-7-2004
 
NO PARKING
STREET FROM TO SIDE ORD. NO. DATE
NO PARKING
STREET          FROM            TO               SIDE        ORD. NO.  DATE
26th Street     Marion Avenue   Walnut Avenue    East/west   2004-5189 9-7-2004
27th Street     Marshall Avenue South to high    East/west   2004-5189 9-7-2004
                                school
27th Street     Pine Avenue     Charleston       East/west   2004-5189 9-7-2004
                                Avenue
33rd Street     North city      Western Avenue   East/west   2004-5189 9-7-2004
                limit
33rd Street     Marshall Avenue South city limit East/west   2004-5189 9-7-2004
6th Street      Marshall Avenue Oklahoma Avenue  East        2004-5189 9-7-2004
14th Street     Marshall Avenue Rudy Avenue      East        2004-5189 9-7-2004
15th Street     Wabash Avenue   Edgar Avenue     East        2004-5189 9-7-2004
16th Street     Charleston      Marshall Avenue  East        2004-5189 9-7-2004
                Avenue
21st Street     Richmond Avenue Western Avenue   East        2004-5189 9-7-2004
12th Street     Hayes Avenue    Dewitt Avenue    West        2004-5189 9-7-2004
17th Street     Shelby Avenue   Champaign Avenue West        2004-5189 9-7-2004
21st Street     Marion Avenue   South terminus   West        2004-5189 9-7-2004
22nd Street     Marion Avenue   South terminus   West        2004-5189 9-7-2004
32nd Street     Dewitt Avenue   Moultrie Avenue  West        2004-5189 9-7-2004
Dewitt Avenue   East city limit West city limit  North/south 2004-5189 9-7-2004
Champaign       Bridge over     19th Street      North/south 2004-5189 9-7-2004
Avenue          CNIC RR
Richmond Avenue Logan Street    Entrance to City North/south 2004-5189 9-7-2004
                                Hall
Richmond Avenue Holiday Road    Logan Street     North/south 2004-5189 9-7-2004
East
Broadway Avenue East terminus   Logan Street     North/south 2004-5189 9-7-2004
East
Charleston      East city limit 21st Street      North/south 2004-5189 9-7-2004
Avenue
Lafayette       Logan Street    6th Street       North/south 2004-5189 9-7-2004
Avenue
Lafayette       Odd Fellow Road Logan Street     North/south 2004-5189 9-7-2004
Avenue East
Marshall Avenue 6th Street      West city limit  North/south 2004-5189 9-7-2004
Champaign       14th Street     Bridge over CNIC South       2004-5189 9-7-2004
Avenue                          RR
 
NO PARKING
STREET FROM TO SIDE ORD. NO. DATE
NO PARKING
STREET              FROM              TO             SIDE  ORD. NO.  DATE
Richmond Avenue     Entrance to City  19th Street    South 2004-5189 9-7-2004
                    Hall
Prairie Avenue      20th Street       21st Street    South 2004-5189 9-7-2004
Prairie Avenue      1st Street        2nd Street     South 2004-5189 9-7-2004
Wabash Avenue       14th Street       16th Street    South 2004-5189 9-7-2004
South 19th Street   South 19th Street South 140 feet Both  2004-5184 7-7-04
Spur Road
FAP 91 (State Route FAI 57            Lerna Road           2009-5269 1-20-2009
16)
FAU 7705 (Lerna     State Route 16    550 feet past        2009-5269 1-20-2009
Road)                                 Thomason Drive
Shelby Avenue       Logan Street      10th Street    South 2010-5302 5-4-2010
Prairie Avenue      1st Street        2nd Street     North 2010-5302 5-4-2010
Miller Drive        Route 16          terminus       Both  2010-5302 5-4-2010
Hurst Drive         Miller Drive      Lerna Road     Both  2010-5302 5-4-2010
Thomason Road       Miller Drive      Lerna Road     Both  2010-5302 5-4-2010
 
   (B)   The provisions of this schedule prohibiting parking shall not apply to
emergency vehicles, while the driver thereof is engaged in the performance of
emergency duties, nor shall provisions apply to persons actually engaged in
repairing or otherwise improving the street under authority of the city or
under the authority of the state.
   (C)   The general penalty of §
10.99 shall apply upon conviction.
(Am. Ord. 2009-5281, passed 9-15-2009)
Cross-reference:
   Prohibited parking, see §
72.02
SCHEDULE II. DIAGONAL PARKING.
   Upon the following streets, vehicles shall be parked diagonally to the curb
and within the painted lines upon the surface of the pavement:
 
DIAGONAL PARKING
STREET              LOCATION                               SIDE ORD. NO. DATE
Broadway Avenue     From Fourteenth Street to Nineteenth   Both 3751     —
                    Street
Western Avenue      From Nineteenth Street to Twenty-first Both 3751     —
                    Street
Sixteenth Street    From Broadway north to the New York    Both 3751     —
                    Central Railroad right-of-way
Seventeenth Street  From Broadway Avenue to Wabash Avenue  Both 3751     —
Twenty-first Street From Western Avenue to Prairie Avenue  Both 3751     —
 
('68 Code, § 41.11)
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE III. PARKING PROHIBITED DURING CERTAIN TIMES.
   No parking shall be allowed in the following locations during the hours
indicated:
 
STREET           LOCATION                       HOURS PROHIBITED
                 West side, between and alley
13th Street      on the north and Wabash Avenue Between 7:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.
                 on the south
South 9th Street Both sides of street adjacent  7:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on
                 to mattoon Middle School       school days
 
(Ord. 95-4834, passed 12-19-1995; Am. Ord. 2010-5302, passed 5-4-2010)
SCHEDULE IV. TWO HOUR PARKING.
   (A)   Parking in excess of two hours shall be prohibited at the following
locations:
 
TWO HOUR PARKING
STREET          DESCRIPTION        CROSS STREET SIDE  ORD. NO.  DATE
Broadway Avenue First two non-     East of 17th North 2011-5323 8-16-2011
                handicapped spaces Street
Broadway Avenue First two non-     East of 16th North 2011-5331 11-1-2011
                handicapped spaces Street
 
   (B)   The provisions of this schedule prohibiting parking shall not apply to
emergency vehicles, while the driver thereof is engaged in the performance of
emergency duties, nor shall provisions apply to persons actually engaged in
repairing or otherwise improving the street under authority of the city or
under the authority of the state.
   (C)   The penalty under §
35.01(B)(11) shall apply upon conviction.
(Ord. 2011-5323, passed 8-16-2011; Am. Ord. 2011-5331, passed 11-1-2011)
SCHEDULE V. THIRTY MINUTE PARKING.
   (A)   Parking in excess of 30 minutes shall be prohibited at the following
locations:
 
THIRTY MINUTE PARKING
STREET          DESCRIPTION       CROSS STREET        SIDE  ORD. NO.  DATE
Broadway Avenue Eighth parking    West of 16th Street North 2012-5343 2-17-2012
                space
16th Street     First three       North of Charleston West  2011-5323 8-16-2011
                parking spaces
17th Street     First two parking North of Charleston East  2011-5331 11-1-2011
                spaces
 
   (B)   The provisions of this schedule prohibiting parking shall not apply to
emergency vehicles, while the driver thereof is engaged in the performance of
emergency duties, nor shall provisions apply to persons actually engaged in
repairing or otherwise improving the street under authority of the city or
under the authority of the state.
   (C)   The penalty of §
35.01(B)(11) shall apply upon conviction.
(Ord. 2011-5323, passed 8-16-2011; Am. Ord. 2011-5331, passed 11-1-2011; Am.
Ord. 2012-5343, passed 2-7-2012)
CHAPTER 76: GOLF CARTS
Section
   
76.01   Operation of golf carts; streets and alleys
   
76.02   Required equipment on golf carts
   
76.03   City permit; annual fee
   
76.04   Mandatory insurance
   
76.05   Release of liability
   
76.06   Permit revocation
 
   
76.99   Penalty
§ 76.01 OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS; STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)    Definition. For purposes of this chapter, the term “golf cart” shall
have the same meaning as that term is defined in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-
123.9, Illinois Vehicle Code.
   (B)   Policy statement. The City of Mattoon, in passing this chapter is not
advocating or endorsing the use of golf carts on city streets. Other means of
transportation may be safer than a golf cart. All persons who operate golf
carts within the city do so at their own risk and peril. In passing this
section, the city does not accept any level of liability for accidents,
collisions, injuries or death, or destruction of property. In passing this
section, the city is merely regulating the use of golf carts on city streets,
as invited by the law of the State of Illinois, in an attempt to increase
safety on city streets.
   (C)   Subject to the requirements and regulations of this chapter, golf
carts may be operated on all city roads, streets, and alleys not marked as RED
as depicted on the map attached as Exhibit A to Ord. 2025-5497, on file with
the City Clerk and adopted herein by reference, which are under the
jurisdiction and control of the City of Mattoon, Illinois, and where the posted
speed limit is 30 miles per hour or less. No person shall operate a golf cart
on streets and alleys where the posted speed limit is higher than 30 miles per
hour, on bike trails or sidewalks, or on streets and alleys marked as not
allowed on the map attached as Exhibit A to Ord. 2025-5497, on file with the
City Clerk. Operators are permitted to make a direct crossing in a
perpendicular manner on those intersections depicted as BLUE circled crossing
locations on the map attached as Exhibit A to Ord. 2025-5497, on file with the
City Clerk, and listed as follows. Approved crossing locations are:
      (1)   Intersection of Marshall Avenue and 26th Street;
      (2)   Lake Land Boulevard (also known as South Route 45/U.S. Route 121)
and Rudy Avenue;
      (3)   South 9th Street and Oklahoma Avenue;
      (4)   South 9th Street and Marshall Avenue;
      (5)   IL-16 (also known as Charleston Avenue) and 15th Street;
      (6)   19th Street (also known as U.S. Route 121/U.S. 45) and Richmond
Avenue;
      (7)   Richmond Avenue and Logan Street; and
      (8)   Dewitt Avenue and 10th Street.
   (D)   Golf carts shall be operated in the same direction as traffic.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to operate or park a golf cart on any sidewalks,
bike paths, multi-use paths, or other locations within the corporate limits of
the City of Mattoon, Illinois, except as permitted by this chapter or on
private property.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful to operate a golf cart on unimproved alleys when
wet or muddy when damage to the alleyway could occur.
(Ord. 2025-5497, passed 6-17-2025)
§ 76.02 REQUIRED EQUIPMENT ON GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   No golf cart shall be operated on any street or roadway under the
jurisdiction and control of the City of Mattoon, Illinois, unless the golf cart
is equipped with the following equipment that must be kept in good working
condition at all times:
      (1)   Brakes;
      (2)   Steering apparatus;
      (3)   Tires;
      (4)   A rear view mirror;
      (5)   A red reflectorized warning device (e.g., red reflective tape or
emblem) on the front and rear of the golf cart;
      (6)   A triangular slow- moving emblem as required by ILCS Ch. 625, Act
5, § 12-709 attached to the rear of the golf cart;
      (7)   A headlight that emits white light visible from at least 500 feet
to the front of the golf cart;
      (8)   A tail lamp that emits red light visible from at least 100 feet
from the rear of the golf cart;
      (9)   Brake lights on the rear of the golf cart;
      (10)   Turn signals on the front and rear of the golf cart; and
      (11)   Seat belts for all occupants.
   (B)   Lights. No golf cart shall be operated on the streets and alleys under
the jurisdiction and control of the City of Mattoon, Illinois, unless such golf
cart has its headlights and taillights illuminated at all times.
   (C)   Required seating; passengers. A golf cart may transport only the
number of passengers for which the specific golf cart was designed, every
passenger shall sit in a seat that was installed by the manufacturer of the
golf cart. It shall be unlawful for the operator/driver of the golf cart to
transport passengers unless each passenger is in a seat. It shall also be
unlawful for a passenger who would require a car seat or other similar additive
safety restraint in a traditional motor vehicle to be a passenger of a golf
cart. The operator/driver of the golf cart shall not transport anyone who is
sitting on the lap of a passenger or in any other location except in a seat. No
part of the body of the operator or an occupant shall extend outside the
perimeter of the golf cart while in operation. Furthermore, all occupants in a
golf cart shall remain seated at all times that the golf cart is in operation.
   (D)   Trailers. It shall be unlawful, while operating a golf cart on the
streets and alleys under the jurisdiction and control of the City of Mattoon,
Illinois, to pull a trailer, equipment, or device.
   (E)   Age of operator; license. No person shall operate a golf cart on the
streets and alleys under the jurisdiction and control of the City of Mattoon,
Illinois, unless such operator is at least 18 years of age and holds a valid
motor vehicle driver’s license bearing a photograph verifying the identify and
age of the operator.
   (F)   Speed limit. No person shall operate a golf cart on the streets and
alleys under the jurisdiction and control of the City of Mattoon, Illinois, in
excess of 30 miles per hour.
   (G)    Ordinance and vehicle code obeyance. During the operation of a golf
cart on any street or alley under the jurisdiction and control of the City of
Mattoon, Illinois, the operator of such golf cart shall obey all applicable
rules, regulations, and ordinances of the City of Mattoon, Illinois, and the
provisions of the Illinois Vehicle Code, ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-100 et
seq., as amended from time to time. A person operating or who is in actual
physical control of a golf cart or as described herein on any city street or
other roadway while under the influence is subject to ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§
11-500 through 11-502.
(Ord. 2025-5497, passed 6-17-2025)
§ 76.03 CITY PERMIT; ANNUAL FEE.
   (A)   No golf cart shall be operated on the streets and alleys under the
jurisdiction and control of the City of Mattoon, unless said golf cart is first
permitted by the City of Mattoon, Illinois.
   (B)   A person desiring to operate a golf cart on the streets and alleys
under the jurisdiction and control of the City of Mattoon, Illinois, shall make
application for a golf cart permit with the Police Chief of the City of
Mattoon, Illinois, or his or her designee, on forms provided by the city, and
shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant;
      (2)   Name of liability insurance carrier;
      (3)   The serial number, make, model, and description of the golf cart;
      (4)   Signed unconditional and full general release of liability, waiver,
discharge, and covenant not to sue by applicant and any other person who will
operate the golf cart. This shall include releasing the city and agreeing to
defend, indemnify and hold the city harmless from any and all future claims
resulting from the operation of their golf carts on city streets relating to
the golf cart owned or operated by the applicant;
      (5)   Photocopy of applicable liability insurance coverage card
specifically for the vehicle to be operated pursuant to the permit; and
      (6)   Such other information as the city may require.
   (C)   No permit shall be granted unless the applicant's place of domicile is
located within the corporate limits of the City of Mattoon, Illinois.
   (D)   (1)   Prior to the issuance and/or renewal of a golf cart permit
pursuant to this section, any person applying for a golf cart permit pursuant
to this section shall pay an annual fee of $150 to the City of Mattoon,
Illinois based on a calendar year from January 1 to December 31.
      (2)   If the golf cart permit is obtained or renewed after July 1, the
fee shall be $75 through December 31. Furthermore, prior to the issuance and/or
renewal of a golf cart permit, an applicant shall also present the golf cart to
the Police Department of the City of Mattoon, Illinois, or his or her designee,
for an inspection to determine whether the golf cart complies with the
provisions of this chapter and may be operated on the streets and alleys under
the jurisdiction and control of the City of Mattoon, Illinois. If an officer
with the Police Department of the City of Mattoon, Illinois, or his or her
designee determines that the applicant and the golf cart comply with the
provisions of this chapter, then the Police Chief, or his or her designee shall
issue a permit to the applicant.
   (E)   The permit shall be in that form as attached as Exhibit B to Ord.
2025-5497, on file with the City Clerk and adopted herein by reference. The
permit, if issued, shall be valid until the 31st day of December following
issuance.
   (F)   A copy of the permit, as well as proof of required insurance, shall
always be maintained in the golf cart during operation. The permit sticker
shall be displayed on the triangular slow-moving emblem attached to the golf
cart.
(Ord. 2025-5497, passed 6-17-2025)
§ 76.04 MANDATORY INSURANCE.
   No person shall operate a golf cart on the streets and alleys under the
jurisdiction and control of the City of Mattoon, Illinois, unless:
   (A)   The golf cart is covered by a liability insurance policy as required
under ILCS Ch. 625, Act. 5, § 7-601; and
   (B)   Every operator of golf cart shall carry with the golf cart evidence of
insurance as required by ILCS Ch. 625, Act. 5, § 7-602.
(Ord. 2025-5497, passed 6-17-2025)
§ 76.05 RELEASE OF LIABILITY.
   No person shall operate a golf cart on the streets and alleys under the
jurisdiction and control of the City of Mattoon, Illinois, unless that person
has executed an unconditional and full general release of liability, waiver,
discharge, and covenant not to sue and filed the same with the Police
Department of the City of Mattoon, Illinois. The unconditional and full general
release of liability, waiver, discharge, and covenant not to sue shall be in
that form as attached as Exhibit C to Ord. 2025-5497, on file with the City
Clerk and adopted herein by reference.
(Ord. 2025-5497, passed 6-17-2025)
§ 76.06 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   (A)   The permit issued pursuant to §
76.03 may be revoked by the Police Chief of the City of Mattoon, Illinois, or
his or her designee, if:
      (1)   There is any material misrepresentation made by the applicant on
the application;
      (2)   The liability insurance required by §
76.04 is no longer in full force and effect; or
      (3)   There is evidence, as determined in the sole discretion of the
Chief of Police of the City of Mattoon, Illinois, or his or her designee, that
the permit holder can no longer safely operate the golf cart.
   (B)   The Chief of Police of the City of Mattoon, Illinois, or his or her
designee, shall issue a notice of revocation of a permit in writing and either
hand deliver the notice to the permit holder, or send the notice by certified
mail, return receipt required, to the permit holder at the address on the
application. The revocation of the permit shall be effective immediately after
personal service, or on the third day after the postmark of the certified mail.
In the event of revocation of a permit, the permit holder shall not be entitled
to the return of any portion of the annual fee.
(Ord. 2025-5497, passed 6-17-2025)
§ 76.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or who aids or
abets the violation of any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a petty
offense punishable by a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $750. In
addition to any fine, the city may seek injunctive and declaratory relief
directing the violator(s) to cure the violation, and the city may revoke any
permit authorized and issued pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   A separate offense shall be deemed to be committed on each day during
or on which a violation of any provision of this chapter occurs or continues.
   (C)   Any second or subsequent offense of any provision of this chapter
shall result in the revocation of the golf cart permit for a period of not less
than three years nor more than five years.
(Ord. 2025-5497, passed 6-17-2025)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
90.   ANIMALS
   
91.   CEMETERIES
   
92.   FIRE PREVENTION; FIREWORKS
   
93.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
   
94.   NOISE CONTROL
   
95.   NUISANCES
   
96.   PUBLIC LIBRARY
   
97.   RAILROADS
   
98.   RESERVOIR CONTROL
      
EXHIBIT A
      
EXHIBIT B
      
EXHIBIT C
   
99.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   
100.   SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS
   
101.   PARKS
   
102.   OBSCENITY
   
103.   FAIR HOUSING
   
104.   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Keeping animals
   
90.02   Animals running at large
   
90.03   Cruelty to animals
   
90.04   Noisy animals
   
90.05   Animals in hotels and motels restricted
   
90.06   Animals pens
Dogs and Cats
   
90.20   License; tag
   
90.21   Dogs and cats at large
   
90.22   Dangerous, noisy and running at large dogs and cats
   
90.23   Impoundment
   
90.24   Redemption of impounded dogs
   
90.25   Biting animals
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 KEEPING ANIMALS.
   No person shall keep any cattle, sheep, goats, swine, geese, chickens,
ducks, rabbits, ponies, horses or other domestic fowl on any premises within
the city.
('68 Code, § 14.08) (Ord. 4331, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 95-4832, passed 11-21-
1995; Am. Ord. 2001-5050, passed 2-6-2001)
§ 90.02 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   No person shall permit any animal under his or her control to run at large
in the city.
('68 Code, § 14.09) (Am. Ord. 95-4832, passed 11-21-1995; Am. Ord. 2001-5050,
passed 2-6-2001)
§ 90.03 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   No person shall cruelly or unnecessarily beat, abuse or otherwise maltreat
any animal; or shall fail to provide any animal owned or kept by him or her
with proper and necessary food, drink and shelter.
('68 Code, § 14.10) (Am. Ord. 95-4832, passed 11-21-1995; Am. Ord. 2001-5050,
passed 2-6-2001)
§ 90.04 NOISY ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful to harbor or keep any animal which disturbs the peace
by loud noises at any time of the day or night.
('68 Code, § 14.11) (Ord. 4250, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 95-4832, passed 11-21-
1995; Am. Ord. 2001-5050, passed 2-6-2001)
§ 90.05 ANIMALS IN HOTELS AND MOTELS RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any motel, hotel or other place of similar public
accommodations to allow any animal to be housed or kept in said premises by
guests of said establishment or otherwise unless written permission is first
obtained from the owner or person in charge of the establishment.
('68 Code, § 14.12) (Ord. 4250, passed - - )
§ 90.06 ANIMAL PENS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or use any yard, pen, place or
premises within the city in or upon which cattle, sheep or swine are confined
or kept, unless such yard or pen is entirely covered with a watertight roof.
('68 Code, § 11.04)
DOGS AND CATS
§ 90.20 LICENSE; TAG.
   (A)   The owner or keeper of a dog within the city shall apply for and
obtain a license for such dog, from such governmental authority as issues such
licenses.
('68 Code, § 14.01)
   (B)   The license tag to be issued to the owner or keeper of a dog shall be
securely attached to the dog, and any dog found within the city not wearing
such license tag shall be impounded and disposed of as hereinafter provided.
('68 Code, § 14.02)
(Ord. 3969, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 95-4832, passed 11-21-1995; Am. Ord. 2001-
5050, passed 2-6-2001)
§ 90.21 DOGS AND CATS AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of a dog or cat to permit the
same to run at large upon any street, alley or public place within the city.
Any dog or cat found so running at large shall be impounded and disposed of as
hereinafter provided.
('68 Code, § 14.03) (Ord. 3969, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 95-4832, passed 11-21-
1995; Am. Ord. 2001-5050, passed 2-6-2001)
§ 90.22 DANGEROUS, NOISY AND RUNNING AT LARGE DOGS AND CATS.
   Any dangerous, fierce, vicious or noisy dog or cat within any place within
the city, whether upon private premises or not, and any dog or cat which unduly
disturbs the peace and quiet of any person or neighborhood within the city, and
any dog or cat that shall bite any person or injure any person, or any dog or
cat that is found running at large contrary to §
90.21, is declared to be a nuisance. Such dog or cat shall be taken up and
impounded in the manner set forth; provided, that any dangerous, fierce or
vicious dog or cat so running at large may, when public safety requires, be
summarily disposed of without having been impounded. The remains of any dog or
cat so summarily disposed of that may have bitten or injured any person shall
be caused to be examined for disease, including rabies.
('68 Code, § 14.04) (Ord. 3969, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 95-4832, passed 11-21-
1995; Am. Ord. 2001-5050, passed 2-6-2001)
§ 90.23 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the agency providing animal impoundment
services and all police officers to take up all dogs and cats running at large
and to otherwise enforce this chapter.
   (B)   The agency providing animal impoundment services shall immediately
upon receiving any dog or cat at the pound enter in a registry kept for that
purpose a description of the dog or cat and whether or not it is licensed. If
licensed, he or she shall enter the name and address of the owner or keeper,
and he or she shall keep a licensed animal separated from unlicensed animals.
Notice shall be given to the registered owner or keeper of any animal known to
be licensed.
('68 Code, § 14.05) (Ord. 3969, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 95-4832, passed 11-21-
1995; Am. Ord. 2001-5050, passed 2-6-2001)
§ 90.24 REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED DOGS.
   (A)   An unlicensed dog impounded may be redeemed by any person within four
days from the date of impounding upon payment to the City Clerk of the annual
license fee and also the sum of $2 for impounding, and the cost of maintaining
such dog while impounded. The Poundmaster shall cause any unlicensed dog not
redeemed within four days to be killed in a humane manner.
   (B)   Licensed dogs may be redeemed by the owner or keeper within four days
from the date of impounding upon payment of $2 for impounding, and the cost of
maintaining such dog while impounded. If such licensed dog is not redeemed
within four days by the owner or keeper of the dog, such dog may be redeemed by
any person within seven days after the date of impounding upon payment of $2
for impounding, and the cost of maintaining such dog while impounded. The
Poundmaster shall cause any such dog not redeemed within seven days as herein
provided to be killed in a humane manner.
('68 Code, § 14.06) (Ord. 3969, passed - - )
§ 90.25 BITING ANIMALS.
   Any animal which shall bite any person or injure any person shall be kept
under observation of a licensed veterinarian for a period of ten days, and the
veterinarian shall at the end of the ten-day period make a written report to
the City Health Officer and should the animal show evidence of rabies, then it
shall be killed in a humane manner. In the event the animal is pronounced free
from rabies by the veterinarian, the animal may be released to the owner or
keeper upon payment of the veterinarian's fees and all costs involved in the
maintenance of such animal and also the annual license fee for any such
unlicensed animal. If the owner or keeper does not claim and accept the animal
at the end of such two-week period, any person may redeem the animal by making
like payment. If the animal is not claimed as set forth herein, the animal
shall be killed in a humane manner. In any event, the owner or keeper of any
such animal shall pay the veterinarian's fees.
('68 Code, § 14.07) (Ord. 3969, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 95-4832, passed 11-21-
1995; Am. Ord. 2001-5050, passed 2-6-2001)
CHAPTER 91: CEMETERIES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Authorized cemeteries
   
91.02   Cemetery permits
   
91.03   Burials in cemeteries
   
91.04   Burial permits
   
91.05   Disorderly conduct prohibited in cemetery
Dodge Grove Cemetery
   
91.20   Description of territory
   
91.21   (Reserved)
   
91.22   (Reserved)
   
91.23   (Reserved)
   
91.24   Powers of Council
   
91.25   Appraisal of cemetery lots
   
91.26   Purchase of cemetery lots
   
91.27   Schedule of cemetery charges
   
91.28   Cemetery lots for transients and paupers
   
91.29   Use of cemetery receipts; general cemetery fund
   
91.30   Perpetual care fund
   
91.31   Principal Cemetery Fund
   
91.32   Mausoleum Fund
   
91.33   Investment of funds
   
91.34   Cemetery donations
   
91.35   Certificate of title and ownership; transfer
   
91.36   Duties of Superintendent; monthly report
   
91.37   Injuring trees and grounds of cemetery prohibited
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 AUTHORIZED CEMETERIES.
   Dodge Grove Cemetery and Calvary Cemetery are recognized and designated as
the only cemeteries duly established and operated within the city in accordance
with the laws of the state and the ordinances of this city.
('68 Code, § 17.01)
§ 91.02 CEMETERY PERMITS.
   (A)   No person, association, or society shall dedicate, establish or
operate any cemetery or ground for the same within the corporate limits of the
city, or within a distance of one mile of the corporate boundaries of the city
without first having procured a permit therefor in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person, association, or society desiring to dedicate, establish or
operate a cemetery or ground to be used for such purposes within the corporate
limits of the city, or within a distance of one mile of the corporate limits of
the city, shall file an application therefor with the City Clerk, which
application shall set forth a plat of the proposed grounds to be dedicated or
used for said purpose, showing the exact location, together with a plat of the
lots as laid out in the proposed cemetery, with a certificate of the owners of
the tract. The application shall be accompanied by all the ordinances, rules
and regulations under which it is proposed to operate the same, and shall also
set forth the plan or means of financing, and a certified copy of the by-laws,
rules and regulations of the organization under which the same is to be
operated.
   (C)   Upon the filing of the application the Council shall set the same for
public hearing and the petitioner shall cause to be given public notice of such
hearing by publication for not less than two successive weeks in the official
newspaper of the city, the first publication to be not less than two weeks
prior to the time of the hearing. In addition to the foregoing notice there
shall also be posted a notice of the hearing in at least one public place in
the city. The notices shall state the time and place of the hearing, the
purpose of the hearing and a description of the property proposed to be
dedicated to cemetery purposes.
   (D)   At such hearing all interested persons may be heard, and a transcript
of the testimony shall be taken and filed with the City Clerk. The petitioners
shall be required to show the necessity for the establishment of such proposed
cemetery and that the location is such as will not be unreasonably detrimental
or injurious to the peace and happiness of those living in the vicinity
thereof, and that it will not irreparably damage the property in the immediate
vicinity of the proposed location.
   (E)   Upon the completion of the hearing the Council shall either grant or
deny the prayer of the petition, or may take same under advisement for a period
not to exceed 30 days, after which it shall either grant or deny the prayer of
the petition.
('68 Code, § 17.02) (Ord. 3598, passed - - )
§ 91.03 BURIALS IN CEMETERIES.
   No burial permit shall be granted for the interment of any person within any
cemetery within the corporate limits of the city, or within a distance of one
mile beyond the corporate limits of the city, unless such permit is for
interment in a cemetery established under and pursuant to the resolutions and
ordinances of the city.
('68 Code, § 17.03)
§ 91.04 BURIAL PERMITS.
   (A)   No burial or interment of any person shall take place in and from the
city, nor in any cemetery within the corporate limits of the city or within the
control of the city, nor shall the dead body of any person be removed from the
city, without a permit for such burial or removal from the City Health Officer
and City Clerk. Such permit shall be turned over to the Superintendent of the
cemetery by the person procuring it.
   (B)   A burial permit shall be issued only after the death certificate is
filed with the City Clerk.
('68 Code, § 17.20)
§ 91.05 DISORDERLY CONDUCT PROHIBITED IN CEMETERY.
   No person shall, within a cemetery, be guilty of any indecent or insulting
language, nor disturb the quiet of or injure the feelings of any persons
visiting the cemetery.
('68 Code, § 17.22)
DODGE GROVE CEMETERY
§ 91.20 DESCRIPTION OF TERRITORY.
   (A)   Area. Dodge Grove Cemetery, covering the following described area, to-
wit: The northeast quarter of the southwest quarter of southeast quarter and
the southeast quarter of northwest quarter of southeast quarter and the
southwest quarter of northeast quarter of southeast quarter and the northwest
quarter of southeast quarter of southeast quarter, also the north one-half of
the west one-half of the southwest quarter of the southeast quarter; also
beginning at a stake on the west line of the southeast quarter of the southeast
quarter of Section 11, Town 12, Range 7, being center of said west line, thence
east 316 feet, thence south 128 feet and 6 inches, thence west 316 feet, thence
north 128 feet and 6 inches to the place of beginning, except 45 feet of even
width entire length off north side of said tract last described; also beginning
at a point 128 feet and 6 inches south of stake set in the center line of the
west line of the southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 11,
Township 12 north, Range 7 east and running thence east 316 feet more or less,
thence south 128 feet and 6 inches more or less, thence west 316 feet more or
less and thence north 128 feet and 6 inches more or less to the place of
beginning except 60 feet of even width entire length, off of the south side of
the last above described tract; all of the foregoing premises being situated in
Section 11, Town 12 north, Range 7 east, of the third principal meridian, is
hereby dedicated and appropriated for the purpose of a public burying ground
for the use of the city, and the map or plat of the subdivisions of said
premises as placed on file in the City Clerk's office and recorded in the
office of the Clerk of the Circuit Court within and for the county are
confirmed and all the alleys and avenues therein delineated are reserved for
cemetery purposes.
   (B)   Vacation of streets; replatting. A strip of ground 25 feet in width,
east and west, and 532 feet in length, north and south, and lying east of
Division 1 and Division J of Section 7, and Division K and L of Section 6, and
west of Divisions A and D of Section 7 and Divisions A and D of Section 6, as
shown by the plat of that portion of Dodge Grove Cemetery, filed in the County
Recorder's office, December 19, 1802, Plat Book 1, page 138 be and the same is
hereby declared vacated and abandoned for street and alley or passageway
purposes, and the same is ordered replatted by the Board of Commissioners.
      (1)   Two tracts of ground lying and being in Dodge Grove Cemetery and
heretofore unplatted and unused for street, alley, driveway or passageway
purposes, and described as follows:
         (a)   Tract No. One, being a part of Section 2 of Dodge Grove
Cemetery, and more particularly described as: beginning 6 feet south of the
southeast corner of lot 72 of said Section 2, thence west 40 feet, thence south
16 feet, thence east 40 feet, thence north 16 feet to the place of beginning;
and
         (b)   Tract No. Two, being a part of Division D of Section 8 of Dodge
Grove Cemetery, more particularly described as: beginning 5 feet south of the
southeast corner of lot 19 of Division D of said Section, thence west 58 feet,
thence south 44 feet, thence east 58 feet, thence north 44 feet to the place of
the beginning, be and the same are hereby declared vacated and abandoned for
street, alley, driveway, passageway or ornamental purposes.
      (2)   The City Council is hereby authorized and empowered to plat the
above described two tracts of ground into lots and blocks for burial purposes,
and to record the said plat, when so made, in the County Recorder's office,
that tract of land lying and being in Dodge Grove Cemetery, and described as
follows: "beginning at an iron pin 85 feet east of the west line of Section 12,
Division "B," and 93.6 feet south of the north line of Section 12, Division
"B," Dodge Grove Cemetery, thence north 197.2 feet to an iron pin, thence west
170 feet to an iron pin, thence south 197.2 feet to an iron pin, thence east
170 feet to an iron pin," be and the same is hereby ordered replatted into lots
for burial purposes, streets, driveway, passageway and ornamental purposes, in
accordance with the plat heretofore filed in the office of the City Clerk and
County Recorder and designated as "Replat of parts of Section 9, 10,11, and 12,
Dodge Grove Cemetery."
      (3)   The plat of Divisions G and I of Section 13, Dodge Grove Cemetery,
be and the same is hereby ordered revised in accordance with the blue print
heretofore filed in the office of the City Clerk and County Recorder, and
designated "Revised plat of Divisions G and I, Section 13, Dodge Grove
Cemetery, Mattoon, Illinois."
   (C)   Subdivisions. The City Council may subdivide Divisions K and L and
parts of Divisions E and F, Sections 13 and 14 of the Original Plat of Dodge
Grove Cemetery and to subdivide Division J, Section 13 of the Original plat of
Dodge Grove Cemetery into lots and blocks for burial purposes and to establish
passageways therein in accordance with the plats for such subdivisions made a
part hereof and recorded in the County Recorder's office.
   The City Council may subdivide Divisions A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I and
Outlot A Section 15 of the Original Plat of Dodge Grove Cemetery into lots and
blocks for burial purposes and to establish passageways therein in accordance
with the plats for said subdivisions made a part hereof and recorded in the
County Recorder's office.
('68 Code, § 17.04) (Ord. 3397, passed - - ; Ord. 3921, passed - - )
§ 91.21 (RESERVED).
§ 91.22 (RESERVED).
§ 91.23 (RESERVED).
§ 91.24 POWERS OF COUNCIL.
   All corporate powers and duties relating to ownership, operation,
maintenance and improvement of Dodge Grove Cemetery are vested in the City
Council. The City Council assumes responsibility for all matters related to the
cemetery that were previously delegated to the Board of Managers in this
Chapter 91 of the Municipal Code. Policy advisory roles pertaining to the
activities and functions of the cemetery are hereby assigned to the Public
Works Advisory Board that was created by Ordinance No. 2002-5136 adopted August
20, 2002, codified in §§
33.075 through
33.083 of this Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 2002-5151, passed 11-5-2002)
§ 91.25 APPRAISAL OF CEMETERY LOTS.
   The City Council shall appraise the squares or lots which remain unsold in
the cemetery, and may reappraise those that remain unsold, from time to time as
may be necessary.
('68 Code, § 17.10)
§ 91.26 PURCHASE OF CEMETERY LOTS.
   Any person wishing to purchase a lot in Dodge Grove Cemetery shall make
application to the City Council, and upon producing his or her paid receipt for
the price of said lot, shall be entitled to a conveyance, executed by the Mayor
and attested by the City Clerk under the corporate seal, conveying to such
person exclusive use of such lot subject to the control of the Council, of
which conveyance the Clerk shall keep a record. No burial shall be permitted
until after the purchase price of the lot has been fully paid. The price to be
paid for lots in the cemetery shall be the price designated in the plot of the
cemetery.
('68 Code, § 17.11)
§ 91.27 SCHEDULE OF CEMETERY CHARGES.
   The schedule of charges for Dodge Grove Cemetery is as follows: charges for
sale of cemetery lots and mausoleum crypts shall be shown in §
35.01(H)(2).
(Ord. 85-4484, passed 7-16-1985; Am. Ord. 85-4572, passed 5-3-1988; Am. Ord.
94-4768, passed 3-15-1994; Am. Ord. 2002-5105, passed 4-2-2002; Am. Ord. 2003-
5166, passed 8-5-2003; Am. Ord. 2008-5251, passed 3-4-2008; Am. Ord. 2010-5291,
passed 4-6-2010)
§ 91.28 CEMETERY LOTS FOR TRANSIENTS AND PAUPERS.
   One hundred and fifteen feet of the west side of Section one, and all of
Division B, Section eight as shown by the revised plat of the cemetery, filed
in the City Clerk's office, and recorded in the County Recorder's office, is
hereby reserved for the burial of transient persons, paupers and such persons
who do not own lots in the cemetery.
('68 Code, § 17.12)
§ 91.29 USE OF CEMETERY RECEIPTS; GENERAL CEMETERY FUND.
   (A)   All receipts on account of Dodge Grove Cemetery, whether arising from
the sale of lots thereon, from donations, from appropriations, from the city
treasury, or otherwise shall be expended and applied under the direction and
control of the Board of Managers exclusively for protecting, ornamenting,
improving and laying out of the grounds of the cemetery and the avenues, walks
and squares therein. But the Board of Managers shall not expend the moneys
belonging to the cemetery fund in advance of the receipts thereof, nor incur
any debts on account of the cemetery, without the prior consent of the Council.
   (B)   The proceeds from the sale of lots in Sections one to eight inclusive,
the fees for digging graves or any other special work, shall constitute a
separate fund called the General Cemetery Fund; also 90% of all moneys arising
from the sale of lots in other sections of the cemetery shall be placed in the
General Cemetery Fund and the other 10% together with an appropriate trust
agreement with the purchaser of such lot shall be placed in the Perpeptual Care
Fund.
('68 Code, § 17.13) (Ord. 3693-A, passed - - )
§ 91.30 PERPETUAL CARE FUND.
   The Board of Managers of Dodge Grove Cemetery may receive in trust, from the
owners of lots in the cemetery, any sum of money by bequest, of no less
denomination than $50 and upwards and invest the same as herein provided, and
apply the income thereof perpetually for the care of such lot, the grass, the
graves and trees, according to the terms and form of trust, as follows:
   "This agreement made this      day of          , 20    between
               of the one part and the Board of Managers of Dodge Grove
Cemetery, for and in behalf of the City of Mattoon, County of Coles and State
of Illinois, witnesseth:
   That                  has deposited with the Board of Managers of Dodge
Grove Cemetery              dollars in consideration of which the Board of
Managers and their successors in office, do hereby agree to receive and hold
the said sum in trust forever, and invest the same with other funds of like
character, and apply the income therefrom, from time to time, to the care of
graves, grass, flowers and the preservation of trees or shrubs upon or in lot
      on block            in Dodge Grove Cemetery, the surplus, if any, at the
end of each year, is to remain as a sinking fund, and be not used for any other
purpose but the taking care of the said lot. Provided, however, that the Board
of Managers shall not be held responsible for their conduct in the discharge of
such trust, except for good faith and such reasonable diligence as may be
required for mere gratuitous agents. Furthermore, the funds so received, shall
when properly invested, be deposited with the proper officers of the City of
Mattoon, and shall be held by them and their successors in office, in trust
perpetually.
   In witness whereof, the President of the Board of Managers of the cemetery,
the Mayor and City Clerk of the City of Mattoon, Illinois, have hereunto
affixed their signatures, together with the corporate seal, this      day of
         , 20   .
   All moneys so received, by bequest or reserved from the sale price of lots
shall collectively be kept and set apart by the Board of Managers as a lot
owners' perpetual care and improvement fund."
('68 Code, § 17.14)
§ 91.31 PRINCIPAL CEMETERY FUND.
   The principal sum paid for the care of any lot in Dodge Grove Cemetery,
either from the sale price or by donation, shall, as soon as sufficient amount
has accumulated, be invested. A pro rata part of the yearly income of the
aggregate fund shall be expended for the care of such lots. A list of all such
lots shall be kept by the Superintendent and it shall be his duty to report
from time to time, to the Board of Managers, in writings, the condition of
every lot needing or requiring attention. The repairing of monuments, vaults
and other structures on a lot can be provided for only by special contract in
each case, with the Board of Managers.
('68 Code, § 17.15)
§ 91.32 MAUSOLEUM FUND.
   The proceeds from the sale of crypts in the mausoleum, and any other fees
charged in connection with services at the mausoleum, shall constitute a
separate fund called the "Mausoleum Fund". All proceeds from the sale of
crypts, and any other service for which charges may be made in the future in
connection with the mausoleum, shall be deposited in the Mausoleum Fund and
used for the perpetual care of the mausoleum.
(Ord. 85-4572, passed 5-3-1988)
§ 91.33 INVESTMENT OF FUNDS.
   The Board of Managers shall invest the funds of the Dodge Grove Cemetery in
municipal bonds of the state, securities of the U.S. government or securities
guaranteed by the U.S. government, the securities of building and loan
associations located in the city, or upon note and first mortgages securing the
same upon real estate within this state, of a value in double the amount of the
debt, drawing interest semi-annually, and they shall require abstracts and
other proof of title or validity in connection therewith, all with the approval
of the Mayor and City Clerk. Such securities shall at once be deposited in the
custody of the Treasurer of the Board of Managers and shall be accounted for to
his successors in office from time to time and held in trust forever for the
purposes specified and none other. All notes or other papers which are payable
to order shall be made to the city for the use and benefit of Dodge Grove
Cemetery. Releases for mortgages shall be executed by the Mayor and Clerk.
('68 Code, § 17.16)
§ 91.34 DONATIONS.
   Donations of any amount may be received and set aside as a special fund for
the improvement and the general care of Dodge Grove Cemetery, and shall be
invested as other funds and shall not be used for any other purpose.
('68 Code, § 17.17)
§ 91.35 CERTIFICATE OF TITLE AND OWNERSHIP; TRANSFER.
   The following certificate of title and ownership shall be the official form
for transferring title and ownership to a crypt or crypts in the mausoleum.
   (A)
   DODGE GROVE CEMETERY MAUSOLEUM
   Certificate of Title and Ownership
   Number             
   The City of Mattoon, Coles County, Illinois, in consideration of full
payment therefore, hereby conveys and warrants unto                      full
title and ownership to Crypt Number      , in Family Compartment         ,
Deluxe Section        , Tie          , Elevation        , of the
       Corridor in the DODGE GROVE CEMETERY MAUSOLEUM, subject to all rules and
regulations of the Board of Trustees of Dodge Grove Cemetery.
   It is agreed that title and ownership to the property conveyed herein shall
not be transferred without written notice to the transfer to the Board of
Trustees of Dodge Grove Cemetery by providing said Board of Trustees with a
copy of the Transfer of Title and Ownership provided for on the reverse side
hereof.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, we affix out signatures this      day of      , 20  .
            BOARD OF TRUSTEES,
            DODGE GROVE CEMETERY
                   By            Secretary
Chairman
   (B)   For value received        (I, we) hereby sell, assign and transfer
unto
                     (name)
                     (address)
                     (City/State)
all right, title and interest in the within described property, and hereby
authorize and request the Board of Trustees for Dodge Grove Cemetery to
transfer said title on the books of said Board of Trustees.
DATED this          day of       , 20   .
                                  
                                
(Ord. 85-4572, passed 5-3-1988)
§ 91.36 DUTIES OF SUPERINTENDENT; MONTHLY REPORT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of Dodge Grove Cemetery to
take charge of, superintend, preserve and maintain the cemetery, attend all
funerals, and give directions as to burials. He shall superintend work ordered
by the Board of Managers and shall cause to be prosecuted all persons who shall
be guilty of a violation of any ordinance of the city in relation to the
cemetery that may come to his knowledge. The Superintendent shall have the
power of a police officer, and shall be commissioned as such.
('68 Code, § 17.19)
   (B)   The Superintendent of Dodge Grove Cemetery shall on or before the
first Tuesday of each month, furnish to the Council, a statement in writing,
showing the number of interments made in such cemetery during the preceding
month, with the name, sex and color of each person interred, the date of death,
the disease or causes of death, the age and residence of the deceased.
('68 Code, § 17.18)
§ 91.37 INJURING TREES AND GROUNDS OF CEMETERY PROHIBITED.
   No person shall negligently, wilfully or maliciously injure the fences,
gates or other improvements, nor shall cut, break or injure or carry away any
trees, sapling, shrub, flower, vine, stake, post, chain or any ornamental
thing, nor shall deface any of the monuments, tombstones, vaults or ornaments
in Dodge Grove Cemetery, except such as are around or on their respective lots.
No person shall drive any vehicle, except a hearse, upon any walks, walkways or
paths thereof.
('68 Code, § 17.21)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION; FIREWORKS
Section
Fire Prevention
   
92.01   Adoption of Fire Prevention Code; enforcement
   
92.02   Definition
   
92.03   Storage of flammable liquids, explosives and gunpowder
Fireworks
   
92.20   Storing or selling fireworks prohibited; exceptions
   
92.21   Authority of Fire Department Chief to seize or remove fireworks
   
92.22   License required for public display of fireworks
   
92.23   Storage of fireworks for public display; license required
Open Burning
   
92.35   Open burning prohibited
Cross-reference:
   Leaf and yard waste collection policy, see §
52.09
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 92.01 ADOPTION OF FIRE PREVENTION CODE; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted by the city for the purpose of prescribing
regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or
explosion, that certain code known as the Fire Prevention Code, Abbreviated
Edition, recommended by the American Insurance Association, being particularly
the latest edition thereof and the whole thereof, of which code not less than
three copies have been and now are filed in the office of the City Clerk and
the same are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length
herein. The provisions thereof shall be controlling within the limits of the
city.
('68 Code, § 26.01)
   (B)   The Fire Prevention Code hereby adopted shall be enforced by the Chief
of the Fire Department.
('68 Code, § 26.02)
§ 92.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CORPORATION COUNSEL. The City Attorney.
('68 Code, § 26.03)
§ 92.03 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS, EXPLOSIVES AND GUNPOWDER.
   (A)   The limits referred to in Section 16.22(a) of the Fire Prevention
Code, in which storage of flammable liquids in outside above ground tanks is
prohibited, are hereby established as the fire limits of the city.
   (B)   The limits referred to in Section 16.51 of the Fire Prevention Code,
in which new bulk plants for flammable liquids are prohibited, are hereby
established as the fire limits of the city.
   (C)   The limits referred to in Section 21.6a of the Fire Prevention Code,
in which bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gas is restricted, are hereby
established as the fire limits of the city.
   (D)   The limits referred to in Section 12.5b of the Fire Prevention Code,
in which storage of explosives and blasting agents is prohibited, are hereby
established as the city limits.
('68 Code, § 26.04)
   (E)   No person shall keep in hand, in or about any premises used or
occupied by him, in any one place of business, for sale or for any other
purpose, a greater quantity of gunpowder than 25 pounds within the limits of
the city.
('68 Code, § 42.19)
FIREWORKS
§ 92.20 STORING OR SELLING FIREWORKS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to store, sell, offer or expose
for sale, or have in possession with intent to sell or to use, discharge or
cause to be discharged, ignited, fired or otherwise set in action within the
limits of the city, any fireworks as defined in ILCS Ch. 425, Act 20, § 2.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to articles of the
kind and nature herein mentioned, which shall be in the possession of railroads
or transportation companies for the purpose of transportation, unless the same
shall be held voluntarily by such railroads or companies as warehousemen. This
subchapter shall not apply to signal devices used by railroad companies or to
explosives used for blasting or similar purposes.
('68 Code, § 42.16)
§ 92.21 AUTHORITY OF FIRE DEPARTMENT CHIEF TO SEIZE OR REMOVE FIREWORKS.
   The Chief of the Fire Department, with the approval of the City Manager,
shall seize, take, remove or cause to be removed, at the expense of the owner,
all stocks or fireworks or combustibles offered or exposed for sale, stored or
held in violation of this subchapter.
(‘68 Code, § 42.16) (Ord. 3522, passed - - ; Ord. 3760, passed - - ; Am. Ord.
2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 92.22 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY OF FIREWORKS.
   Licenses for the public display of fireworks by properly qualified
individuals or corporations, or by the city officials, under the direct
supervision of experts in the handling of fireworks, may be issued by the City
Manager in such form as may be prescribed, and upon furnishing such information
as he and the Chief of the Fire Department may require. Such display or
displays shall be of such character and so located, discharged or fired, as in
the opinion of the Chief of the Fire Department, after proper inspection, shall
not be hazardous to property or endanger any person or persons. Application for
such licenses shall be made 15 days in advance of the date of display.
(‘68 Code, § 42.16) (Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 92.23 STORAGE OF FIREWORKS FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Such fireworks or devices for pyrotechnic display may be stored within the
limits of the city when the license for such storage has been issued by the
City Manager. The buildings or premises in or upon which such storage is to be
made shall be properly inspected by the Chief of the Fire Department and
certified as a proper place for such storage. No license shall be issued for
such storage within 500 feet of a school, hospital, church or other public
institution or any building used as a place of public assembly.
(‘68 Code, § 42.16) (Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
OPEN BURNING
§ 92.35 OPEN BURNING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      (1)   GARBAGE. Refuse resulting from the handling, processing,
preparation, packaging, cooling, and consumption of food products.
      (2)   LANDSCAPE WASTE. Any vegetable or plant refuse including but not
limited to tree trimmings, weeds, leaves, grass, yard trimmings, and crop
residues.
      (3)   OPEN BURNING. The combustion of any matter in such a way that the
products of the combustion are emitted to the open air.
   (B)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   Open burning shall be prohibited within the corporate limits of the
city.
      (2)   The burning of any garbage, waste, refuse, rubbish or substance of
any kind within the city limits is hereby declared a nuisance and prohibited.
      (3)   The burning of landscape waste within the city limits is hereby
prohibited. The burning of any landscape waste, consisting of brush, leaves,
grass, trees, bushes, or other plants or plant waste is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance.
      (4)   The terms of this section shall not be construed to prohibit the
burning of fuels for cooking purposes, fuels in a domestic fireplace,
campfires, ceremonial bonfires or any fire authorized by the city
administration and the Fire Department, and any fire authorized by a valid IEPA
permit, provided however that no garbage shall be burned in such cases.
      (5)   Wiener roasts shall be permitted to occur within the corporate
limits of the city provided:
         (a)   The fires for the wiener roasts shall not be larger than is
necessary to conduct the wiener roasts; and,
         (b)   The fire shall be fueled with only wood;
         (c)   The fire shall not be in a location or occur under circumstances
which possess a risk to life or property within the city;
         (d)   The fire shall not be used as an excuse for burning leaves in
violation of division (B)(2) above;
         (e)   A person in charge of the wiener roast shall first contact the
Police Department to advise the Police Department of the plans for the wiener
roast as to time, date, location and person in charge of the wiener roast;
         (f)   A person shall watch and control the fire until the fire is
extinguished;
         (g)   The fire will be extinguished by 1:00 a.m. unless special
permission is given by the Police and Fire Department;
         (h)   Recreational fires, using firewood in an approved home-made fire
pit or a commercial fire pit, do not require notice to the Fire and Police
Department. All home-made fire pits must be approved by the Fire Chief prior to
their use. The Fire Chief shall maintain a listing of all approved home-made
fire pits.
      (6)   Under no circumstances may any chemically treated material be
ignited or burned within the city limits without express written consent of the
city administration, Fire Department, IEPA, or other governmental authority.
(Ord. 2008-5250, passed 2-19-2008)
CHAPTER 93: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Resistance to Health Officer; enforcement
   
93.02   Adoption of U.S. Public Health Service Milk Ordinance
   
93.03   Discarded refrigerators
   
93.04   Slaughter houses
   
93.05   Inspection of slaughter houses and other establishments
Drive-in Restaurants
   
93.20   Definition
   
93.21   Exception
   
93.22   Noise
   
93.23   Alcoholic beverages
   
93.24   Congregating
   
93.25   Entering premises
   
93.26   Parking
   
93.27   Stopping in street
   
93.28   Littering
   
93.29   Disorderly conduct
   
93.30   Posting notice of regulations
   
93.31   Cleaning of premises and streets; trash cans required
   
93.32   Disturbing peace
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 RESISTANCE TO HEALTH OFFICER; ENFORCEMENT.
   No person shall hinder or resist the Health Officer or other officer of the
city in the discharge of his duties relating to public health, or shall
wilfully neglect or refuse to comply with his orders or regulations, duly made
in the discharge of his duties. The Chief of Police and police officers shall
aid in the enforcement of the city health regulations.
('68 Code, § 11.02)
§ 93.02 ADOPTION OF U.S. PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE MILK ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The production, transportation, processing, handling, sampling,
examination, grading, labeling, and sale of all milk and milk products sold for
the ultimate consumption within the city or its police jurisdiction; the
inspection of dairy herds, dairy farms and milk plants; the issuing and
revocation of permits to milk producers, haulers and distributors shall be
regulated in accordance with the provisions of part II of the Grade A
Pasteurized Milk Ordinance--1965 Recommendations of the U.S. Public Health
Service, a certified copy of which shall be filed in the office of the
appropriate official; provided, that sections 16 and 17 of said unabridged
ordinances are deleted.
   (B)   The term MUNICIPALITY OF or any blanks indicating a locality, wherever
they appear in the U.S.P.H.S. Milk Ordinance herein adopted, mean the city, and
the term HEALTH AUTHORITY means the Health Officer of the city.
   (C)   In section six, paragraph four, the word "latest" shall be inserted
before the word "edition" where it appears.
('68 Code, § 15.01)
§ 93.03 DISCARDED REFRIGERATORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave outside of any building or
dwelling in a place accessible to children any ice box, refrigerator, stove,
trunk or any other container of any kind which has an air-tight door, which may
not be opened by pushing only from the inside of the container or without
removing the snap-lock or doors of the container.
('68 Code, § 42.35) (Ord. 3750, passed - - )
§ 93.04 SLAUGHTER HOUSES.
   (A)   Location. It shall be unlawful for any person to carry on the business
of slaughtering animals within the city or within one mile of the corporation
limits thereof; except if it is in such place as the Council may by resolution
direct. Such business shall be so conducted as to create no offense or
nuisance, and in conformity with the laws of the state and the ordinance of the
city.
   (B)   Construction of walls, floors. The walls of a slaughter house shall be
of brick or mortar and all existing buildings constructed of wood shall be
wainscoted on the inside of the walls with concrete for a distance of three
feet above the floor. All floors in which slaughtering is done in the building
shall be cemented so as not to absorb blood and so as to carry all liquid
matters into the sewers. Every sewer inlet used in or about the building shall
be provided with iron grate, which shall be placed upon or over the entrance of
such inlet and shall be fastened permanently to the floor. The opening in said
grates shall in no instance exceed 1½ inches in diameter.
   (C)   Offensive matter. It shall be unlawful for any person operating a
slaughter house to place, cause or permit to be placed, or permit or suffer to
remain on his premises any blood, bones, offal, filth, slops, refuse or other
offensive matter for a longer period than ten hours at any one time from March
1 to November 1 in each year, or exceeding 24 hours during any other part of
the year, except the same be kept in salt brine or cold storage. All floors
upon which slaughtering is done shall be thoroughly washed and cleaned at least
once every 24 hours.
('68 Code, § 11.03)
§ 93.05 INSPECTION OF SLAUGHTER HOUSES AND OTHER ESTABLISHMENTS.
   It shall be the duty of the Health Officer from time to time, and as often
as once a month between May 1 and October 1 of each year, to visit and inspect
all slaughter and packing houses, poultry houses, bone or soap factories, lard,
tallow, or other renderies, or other like establishments within the
jurisdiction of the city and to prosecute or cause to be prosecuted all persons
violating any of the provisions of this chapter.
('68 Code, § 11.05)
DRIVE-IN RESTAURANTS
§ 93.20 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT. A place, including the entire premises occupied thereby
and including ingress and egress thereto, where meals, sandwiches, beverages,
ice cream, frozen desserts or other foods, singly or in combination, are served
directly to, or are permitted to be consumed by, patrons in or on motor
vehicles parked upon the premises, within the meaning of this subchapter, is
deemed to be a drive-in restaurant.
('68 Code, § 43.01) (Ord. 69-4190, passed 10-7-1969)
§ 93.21 EXCEPTION.
   This subchapter shall not apply to premises covered by a city package liquor
license.
('68 Code, § 43.16) (Ord. 69-4190, passed 10-7-1969)
§ 93.22 NOISE.
   No person, while on or adjacent to the premises of a drive-in restaurant,
shall race the motor of any car, suddenly start or stop any car, make or cause
to be made any other loud or unseemly noise, or blow or cause to be blown any
automobile horn or motorcycle horn at any time.
('68 Code, § 43.02) (Ord. 69-4190, passed 10-7-1969)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.23 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   No patron or other person on the premises of a drive-in restaurant, whether
in or out of an automobile, shall drink any intoxicating liquor, or have in his
possession any open bottle, can or other receptacle containing alcoholic
beverages of any type, nature or description.
('68 Code, § 43.03) (Ord. 69-4190, passed 10-7-1969)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.24 CONGREGATING.
   No group of three or more persons shall congregate and linger at any
location on the premises of a drive-in restaurant other than in the restaurant
building, or in a legally parked motor vehicle, or at tables or other
facilities provided by such drive-in restaurant for the use of patrons thereof.
('68 Code, § 43.04) (Ord. 69-4190, passed 10-7-1969)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.25 ENTERING PREMISES.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle across any sidewalk, driveway or
pedestrian right-of-way for the purpose of gaining access to any drive-in
restaurant unless such person, or one of the occupants of such vehicle, does so
for the purpose of transacting business on the premises of said drive-in
restaurant. For the purpose of this section "the transaction of business" shall
mean that one of the purposes of any such person, or occupant of the motor
vehicle, for entering shall be with the intent of engaging in a transaction
with the proprietor, his agents or employees of such restaurant, which
transaction is normally incidental to the business for which the public is
invited and for which the premises are being operated. The driving of a motor
vehicle onto and out of such premises without stopping, in a manner
constituting that which is commonly called "cruising", is prohibited.
('68 Code, § 43.05) (Ord. 69-4190, passed 10-7-1969)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.26 PARKING.
   No person shall leave any motor vehicle unoccupied on any drive-in
restaurant parking lot, except during the time such person is in the restaurant
building, or except with the knowledge and consent of the operation of such
restaurant.
('68 Code, § 43.06) (Ord. 69-4190, passed 10-7-1969)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.27 STOPPING IN STREET.
   No driver of a motor vehicle shall stop, stand or park such vehicle in a
street at or near the entrance to or exit from a drive-in restaurant while
waiting to enter the premises thereof, or otherwise, except in an authorized
and clearly marked or designated parking space adjacent to the curb of such
street, and in such manner, as not to interfere with other vehicles upon such
street.
('68 Code, § 43.07) (Ord. 69-4190, passed 10-7-1969)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.28 LITTERING.
   No patron of a drive-in restaurant or other person shall throw or deposit
any of the litter anywhere on the ground or on the streets or public ways,
except in the receptacles provided therefor.
('68 Code, § 43.09) (Ord. 69-4190, passed 10-7-1969)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.29 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   No person, while on the premises of any drive-in restaurant or adjacent
thereto, shall use loud, or obscene, or vulgar, or indecent language, or swear,
or curse, or yell, or shriek in a manner calculated to disturb persons at or
near such drive-in restaurant.
('68 Code, § 43.10) (Ord. 69-4190, passed 10-7-1969)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.30 POSTING NOTICE OF REGULATIONS.
   A drive-in restaurant operator who furnishes parking for patrons shall post
on the premises in a conspicuous location one or more clearly legible signs
bearing the following legend.
"CRUISING IN A VEHICLE THROUGH, OR CONGREGATING AND LINGERING OUTSIDE OF A
VEHICLE ON THESE PREMISES IS UNLAWFUL."
('68 Code, § 43.11) (Ord. 69-4190, passed 10-7-1969)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.31 CLEANING OF PREMISES AND STREETS; TRASH CANS REQUIRED.
   (A)   The operator of a drive-in restaurant, or any person in charge
thereof, shall keep and maintain the premises in a clean and sanitary condition
and the parking lot reasonably free at all times from all rubbish, waste
products and debris including napkins, straws, cups, plates, boxes, containers
and other waste material.
('68 Code, § 43.12)
   (B)   The operator of a drive-in restaurant shall cause any portion of any
street or streets adjoining the licensed premises to be kept free from all
rubbish, waste products and debris either originating from such licensed
premises, or of the type and kind of material used upon said premises in the
conduct of the licensed business, including napkins, straws, cups, plates,
boxes, containers, unconsumed food products and other similar waste material.
('68 Code, § 43.13)
   (C)   The owner or operator of a drive-in restaurant shall provide not less
than two receptacles for the receipt of trash, litter, paper, napkins, cups and
remnants of food.
('68 Code, § 43.08)
(Ord. 69-4190, passed 10-7-1969)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.32 DISTURBING PEACE.
   No owner or operator of a drive-in restaurant shall operate, or permit to be
operated, any loud speakers, or make or permit to be made, any other loud
noise, or permit any show or exhibit on the premises occupied by said drive-in
restaurant; provided, however, the owner or operator of such restaurant may use
a public address system solely for the purpose of giving instructions to
employees on the premises or receiving orders or requests for service from
customers, but the instructions, orders or requests so given shall not be loud
enough to cause any noise or disturbance to persons not on the premises of such
drive-in restaurant.
('68 Code, § 43.14) (Ord. 69-4190, passed 10-7-1969)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any of the provisions of
§§
93.20 through
93.32 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $5 nor more than $20 for
each offense; and each day on which a violation occurs or continues shall be
considered a separate offense.
('68 Code, § 43.15) (Ord. 69-4190, passed 10-7-1969)
CHAPTER 94: NOISE CONTROL
Section
   
94.01   Playing musical instruments in public places restricted
§ 94.01 PLAYING MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS IN PUBLIC PLACES RESTRICTED.
   (A)   No person shall play or cause to be played or made any noise upon any
musical or other instrument, or by music or noise upon any sidewalk, street or
other public grounds or adjacent thereto, to the annoyance or disturbance of
any person.
   (B)   No person shall operate or play any radio, piano or other musical
instrument or device in such manner, or make any loud or unusual noise in any
restaurant or other public place located beneath or near a residence, hotel or
rooming house after the hour of 10:00 p.m. or before 6:00 a.m. as will disturb
the peace and quiet of those persons using or occupying the residence, hotel or
rooming house.
('68 Code, § 42.29) (Ord. 3438, passed - - )
CHAPTER 95: NUISANCES
Section
   
95.01   Public nuisance defined
   
95.02   Public nuisance prohibited
   
95.03   Filing complaints; inspections; notice to abate; failure to abate;
abatement by city; appeal
   
95.04   Cost of abatement as lien
   
95.05   Authority to issue failure to comply citations
   
95.06   Failure to comply citations; service, content, fine
   
95.07   Notices to appear
Cross-reference:
   Public nuisance conditions involving trees, see § 
99.77
§ 95.01 PUBLIC NUISANCE DEFINED.
   (A)   As used in this chapter, a PUBLIC NUISANCE shall mean any act, thing,
occupation, condition or use of property that shall continue for such length of
time as to:
      (1)   Substantially annoy, injure or endanger the comfort, health, repose
or safety of the public;
      (2)   In any way render the public nuisance in life or in the use of
property;
      (3)   Greatly offend the public morals or decency; or
      (4)   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct or tend to
obstruct or render dangerous for passage any street, alley, highway, navigable
body of water or other public way.
   (B)   PUBLIC NUISANCES shall include but not be limited to the following
acts, conduct, omissions, conditions or things:
      (1)   All decayed, harmfully adulterated or unwholesome food or drink
sold or offered for sale to the public;
      (2)   Carcasses of household pets or other animals not buried or
otherwise disposed of in a sanitary manner within 24 hours after death;
      (3)   (a)   Accumulations of garbage in a manner in which flies,
mosquitoes, disease-carrying insects, rodents, or other vermin may breed or may
reasonably be expected to breed.
         (b)   For the purpose of this section, GARBAGE means animal and
vegetable waste resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking or
consumption of food;
      (4)   (a)   Accumulations of refuse in which disease-carrying insects,
rodents or other vermin may breed or may reasonably be expected to breed.
         (b)   For the purpose of this section, REFUSE means all putrescible
and nonputrescible solid wastes, including garbage, rubbish, debris, ashes,
street cleanings, dead animals, abandoned or inoperable automobiles, abandoned
or inoperable household appliances, moveable furniture not designed for or
modified to withstand the elements and outdoor use, solid market and industrial
wastes;
      (5)   All stagnant water in which mosquitoes, flies or other insects can
multiply;
      (6)   Containers with garbage or refuse which are not covered by solid,
tight-fitting lids or which have any uncovered holes or for which at least
weekly removal of garbage and refuse is not provided;
      (7)   Vegetation which:
         (a)   Harbors or aids in harboring rats, snakes or vermin;
         (b)   Which harbors or hosts diseases or insects which may reasonably
be expected to injure other forms of life;
         (c)   Which are prohibited by law or ordinance, including but not
limited to noxious weeds;
         (d)   Which by reason of its location or condition constitutes an
imminent danger to any person or property;
         (e)   Which covers or hinders the removal of accumulations of junk,
garbage and debris;
         (f)   Which is unmanaged and in excess of eight inches, provided
cultivated flowers, ornamentals or food plants shall be presumed to be managed
vegetation; provided further that vegetation in excess of eight inches shall be
presumed unmanaged unless predominantly composed of cultivated flowers,
ornamentals or food plants, including vegetation which interferes with or
obstructs the passage on any street, alley or other public way;
      (8)   The escape of smoke, soot, cinders, noxious acids, fumes, gases,
fly ash or industrial dust in such quantities as to endanger the health of
persons of ordinary sensibilities or to threaten or cause substantial injury to
property but excluding smoke emanating from residential fireplaces;
      (9)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, creamery or industrial wastes or other substances;
      (10)   Any use of property, substances or things emitting or causing any
foul, offensive, noisome, nauseous, noxious or disagreeable odors, effluvia or
stenches extremely repulsive to the physical senses of ordinary persons which
annoy, discomfort, injure or inconvenience the health of any appreciable number
of persons within the city;
      (11)   Any structure or building that is in a state of dilapidation,
deterioration or decayed, whose renovation remains unfinished for more than
three months, is of faulty construction, is open to intrusion, abandoned,
damaged by fire to the extent as not to provide shelter, is extremely unsound,
in danger of collapse or failure and endangers the health and safety of the
public;
      (12)   Any inoperable vehicle or vehicle which lacks current, legal
registration parked on private property; provided that such vehicles may be
parked upon private property:
         (a)   If the vehicle is parked upon premises lawfully zoned for the
business of repairing, wrecking or junking vehicles upon such premises; or
         (b)   If the vehicle is stored within a building and completely out of
view of the public.
            1.   INOPERABLE VEHICLE shall mean any vehicle that is not in
working order.
            2.   WORKING ORDER shall mean the vehicle is equipped and contains
those parts in proper condition and adjustment necessary for its mechanical
operation and also is equipped and contains such lamps, brakes, mirrors,
windshields and other equipment in proper condition and adjustment as required
by Chapter 12 of the Illinois Vehicle Code et seq. as now or hereafter amended.
      (13)   Dumpsters, trash containers or trash container stands located on a
public way unless the dumpster is owned, leased or under the control of the
city, provided further that trash containers may be placed on the public way
only on the day the owner has the trash in the container scheduled for removal
by a trash hauler;
      (14)   Such other actions, conduct, omissions, conditions or things
defined or specified in this code as nuisances or as public nuisances;
      (15)   Conditions that are defined as a nuisance in this chapter located
within a carport if the conditions are visible to the public from any public
right-of-way;
      (16)   Conditions which are defined as a nuisance in this chapter and are
located in an open garage if the conditions are visible to the public from any
public right-of-way;
      (17)   Conditions which are defined as a nuisance in this chapter and are
located on a front porch, back porch or balcony if the condition is visible to
the public from any public right-of-way;
      (18)   Storage of motorized vehicles with over 400cc motor on front
porches, back porches and balconies if the motorized vehicle is visible to the
public from any public right-of-way; and
      (19)   Structures which fail to have the street number assigned displayed
on at least one structure on the lot in a position easily observed and readable
from the public right-of-way and Arabic figures at least three inches high and
one-half inch wide and of contrasting color with the surface to which the
number is affixed.
      (20)   The keeping or storage of building supplies, construction
materials, landscaping materials, salvageable metals, lumber, bricks or blocks
outside of a building, garage or shed.
         (a)   The keeping and storage of such materials shall be allowed if in
compliance with a permitted use in a C4, General Commercial District or I,
Industrial District zone listed in
Chapter 159.
         (b)   The keeping and storage of such materials is also allowed during
the construction and remodeling of a structure or property, however the items
shall not be kept or stored longer than three months outside of a building,
garage or shed.
(Ord. 2004-5182, passed 6-1-2004; Am. Ord. 2010- 5310, passed 9-7-2010; Am.
Ord. 2016-5389, passed 9-6-2016)
§ 95.02 PUBLIC NUISANCE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall erect, contrive, cause, continue, maintain or permit
to exist any public nuisance within the city.
   (B)   The procedures and remedies set forth in §§
95.03 and
95.04 may be used in the alternative or in consonance with or in lieu of any
other remedy or procedure set forth in this code for the removal of violations
or nuisances.
('68 Code, § 12.01) (Ord. 2004-5182, passed 6-1-2004)
§ 95.03 FILING COMPLAINTS; INSPECTIONS; NOTICE TO ABATE; FAILURE TO ABATE;
ABATEMENT BY CITY; APPEAL.
   (A)   All complaints alleging the existence of a public nuisance shall be
filed with the Nuisance Enforcement Coordinator or the Coordinator's designee.
   (B)   The Nuisance Enforcement Coordinator or the Coordinator's designee
shall promptly inspect the premises or cause them to be inspected and shall
make a written report of the findings of the inspection. Whenever practical,
photographs of the premises shall be attached to the written report. The
Nuisance Enforcement Coordinator or the Coordinator's designee shall keep all
such written reports on file for at least three years.
   (C)   Upon determining that a public nuisance exists on private property and
that there is danger to the public health, safety, peace, morals or decency,
the Nuisance Enforcement Coordinator or the Coordinator's designee shall cause
such a notice to be served on the owner or occupant of the private property
where the public nuisance exists or upon the person causing, permitting or
maintaining such nuisance or post a copy of the notice on the premises where
the public nuisance exists.
   (D)   Such notice shall specifically describe the public nuisance and shall
direct the owner or the occupant of the private property where the public
nuisance exists or the person causing, permitting or maintaining such nuisance
to abate or remove such nuisance within ten days of service or posting of the
notice, except in regards to vegetation whereby abatement or removal shall be
completed within three days of service or posting of the notice and except in
regards to an inoperable or unlicensed vehicle whereby abatement or removal
shall be completed within seven days of service or posting of the notice. If
such owner, occupant or person cannot be located after reasonable inquiry,
posting shall be sufficient notice. The notice shall state that unless such
nuisance is so abated or removed the city will cause it to be abated or
removed, that the cost thereof will be charged to the owner, occupant or person
causing, permitting or maintaining the nuisance and that such cost shall be a
lien on the real property where the nuisance was abated or removed. Such notice
shall also state that the failure of such owner, occupant or person to abate
the nuisance as required by such notice shall be deemed an implied consent for
the city to abate or remove such nuisance. Such implied consent shall be deemed
to form a contract between such owner, occupant or person and the city. If the
public nuisance does not constitute a great and immediate danger to the public
health, safety or welfare, the Nuisance Enforcement Coordinator or the
Coordinator’s designee may serve the owner or occupant of such premises or the
person in whose name such real estate was last billed for property tax purposes
a notice to demand the abatement or removal of the violation within ten days.
Service may be had by certified mail or personal service or by posting the
notice on the property and mailing notice by first class mail.
   (E)   If a nuisance is not abated or removed after notice pursuant to this
section and within the time specified in the notice, the Nuisance Enforcement
Coordinator or the Coordinator's designee may cause the abatement or removal of
such public nuisance. The reasonable cost thereof shall be a lien on the real
property where the nuisance was abated or removed.
   (F)   The owner or occupant of the private property where the public
nuisance exists who fails to abate or to remove the nuisance required by this
section thereby consents under the terms of this section to have the city abate
or remove the nuisance. Further, the owner or occupant thereby also consents to
the formation of a contract between the owner and occupant and the city for the
payment of costs in relation to abatement or removal of the nuisance.
   (G)   The person upon whom a notice to abate a nuisance is served, the
property owner, tenant or other affected person may appeal the determination of
nuisance in writing to the Nuisance Enforcement Coordinator or the
Coordinator's designee. The written appeal must be made within the time period
in which to abate the nuisance is given in the notice. The Nuisance Enforcement
Coordinator or the Coordinator's designee shall meet with the appellant within
five working days of the receipt of the written appeal. The Nuisance
Enforcement Coordinator or the Coordinator's designee may extend the time in
which the nuisance must be abated, determine that a nuisance does not or no
longer exists or that the nuisance must be abated within the time period set
out in the notice or immediately if the period has run. Provided, however, that
if the nuisance was determined to be an emergency and that the opportunity for
an appeal was not available due to the short period of time to abate the
nuisance, an appeal may be heard after the abatement of the nuisance by the
city. In that event, the Nuisance Enforcement Coordinator or the Coordinator's
designee may determine that the appellant is liable for the costs or that upon
good cause shown, that the appellant is not liable for the costs and that a
lien shall not be filed by the city upon the property. The notice to abate
shall contain a statement as to the right of appeal.
(Ord. 2004-5182, passed 6-1-2004; Am. Ord. 2010-5310, passed 9-7-2010; Am. Ord.
2010-5313, passed 12-7-2010)
§ 95.04 COST OF ABATEMENT AS LIEN.
   (A)   Whenever a bill for the reasonable costs of abatement or removal of a
nuisance pursuant to this chapter remains unpaid for 30 days after it has been
sent, the City Attorney and Treasurer or designee shall file a notice of lien
with the County Recorder. Any notice of lien pursuant to this chapter shall be
filed within 90 days after the cost and expense of abatement or removal of
nuisance has been incurred by the city. The notice shall consist of a sworn
statement setting out a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification thereof, the amount of money representing the cost and expense
incurred or payable by the city and the date or dates when such cost and
expense was incurred by the city. However, any purchaser whose rights in such
real estate have arisen subsequent to removal of the public nuisance and prior
to the filing of such notice shall not be held liable for the costs of
abatement or removal and the lien of the city shall not have priority as to any
mortgage, judgment creditor or other lienor whose rights in and to such real
estate arise prior to the filing of such notice.
   (B)   Costs and expenses under this chapter include but are not limited to
the actual costs and expenses in time of city employees or city-authorized
contractors and in materials concerning the actual actions of abatement of the
nuisance pursuant to this chapter, transportation to and from the property,
title searches or certifications, preparation of lien documents, foreclosures
and other related expenses, including but not limited to reasonable attorney's
expenses.
   (C)   A copy of the notice of lien shall be mailed by the City Attorney and
Treasurer or designee to the owner of the property or to the occupant or to the
person or persons in whose name such real estate was last billed for property
tax purposes.
   (D)   The real estate subject to a lien for such an unpaid assessment of
such costs and expenses may be sold for nonpayment thereof and the proceeds of
the sale applied to pay the charges, after deducting costs.
   (E)   The City Attorney and Treasurer may institute proceedings in the name
of the city in any court having jurisdiction over such matters against any
property for which such costs and expenses have remained unpaid 30 days after a
statement of such costs and expenses have been mailed to the property owner, to
the occupant or to the person or persons in whose name the property was last
billed for property tax purposes.
   (F)   Upon payment of the costs and expenses plus interest from the date 30
days after the bill was sent after notice of lien has been filed, the City
Attorney and Treasurer or designee shall file with the County Recorder a
release of the lien.
   (G)   If the payment of the city's costs of removal or abatement of the
nuisance is not paid to the city within 30 days of filing of the notice of
lien, the City Attorney and Treasurer is empowered to commence proceedings in
the Circuit Court seeking a personal judgment from the owner of or persons
interested in such property as noticed pursuant to §
95.03 at the time the complaint for removal or abatement was filed with the
Circuit Clerk in the amount of such costs. Such action shall be based upon the
implied consent for persons to form a contract for the removal or abatement of
the nuisances. The action authorized by this section shall be in addition to
and without waiver of any other remedy.
(Ord. 2004-5182, passed 6-1-2004)
§ 95.05 AUTHORITY TO ISSUE FAILURE TO COMPLY CITATIONS.
   (A)   The City Attorney and Treasurer, Nuisance Enforcement Coordinator,
Building Inspector, Police Chief and their designees are authorized to issue a
failure to comply citation to any person who is committing or has committed any
violations of §
95.01(B).
   (B)   A failure to comply citation may be issued for each day the violation
continues.
(Ord. 2004-5182, passed 6-1-2004)
§ 95.06 FAILURE TO COMPLY CITATIONS; SERVICE, CONTENT, FINE.
   (A)   A failure to comply citation shall be served by posting it on the
property on which the violation is alleged to exist in a conspicuous place at
the entrance door or avenue of access to the premises on which the alleged
violation exists or by mailing a copy of the citation by certified mail to the
last known address of the person in whose name the real estate taxes were last
billed for the property on which the violation occurred or by delivering a copy
of the same in person to the owner, occupant of the property or person in whose
name real estate taxes for the property were last billed or by delivering it
and leaving it in the possession of any person in charge of the premises on
which the violation is alleged to exist.
   (B)   A failure to comply citation shall state the name of the person
charged with the offense, the nature of the violation and instruct the person
on the method of settling the claim.
   (C)   The citations issued under this section shall be a courtesy in lieu of
arrest. The person issued a failure to comply citation may compromise and
settle the claim by paying the sum of $50 and correction the violation prior to
the issued court appearance. Any person issued any additional failure to comply
citations alleging the same type of violation at the address within a 12-month
period of the last violation may compromise and settle the claim prior to the
person being charged by written complaint in accordance with the following
schedule:
 
Second offense $100 + court costs
Third offense  $200 + court costs
Fourth offense $400 + court costs
 
   (D)    Upon conviction, the person shall be subject to a fine of not less
than $75 nor more than $750 for each violation for which the person was
previously issued a failure to comply citation that was not paid prior to a
complaint being filed with the Circuit Court.
(Ord. 2004-5182, passed 6-1-2004; Am. Ord. 2017- 539, passed 2-7-2017)
§ 95.07 NOTICES TO APPEAR.
   The City Attorney and Treasurer, Nuisance Enforcement Coordinator, Building
Inspector Supervisor, Police Chief or their designees are authorized to issue a
notice to appear to any person who is committing or has committed any
violations of §
95.01(B).
(Ord. 2004-5182, passed 6-1-2004)
CHAPTER 96: PUBLIC LIBRARY
Section
General Provisions
   
96.01   Use of library; rules to be enforced
   
96.02   Failure to return books
   
96.03   Disorderly conduct in library
Library Board
   
96.20   Board of Directors; appointment; term of office
   
96.21   Duties of Library Board
   
96.22   Library fund
   
96.23   Donations to the Library Board
   
96.24   Selection of Board member as Treasurer of funds
   
96.25   Annual report of Library Board
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 96.01 USE OF LIBRARY; RULES TO BE ENFORCED.
   The public library and reading room shall be free to the use of the
inhabitants of the city subject to the reasonable rules and regulations adopted
by the Board. Any person willfully violating such rules may be excluded from
the use of the library and reading room.
('68 Code, § 2.36)
§ 96.02 FAILURE TO RETURN BOOKS.
   No person shall fail to return any book, pamphlet or other property of the
library according to the rules and regulations adopted or shall take any book,
pamphlet or other property of the library without the consent of the person in
charge thereof.
('68 Code, § 2.36)
§ 96.03 DISORDERLY CONDUCT IN LIBRARY.
   No person shall create any disturbance in the public library building or be
guilty of any conduct calculated to annoy or disturb others in the building, or
loiter upon the steps or walks, or in the lobbies or on the premises of the
library building or grounds.
('68 Code, § 2.36)
LIBRARY BOARD
§ 96.20 BOARD OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT; TERM OF OFFICE.
   There is hereby created a Library Board consisting of a board of nine
directors, who are citizens of the city, who shall have charge of the public
library and reading room. They shall be appointed by the Mayor with the
approval of the Council. The term of office shall be three years and until
successors are respectively appointed. Said Board shall be divided into three
equal classes, of which the term of one class shall expire annually on July 1,
and the Mayor shall annually appoint three members to fill the vacancy of the
expiring class. Vacancy shall be filled by appointment with consent of the
Council. Not more than one member of the Board shall be a member of the
Council. No Director shall receive compensation as such.
('68 Code, § 2.35)
§ 96.21 DUTIES OF LIBRARY BOARD.
   The Board shall make and adopt such rules and regulations for their guidance
and for the government of the library and reading room as may be expedient and
not inconsistent with the laws of the state. The Board shall have exclusive
control of the expenditure of all moneys collected to the credit of the Library
Fund. It shall have power to appoint a suitable librarian, assistants and
janitor, and fix their compensation. The Board shall exercise all powers given
it by statute and in the manner prescribed thereby.
('68 Code, § 2.35)
§ 96.22 LIBRARY FUND.
   All moneys received for such library shall be deposited in the city treasury
to the credit of the Library Fund and shall be kept separate and apart from all
other moneys of the city, and shall be drawn upon by the proper officers of the
library, upon the proper authenticated vouchers of the Library Board.
('68 Code, § 2.35)
§ 96.23 DONATIONS TO THE LIBRARY BOARD.
   All donations to the Board for the use of the library shall be held in trust
by the Board in accordance with the terms of the devise, gift or bequest.
('68 Code, § 2.35)
§ 96.24 SELECTION OF BOARD MEMBER AS TREASURER OF FUNDS.
   The Board shall select one of their members as Treasurer and Custodian of
all funds coming into the hands of the Board. Such Treasurer shall give a bond
in such penal sum as shall be fixed by ordinance.
('68 Code, § 2.35)
§ 96.25 ANNUAL REPORT OF LIBRARY BOARD.
   (A)   Within 15 days after the expiration of each fiscal year of the city,
the Library Board shall make a report of the condition of their trust, on the
last day of the fiscal year, to the Council. This report shall be made in
writing, and shall be verified under oath by the Secretary or some other
responsible officer of the Board of Directors.
   (B)   The report shall contain the following:
      (1)   An itemized statement of the various sums of money received from
the Library Fund and from other sources;
      (2)   An itemized statement of the objects and purposes for which those
sums of money have been expended;
      (3)   A statement of the number of books and periodicals available for
use, and the number and character thereof circulated;
      (4)   A statement of the real and personal property acquired by devise,
bequest, purchase, gift or otherwise;
      (5)   A statement of the character of any extensions of library service
which have been undertaken;
      (6)   A statement of the financial requirements of the library for the
ensuing fiscal year, and of the rate of tax which, in the judgment of the Board
of Directors, it will be necessary to levy for library purposes in the next
annual tax levy ordinance; and
      (7)   Any other statistics, information and suggestions that may be of
interest.
('68 Code, § 2.35)
CHAPTER 97: RAILROADS
Section
   
97.01   Speed of locomotive car on railroad track
   
97.02   Whistle of locomotive engine
   
97.03   Lights of locomotive car required at night
   
97.04   Crossings and approaches; construction; maintenance
   
97.05   Obstruction of crossings restricted
   
97.06   Extermination of noxious weeds
   
97.07   Maintenance of right-of-way
   
97.08   Driving vehicle across railroad track restricted
   
97.09   Climbing on railroad cars prohibited
§ 97.01 SPEED OF LOCOMOTIVE CAR ON RAILROAD TRACK.
   No locomotive freight or passenger car or train of cars shall be run upon
any railroad track in the city at a greater rate of speed than is reasonable
and proper under existing conditions.
('68 Code, § 37.01)
§ 97.02 WHISTLE OF LOCOMOTIVE ENGINE.
   The whistle of any locomotive engine shall not be unnecessarily sounded.
('68 Code, § 37.03)
§ 97.03 LIGHTS OF LOCOMOTIVE CAR REQUIRED AT NIGHT.
   Every locomotive, railroad or other car or train of cars while in motion in
the night time shall have a bright light shining in the direction in which the
same is moving.
('68 Code, § 37.05)
§ 97.04 CROSSINGS AND APPROACHES; CONSTRUCTION; MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   At all of the railroad crossings of public highways, streets and
alleys, the several railroad corporations shall construct and maintain within
their respective right-of-way, sidewalks, culverts and approaches either
across, over or under their tracks as the case may be, so that at all times
such crossings shall be safe as to persons and property. (‘68 Code, § 37.04)
   (B)   Whenever any railroad corporation shall neglect to construct or
maintain in good repair any crossing or approach, as aforesaid, the City
Manager shall cause written notice to be given, specifying the nature of the
work required, and if within ten days after service of such notice such work is
not done, the city may forthwith cause such construction or repairs to be made
and recover from the railroad company the cost thereof with all necessary
expenses incurred. (‘68 Code, § 37.04)
   (C)   Railroad grade crossings over any streets or alleys shall be protected
as required by the U.S. Interstate Commerce Commission and the State Commerce
Commission. (‘68 Code, § 37.06)
(Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 97.05 OBSTRUCTION OF CROSSINGS RESTRICTED.
   No locomotive, freight or passenger car or train of cars shall be left
standing upon the track of any railroad, upon any crossing of a street or
alley, except for the purpose of receiving or discharging passengers or
freight, or for taking in and setting out cars, and in no case for longer than
ten minutes.
('68 Code, § 37.02)
§ 97.06 EXTERMINATION OF NOXIOUS WEEDS.
   All railroads or other companies owning tracks and right-of-way within the
limits of the city, and all railroad or other companies in possession of or
control of any railroad or other track or right-of-way within the limits of the
city, grounds and right-of-way, shall exterminate each year all noxious weeds
before they mature to seed.
('68 Code, § 37.08)
§ 97.07 MAINTENANCE OF RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Every railroad company or other company having a right-of-way or tracks
shall make, keep open and repair suitable ditches, drains, sewers and culverts
along and under its railroad tracks, tracks or switches in the city so stagnant
pools of water cannot stand on their grounds or right-of-way, and so that the
natural drainage of adjacent property shall not be impeded. They shall also
keep the crossing for both vehicles and pedestrians over their tracks and
right-of-way in good and safe condition and repair.
('68 Code, § 37.09)
§ 97.08 DRIVING VEHICLE ACROSS RAILROAD TRACK RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or attempt to drive any vehicle
across any railroad track in the city where lights or gates are installed
across the streets at any time when an alarm bell is ringing or when flashing
lights are operating or the gates are down.
('68 Code, § 37.07)
§ 97.09 CLIMBING ON RAILROAD CARS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall climb, jump, step, stand upon, cling to or in any way attach
himself to any locomotive, engine or car, either stationary or in motion, upon
any part of the track of any railroad or other corporation, except in
compliance with law, or by permission under the regulations of the corporation
managing such railroad.
('68 Code, § 42.06)
CHAPTER 98: RESERVOIR CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
98.001   Title
   
98.002   Definitions
   
98.003   Reservoir control
   
98.004   Leases, permits and licenses
General Rules and Regulations
   
98.020   Rules and regulations
   
98.021   Right of entry
   
98.022   City's agent
   
98.023   Connections to utility services
   
98.024   Pollution of waters and watercourses
   
98.025   Disposal of waste and garbage
   
98.026   Interments prohibited
   
98.027   Livestock and poultry
   
98.028   Washing clothing
   
98.029   Swimming, bathing and wading
   
98.030   Water skiing, tubing or kneeboarding
   
98.031   Picnicking and camping
   
98.032   Protection of birds and animals
   
98.033   Dogs and cats running at large
   
98.034   Firearms and traps
   
98.035   Ice skating, ice boating and vehicles
   
98.036   Fires restricted
   
98.037   Damaging property prohibited
   
98.038   Business establishments license or permit required
   
98.039   Peddling, begging prohibited
   
98.040   Advertising
   
98.041   Flying devices
   
98.042   Trespassing prohibited
   
98.043   Disorderly conduct
   
98.044   Vagrants
   
98.045   Breach of peace
   
98.046   Intoxicated persons
   
98.047   Interfering with city employees
Boating
   
98.060   Boating restricted
   
98.061   Boat registration
   
98.062   Renting and passengers
   
98.063   Enforcement; impoundment of boats
   
98.064   Houseboats prohibited
   
98.065   Toilet facilities in boats
   
98.066   Disregard for safety of persons or property
   
98.067   Pollution of waters
   
98.068   Nuisances
   
98.069   Boat rules
   
98.070   Lights on boats
   
98.071   Fire extinguishers; sirens
   
98.072   Steering and sailing rules
Fishing
   
98.080   Only hook and line fishing authorized
   
98.081   Restriction as to leased land
   
98.082   Suspension of privilege
   
98.083   Exceptions
   
98.084   Pollution of water
Traffic Regulations
   
98.090   Traffic signs and signals
   
98.091   Roadways
   
98.092   Parking
   
98.093   Speed regulations
   
98.094   Yielding right-of-way to equestrians
   
98.095   Exceptions
Campgrounds and Docks
   
98.100   Campground and dock rules and regulations
   
98.101   Rent
   
98.102   Eviction
Sewage Disposal
   
98.120   Private sewage disposal
 
   
98.999   Penalty
   
Exhibit A:   Lake Mattoon Campgrounds General Rules
   
Exhibit B:   Dock Rules and Regulations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 98.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, may be cited and is hereafter designated as
"The City of Mattoon Reservoir Control Ordinance".
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
§ 98.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. City of Mattoon, Coles County, Illinois, a Municipal Corporation.
   CLUB. A not for profit organization created solely for the promotion of some
common object or goal which has an interest in real estate proximate to Lake
Mattoon or Lake Paradise.
   CRAFT. Any boat, water vehicle or any device or raft not permanently
attached to the shore.
   CUSTODIAN. Any person having a lease from the city for use of any marginal
land for residential or business uses.
   DISTANCE. The shortest measurement between two points.
   DRAINAGE AREA. The entire area of land and water that drains into the
reservoirs or into the Little Wabash River or any tributary or other stream
above the public water supply.
   HIGH WATER LINE. The contour known as 635 feet above sea level, referred to
the United States Government elevations, as obtained from the benchmark
established in the city.
   INTAKE. The place where the water supply for the city is taken from the
reservoirs.
   LAKE MATTOON. All that portion of a reservoir that is owned by the City of
Mattoon, located in Paradise Township in Section Nineteen (19) in the Southwest
(SW) and Southeast (SE) Quarter (1/4) sections in the County of Coles, State of
Illinois; in Neoga Township in Section Twenty-nine (29) in the Northeast (NE),
Northwest (NW), Southwest (SW) and Southeast (SE) Quarter (1/4) sections,
Section Thirty (30) in the Northeast (NE), Northwest (NW), Southwest (SW) and
Southeast (SE) Quarter (1/4) sections, in Section Thirty-one (31) in the
Northeast (NE), Northwest (NW) and Southwest (SW) Quarter (1/4) sections and in
Section Thirty-two (32) in the Northwest (NW) and Northeast (NE) Quarter (1/4)
sections in the County of Cumberland, State of Illinois; in Ash Grove Township
in Section Thirty-six (36) in the Northeast (NE), Northwest (NW), Southwest
(SW) and Southeast (SE) Quarter (1/4) sections in the County of Shelby, State
of Illinois; and in Big Spring Township in Section One (1) in the Northeast
(NE), Northwest (NW), Southwest (SW) and Southeast (SE) Quarter (1/4)
sections), all in the County of Shelby, State of Illinois. See Exhibit "A".
   LAKE PARADISE. All that portion of a reservoir that is owned by the City of
Mattoon, located in the Southwest Quarter (SW 1/4) of Section Four (4), the
Northwest Quarter (NW 1/4) of Section Nine (9) and the Northeast Quarter (NE 1/
4) of Section Eight (8) all in Township Eleven (11) North, Range Seven (7) East
of the Third Principal Meridian in the County of Coles, State of Illinois.
   MARGINAL LAND. The land owned or controlled by the city adjacent to the
shoreline and not flooded by the waters of the reservoirs.
   RESERVOIRS. The artificial lakes and water impounded therein by means of the
public water supply dams constructed across the valley of the Little Wabash
River in Section One (1), Township Ten (10) North, Range Six (6) East of the
Third Principal Meridian in Shelby County, Illinois, and by any other structure
heretofore or hereafter constructed within the limits of the hereinafter
defined drainage area, which are used or for use as a public water supply for
the city.
   SHORELINE. The extended point where the plane of the surface of the waters
of the reservoirs touches the land.
   WATERCOURSE. Any stream, natural or artificial channel, spring or depression
of any kind, in which water flows continuously or intermittently over any part
of the drainage area, directly or indirectly, into any part of the reservoirs.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
§ 98.003 RESERVOIR CONTROL.
   The Public Works Director and the Parks and Recreation Director are charged
with the administration of the provisions of this chapter. The Public Works
Director and the Parks and Recreation Director are empowered to appoint
persons, who work under their direct supervision to assist in the exercise of
powers and performance of duties herein provided. The City Council may from
time to time establish rules and regulations for implementing the provisions of
this chapter in consultation with management staff of the municipality and the
Public Works Advisory Board. Rules and regulations may be amended or repealed
by the City Council as deemed necessary at its sole discretion.
(Ord. 2014-5369, passed 6-17-2014)
§ 98.004 LEASES, PERMITS AND LICENSES.
   (A)   Subject to the limitation and restrictions herein set forth and all
other laws, the City Council may from time to time grant leases, permits, and
licenses under the provisions of this chapter subject to a written application
and evidence that said applicant will comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
      (1)   All applications for leases, permits or licenses under this chapter
shall be directed to the Public Works Director.
      (2)   All leases, permits and licenses shall not be transferable in any
way, but all benefits which may be derived therefrom shall accrue only to the
person to whom the permit was originally issued by the Public Works Director
with approval of the City Council.
      (3)   Leases, permits and licenses granted, hereunder, shall be subject
to revocation in the event that the holder of such lease, permit or license
violates any provision of this chapter or any other rule or regulation adopted
pursuant to this chapter or any federal or state rule or regulation adopted for
the purpose of protecting reservoirs and/or the water supply to the city.
      (4)   In the event that the city takes action to revoke a lease, permit
or license, the holder of such lease, permit or license, shall be entitled to a
minimum due process hearing before the Public Works Director, with an appeal of
his or her decision to the City Council. City and the holder of the lease,
permit, or license being challenged shall have the right to present witnesses;
to be represented by counsel, and to create a record of such hearing for the
purpose of any appeal to the City Council. Any decision of the City Council
shall be subject to the Illinois Administrative Review Act.
   (B)   The Public Works Director shall require any applicant for any lease,
permit or license, to complete a written application calling for information
relevant to the identity of the applicant; the intended purpose or use of the
property to be leased, the license or the permit; and, to do a reasonable, but
limited, investigation into the qualifications and the accuracy of the
application.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to build, erect, alter or maintain
any building or other structure, or house trailer, including but not limited
to, any dock, wharf, boathouse or anchored or stationary raft, or to propel,
keep or use any boat or craft on said reservoirs or on any marginal land
without first having obtained a permit so to do as hereinafter provided and it
shall likewise be unlawful for any person, to build, erect, alter or maintain
any building or other structure including, but not limited to, any dock, wharf,
boathouse, or anchored or stationary raft, or to propel, keep or use any boat
or craft on said reservoirs in violation of the terms and conditions of such
license or permit or of the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   A permit shall be obtained by any person intending to construct or
alter any existing buildings or structures located on marginal. The application
for the permit shall require the following information: the identity of the
applicant. If the applicant is a partnership or organization, the identity of
two responsible representatives or officers of the organization shall be
identified by name, address, and telephone number; the purpose of the
construction shall be identified; all construction shall be completed
consistent with all applicable building codes, plumbing codes, electrical
codes, public health codes.
   (E)   The Public Works Director has the authority to inspect all structures
extending into water surface and to order them removed or repaired within a
reasonable time should it be deemed unsafe. Should the city need to abate the
problem the Public Works Director shall have the authority to bill the owner
for any city incurred expenses. The Public Works Director shall use reasonable
means to provide notice to the occupant and/or owner of the premises to be
inspected and to conduct such inspections with the permission of such occupant
or owner. In the event that such permission cannot be obtained, the Public
Works Director may, in his or her discretion, apply to a court of competent
jurisdiction or an order requiring the inspection.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 98.020 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The City Council, after consulting with the Public Works Director, the Park
and Recreation Director and Public Works Advisory Board, may from time to time
establish rules and regulations as may be deemed advisable or necessary to
make, in giving full force and effect to the carrying out of the provisions of
this chapter, and may amend and repeal any such rules and regulations at any
time.
(Ord. 2014-5369, passed 6-17-2014)
§ 98.021 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The city, by its duly authorized agents or representatives, reserves the
right to go upon any city owned property or any property in which the city has
flood rights and every part thereof and the improvements thereon at any and all
reasonable times for the purpose of inspecting the same; also to gain access to
other land; plant and care for trees and other vegetation; to construct or
cause to be constructed and maintained sewer, water and gas, electric and
telephone lines and pipes and line for other services and their appurtenances;
to improve and protect the shoreline; and to do any other work pertaining to
the improvement, protection, sanitary control and regulation of the reservoirs
and its environs. In the event that the property to be inspected is a private
residence, the city shall use reasonable efforts to obtain permission to gain
entry to the premises for the purposes of inspection. In the event that
permission cannot be obtained, the city shall apply to a court of competent
jurisdiction for an order granting the right of inspection.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
§ 98.022 CITY'S AGENT.
   The city, unless otherwise indicated, shall act through its Public Works
Director, and/or any duly authorized agent or employee of the Public Works
Department.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
§ 98.023 CONNECTIONS TO UTILITY SERVICES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, not an authorized employee of the
city in the performance of his or her duty, to make any connection with,
uncover, alter or disturb any water pipe or main, conduit, electric wire or
line, sewer or other utility constructed or maintained by the city or to open
any manhole, intercepting chamber or any appurtenance thereof without first
obtaining a written permit from the Public Works Director based upon a written
application setting forth the location and nature of the work to be done,
together with a description thereof or a copy of plans or specifications
therefore of the contemplated connection or alteration, and depositing with the
Public Works Director such sum of money as he or she shall estimate will fully
cover all damage of any kind which may be caused by the connection or
alteration. A surety bond, guaranteeing restoration, in a form and amount, as
approved by the Public Works Director, may be substituted for a cash deposit.
   (B)   After such alteration or connection has been completed the sewer,
water pipe or main, conduit electric wire or line, manhole or intercepting
chamber shall be immediately restored to as good a state or condition as prior
to the doing of such work, to the satisfaction of the Public Works Director. If
the completion of the restoration has been done without expense to the city and
to the satisfaction of the Public Works Director, the sum deposited shall be
refunded, but if any of the work is done by the city, the Public Works Director
shall certify the actual expense incurred and shall refund to the holder of the
permit the difference, if any, between the amount deposited and the amount
certified. In the event the amount so certified shall be in excess of the
deposit; the holder of the permit shall immediately pay such excess to the
city.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
§ 98.024 POLLUTION OF WATERS AND WATERCOURSES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, throw, discharge or
cause to be discharged, any sewage, garbage, decayed or fermented fruit or
vegetables, offal, dead body, manure, polluted, filthy, decaying, fermenting,
putrescible or oily matter or liquid or industrial waste, or any other
substance, commodity or material subject to rot, decay or putrefaction into or
so as to reach any natural or artificial watercourse or open or covered sewer,
ditch, tile or drain flowing directly or indirectly, continuously or
intermittently into and as so to pollute or tend to pollute the reservoirs or
other waters from which the city obtains a water supply, or in any other part
of the drainage area.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or cause to be
constructed or use within any part of the drainage area any toilet, water
closet, urinal, sink, cesspool, privy, garage, slaughterhouse or other
structure, establishment or place, any open or covered sewer, ditch, tile or
drain, or make any change therein or connection therewith which is so situated
that polluted or oily liquid therefrom may continuously or intermittently so
flow as to ultimately reach and pollute or tend to pollute the waters of such
reservoirs, or other waters from which the city obtains or may obtain a water
supply unless there is constructed, maintained and operated such sewage
treatment and disposal units and facilities for the treatment or disposal
thereof, approved by the Public Works Director, whereby such polluted or oily
liquid is treated or caused to be treated, so as not to pollute or tend to
pollute or threaten pollution of the waters of such reservoirs or water supply
of the city.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to install any connection for
water service or for water service furnished by the city at any place in the
drainage area or any tributary or other stream above the impounding dams of the
reservoirs, unless there are constructed and satisfactorily maintained and
operated such approved sewage treatment and disposal units and facilities for
the treatment of disposal of the sewage from such premises.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
§ 98.025 DISPOSAL OF WASTE AND GARBAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, place or throw any house
slop, sink waste, garbage, decayed or fermented fruit or vegetables or other
fruit or vegetable refuse, offal, swill, carcass, filthy, decaying, fermenting
or putrescible matter or any other substance, commodity or material subject to
rot, decay or putrefaction of any kind or insanitary waste product or polluted
or oily liquid or solid into the reservoirs. It shall be unlawful to place or
pile waste or garbage in any manner within two hundred feet of the reservoirs.
Such waste and garbage shall be kept in water tight, closed containers and
destroyed in a timely manner. Manure and commercial fertilizer may be used for
horticulture purposes within 200 feet of the reservoirs, but it shall be
unlawful for any person to place, spread, or use on or in the grounds, any
manure or commercial fertilizer in such quantities or in such manner as to
cause or threaten any pollution of the reservoirs, or to cause or tend to cause
any public to private nuisance whatsoever.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
§ 98.026 INTERMENTS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to inter a human body within two hundred
feet of the reservoirs.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
§ 98.027 LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY.
   No person shall permit any domestic livestock or poultry to run at large
within 200 feet of the shoreline. No person shall permit any animal or poultry
to stand, wallow, wade or swim or be washed or watered in the reservoirs. No
person shall bring, drive or lead any domestic livestock in lawful use of the
public highway and except horses and draft animals while engaged in work or
designated for riding or driving.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
§ 98.028 WASHING CLOTHING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to wash in the reservoirs any clothing,
bedding, carpet, vehicle, receptacle, utensil or article that tends to pollute
water.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
§ 98.029 SWIMMING, BATHING AND WADING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person:
   (A)   To swim in Lake Paradise.
   (B)   To swim, bathe or wade in the reservoirs who is afflicted with or who
is a carrier of any contagious, infectious or venereal diseases.
   (C)   To use the reservoirs for swimming, bathing, or wading purposes in
such a manner as to create any unsanitary condition in or about the reservoirs
or as to pollute the waters thereof or to make such waters unwholesome or unfit
for water supply purposes or injurious to the aquatic life thereof.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03; Am. Ord. 2003-5167, passed 8-5-03; Am. Ord.
2004-5177, passed 4-6-04)
§ 98.030 WATER SKIING, TUBING OR KNEEBOARDING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person:
   (A)   To water ski, tube or kneeboard at any place in Lake Paradise.
   (B)   To water ski, tube, or kneeboard or to have in tow or otherwise assist
a person on water skis, tube, kneeboard, aquaplane or similar contrivance in
Lake Mattoon within 200 feet of the shoreline or dam, under any bridge or "No
Wake" area.
   (C)   To water ski, tube or kneeboard between sunset and sunrise or to have
in tow or otherwise assist a person on water skis, tube, kneeboard, aquaplane
or similar contrivance from sunset to sunrise. Water skiers, tubers and
kneeboards must wear a life jacket or belt and highly visible headgear. Skiers
shall hold one ski aloft after they fall in the water.
   (D)   To propel or operate a boat pulling a water skier unless the boat is
occupied by at least two persons. One of these persons must be a competent
observer.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
§ 98.031 PICNICKING AND CAMPING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to picnic or camp on city owned
property except in designated areas.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to picnic or camp upon leased land, unless
approval of the lessee is secured and the picnicking or camping is done in a
sanitary manner and does not tend to create a public or private nuisance.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person picnicking, camping or making
other use of the reservoirs area within one mile of the shore line to fail to
keep the premises neat and clean; to fail to pick up and remove all paper,
garbage, rubbish and debris in a sanitary manner; or to fail to put out any
fire before leaving the premises.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
§ 98.032 PROTECTION OF BIRDS AND ANIMALS.
   All trapping, hunting and fishing shall comply with state regulations and
according to rules and regulations promulgated by the city.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
§ 98.033 DOGS AND CATS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or allow any vicious cat or
dog to run at large within 200 feet of the reservoirs.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
§ 98.034 FIREARMS AND TRAPS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fire or discharge any firearm of any
description within the limits of the reservoirs without first procuring a
license or permit from the Parks and Recreation Director to use firearms, traps
or other means to destroy any predatory or otherwise undesirable animal, bird
or aquatic life. The Parks and Recreation Director shall manage all duck
blinds.
(Ord. 2014-5369, passed 6-17-2014)
§ 98.035 ICE SKATING, ICE BOATING AND VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ice skate or operate or use any
iceboat or ice craft upon any of the ice of the reservoirs except in designated
areas.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operated any self propelled
craft or motorized vehicle upon any of the ice of the reservoirs except in
designated areas.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ice skate or use an iceboat in
a reckless manner or at a speed greater than is reasonable and proper. Nothing
herein contained shall be construed to prohibit any exhibition or contest of
speed or fancy skating or iceboat racing upon such portions of the ice of the
reservoirs as may be set a side for that purpose by the Park Superintendent.
   (D)   The steering and sailing rules set forth in §
98.72 of this chapter insofar as they are applicable shall govern the use and
operation of iceboats.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use any propeller or exhaust
driven iceboat on the reservoirs.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in ice cutting in or
upon the reservoirs except in designated areas.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
§ 98.036 FIRES RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to light or use a fire except at such
places as may be designated for such purpose and except by any custodian, his
or her family and guests on the parcel of marginal land leased to such
custodian by the city.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
§ 98.037 DAMAGING PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully, maliciously or negligently
cut, break, climb on, carry away, conceal, transfer, tamper with, mark upon or
in any way injure, damage or deface any tree, shrub, plant, turf, grass,
statue, bust, lamppost, hydrant, regulating device, transformer, meter, wire,
wiring, pole, curbstone, coping, flagstone, fence, wall, bridge, balustrade,
railing, bench, building or other structure of any kind or property or take
down, alter, mar, move, injure, or destroy any sign, trail marker, placard,
notice, post, pile or buoy posted or placed by the city or authorized to be
posted or placed by the city, or drive any motor car, vehicle, boat or craft in
such a manner as to cause the same to collide with, run against, strike or
cause to strike, injure or deface or damage any such property, but custodians
of the marginal land surrounding the reservoirs may make changes and
improvements as permitted in their leases from the city. No person shall open
any fire hydrant except a duly authorized firefighter or agent of the water
utility.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
§ 98.038 BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS LICENSE OR PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or operate any garage,
restaurant, confectionary, dock, refreshment parlor, dance hall, hotel, inn,
place of amusement for hire, store or stand for the sale of merchandise or
services within 200 feet of the shoreline without first having procured a
written license or permit from the Park Superintendent. Any license or permit
issued therefore shall be kept posted conspicuously in such place of business
or establishment.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
§ 98.039 PEDDLING, BEGGING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to beg, solicit alms or do anything
pertaining to soliciting, peddling, or hawking anywhere within the drainage
area or on land within one mile thereof which is owned or controlled by the
city.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
§ 98.040 ADVERTISING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any sign, bill,
poster, placard or card or to distribute any advertising matter by handbills or
otherwise within one mile of the reservoirs except signs authorized by the
Public Works Director.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
§ 98.041 FLYING DEVICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an ascent in any balloon, aero
plane, hydroplane or any other device or any descent in any aero plane,
balloon, hydroplane, or other flying device or parachute, on the reservoirs.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03; Am. Ord. 2004-5186, passed 8-3-2004)
§ 98.042 TRESPASSING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any "no trespassing" signs
posted by the city.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
§ 98.043 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit in public any indecent, lewd
or filthy act or use any threatening or obscene language or make any indecent
gesture or movement or make any indecent exposure of his or her person,
solicit, pander or sell or offer to sell, give away or offer to give away or
have in his or her possession or display or exhibit in public with or without
any attempt to sell or give away any obscene or indecent book, pamphlet, paper,
drawing, lithograph, engraving, picture, photograph, model, cast, instrument or
any other article for indecent or immoral use upon city property.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
§ 98.044 VAGRANTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any beggar, peddler, hawker, tramp, mendicant,
common drunkard, pickpocket, criminal, dissolute person or person who wanders
about and begs or goes about from door to door or person who habitually
violates this chapter or any of the provisions hereof, or any amendments hereto
or any rules or regulations made pursuant hereto to enter or be in or upon any
part of the city's property or within 200 feet of the shoreline.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
§ 98.045 BREACH OF PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, aid or countenance or assist in
making any improper noise, racket, disturbance, breach of the peace or anything
tending to a breach of the peace within one mile of the reservoirs or be guilty
of any disorderly or offensive conduct or to collect or assemble any body or
group of persons for any unlawful purpose or for the annoyance or disturbance
of any person or the damage or destruction of property.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
§ 98.046 INTOXICATED PERSONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the influence of alcoholic
beverages to enter, remain or loiter in or upon public grounds or on city
property.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
§ 98.047 INTERFERING WITH CITY EMPLOYEES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with or in any manner
hinder any employee or agent of the city while engaged in any work or the
improvement, care or supervision of any portion of city property.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
BOATING
§ 98.060 BOATING RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, propel or use the following:
   (A)   Any craft or boat on Lake Paradise in excess of no wake.
   (B)   Any craft or boat on the reservoirs having a motor engine of greater
rated horsepower than that which was designed for the craft or boat.
   (C)   Any jet ski.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03; Am. Ord. 2004-5177, passed 4-6-04)
§ 98.061 BOAT REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Registration required. It shall be unlawful for any person to propel,
keep or use in the reservoirs or store or keep on the marginal land any boat or
craft of any kind without first having such a boat or craft registered and
procured a registration number from the city.
   (B)   Boat numbers. The city registration number shall be displayed in the
right rear corner of the boat. No number other than the number awarded by the
state shall be painted, attached, or otherwise displayed on either side of the
bow of a motor boat. The city registration numbers, however, may be displayed
on sailboats.
   (C)   Term. Each such registration shall terminate on December 31 of the
current calendar year and may be annually renewed by filing an application
before such boat or craft may be lawfully propelled, kept or used in the
reservoirs.
   (D)   Fees. Annual boat registration fees are shown in §
35.01(H)(1).
   (E)   Sale of boats. Upon the sale of any boat or craft, the registration
issued therefore shall cease to apply, and are non-transferable. The boat or
craft so sold shall be removed from the reservoirs or registered by the
purchaser as in the case of an original registration.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03; Am. Ord. 2004-5177, passed 4-6-04; Am. Ord.
2010-5291, passed 4-6-2010)
§ 98.062 RENTING AND PASSENGERS.
   (A)   The business of renting boats for hire or carrying passengers for hire
on the reservoirs is prohibited except as may be authorized by special license
granted by the city. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all boats
and craft permitted by such license.
   (B)   Any boats or craft failing to have approved life preservers in place
as when registered or otherwise failing to pass inspection shall be made to
comply with this chapter before further operation.
   (C)   No individual operator or employee or any person operating any boat
carrying passengers for hire shall be permitted to operate such boat unless he
or she is physically fit for such duty, has adequate knowledge of the boat
mechanism, is familiar with this chapter, rules and regulations for the
operation of boats on the reservoirs and with commonly approved safety
regulations and measures to be used in case of accident or emergency, including
instruction of passengers in the use of safety equipment and their conduct in
case of emergency.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
§ 98.063 ENFORCEMENT; IMPOUNDMENT OF BOATS.
   (A)   The city reserves at all times the power and authority to prohibit,
restrict or otherwise limit or regulate the keeping, maintenance or operation
of any or all boats and crafts on the waters of the reservoirs should it become
necessary to do so in the interest of the public health or safety or for the
protection or improvement of the reservoirs or for any other reason.
   (B)   Any boat or craft found abandoned or adrift in the reservoirs or any
unlicensed boat or craft thereon shall be taken up by the Park Department and
the city shall have a lien thereon for all license fees therefor and the
expenses of taking, towing, keeping, advertising and selling of the same and
for all damages caused by such craft to property of the city and may enforce
such lien by advertisement and sale of such craft in like manner as chattel
mortgages may be foreclosed under the laws of this state. Nothing herein shall
be construed as exonerating the owner or operator of any boat or craft from
personal liability to the city, or any other person, for any damage or injury
caused by such boat or craft.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
§ 98.064 HOUSEBOATS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, propel, or use or keep on
the reservoirs any boat, raft, craft to barge commonly known as a houseboat or
any craft on which the occupants may have sleeping accommodations.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
§ 98.065 TOILET FACILITIES IN BOATS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or operate, propel or use on the
reservoirs any boat, craft equipped with toilet facilities.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
§ 98.066 DISREGARD FOR SAFETY OF PERSONS OR PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a boat or craft with a
willful or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
§ 98.067 POLLUTION OF WATERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person using or operating a boat or craft on
the waters of the reservoirs to do so in such a manner as to create an
unsanitary condition in or about such waters or as to pollute such waters by
the discharge, in any material amount, of oil or other polluting liquid or
solid tending to make such waters unwholesome or unfit for water supply
purposes or injurious to the aquatic life thereof.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
§ 98.068 NUISANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or use any boat or craft or
any horn or sound device as so to create a nuisance or disturb the peace or
quiet of any neighborhood.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
§ 98.069 BOAT RULES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Operate any boat or craft not properly licensed by the State of
Illinois and not equipped with approved and specified equipment.
   (B)   Operate any boat not properly registered with the city.
   (C)   Operate any boat or craft at a speed in excess of “no wake” between
sunset and sunrise.
   (D)   Operate any boat or craft at a speed in excess of 45 m.p.h. between
the hours of sunrise and sunset.
   (E)   Operate any hydroplane, jet ski or air propeller driven boat or craft.
   (F)   Operate a boat having a muffler cutout or any device that operates to
discharge exhaust gases of any motor or engine, without such gases passing
through an efficient muffler.
   (G)   Operate any boat or craft in a hazardous and reckless manner that
endangers persons or property or creates a public nuisance.
   (H)   Operate any boat or craft of another person(s) if the boat or craft
has been ordered off of the reservoirs for any period.
   (I)   Operate any boat or craft if under 16 years of age unless accompanied
by an adult.
   (J)   Operate any boat or craft within 100 feet of a spillway.
   (K)   Operate any boat or craft at any time within 200 feet of the shoreline
in excess of “no wake” speed.
   (L)   Be under the influence of alcoholic beverages or narcotic drugs while
operating or being a passenger in any boat or craft.
   (M)   Be a child without a life jacket on in a boat or craft, if under 13
years of age.
   (N)   Operate, propel or use any internal combustion engine or motor on any
boat or craft on the reservoirs between the hours of sunset and sunrise
operating at greater than “no wake” speeds.
   (O)   Operate, propel or use any boat or craft propelled by an engine or
motor in racing or practicing for racing events unless approved by the Parks
and Recreation Director or his or her designee.
   (P)   Nothing herein shall be construed as permitting any boat or craft to
be operated at a speed greater than is safe and prudent under the circumstances
and the operator thereof shall observe all signs and other regulations placed
by the Parks and Recreation Department on or near the reservoirs.
(Ord. 2014-5369, passed 6-17-2014)
§ 98.070 LIGHTS ON BOATS.
   (A)   Every vessel less than 26 feet in length shall carry and display when
underway the following lights from sunset to sunrise:
      (1)   A bright, white light aft (rear) to show all around the horizon
visible for a distance of two miles. The word "visible" as used herein means
visible on a dark night with clear atmosphere.
      (2)   A combination light in the forepart (front) of the boat lower than
the white aft (rear) light, showing green to starboard (right) and red to port
(left), so fixed as to throw a light from dead ahead to two points abaft to
beam on their respective sides and visible for a distance of not less than one
mile.
      (3)   Water craft propelled by muscular power when under way shall carry
on board from sunset to sunrise, but not fixed to any part of the boat, a
lantern or flashlight capable of showing a white light visible all around the
horizon at a distance of two miles or more, and shall display such lantern in
sufficient time to avoid collision with another water craft.
   (B)   Every vessel 26 feet or more in length shall carry and display when
underway such additional or alternate lights as shall be required by the U.S.
Coast Guard for the watercraft of equivalent length and type.
   (C)   Sail boats equipped with motors and being propelled partly or solely
by such motors shall carry and display the same lights required for motorboats
of the same class. Sailboats of less than 26 feet in length, equipped with
motors but being propelled entirely by sail between sunset and sunrise, shall
have the combination running light, but not the white light aft.
   (D)   Dinghies, tenders, and other water craft, whose principal function is
auxiliary to other larger water craft, when so operating need carry only a
flashlight visible to other craft in the area.
   (E)   Vessels that anchor between the hours of sunset and sunrise, except
those in a special anchorage area, shall display such anchor lights as shall be
required by the U.S. Coast guard for water craft or equivalent length and type.
   (F)   Water craft operated manually or by motors which are located on bodies
of water where motors of over 7.5 horsepower are exhibited must be equipped
during the hours between sunset and sunrise with a lantern or flashlight which
is capable of showing a beam for two miles.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
§ 98.071 FIRE EXTINGUISHERS; SIRENS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, propel or use any boat or
craft propelled by means of any motor or engine on the reservoirs unless it is
equipped with an adequate fire extinguisher approved by the Underwriters
Laboratories. Sirens are prohibited on all boats or craft except police or
fireboats.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
§ 98.072 STEERING AND SAILING RULES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to comply with any of the
following steering and sailing rules:
   (A)   When two sailboats are approaching one another so as to involve risk
of collision, one of them shall keep out of the way of the other, as follows:
      (1)   A boat, which is running free, shall keep out of the way of a boat,
which is close-hauled.
      (2)   A boat, which is close-hauled on the port (left) tack shall keep
out of the way of a boat, which is close-hauled on the starboard (right) tack.
      (3)   When both are running free, with the wind on different side, the
boat that has the wind on the port (left) side shall keep out of the way of the
other boat.
      (4)   When both are running free, with the wind on the same side, the
boat, which is to windward, shall keep out of the way of the boat or craft,
which is leeward.
   (B)   When two motor or engine driven boats are meeting end on, or nearly
end on, so as to involve risk of collision, each shall alter her course to
starboard (right) so that each shall pass on the port (left) side of the other.
   (C)   When two motor or engine driven boats are crossing so as to involve
risk of collision the boat which has the other on her own starboard (right)
side shall keep out of the way of the other.
   (D)   When a motor or engine driven boat and sailing boat are proceeding in
such directions as to involve risk of collision, the motor or engine driven
boat shall keep out of the way of the sailing boat.
   (E)   The meeting or crossing of two boats propelled by oars or muscular
power shall be governed in like manner as two motorboats under divisions (B)
and (C).
   (F)   When sailing boat or motor or engine driven boats meets, crosses the
course of or overtakes a boat propelled by oars or muscular power, the sailing
or motor or engine driven boat shall keep out of the way of the other.
   (G)   Where, by any of the rules herein prescribed, one of two boats shall
keep out of the way, the other shall keep her course and speed.
   (H)   Every motor or engine driven boat which is directed by these rules to
keep out of way of another boat, shall on approaching her, if necessary,
slacken her speed or stop or reverse.
   (I)   Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules, every boat or craft
overtaking any other shall keep out of the way of the overtaken boat or craft.
   (J)   In obeying and construing these rules due regard shall be had to all
dangers of navigation and collision and to any special circumstances which may
render a departure from the above rules necessary in order to avoid immediate
danger.
   (K)   Nothing in these rules shall exonerate any boat or craft or the owner
or operator thereof, from the consequences of any neglect to keep proper
lookout, or neglect of any precaution which may be required by the exercise of
due care and caution or by the special circumstances of the case.
   (L)   No boat or craft shall collide with, run against, strike, injure,
deface or damage any buoy, stake, sign, piling or other structure installed by
the city or with the city's consent, or be anchored or moored so as to obstruct
the view of any buoy or navigation sign or signal.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
FISHING
§ 98.080 ONLY HOOK AND LINE FISHING AUTHORIZED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to take, catch or attempt to take or
catch any fish in by any method except that of hooks attached to a single line.
No more than two lines will be allowed per fisherman, with not more than two
hooks each. The use of any trout-line or jug-line is prohibited. The use of any
seine of any character or any dip, hook, fyke, gill, pound or basket net or any
trap for the taking or catching of aquatic life is prohibited. The use of
snares, spears, gigs, firearms or artificial light for the taking or catching
of aquatic life is prohibited.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
§ 98.081 RESTRICTION AS TO LEASED LAND.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to take, catch or attempt to take or
catch any fish off the shore of any land leased by the city, unless the consent
of such lessee is first had and obtained.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
§ 98.082 SUSPENSION OF PRIVILEGE.
   The privilege of fishing in the reservoirs or any part thereof may be
suspended by the City Council at any time, whenever such suspension shall be
deemed proper to conserve aquatic life or to prevent any tendency to pollute
any waters of the reservoirs or to promote the improvement or convenient
maintenance or control of any part thereof The posting of any authorized sign
in any part shall suspend the privilege of fishing at such location.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
§ 98.083 EXCEPTIONS.
   This section does not apply to acts of the city or State Department of
Conservation in protecting or caring for the reservoirs or the aquatic life
therein.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
§ 98.084 POLLUTION OF WATER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person using the waters of the reservoirs for
fishing purposes to create any unsanitary condition in or about the water or
any part of the reservoirs or to pollute or make any part of the waters
unwholesome or unfit for use.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
§ 98.090 TRAFFIC SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully fail or refuse to comply
with any official signs or traffic signals or any lawful order or direction of
any police officer vested by law with authority to direct, control or regulate
traffic within the marginal land. It shall be unlawful for any person to
display any unauthorized traffic sign or signal.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
§ 98.091 ROADWAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or drive a motor vehicle upon
any part of city property except upon roadways and parking places constructed
or designated for such use and except by any custodian upon land leased to him
or her.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
§ 98.092 PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or permit any motor vehicle to
park stand within 200 feet of the shoreline except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer in any of the following places:
   (A)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (B)   On a sidewalk.
   (C)   In front of a public or private driveway.
   (D)   Within an intersection.
   (E)   Upon the roadway of, or approaches to, any bridge or the main
impounding dam or dividing dam and spillway forming the reservoirs.
   (F)   At any place where the standing and parking of a vehicle will block
the use of any walk or driveway.
   (G)   At any place where the standing or parking of a vehicle will tend to
obstruct the flow of a single line of traffic in each direction or cause either
such lines of traffic to veer from its course in the center of the roadway.
   (H)   Upon any bridge or other deviated structure upon a roadway.
   (I)   On the roadway side of any vehicle parked at the edge of a roadway.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
§ 98.093 SPEED REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle upon any roadway at
a speed, which is greater than is reasonable and proper with regard to traffic
conditions and the use of the highway, or endangers the safety of any person or
property. The city may from time to time designate the maximum rate of speed on
all roadways based on the location, nature and amount of traffic on the same
and shall erect suitable signs indicating such maximum rates of speed. If the
rate of speed of any vehicle operating on any roadway shall exceed the rate of
speed designated for such location, such rate of speed shall be prima facie
evidence that the person operating such vehicle was running at a rate of speed
greater than is reasonable and proper, having regard for the traffic and use of
the roadway.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
§ 98.094 YIELDING RIGHT-OF-WAY TO EQUESTRIANS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person driving a motor vehicle to fail to yield
the right of way to any equestrian on any bridle path, where such bridle path
crosses any roadway, when signaled to do so by such rider. The raising of the
arm of the equestrian shall be considered as a signal suitable for this action.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
§ 98.095 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing herein shall apply to or be construed to prevent or penalize
anything done or caused to be done by the city in constructing, operating,
improving, repairing, maintaining, patrolling, policing, protecting or caring
for the reservoirs, the aquatic life, therein, the shores thereof, the birds
and natural life thereon, or any part of the waterworks system of the city.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
CAMPGROUNDS AND DOCKS
§ 98.100 CAMPGROUND AND DOCK RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Rule and regulations for the management and operation of Lake Mattoon
Campgrounds and the Marina can be found in Exhibit A, Lake Mattoon Campgrounds
General Rules, and Exhibit B, Dock Rules and Regulations, of this chapter.
These rules and regulations may be amended or repealed by the City Council as
deemed necessary at it sole discretion. The attached rules and regulations, and
as may be amended in the future, are adopted herein by reference.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03; Am. Ord. 2022-5454, passed 8-2-2022; Am. Ord.
2023-5469, passed 9-5-2023)
§ 98.101 RENT.
   Annual rental fees for use of campgrounds and docks are established by a
resolution of the City Council. Fees may be changed by the City Council as
deemed necessary at its sole discretion.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03; Am. Ord. 2004-5177, passed 4-6-04)
§ 98.102 EVICTION.
   The city reserves the right to discharge and evict any person that fails to
abide by campground and dock rules and regulations.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
SEWAGE DISPOSAL
§ 98.120 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to build or maintain any toilet, water
closet, urinal, privy, cesspool, septic tank, sewer or other means for the
depositing, storing, retaining or disposing of sewage or sink or bathroom
wastes which would threaten pollution of the reservoirs or tend to create a
nuisance. The construction, operation and maintenance of any sewage disposal
facility shall be subject to approval of a permit therefor by the Public Works
Director.
   (A)   State statute, rules and regulations adopted by reference. The
Illinois Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act (ILCS Ch. 225, Act 225, § 1 et.
seq.) and regulations promulgated by the Illinois Department of Public Health
pursuant to the Act, such as are now in force and effect, or as may hereinafter
be revised or amended, are adopted and incorporated in this chapter by
reference.
   (B)   Jurisdiction. Applications to install, operate and maintain sewage
disposal systems on the marginal lands of the reservoirs shall be permitted and
inspected consistent with regulations of the Illinois Department of Public
Health promulgated pursuant to the Illinois Private Sewage Disposal Licensing
Act.
   (C)   Maintenance. In addition to the lien as provided in §
98.130 (B), the city reserves the right to bring an action against the person
or persons in violation of this chapter to seek a judgment in the Coles County
Circuit Court and to collect such judgment, plus reasonable attorneys fees, as
provided by law.
   (D)   All remedies of the city shall be cumulative and the city shall have
the right to pursue any lien, judgment or to ask the Circuit Court of Coles
County to assess appropriate fines for the violation of this chapter.
      (1)   Maintenance of Aerobic Sewage Disposal Systems. The record owner of
any sewage disposal system which employs an aerobic unit for treatment of
wastewater shall initiate and keep in force an agreement for inspection and
maintenance of the aerobic unit with an authorized representative of the
manufacturer of the aerobic unit or licensed private sewage disposal
contractor. The agreement shall provide for inspections of the aerobic unit a
minimum of two times per year, and shall provide for the repair, replacement,
adjustment, pumping or modification of the aerobic unit and for additional
inspections as are necessary to ensure the proper operation of the unit.
Inspection intervals shall be at least 120 days apart. Inspections shall meet
criteria of the Illinois Department of Public Health Private Sewage Disposal
Licensing Act and its implementing regulations.
      (2)   Maintenance of septic tank/subsurface seepage field sewage disposal
systems. The record owner of a septic tank/subsurface seepage field shall
initiate and keep in force an agreement for inspection and maintenance of the
system with a licensed private sewage disposal contractor. The Agreement shall
provide for an inspection of the system once every three years by a licensed
private sewage disposal contractor and shall provide for the repair,
replacement or pumping of the system to ensure the proper operation of the
system.
      (3)   Reporting. Maintenance of private sewage disposal systems shall be
reported as outlined in this section. Contractors who provide maintenance to
private sewage disposal systems shall submit to the Health Department in the
county of jurisdiction and the Public Works Director:
         (a)   A report of an observed malfunction of a private sewage disposal
system contracted for maintenance where the malfunction allows effluent that is
or may be inadequately treated to discharge to the ground surface or to a
surface water.
         (b)   A report of a cancellation or failure to renew an established
maintenance contract, or a refusal of an owner of a private sewage disposal
system to undertake necessary repair, replacement, modification, or adjustment
to the system.
         (c)   Reports shall be submitted within ten days following the
maintenance intervals required by division (C). A report of a discharge of
inadequately treated effluent to the ground surface or a surface water shall be
reported within twenty-four (24) hours.
         (d)   Reports submitted as required by this section shall be on a form
provided or approved by the Illinois Department of Public Health.
   (E)   Additional requirements applicable to aerobic systems. An effluent
receiving trench shall be required for all Class I aerobic systems installed
after October 16, 1998. Systems installed prior to this date will be required
to meet the guidelines of this division upon sale of the property or approval
of a lease assignment, unless the Public Works Director approves a variance of
these requirements due to insufficient lot size.
      (1)   The effluent receiving trench shall be designed at three gallons
per square foot of trench bottom area based on the daily design flow of the
system.
      (2)   Effluent receiving trenches or beds shall not be greater than 36
inches below the ground surface and shall have a minimum earth cover of 6
inches and a maximum earth cover of 12 inches.
      (3)   The effluent receiving trench system shall be designed so the
entire trench or bed is the first component to be filled with effluent. Any
excess effluent shall be directed to the chlorine feed/contract chamber prior
to discharge. The effluent receiving trench shall not be installed in direct
series with the open-discharge.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
§ 98.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who fails to comply with the provisions of this chapter or
who fails to carry out an order made pursuant to this chapter or violates any
condition attached to a permit, approval or certificate shall be subject to
penalties established at
§ 10.99.
   (B)   If the city corrects a violation itself or causes a violation to be
corrected on its behalf, a lien for the amount of time and expense involved in
correcting the violation shall be filed against the land where the violation
occurred unless the owner or occupant of that land shall reimburse the city its
expenses upon request. A minimum charge of $250 for each hour, or part of an
hour, shall be levied for work performed by or on behalf of the city in
correcting a violation. An additional $50 administrative fee shall be levied
upon the lien for costs incurred by the city. Said lien shall be recorded with
the County Records Division and may be foreclosed upon according to Illinois
Law.
   (C)   If the city corrects the violation itself or causes the violation to
be corrected on it behalf, the violator shall nevertheless be subject to the
above-specified fine, in addition to a lien being placed on the violator's
property.
(Ord. 2003-5160, passed 3-5-03)
EXHIBIT A
LAKE MATTOON CAMPGROUNDS GENERAL RULES
   As a term and condition of your Agreement, you are required to abide by the
following rules.
   1.   The Lake and Parks Director or designee reserve the right to evict any
person that fails to abide by these rules and regulations. Violation of any of
these rules and regulations or terms and conditions of the "Campsite License
Agreement" by the tenant, lessee and/or the camper guest(s) or visitor(s) is
grounds for immediate termination of the license agreement.
   2.   CAMPSITE FEES - Campsite fees can be made in two equal installments
with the first installment due on or before September 30, prior to the next
camping season. The second installment is due on or before March 31, prior to
the camping season. A $100 late fee applies to any installment not paid by the
due date. Any installment and/or late fee not received within 15 days after due
date will be deemed a cancellation of the Agreement and the camper shall remove
any vehicles and personal property from the Campground immediately. All fees
are non-refundable. There will be a $25 charge for any returned checks and late
charges will also apply.
   3.   INSURANCE - All seasonal campers must provide current proof of
insurance throughout the year on their unit. The unit should be listed on the
insurance coverage.
   4.   PAYMENTS - Camper does not have a valid licensing agreement to camp or
use dock unless licensing agreement has been duly executed by city and camper,
and payment has been made in accordance with licensing agreement! Any payment
paid online or by a bank check will not be valid without signed agreement. Both
the signed agreement and payment must be received by the due date. Mailed
payments are credited on the date received by the city. Payments can be made at
the Marina in season when the Marina is open. You can pay by cash, credit card
(online) or check.
   5.   UTILITIES - Camper is responsible to pay for electricity and water
usage. Failure to pay for electricity or water bill by due date may result in
cancellation of the Agreement. Meters will be read on or close to the 15th of
the month. Bills are due on the fifth of each month following the reading. Any
payment not received by or on the due date will be charged a minimum $25 late
fee. Any payment along with late fee not paid by the 15th of each month will
also be charged a $25 non-payment fee. We reserve the right to disconnect or
shut off power without being held responsible for any damages.
      ELECTRIC - Camper will be billed according to usage plus a $13.50 charge
that includes additional utility fees incurred such as service availability
charge, sales tax, security lights, KVA minimum up charge and administrative
fees. If there is no usage, the minimum monthly amount of $13.50 will be
billed.
      WATER - There will be a $15 monthly charge for water usage during the
season, April 15 to October 15. All units must be checked for leaks on a
regular basis. If a leak is found, water will be shut off until the leak is
fixed. Camper is allowed to power wash their units. Please do not be wasteful
and leave water running. The water will be shut off annually on October 15.
Every unit must be winterized by then and hoses disconnected from water
spigots. Camper is responsible for hookup from the water spigot to their camper
for water.
      Camper will be responsible for any damage caused by camper or camper(s)
and/or guest(s) to any electrical post and/or water connection/line. Law
enforcement may be notified. Any unit with skirting/underpinning must have a
trap door close to the hookups so we have access in case of a water leak. DO
NOT pound, poke, jab or stick anything in the ground without permission from
the Lake Supervisor. Electrical and water lines are in ground.
   6.   CAMPERS/TRAILERS/RVs - All campers/trailers/RVs must be movable: tires,
frame, and hitch must be maintained and in working condition in the event of
site maintenance, sewer, electrical, water, tree removal or trimming, and
emergencies. Campers/trailers/RVs that cannot be moved when needed, must be
fixed/repaired to bring the camper/trailer/RV up to a moveable standard. If
this cannot be done, notice will be given that the unit is beyond repair and
will be requested to be removed from the campgrounds within 30 days. The city
reserves the right of judgement to request camper to remove camper/trailer/RVs
that is not being maintained, beyond repair or in very poor condition. Costs
for having units removed and put back on-site will be solely the camper's
responsibility.
      NEW INCOMING SEASONAL CAMPERS/RVs OR UPGRADING CAMPER/RV - Any new or
different camper/RV must not be older than 20 years from the current year. Make
sure with the Lake Supervisor that the camper/RV will fit onto your site and in
the proper place within the lot lines. All campers must be able to be removed
and be placed on a site without the need to move or impede any neighboring
campers. The Lake Supervisor must be present when campers/RVs are being set up
to ensure proper location on the site and neighboring sites are not disturbed.
This must also be done during staff working hours. Prior notice of setup is
required.
   7.   CLOSING FOR SEASON - Campground gate will be closed and locked annually
at 2:00 p.m. on October 15. No electricity or water will be available after
October 15 at 2:00 p.m. Camper may leave RV unit, as defined below while the
Campground is closed. All water hoses must be disconnected from the water main.
All loose items (lawn furniture, lawn ornaments outside decorations) and
nonmotorized vessels such as kayaks and canoes must be stored on an approved
rack, in your camper, on or under your deck so we may be allowed for proper
fall and spring leaf cleanup. No other vehicles of any kind including golf
carts and trailers are allowed inside the Campground from closing period of
October 15 through April 14. Camper may be permitted to walk to campsite during
this period, but camping privileges apply only for the period from April 15
through October 15, ("camping period"), and are contingent on the city's
receipt of an annual license from the State of Illinois. The city reserves the
right to alter the aforementioned dates as it deems necessary.
   8.   NON-RENEWAL of LEASE - Any camper without a renewed lease for the next
season is required to remove their property from the premises by the last day
of the camping season. Upon departure notify Lake Supervisor. Failure to remove
property will result in a storage fee equal to the current daily rate for that
campsite until property is removed. All access to the Campground must be made
in advance and by appointment only. All fees must be paid in full prior to unit
removal. Any property left more than 30 days past the end of the Agreement
expiration is subject to abandonment proceedings.
   9.   TERMINATION - If a camper or a camper's guest violates the terms of the
agreement or rules, the camper and guests will be ejected, any refund of fees
will be forfeited, and camper will have two weeks from the date that they were
ejected to remove unit and all property from the grounds. Any property left
after such two-week period shall be removed at the camper's expense and the
city will not be liable for any damages to the property.
   10.   GUESTS and/or VISITORS - The camper shall have no more than six
individuals or immediate family (two adults plus minor children) per site for
overnight camping. Camper is responsible for all campers and guests and will
assure that all obligations of this Agreement are understood and abided by
every person that uses the campsite.
   11.   MINORS - Camper is responsible for the supervision and conduct of
minors in their care. All minors must return to their own campsites by dusk
unless accompanied by an adult. Camper must ensure that minors are supervised
by a responsible adult and follow campground rules. Camper is responsible for
all campers and guests and will assure that all obligations of this Agreement
are understood and abided by every person that uses the campsite.
   12.   SALES (any Unit): - No trailer, mobile home or unit is allowed to be
sold and kept on site. Please contact Lake Supervisor immediately in the event
of ownership changes. Any unit that is sold while on Campground property must
be immediately removed. Leases for campsites are non-transferable. Sub-leasing
is prohibited. Lots available are based on requests and/or waiting list.
Existing mobile homes are grandfathered in but the unit cannot be sold or
transferred as of September 30, 2020 without being removed.
      The east part of the east campground is in Cumberland County and the
mobile homes must pay a property tax that is billed to the city. The amounts
will come from the City Clerk, broken down by Cumberland County.
   13.   REMOVAL POLICY - Camper is responsible for immediately removing unit,
all debris, decking and other property from campsite at termination of
licensing agreement. Upon termination of the licensing agreement, patios, stone
walkways must remain on the campsite and may not be removed. Campers who fails
to clean litter or debris from campsite are subject to clean-up fee plus any
additional expenses occurred by the city. Camper is responsible to reimburse
the city for the cost to repair any damage to campsite or dock.
   14.   BOAT DOCKS - See Exhibit B - Boat Dock Rules. Individually owned docks
are grandfathered in. No new individually owned docks may be constructed.
Camper is responsible and liable for their docks, to maintain safety and
liability standards. The city is not responsible and/or liable in any way for
these docks. Failure to maintain will result in removal at the owners' expense.
See Lake Supervisor for available docks for rent.
      SEASONAL DOCK RENTAL - (Dock equals one side) Dock usage is prohibited
unless you are the authorized camper of that dock. Camper is not allowed to
give permission to grant use of their dock to any other individual.
      No children under the age of 13 are allowed on docks without adult
supervision.
   15.   CAMPSITES/TENTS - NO TENTS are allowed at any camper sites. There is a
designated tent section in the West Campground for daily rental.
   16.   CAMPSITE MAINTENANCE/MOWING - Please take pride in our Campground by
keeping the campsite and waterfront neat, organized and free from litter and
clutter. The city will maintain the open areas of the campgrounds. Campers are
responsible for mowing, trimming, leaf cleanup, weed control, organization of
their campsite and decks. This includes under all picnic tables, decks, lawn
furniture, water hoses, electric boxes, water spigots, storage sheds, fire
pits, wood storage and the like.
      Each Monday all campsites will be inspected. Any campsite with grass or
weeds over the height of four inches or deemed necessary to be trimmed by Lake
Supervisor will be cut by city personnel after notification to camper to remedy
the situation within 72 hours for a fee of $25 per mowing or trimming will be
charged. Mowing and trimming services are offered if needed. Contact Lake
Supervisor for pricing and details.
      Lawn decorations, water hoses, furniture, grills, water toys, paddle
boats, canoes, kayaks, paddleboards, firewood and the like must be kept neat
and orderly at all times. All excess water hose must be neatly coiled up and,
on a reel, or holder.
      Stored wood on the site must measure no more than 4'(D) X 4'(H) X 8'(L) =
2 ricks. If there are any items deemed as clutter or excessive by the Lake
Supervisor, you will be asked to organize and/or remove it immediately.
      Any non-motorized vessels (canoes, paddleboats, kayaks, and the like) on
your campsite must have a current lake sticker registration or be removed
immediately from the campsite.
   17.   SEWAGE - Absolutely no dumping of sewage (black or gray water) on the
ground. Dumping is subject to a fine and /or immediate termination of the
lease. There is a dump station centrally located inside the West Campground.
Please keep sewer caps on trailers, totes and dump tanks. Services are offered
to empty your tanks if needed. Contact Lake Supervisor for pricing and details.
   18.   STORAGE - No storage of any building materials, construction
equipment, riding mowers, log splitters, ladders, lumber, pallets, awnings,
clutter items, and the like under, around or behind your camper or site.
   19.   CAMPFIRES/LEAVES/BURNING - Campers may not ignite any fire or burn any
material which is not organic, compostable or biodegradable and must only allow
to burn if they are contained in the fire ring or pit within their campsite.
Any fire should not be left unattended and extinguished before retiring.
   20.   SPECIAL ACTIVITIES/TEMPORARY STRUCTURES: - any additional temporary
structures or activities* - must be pre-approved by the Lake Supervisor prior
to making any arrangements.
      *Additional temporary structures such as tents, awnings, bouncy houses,
dunk tanks. Activities such as slip 'n' slide, bouncy houses, pony rides,
carnival type activity. Additional water, electrical and other fees may apply.
Deposits may be required. Any damage to the property will be the responsibility
of the camper to have it returned to its original status. All decisions of any
needed repairs to return it to its original status will be made by the Lake
Supervisor. All decisions will be final.
      These additional structures and/or activities require the camper to
provide a certificate of insurance and additional insured endorsement with
policy limits of no less than $1,000,000 and agrees to name the City of Mattoon
as additional insured on its liability insurance policy, on a primary basis,
and not contributing with or in excess of any other policy of insurance that
may be available to the city. The certificate of insurance must be presented to
the City of Mattoon seven days prior to the event. Without pre-approval and/or
certificate of insurance, the additional structure(s) and/or activity will not
be allowed and will need to be removed immediately.
   21.   STRUCTURES - No permanent structures, additions, sun/screen rooms,
covered deck or fences are permitted. No sheds or outbuildings larger than 4'
(D) X 7'(H) X 8'(L) will be allowed. A permanent structure is one that cannot
be removed immediately upon request. Decks are permitted with approval of plan
drawings. Decks may not impede other campsites. Maximum deck dimensions can be
no longer than your camper and no wider than 12 ft. All improvements that are
constructed in the lake or docks shall become property of the city. No
improvements deemed permanent shall be constructed without prior approval of
the Lake Supervisor. All requests should be made in writing and emailed to
Lakemattoon@gmail.com.
   22.   BOAT/TRAILER/UTILITY TRAILER PARKING - ABSOLUTELY NO BOAT, BOAT
TRAILER, OR UTILITY TRAILER PARKING AT THE CAMP SITE. All parking must be in
the designated boat parking area. There is a designated boat/trailer parking
area with one boat/trailer parking space for each LEASE. Other spaces are
available at an EXTRA charge of $25 monthly. Empty boat trailers not being used
will be moved to a different location to allow space. Boats or trailers may not
be hitch locked or chained to any trees or posts. All boats and trailers must
have valid state and City of Mattoon watercraft registration stickers or will
be towed at the owners' expense. The city is not responsible/nor liable for
trailers, boats, or other property illegally parked. Boat/trailers will be
moved periodically for mowing. Boat/trailers may be stored over the winter for
a fee. Contact Lake Supervisor for more information on storage.
   23.   PARKING - Roadways must be always kept open! No motor vehicles or
trailers of any kind may be left unattended at the campsite when site is not
being occupied by campsite leasee. Each campsite is limited to one vehicle. If
there is room on your site, you may park one additional vehicle if it does not
stick out beyond your site area. All guests/visitors and additional vehicles
must park in designated overflow area.
   24.   PET ETIQUETTE - Pets are NOT allowed to run freely on the grounds. All
pets while outside MUST be on a maximum six-foot leash, supervised, and under
control at all times. Any excessive barking day or night will not be tolerated.
Pets must not be left unattended outside (tied up or in kennels). Any dogs
displaying aggressive tendencies are not allowed and must be removed from the
campground immediately. Camper must be able to provide proof of current
immunizations upon request to from the city. Camper is required to clean up
after its pets. Pet waste must be placed into a sealed bag and disposed of in
trash containers. Disposing of pet waste in the lake water is absolutely
prohibited! Pets are not allowed in restrooms. All campsites have a limit of
three pets per site.
   25.   CANNABIS is PROHIBITED - Public Act 101-0593 410 ILCS 705/10-35
"Prohibits the use of Cannabis in a Public Place". "Public place" includes all
parts of buildings owned in whole or in part, or leased, by the state or a unit
of local government. "Public place" includes all areas in a park, recreation
area, wildlife area, or playground owned in whole or in part, leased, or
managed by the state or a unit of local government.
   26.   ILLEGAL SUBSTANCES - No drugs or other illegal substances are allowed
on the premises.
   27.   MUSIC - Amplified, offensive and vulgar music is not permitted at any
time. The volume or content should not interfere with other campers right to
quiet enjoyment of the campground.
   28.   DRUNKEN OR DISORDERLY CONDUCT - Drunkenness, inappropriate language,
bullying, harassment, violence or threats of violence will result in immediate
termination of this contract as well as intervention by authority as necessary.
   29.   NO FIREWORKS - No fireworks, explosives or sparklers are allowed on
the premises.
   30.   WEAPONS - The campground is a gun free, weapon free zone. Firearms, BB
guns, pellet guns, paintball guns, archery, sling shots and lethal weapons are
strictly prohibited on the campground.
   31.   PROFANITY - This is a family campground, so language fit for all
campers is required. PLEASE be respectful of fellow campers.
   32.   QUIET HOURS - Quiet hours between 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. daily.
During quiet hours, music should be turned down to a low volume and
conversation should be toned down. Enjoy yourself but respect your neighbor. Do
a walk around your site and determine a respectful volume level.
   33.   GENERATORS - The campground is a generator-free area. Generator use
and battery charging by engine idling is also prohibited.
   34.   TRASH/DUMPSTER - Household trash only! No fish remains or dumping!
Trash must be placed INSIDE the dumpster. DO NOT place anything next to or
outside of the dumpster. All boxes must be broken down flat. No furniture,
mattresses, carpet, appliances, batteries, paints and toxic liquids. These
items are your personal responsibility and need disposed of in a different
location. If applicable, please keep lids closed to help reduce insects.
Absolutely, no fish remains or dumping of any kind is permitted.
      If you witness anyone disposing of trash improperly, please note the
date, time and the person involved and report it immediately to the Lake
Supervisor.
   35.   FISH CLEANING/REMAINS - Fish remains shall not be disposed of at the
campground anywhere, any time, for any reason. This includes and not limited to
the campground dumpster. Fish remains should not be buried or composted at or
near the campground.
   36.   TRANSPORTATION - Please watch for other vehicles, fellow campers and
children playing. Four wheelers, ATVs, side by sides, scooters, or any vehicle
not licensed by State of Illinois (other than for Campground staff) are NOT
allowed. Golf carts are allowed, HOWEVER, anyone driving a golf cart or gas/
electric vehicle MUST HAVE VALID driver's license and proof of insurance.
Camper must be able to provide a copy of insurance at any time upon request.
Camper is responsible for the acts or omissions of anyone driving a vehicle
owned by camper. All motorized vehicles MUST remain on the roadways and abide
by the ten mph speed limit.
   37.   SPEED LIMIT - Ten mph is the maximum speed limit. This is a family
Campground: WATCH for children playing.
   38.   RESTROOMS/BATH HOUSE - Please note "NO SMOKING" and "NO PETS"
permitted in the restrooms! Campground facilities are open 24 hours a day
during season.
   39.   SWIMMING AREAS - NO swimming pools, wading pools or hot tubs allowed.
NO jumping or diving in the Lake from any docks or Campground shoreline. Lake
Mattoon has one designated beach for swimming. Swimming or wading in Lake
Mattoon is at your own risk.
   40.   PLAYGROUND - An adult must supervise all children under the age of
eight. The playground closes at dusk.
   41.   MISC -    
      *   No "For Sale" signs allowed.
      *   No fences are allowed on your campsite.
      *   No clotheslines allowed at the Campground.
      *   The use of chainsaws is not permitted.
   42.   Rules and Regulation Changes - See § 98.020: "The City Council, after
consulting with the City Administrator and the Park and Recreation Director may
from time to time establish rules and regulations as may be deemed advisable or
necessary to make, in giving full force and effect to the carrying out of the
provisions of this chapter, and may amend and repeal any such rules and
regulations at any time.”
   43.   VIOLATION OF RULES - Campground management reserves the right to
immediately remove without prior notice, licensee, family and guests upon
violation of any rule, or who, in managements opinion, is creating a
disturbance of any kind or is a nuisance.
   44.   CITY OF MATTOON IS NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR ACCIDENTS, INJURIES, LOSS OF
PERSONAL PROPERTY, AND/OR VALUABLES TO OUR CAMPERS, GUESTS AND/OR VISITORS.
EXHIBIT B
DOCK RULES AND REGULATIONS
1.   The boat dock season is April 15 - October 15.
2.   All boats must display a current boat registration sticker.
3.   The city is responsible for maintaining rental docks. Renters cannot
modify the dock or structure in any way. (i.e., cleats, poles bumpers)
4.   The Lake Supervisor reserves the right to assign dock space, but all
efforts consistent with good business practices and the rights and desires of
other tenants will be exercised in an effort to assign dock space desired by
the tenant.
5.   Subleasing of docks, transfer of boats between docks, or from one dock to
another dock, shall not be allowed. The tenant shall not assign, transfer, or
permit the use of assigned space to any other party without written consent of
the Lake Supervisor. Subleasing or transfer will terminate the dock rental
agreement and there will be no refund of rental fee.
6.   PRIVATELY OWNED DOCKS/STRUCTURES - must be repaired and maintained by
owner and in safe working condition at all times. The city has the right to
notify owner for required repairs or removal. Private docks cannot be replaced.
In the event of dock or structure removal, the city will determine whether to
replace the dock or rebuild for a dock rental.
7.   When a boat enters the dock area, it immediately comes under the
jurisdiction of the mandatory "No Wake" regulation.
8.   All boats must be fastened properly and securely and, in such manner, as
to avoid fouling and collision. Transient boats shall not tie up ("hot slip")
to boat(s) in dock area over night or for an extended period without prior
approval. Nor shall a transient boat occupy a dock without approval of Lake
Supervisor.
9.   Only pleasure boats, in good condition, sale and seaworthy, under their
own power shall be admitted to dock areas.
10.   Use of boats as permanent living quarters while docked or moored at the
dock is forbidden. No overnight stay is allowed.
11.   No person shall have the privilege of entering upon the premises of the
dock for the purpose of working on or making repairs to the boat without the
approval of the Lake Supervisor.
12.   Prior to any work or repairs the Lake Supervisor must be notified and be
approved prior to the start of work. Any electrical must meet all codes, IDPH
standards and performed by an approved licensed electrician. Any electric not
to code, IDPH standards must be disconnected and/or removed immediately. Prior
to any repairs the Lake Supervisor must be notified and approved prior to the
start of work.
13.   No refuse, garbage or waste material shall be thrown overboard or upon
the docks or surrounding area. Garbage shall be deposited in containers
supplied for that purpose. No person shall discharge oil, spirits, inflammable
liquid, or oily bilges in the dock area. Toilet facilities that empty into the
water shall not be used.
14.   Noise shall be kept at a minimum at all times. Patrons shall use
discretion in operating engines, generators, and radios, so as not to create a
nuisance or disturbance.
15.   Advertising or soliciting shall not be permitted on any boat in the dock.
No "For Sale" signs allowed. Laundry shall not be hung on boats, docks, or
shore area. Pets shall be leashed within the confines of the dock area. Pets
permitted only if they do not disturb other guests. Laundry shall not be hung
on boats, docks, or shore area.
16.   NO SWIMMING, WADING OR DIVING FROM ANY DOCKS. Lake Mattoon has one
designated beach for swimming.
17.   Boat owners shall not store materials, accessories or debris in walkways
and shall not construct thereon any lockers, chests, cabinets, or similar
structures.
18.   Laundry shall not be hung on boats, docks, or shore area, nor shall "for
sale" signs or commercials displays be placed on boats.
19.   It is prohibited to carry gasoline in containers or refuel on docks.
20.   Tenant agrees that only reasonable and customary use will be made of the
dock and facilities covered hereby, and that no unnecessary wear and tear,
disturbance, nuisance, rubbish or garbage will be permitted on the dock or
premises, and that the tenant will keep dock and premises covered hereby, free
and clear of gear, paddle boats, canoes, kayaks, tackle and other obstructions,
and further agrees not to discharge or otherwise dispose of rubbish, debris or
other materials, including treated or untreated effluent or sewage into the
Lake. Boat owners shall not store materials, accessories or debris in walkways
and shall not construct thereon any lockers, chests, cabinets, or similar
structures.
21.   Tenant agrees that he or she bears the financial responsibility for
keeping his or her boat fully insured with complete marine insurance, including
hull coverage and liability insurance. Tenant acknowledges that the city does
not insure the property of the tenant, and that the city will not be
responsible for injuries or property damage resulting, cause by, or growing out
of the use of dock or lake facilities; that the tenant releases, discharges and
agrees to hold the city harmless from any and all liability for loss, injury or
damages to person or property sustained while in or on the facilities of the
city, including fire, theft, vandalism, windstorm, high or low waters, hail,
rain, ice, collision, accident or act of God.
22.   In case of emergency as determined by the Lake Supervisor, tenant
authorizes Lake Supervisor to move tenant's boat or other property, if possible
and practical, to a safer area to protect the boat, the property or general
welfare, if the boat is unattended and the tenant cannot be reached. The Lake
Supervisor is under no obligation to provide such service. Any costs incurred
by the city to provide such service shall be billed at the yard rate to tenant.
Tenant agrees to indemnify and hold the city harmless from any and all
liability, loss, or damage, which may arise out of the failure of the tenant to
move the boat, the inability of the city to reach the tenant or by the movement
of the boat by the Lake Supervisor. The tenant shall be solely responsible for
any emergency measures.
23.   Tenant authorizes the Lake Supervisor, his or her agent or employees to
move and operate tenant's boat during the making of repairs or for normal
marina operations and tenant agrees to hold the city harmless against loss,
cost, suit or claim therefrom.
24.   In the event suit is brought by the city against tenant to collect any
amounts due hereunder or to enforce any appropriate maritime or other liens,
that tenant shall pay the city's reasonable attorney's fees incurred.
25.   In the event tenant fails to remove his or her boat and property from the
rental space at the termination of the rental term, the Lake Supervisor may
charge to tenant's account daily rent on a pro rata basis for each day or
portion thereof the space is occupied or avail himself or herself of the
remedies provided for hereafter in the event of default and any other remedy
available under law.
26.   Violation of the above rules and regulations, disorder, depredations, or
indecorous conduct by a patron, or his or her guests, that might injure a
person, cause damage to property or harm the reputation of the lake shall be
cause for immediate removal from the lake of the boat in question and shall be
cause for revocation of the dock rental. The owner of any boat, or his or her
authorized agent using the dock shall be responsible for the conduct of all
persons, using, visiting, or occupying the boat.
CHAPTER 99: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
99.01   City bench mark established
   
99.02   Removing grade or corner stakes
   
99.03   Naming of streets
   
99.04   Numbering of buildings
   
99.05   Street excavations
   
99.06   Work performance in streets and city property
   
99.07   Moving buildings
   
99.08   Building construction; use of streets
   
99.09   Maintenance of hedges
   
99.10   Dead wires and poles declared a nuisance
   
99.11   Barbed wire fences prohibited
   
99.12   Encroachments onto or over public right-of-way
   
99.13   Storage on streets
   
99.14   Merchandise on sidewalks
   
99.15   Stands on streets
   
99.16   Selling on streets
   
99.17   Sorting materials in streets
   
99.18   Rubbish on streets
   
99.19   Fires in streets
   
99.20   Posting signs on streets
   
99.21   Awnings
   
99.22   Sign and canopy permits; fees; revocation
   
99.23   Crowds obstructing sidewalks
   
99.24   Tearing up sidewalks
   
99.25   Open drains across sidewalks
   
99.26   Expectorating
   
99.27   Driveways
   
99.28   Driving on walks
   
99.29   Policy regarding vacation of streets and alleys
   
99.30   Standards for construction of facilities on the rights-of-way
   
99.31   Small wireless facilities in the rights-of-way
Sidewalk Construction
   
99.40   State law applicable
   
99.41   Board of Officers
   
99.42   Width and grade of sidewalks
   
99.43   Sidewalk specifications
   
99.44   Payment
   
99.45   Notice
   
99.46   Default
   
99.47   Supervision of construction
   
99.48   Letting contract
   
99.49   Bill of cost
   
99.50   Special tax collection
   
99.51   Acceptance of improvement; payment
   
99.52   Report of tax to County Treasurer
   
99.53   Removal of excavations
   
99.54   Bond
   
99.55   Use of sidewalks for cafes
Bicycle Committee
   
99.60   Bicycle Committee
Trees
   
99.70   Short title
   
99.71   Purpose and intent
   
99.72   Definitions
   
99.73   Tree Commission
   
99.74   Standards adopted
   
99.75   Violations
   
99.76   Permits required
   
99.77   Nuisance tree removal
   
99.78   Tree contractor certification
   
99.79   Penalty
Encroachments
   
99.90   Definitions
   
99.91   Encroachments within limits of project right-of-way
   
99.92   Project right-of-way lines
   
99.93   Revocable permits issued by city
 
   
99.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 99.01 CITY BENCH MARK ESTABLISHED.
   The U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey Standard Disk stamped "Mattoon 1934," set
in the top of a concrete post at a ground-level point, located 12 feet west of
the west wall of the City Building situated on Lots 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, and 12 in
Block 112, in the original town, now city, and 10 feet south of the west steps
of the aforesaid City Building, be and the same is hereby fixed and established
as the City Bench Mark. The elevation of the City Bench Mark is hereby fixed
and established at 724.97 feet above the sea level, based upon the same datum
plain as that used in the general ordinances of the city, 1929.
('68 Code, § 6.01) (Ord. 3885, passed - - )
§ 99.02 REMOVING GRADE OR CORNER STAKES.
   No person shall willfully change or remove any stake, post or corner stone
set to designate the corner of line of any lot or land, street or alley, or set
to designate the grade of any street, alley, sidewalk or public work.
('68 Code, § 6.02)
§ 99.03 NAMING OF STREETS.
   The system of naming streets shall be as follows: the streets or highways
running north or south shall be known as "streets" and named by numbers,
beginning with Sixth Street near city east town line and continuing westward to
Thirty-fourth Street at the western limits of the city, and so on to apply to
such additional streets or extended limits of the city hereafter. Additional
streets laid out eastward from said Sixth Street in any additions to the city
shall be numbered likewise to First Street, and thereafter eastward
alphabetically beginning with `A' street, provided that all such streets
crossing Broadway westward as far as Nineteenth Street, and those crossing
Western Avenue from Nineteenth Street, west to the city limits may be divided
into `north' and `south' streets by Broadway or Western Avenue for the purpose
of more definitely locating street numbers relating to buildings thereon. The
streets or highways running east and west shall be known as "avenues," except
Broadway, by their names as shown on the official maps of the city unless
changed by ordinance.
('68 Code, § 6.03)
§ 99.04 NUMBERING OF BUILDINGS.
   (A)   System. The system of numbering buildings shall be as follows: one
hundred numbers shall be assigned to each block, and not less than two numbers
to each 50 feet thereof on any street or avenue of the city. On the avenues and
Broadway the first number of each hundred shall begin at the east side of each
block, and continuing westward, on the north side as an even number and on the
south side as an odd number (thus for example as 600 and 601 respectively
beginning at Sixth Street). Broadway, from the east city limits as now or
hereafter existing to Nineteenth Street, and Western Avenue from said street
westward to the west city limits, shall be a base line for the streets running
north and south as a dividing line for the purpose of separate numbering of
houses and such buildings shall be numbered accordingly, beginning as number
100 on the east side, and as 101 on the west side, of such streets, and so
continuing north or south with even numbers on the east side and odd numbers on
the west side of such streets to north and south city limits respectively.
   (B)   Owners of buildings to affix numbers. The owners or occupants of
buildings in the city shall affix proper numbers thereon, not less than three
inches in length, which shall be legible, and placed in a conspicuous place at
the side of or above the front door of the building in conformity with division
(A) above. Where numbering has not been already done or where new buildings are
built in blocks already numbered, or any doubts exist, the City Engineer shall
assign the proper numbers. Any person who shall fail to so number any building
owned or occupied by him, or who shall number the same with a different number
than the one so assigned, shall be fined not more than $10.
('68 Code, § 6.04)
§ 99.05 STREET EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   Opening streets. No person shall injure, tear up, molest or make any
opening in or under any street or alley for any purpose, except upon a permit
from the Superintendent of Streets.
   (B)   Records. A record shall be kept of such permits. In case it is found
that the condition of the pavement is not restored as hereby required, the
holder of such permit shall immediately on notice make good the default, and if
he shall fail to do so within the time stated, the Superintendent of Streets
may do what is required, and the expense thereof shall be charged to the holder
of such permit, and recovered in an appropriate action on the bond, or against
the holder of the permit.
   (C)   Pipe laying. No city street or paved alley shall be excavated for the
purpose of laying a pipe or pipes of a diameter of two inches or less across
any such street or alley, but such pipe or pipes shall be driven beneath the
surface of and across the street or alley a sufficient depth below the surface
of the street or alley so that the surface thereof is not damaged by such
operation.
   (D)   Refilling excavations. An excavation in any street, upon completion of
the work therein, shall be immediately filled up, with no unnecessary delay, to
the proper level of the surface, and shall from time to time be repaired until
the earth is completely settled to the proper level; the street or alley shall
be restored to as good condition as it was before such excavation was made. In
case of default and failure to do so upon notice, the Superintendent of Streets
may proceed to restore the same and the expense may be charged and recovered
from the person responsible.
   (E)   Excavations guarded. Whoever shall make any opening in any street or
alley shall protect the same by a substantial barrier on each side, and in the
nighttime shall protect the same by red lights, and in case the opening is
across a sidewalk it shall not be left open at night unless bridged, and such
other precautions shall be observed as are reasonably necessary to prevent
accidents to persons or property. No obstruction shall be placed in any street
or alley likely to cause accidents.
('68 Code, § 6.05) (Ord. 3749, passed - - )
§ 99.06 WORK PERFORMANCE IN STREETS AND CITY PROPERTY.
   (A)   Insurance or bond. In order to protect public property and the city,
the following shall be required for any permit issued by the city for the
performance of any work in or involving public property:
      (1)   The permit holder shall hold harmless the city and its duly
authorized agents and employees in the amount up to $1,000,000 in the
aggregate, and certificate of insurance shall be filed with the Building
Inspector’s Office as evidence thereof, or that acceptable surety bond
therefore be filed with the Building Inspector’s Office; and
      (2)   The permit holder shall protect the city against loss or damage to
public property by maintaining a performance bond at least equal to the value
of the project as determined by the Public Works Director or his or her agent;
proof of the bond shall be filed with the Building Inspector’s Office.
   (B)   Permit fees. 
      (1)   Permit fees for the performance of work in, to, or involving public
property within the city shall be in accordance with §
35.01(E)(1).
      (2)   The city will be responsible for replacing any sidewalk or curbing
for which an additional fee is paid.
   (C)   Preparation and backfill requirements. It shall be a condition of a
permit that the holder will comply with all applicable rules, regulations and
ordinances of the city or the duly authorized officer thereof. Including, but
not limited to, the following:
      (1)   All pavement/curbing/sidewalks must be saw cut in a uniform manner.
      (2)   If water or sewer pipe is undercut it must have a granular backfill
compacted beneath the pipe.
      (3)   The existing pipe must be covered by at least six inches of
granular backfill.
      (4)   The remaining portion of the backfill procedure for areas in the
roadway (street or alley) and two feet beyond the improved roadway shall use a
non-air entrained controlled low strength material (commonly known as flowable
fill). This material shall be brought up to the top of subgrade, that is, to
the bottom of the existing street surface. The contractor shall not place the
flowable fill until a representative of the city has inspected the trench.
      (5)   The city will provide the contractor with a metal bridge plate to
place over the excavation so traffic can pass over the excavation.
      (6)   The contractor shall remove the metal bridge plate the next weekday
(Monday through Friday) and fill the remaining portion of the excavation with
CA6 aggregate.
      (7)   Sidewalk areas shall be backfilled with granular backfill up to six
inches below existing grade. The remaining six inches shall be CA6 aggregate.
      (8)   Any emergency excavation in any public right-of-way on days when
city forces do not normally work can be reported to the city by calling the
Water Treatment Plant at 234-2454.
(‘68 Code, § 6.06) (Ord. 62-3980, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2003-5168, passed 9-2-
2003; Am. Ord. 2010-5290, passed 4-6-2010)
§ 99.07 MOVING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   No person shall move a building in any street without a permit from
the Superintendent of Streets. Such person shall comply with any regulations
the Superintendent may issue for the protection of life and property.
   (B)   In the event the moving of any building shall interfere with or make
necessary the moving of any telephone, telegraph or electric wires of any
character, the person moving such building shall obtain a permit from owners of
such wires for the moving of same. The city shall not be liable for any
injuries or damage to a person or property by virtue of interference.
('68 Code, § 6.07)
§ 99.08 BUILDING CONSTRUCTION; USE OF STREETS.
   The occupation of any street or sidewalk during the progress of building,
alteration or repairs is hereby restricted as follows: to a space immediately
in front of the premises, covering the nearest sidewalk and not more than one-
fourth of the roadway, if without the fire limits; if within the fire limits,
the nearest sidewalk and no more, or one-fourth of the street, measuring from
the nearest curb. If the sidewalk is not used, the Superintendent of Streets
shall require the walk to be substantially and securely covered while work is
going on and no gutter shall be so obstructed as to hinder the free flow of
water therein. Before any sidewalk or street shall be so used a permit must be
obtained from the Superintendent of Streets and if the portion so sought to be
used shall lie within the fire limits, no such permit shall be valid until
approved by the Council, and the person to whom issued shall have filed with
the City Clerk his bond in the penal sum of $500 with one good and sufficient
surety, conditioned for the faithful compliance with the terms of said permit
and with all ordinances of the city; that the applicant will pay all damages to
any property or persons injured by the act or neglect of the applicant and of
his agents, employees and representatives, in such use of such sidewalks and
streets and that he will yield up without delay such sidewalks and streets in
the like good condition in which they were taken. If practicable, a sidewalk or
passageway not less than four feet wide shall be maintained at all times while
such permit is in force.
('68 Code, § 6.08)
§ 99.09 MAINTENANCE OF HEDGES.
   No person shall maintain any hedge along the line of any street or alley to
a height exceeding four feet or so as to encroach upon any sidewalk or the
street line.
('68 Code, § 6.09)
§ 99.10 DEAD WIRES AND POLES DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   All poles not used and all wires strung in any street or alley which are no
longer in use are declared to be a nuisance. Likewise, all guide wires or
braces obstructing any sidewalk, and all persons having any such poles or wires
or suffering or permitting the same to be or remain in any street or alley
shall remove them.
('68 Code, § 6.10)
§ 99.11 BARBED WIRE FENCES PROHIBITED.
   No fences or barrier of which barbed wire is a part, shall be built,
constructed or used along the line of, or in, or upon, or along any street or
sidewalk.
('68 Code, § 6.11)
§ 99.12 ENCROACHMENTS ONTO OR OVER PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ENCROACHMENT. Any building, fence, sign, or any other structure or object
of any kind (with the exception of utilities and public road signs), which is
placed, located or maintained, in, on, under or over any portion of the public
right-of-way.
      PERMISSIBLE ENCROACHMENTS. Any existing awning, marquee or sign
advertising activity on the property, or similar overhanging structure
supported from a building immediately adjacent to the limits of the platted
street where there is sidewalk extending to the building line and which does
not impair the free and safe flow of pedestrian traffic or traffic on the
street and/or highway. The permissive retention of overhanging signs is not to
be construed as being applicable to those signs supported by poles constructed
outside the public right-of-way line and not confined by adjacent buildings.
      PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Those areas existing or acquired by dedication or by
fee simple for street and/or highway purposes; as well as, those areas acquired
by permanent easement and temporary easement during the time the easement is in
effect.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect or
cause to be erected, to retain or cause to be retained, any encroachment
(herein above defined), except as provided in division (A), within the limits
of the public right-of-way.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating this section shall be fined
not less than $10 nor more than $500 for each offense and separate offense
shall be deemed committed each and every day during which a violation continues
or exists.
(Ord. 2020-5425, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 99.13 STORAGE ON STREETS.
   No street, alley or sidewalk shall be used for the storage of personal
property, goods, wares or merchandise.
('68 Code, § 6.13) (Ord. 3529, passed - - )
§ 99.14 MERCHANDISE ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person, while receiving or delivering goods, wares or merchandise, shall
permit the same to remain on any sidewalk longer than is necessary to convey
such goods, wares or merchandise to or from the premises abutting on such
sidewalk or to or from which such goods, wares or merchandise are being
delivered or received, and for this purpose he shall not occupy over four feet
of the outer edge of the sidewalk in front of his store or building.
('68 Code, § 6.14) (Ord. 3529, passed - - )
§ 99.15 STANDS ON STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, place and maintain in, upon or
over any street, alley or sidewalk, or other public place in the city, any
fruit stand, shoe shining stand, flower stand, vegetable stand, lunch wagon,
table, box, bin or any other arrangement or structure for the display or sale
of goods, wares or merchandise.
('68 Code, § 6.15) (Ord. 3529, passed - - )
§ 99.16 SELLING ON STREETS.
   No person shall sell or offer for sale any goods and wares or merchandise on
any street, sidewalk, alley, or other city property within the city.
('68 Code, § 32.06) (Ord. 3786, passed - - )
§ 99.17 SORTING MATERIALS IN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pick, sort, pack or unpack fruits,
flowers, vegetables, rags, papers, old iron or bottles upon any street, alley,
or sidewalk or any public place in the city.
('68 Code, § 6.17) (Ord. 3529, passed - - )
§ 99.18 RUBBISH ON STREETS.
   No person shall throw any paper, straw, bottles, glass, tin cans, ashes,
cinders, manure, dirt, filth, leaves or other yard waste or vegetable matter,
or any dead animal, fowl or fish or part thereof, or any litter of any kind
into any street, alley, sidewalk, or open space of ground; or shall cause any
vehicle to be so loaded with any matter or substance, that in hauling any part
of such load shall be scattered or dropped into any street, alley, sidewalk or
open space; or shall haul any refuse matter through the streets or alleys
unless the same is securely covered with a tarpaulin or other suitable covering
so attached as to prevent scattering such matter on the street, and to prevent
offensive odor from escaping therefrom or offensive sight thereof.
('68 Code, § 6.18) (Am. Ord. 97-4916, passed 11-18-1997)
§ 99.19 FIRES IN STREETS.
   No person shall kindle any fire or burn any substance on any street, alley
or other open or public grounds, unless such burning shall be confined within a
proper metal tank.
('68 Code, § 6.19) (Ord. 97-4911, passed 9-23-1997)
§ 99.20 POSTING SIGNS ON STREETS.
   (A)   No person shall paint or affix any sign, advertisement or other matter
or material on to any street, curb, sidewalk, utility pole, tree, post or other
fixture in any street, or on to any sidewalk, or on to any city property.
   (B)   The posting of election notices by county and city officials as
required by statute, shall not constitute a violation of this section,
providing such notices are removed within five days after said notices have
been posted for the legal period.
('68 Code, § 6.20) (Ord. 3814, passed - - )
§ 99.21 AWNINGS.
   All awnings, except canvas awnings, are prohibited within the fire limits,
and in no case shall any awning be less than eight feet above the sidewalk, in
the clear, including all curtain or drops, nor shall the awning be supported by
posts.
('68 Code, § 6.21)
§ 99.22 SIGN AND CANOPY PERMITS; FEES; REVOCATION.
   (A)   Permit. Before erecting any sign or canopy which shall extend out over
any sidewalk, application must first be made to the City Clerk. The application
shall be in writing and be accompanied by a sketch of the proposed canopy
together with the description of its side and the materials to be used. All
materials used in the construction shall meet the requirements and
specifications of the American Society for Testing Materials, and all methods
of construction and erection and methods of design of said structure shall be
in accordance with standard practices and methods heretofore approved and
recommended by the American Institute of Steel Construction, Inc.
   (B)   Over street. No permit shall be granted to erect a sign or canopy over
any street or alley and in no event shall any canopy extend out over the curb
line of any street.
   (C)   Design. All designs, whether made by an architect, a structural
engineer or by the contractor for the structure, shall first be submitted to a
registered structural engineer for his approval. The structural engineer shall
be selected and designated by the Council but his fee shall be paid by the
owner of the proposed structure. The structural engineer shall:
      (1)   Make an examination of the building to determine whether the
building can safely withstand the additional loading or stresses imposed by the
new structure;
      (2)   Check all stress diagrams and other drawings submitted by the owner
and ascertain if such design is in accordance with standard practices;
      (3)   Make a final examination of the completed structure and issue a
certificate to the owner and to the City Clerk.
   (D)   Fee. The fee of the structural engineer shall be 1% of the cost of the
structure with a minimum fee of $25. Before a certificate of compliance shall
be issued by the Structural Engineer, the owner shall pay the fee above
described which shall be computed from his cost records.
   (E)   Revocation of permit. Such permit may be revoked at any time by the
Council when it deems public safety or convenience so requires. Upon notice of
such revocation, such sign or canopy shall be removed within three days.
('68 Code, § 6.22) (Ord. 3469, passed - - )
§ 99.23 CROWDS OBSTRUCTING SIDEWALKS.
   Two or more persons shall not stand or crowd together so as to obstruct any
sidewalk or prevent the free passage of pedestrians.
('68 Code, § 6.24)
§ 99.24 TEARING UP SIDEWALKS.
   No sidewalk upon any public street shall be torn up or removed without the
consent of the city or the officials charged with the duty of constructing,
maintaining or repairing the same; provided, however, that such consent is
hereby expressly given where a new walk is ordered to be put down by ordinance.
('68 Code, § 6.26)
§ 99.25 OPEN DRAINS ACROSS SIDEWALKS.
   No water from any building or premises shall be suffered to spread over the
sidewalk. No open drain shall extend across any sidewalk but such drain, if
built, must be covered and substantially boxed, and must be kept in repair so
that there is no interference with the level of the sidewalk.
('68 Code, § 6.27)
§ 99.26 EXPECTORATING.
   No person shall expectorate or spit upon any sidewalk or any public or
private building.
('68 Code, § 42.13)
§ 99.27 DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   In all places where private driveways intersect sidewalks, the
sidewalks shall be constructed as set forth in this section, with the exception
that the concrete shall be six inches in depth and have in addition, a
finishing coat one inch in thickness, and may have a corrugated surface not
over ten feet in length.
   (B)   Any person desiring to construct such public or private driveway over
and across the parkway of the streets, or to cut the curb of any street for the
purpose of such a driveway, shall first make application in writing to the
Superintendent of Streets for permission to construct such driveway or cut such
curb, which permit shall be granted upon these conditions, namely, that such
applicant shall construct such private drive and cut such curb according to the
following specifications.
      (1)   Whenever it becomes necessary to cut the curb along the improvement
for a private drive, the curb portion of the concrete curb and gutter shall be
removed to within one inch of the gutter line, and for a distance of eight feet
in addition to the width of the proposed drive. The surface of the curb
remaining shall be cut to a smooth finish having a slight incline toward the
gutter, or it may be entirely removed and be replaced with new concrete. Four-
foot radius curbs built integral with the slab portion of the entrance shall
then be constructed joining the old curb and extending four feet toward the
sidewalk line, and having a rise of not less than one-half inch above the
elevation of the point where the radius curb joins the old curbing. The slab
portion of the entrance shall have a rise of not less than three inches at its
outer edge above the gutter of the pavement. The radius curbs at the upper end
extending above the slab portion shall not be greater than 3½ inches.
      (2)   The driveway portion between the entrance and the sidewalk shall be
constructed either of concrete, brick, crushed rock, gravel or cinders, the
same to be of sufficient thickness to bear the load to which the same shall be
subjected and shall be neatly constructed and of uniform width.
      (3)   Concrete used in the driveway portion within the sidewalk area and
between the roadway and the sidewalk area shall conform to the specifications
as may be determined by the City Engineer.
('68 Code, § 6.28) (Ord. 3422, passed - - )
§ 99.28 DRIVING ON WALKS.
   (A)   No person shall drive any vehicle upon or along any sidewalk, except
at crosswalks. No person shall park a vehicle on any sidewalk.
   (B)   No person shall operate a skateboard upon a sidewalk in any business
district of the city.
(Ord. 90-4638, passed 6-5-1990)
§ 99.29 POLICY REGARDING VACATION OF STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   The City Council will consider a petition to vacate a street or alley under
the following circumstances:
   (A)   The formal petition to vacate must first be presented to the Planning
Commission for their recommendation. The recommendation of the Planning
Commission is advisory to the City Council.
   (B)   The alley way or street sought to be vacated must no longer have any
current or reasonably foreseeable use to the city.
   (C)   The petitioners seeking the vacation of the street or alley agree to
pay not less than one-third of the average to two appraisals of the value of
the real estate within the area of the alley way or street sought to be
vacated.
   (D)   The City Council shall only consider an ordinance for the purpose of
vacating the street or alley subsequent to a public hearing thereon as required
by law.
(Ord. 96-4860, passed 7-16-1996)
§ 99.30 STANDARDS FOR CONSTRUCTION OF FACILITIES ON THE RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Purpose and scope.
      (1)   Purpose and scope. The purpose of this section is to establish
policies and procedures for constructing facilities on rights-of-way within the
city’s jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage, and visual qualities of the city
rights-of-way and the city as a whole.
      (2)   Intent. In enacting this section, the city intends to exercise its
authority over the rights-of-way in the city and, in particular, the use of the
public ways and property by utilities, by establishing uniform standards to
address issues presented by utility facilities, including without limitation:
         (a)   Prevent interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parkways and other public ways and places;
         (b)   Prevent the creation of visual and physical obstructions and
other conditions that are hazardous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
         (c)   Prevent interference with the facilities and operations of the
city’s utilities and of other utilities lawfully located in rights-of-way or
public property;
         (d)   Protect against environmental damage, including damage to trees,
from the installation of utility facilities;
         (e)   Protect against increased stormwater run-off due to structures
and materials that increase impermeable surfaces;
         (f)   Preserve the character of the neighborhoods in which facilities
are installed;
         (g)   Preserve open space, particularly the tree-lined parkways that
characterize the city’s residential neighborhoods;
         (h)   Prevent visual blight from the proliferation of facilities in
the rights-of-way; and
         (i)   Assure the continued safe use and enjoyment of private
properties adjacent to utility facilities locations.
      (3)   Facilities subject to this section. This section applies to all
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights-
of-way within the jurisdiction of the city. A facility lawfully established
prior to the effective date of this section may continue to be maintained,
repaired and operated by the utility as presently constructed and located,
except as may be otherwise provided in any applicable franchise, license or
similar agreement.
      (4)   Franchises, licenses, or similar agreements. The city, in its
discretion and as limited by law, may require utilities to enter into a
franchise, license or similar agreement for the privilege of locating their
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the city
rights-of-way. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the city enter into such an agreement. In such an
agreement, the city may provide for terms and conditions inconsistent with this
section.
      (5)   Effect of franchises, licenses, or similar agreements.
         (a)   Utilities other than telecommunications providers. In the event
that a utility other than a telecommunications provider has a franchise,
license or similar agreement with the city, such franchise, license or similar
agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement and any
lawful renewal or extension thereof.
         (b)   Telecommunications providers. In the event of any conflict with,
or inconsistency between, the provisions of this section and the provisions of
any franchise, license or similar agreement between the city and any
telecommunications provider, the provisions of such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
      (6)   Conflicts with other chapters. This section supersedes all chapters
or parts of chapters adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to the
extent of such conflict.
      (7)   Conflicts with state and federal laws. In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
section, the utility shall comply with the requirements of this section to the
maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws or regulations.
      (8)   Sound engineering judgment. The city shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this section and may vary the standards,
conditions, and requirements expressed in this section when the city so
determines. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the city
to regulate its rights-of-way for the protection of the public health, safety
and welfare.
   (B)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning. Any term not defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed
to it in 92 Ill. Adm. Code § 530.30, unless the context clearly requires
otherwise.
      AASHTO. American Association of State Highway and Transportation
Officials.
      ANSI. American National Standards Institute.
      APPLICANT. A person applying for a permit under this section.
      ASTM. American Society for Testing and Materials.
      BACKFILL. The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a
trench or pit.
      BORE or BORING. To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the
insertion of a pipe or electrical conductor.
      CABLE OPERATOR. That term as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(5).
      CABLE SERVICE. That term as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(6).
      CABLE SYSTEM. That term as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(7).
      CARRIER PIPE. The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be
transported.
      CASING. A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such
as: carrier pipes, electrical-conductors, and fiber optic devices.
      CITY. The City of Mattoon.
      CLEAR ZONE. The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a non-recoverable slope, and a clear run-out
area. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and
on the roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO Roadside Design
Guide.
      COATING. Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
      CODE. The Municipal Code of the City of Mattoon.
      CONDUCTOR. Wire carrying electrical current.
      CONDUIT. A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
      CONSTRUCTION or CONSTRUCT. The installation, repair, maintenance,
placement, alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in
place of facilities.
      CONTROLLED LOW-STRENGTH MATERIAL. A self-compacting and self-leveling,
cement-based backfill material that is used in lieu of compacted fill, commonly
called flowable fill.
      COVER. The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or
conductor.
      CROSSING FACILITY. A facility that crosses one or more right-of-way lines
of a right-of-way.
      DISRUPT THE RIGHT-OF-WAY. For the purposes of this section, any work that
obstructs the right-of-way or causes a material adverse effect on the use of
the right-of-way for its intended use. Such work may include, without
limitation, the following: excavating or other cutting; placement (whether
temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment, devices, or structures; damage
to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of the soil, and shall not include
the parking of vehicles or equipment in a manner that does not materially
obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
      EMERGENCY. Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the
safety of the public using or in the vicinity of the right-of-way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
      ENCASEMENT. Provision of a protective casing.
      ENGINEER. The Public Works Director or his or her designee.
      EQUIPMENT. Materials, tools, implements, supplies, and/or other items
used to facilitate construction of facilities.
      EXCAVATION. The making of a hole or cavity by removing material, or
laying bare by digging.
      EXTRA HEAVY PIPE. Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
      FACILITY. All structures, devices, objects, and materials (including, but
not limited to, track and rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, antennas,
vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, cabinets, pedestals, poles, conduits,
grates, covers, pipes, cables, and appurtenances thereto) located on, over,
above, along, upon, under, across, or within rights-of-way under this section.
For purposes of this section, the term FACILITY shall not include any facility
owned or operated by the city.
      FREESTANDING FACILITY. A facility that is not a crossing facility or a
parallel facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump, or meter station.
      FRONTAGE ROAD. Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land
adjacent to the highway where it is precluded by control of access to a
highway.
      HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any substance or material which, due to its
quantity, form, concentration, location, or other characteristics, is
determined by the Public Works Director to pose an unreasonable and imminent
risk to the life, health or safety of persons or property or to the ecological
balance of the environment, including, but not limited to explosives,
radioactive materials, petroleum or petroleum products or gases, poisons,
etiology (biological) agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance
determined to be hazardous or toxic under any federal or state law, statute or
regulation.
      HIGHWAY. A specific type of right-of-way used for vehicular traffic
including rural or urban roads or streets. HIGHWAY includes all highway land
and improvements, including roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges,
drainage structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances
necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
      HIGHWAY CODE. The Illinois Highway Code, ILCS Ch. 605, Act 5, §§ 1-101 et
seq., as amended from time to time.
      HOLDER. A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or
provide cable or video service from the ICC pursuant to the Illinois Cable and
Video Competition Law, ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-401.
      ICC. Illinois Commerce Commission.
      IDOT. Illinois Department of Transportation.
      JACKING. Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means
with or without boring.
      JETTING. Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to
create a cavity ahead of the pipe.
      JOINT USE. The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two or
more utilities.
      J.U.L.I.E. The Joint Utility Locating Information for Excavators utility
notification program.
      MAJOR INTERSECTION. The intersection of two or more major arterial
highways.
      OCCUPANCY. The presence of facilities on, over or under right-of-way.
      PARALLEL FACILITY. A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal
to the centerline of a right-of-way.
      PARKWAY. Any portion of the right-of-way not improved by street or
sidewalk.
      PAVEMENT CUT. The removal of an area of pavement for access to facility
or for the construction of a facility.
      PERMITTEE. That entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to
divisions (D) and (E) of this section.
      PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES. Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane, or coal-slurry.
      PRACTICABLE. That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than
that which is simply convenient.
      PRESSURE. The internal force acting radially against the walls of a
carrier pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
      PROMPT. That which is done within a period of time specified by the city.
If no time period is specified, the period shall be 30 days.
      PUBLIC ENTITY. A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the
government, whether at local, state or federal level.
      PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR. The city Public Works Director or his or her
designee.
      RESTORATION. The repair of a right-of-way, highway, roadway, or other
area disrupted by the construction of a facility.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHTS-OF-WAY. Any street, alley, other land or waterway,
dedicated or commonly used for pedestrian or vehicular traffic or other similar
purposes, including utility easements in which the city has the right and
authority to authorize, regulate or permit the location of facilities other
than those of the city. RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHTS-OF-WAY shall not include any
real or personal city property that is not specifically described in the
previous two sentences and shall not include city buildings, fixtures and other
structures or improvements, regardless of whether they are situated in the
right-of-way.
      ROADWAY. That part of the highway that includes the pavement and
shoulders.
      SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL. The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
      SECURITY FUND. That amount of security required pursuant to division (J)
of this section.
      SHOULDER. A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
      SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT. A decision(s) consistent with generally
accepted engineering principles, practices and experience.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS. This term includes, but is not limited to, messages
or information transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone
service, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer
exchange service, private line services, mobile radio services, cellular mobile
telecommunications services, stationary two-way radio, paging service and any
other form of mobile or portable one-way or two-way communications, and any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. PRIVATE LINE means a dedicated non-traffic
sensitive service for a single customer that entitles the customer to exclusive
or priority use of a communications channel, or a group of such channels, from
one or more specified locations to one or more other specified locations.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include value added services in which computer
processing applications are used to act on the form, content, code and protocol
of the information for purposes other than transmission. TELECOMMUNICATIONS
shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a telecommunications
service provider for use as a component part of the service provided by such
provider to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or terminates the end-
to-end communications. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include the provision of
cable services through a cable system as defined in the Cable Communications
Act of 1984 (47 U.S.C. 521 et seq.) as now or hereafter amended or cable or
other programming services subject to an open video system fee payable to the
city through an open video system as defined in the Rules of the Federal
Communications Commission (47 C.F.R. § 76.1500 and following) as now or
hereafter amended.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER. Means any person that installs, owns,
operates or controls facilities in the right-of-way used or designed to be used
to transmit telecommunications in any form.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER. Means and includes every person engaged in
making sales of telecommunications at retail as defined herein.
      TRENCH. A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
      UTILITY. The individual or entity owning or operating any facility as
defined in this section.
      VENT. A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or
vapors from an underground casing.
      VIDEO SERVICE. That term as defined in § 21-201(v) of the Illinois Cable
and Video Competition Law of 2007, ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-201(v).
      WATER LINES. Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
      WET BORING. Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to
soften the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material.
   (C)   Annual registration required. Every utility that occupies right-of-way
within the city shall register on January 1 of each year with the Public Works
Director, providing the utility’s name, address and regular business telephone
and telecopy numbers, the name of one or more contact persons who can act on
behalf of the utility in connection with emergencies involving the utility’s
facilities in the right-of-way and a 24-hour telephone number for each such
person, and evidence of insurance as required in division (H) of this section,
in the form of a certificate of insurance.
   (D)   Permit required; application and fees. 
      (1)   Permit required. No person shall construct (as defined in this
section) any facility on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within
any city right-of-way which (i) changes the location of the facility, (ii) adds
a new facility, (iii) disrupts the right-of-way (as defined in this section),
or (iv) materially increases the amount of area or space occupied by the
facility on, over, above, along, under across or within the right-of-way,
without first filing an application with the Public Works Director and
obtaining a permit from the city therefor, except as otherwise provided in this
section. No permit shall be required for installation and maintenance of
service connections to customers’ premises where there will be no disruption of
the right-of-way.
      (2)   Permit application. All applications for permits pursuant to this
section shall be filed on a form provided by the city and shall be filed in
such number of duplicate copies as the city may designate. The applicant may
designate those portions of its application materials that it reasonably
believes contain proprietary or confidential information as “proprietary” or
“confidential” by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly.
      (3)   Minimum general application requirements. The application shall be
made by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at
a minimum, the following:
         (a)   The utility’s name and address and telephone and telecopy
numbers;
         (b)   The applicant’s name and address, if different than the utility,
its telephone, telecopy numbers, e-mail address, and its interest in the work;
         (c)   The names, addresses and telephone and telecopy numbers and e-
mail addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant
with respect to the application;
         (d)   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
         (e)   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the city:
            1.   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the Illinois Manual
on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
            2.   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature
of potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the city and shall promote
protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with ICC
regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with this
section unless the city finds that additional information or assurances are
needed;
         (f)   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of an engineer that such drawings, plans, and
specifications comply with applicable codes, rules, and regulations;
         (g)   Evidence of insurance as required in division (H) of this
section;
         (h)   Evidence of posting of the security fund as required in division
(J) of this section;
         (i)   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
section (see division (U) of this section); and
         (j)   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
city.
      (4)   Supplemental application requirements for specific types of
utilities. In addition to the requirements of division (D)(3) above, the permit
application shall include the following items, as applicable to the specific
utility that is the subject of the permit application:
         (a)   In the case of the installation of a new electric power,
communications, telecommunications, cable television service, video service or
natural gas distribution system, evidence that any certificate of public
convenience and necessity or other regulatory authorization that the applicant
is required by law to obtain, or that the applicant has elected to obtain, has
been issued by the ICC or other jurisdictional authority;
         (b)   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe
size, design, construction class, and operating pressures;
         (c)   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of
the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, Division of Public Water
Supplies, have been satisfied;
         (d)   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land
and water pollution requirements of the Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency, Division of Water Pollution Control and any other local entities with
jurisdiction, have been satisfied; or
         (e)   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or
types of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure, and the
design standard to be followed.
      (5)   Applicant’s duty to update information. Throughout the entire
permit application review period and the construction period authorized by the
permit, any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall
be submitted by the utility in writing to the city within 30 days after the
change necessitating the amendment.
      (6)   Application fees. Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license,
or similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant to this section
shall be accompanied by a fee in the amount of $250. No application fee is
required to be paid by any electricity utility that is paying the municipal
electricity infrastructure maintenance fee pursuant to the Electricity
Infrastructure Maintenance Fee Act.
   (E)   Action on permit applications. 
      (1)   City review of permit applications. Completed permit applications,
containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the city Public
Works Director within a reasonable time after filing. If the application does
not conform to the requirements of applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules,
and regulations, the city Public Works Director shall reject such application
in writing, stating the reasons therefor. If the city Public Works Director is
satisfied that the proposed work conforms to the requirements of this section
and applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules, and regulations, the city Public
Works Director shall issue a permit therefor as soon as practicable. In all
instances, it shall be the duty of the applicant to demonstrate, to the
satisfaction of the Public Works Director, that the construction proposed under
the application shall be in full compliance with the requirements of this
section.
      (2)   Additional city review of applications of telecommunications
retailers.
         (a)   Pursuant to section 4 of the Telephone Company Act, ILCS Ch.
220, Act 65, § 4, a telecommunications retailer shall notify the city that it
intends to commence work governed by this section for facilities for the
provision of telecommunications services. Such notice shall consist of plans,
specifications, and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the purpose
and intent of the facilities, and shall be provided by the telecommunications
retailer to the city not less than ten days prior to the commencement of work
requiring no excavation and not less than 30 days prior to the commencement of
work requiring excavation. The city Public Works Director shall specify the
portion of the right-of-way upon which the facility may be placed, used and
constructed.
         (b)   In the event that the city Public Works Director fails to
provide such specification of location to the telecommunications retailer
within either (i) ten days after service of notice to the city by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work not involving excavation for
new construction, or (ii) 25 days after service of notice by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work involving excavation for new
construction, the telecommunications retailer may commence work without
obtaining a permit under this section.
         (c)   Upon the provision of such specification by the city, where a
permit is required for work pursuant to division (D) of this section, the
telecommunications retailer shall submit to the city an application for a
permit and any and all plans, specifications and documentation available
regarding the facility to be constructed. Such application shall be subject to
the requirements of division (E)(1) above.
      (3)   Additional city review of applications of holders of state
authorization under the Cable and Video Competition Law of 2007. Applications
by a utility that is a holder of a state-issued authorization under the Cable
and Video Competition Law of 2007 shall be deemed granted 45 days after
submission to the city, unless otherwise acted upon by the city, provided the
holder has complied with applicable city codes, ordinances, and regulations.
   (F)   Effect of permit.
      (1)   Authority granted; no property right or other interest created. A
permit from the city authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this section on city rights-of-way, and does not
create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon the
rights of others who may have an interest in the rights-of-way.
      (2)   Duration. No permit issued under this section shall be valid for a
period longer than six months unless construction is actually begun within that
period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion.
      (3)   Pre-construction meeting required. No construction shall begin
pursuant to a permit issued under this section prior to attendance by the
permittee and all major contractors and subcontractors who will perform any
work under the permit at a pre-construction meeting. The pre-construction
meeting shall be held at a date, time and place designated by the city with
such city representatives in attendance as the city deems necessary. The
meeting shall be for the purpose of reviewing the work under the permit, and
reviewing special considerations necessary in the areas where work will occur,
including, without limitation, presence or absence of other utility facilities
in the area and their locations, procedures to avoid disruption of other
utilities, use of rights-of-way by the public during construction, and access
and egress by adjacent property owners.
      (4)   Compliance with all laws required. The issuance of a permit by the
city does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of
the city and applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations.
   (G)   Revised permit drawings. In the event that the actual locations of any
facilities deviate in any material respect from the locations identified in the
plans, drawings and specifications submitted with the permit application, the
permittee shall submit a revised set of drawings or plans to the city within 90
days after the completion of the permitted work. The revised drawings or plans
shall specifically identify where the locations of the actual facilities
deviate from the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation from the
permit also deviates from the requirements of this section, it shall be treated
as a request for variance in accordance with division (U) of this section. If
the city denies the request for a variance, then the permittee shall either
remove the facility from the right-of-way or modify the facility so that it
conforms to the permit and submit revised drawings or plans therefor.
   (H)   Insurance.
      (1)   Required coverages and limits. Unless otherwise provided by
franchise, license, or similar agreement, each utility occupying right-of-way
or constructing any facility in the right-of-way shall secure and maintain the
following liability insurance policies insuring the utility as named insured
and naming the city, and its elected and appointed officers, officials, agents,
and employees as additional insureds on the policies listed in divisions (H)(1)
(a) and (b) below:
         (a)   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse, and underground hazard (commonly referred to
as “X,” “C,” and “U” coverages) and products-completed operations coverage with
limits not less than:
            1.   One million dollars for bodily injury or death to each person;
            2.   One million dollars for property damage resulting from any one
accident; and
            3.   One million dollars for all other types of liability;
         (b)   Automobile liability for owned, non-owned and hired vehicles
with a combined single limit of $1,000,000 for personal injury and property
damage for each accident;
         (c)   Workers’ compensation with statutory limits; and
         (e)   Employers’ liability insurance with limits of not less than
$1,000,000 per employee and per accident.
         (f)   If the utility is not providing such insurance to protect the
contractors and subcontractors performing the work, then such contractors and
subcontractors shall comply with this division (G).
      (2)   Excess or umbrella policies. The coverages required by this
division (G) may be in any combination of primary, excess, and umbrella
policies. Any excess or umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over
underlying insurance on a folio wing-form basis such that when any loss covered
by the primary policy exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess
or umbrella policy becomes effective to cover such loss.
      (3)   Copies required. The utility shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this division (G) to the city within ten days following
receipt of a written request therefor from the city.
      (4)   Maintenance and renewal of required coverages.
         (a)   The insurance policies required by this division (G) shall
contain the following endorsement:
      “It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled
nor the intention not to renew be stated until thirty (30) days after receipt
by the City, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, of
a written notice addressed to the City Administrator of such intent to cancel
or not to renew.”
         (b)   Within ten days after receipt by the city of said notice, and in
no event later than ten days prior to said cancellation, the utility shall
obtain and furnish to the city evidence of replacement insurance policies
meeting the requirements of this division (G).
      (5)   Self-insurance. A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by division (G)(1) of this
section. A utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such
self-insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional
insureds under division (G)(1), or the requirements of division (A)(2), (3) and
(4) of this section. A utility that elects to self-insure shall provide to the
city evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure
the insurance coverage and limit requirements required under division (G)(1) of
this section, such as evidence that the utility is a “private self insurer”
under the Workers Compensation Act.
      (6)   Effect of insurance and self-insurance on utility’s liability. The
legal liability of the utility to the city and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this division (G) shall not be limited by such insurance policies
or self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
      (7)   Insurance companies. All insurance provided pursuant to this
division (G) shall be effected under valid and enforceable policies, issued by
insurers legally able to conduct business with the licensee in the State of
Illinois. [All insurance carriers and surplus line carriers shall be rated “AT”
or better and of a class size “X” or higher by A.M. Best Company.]
   (I)   Indemnification. By occupying or constructing facilities in the right-
of-way, a utility shall be deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the
city and its elected and appointed officials and officers, employees, agents
and representatives harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims,
demands, judgments, damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable
attorney’s fees and costs of suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or
alleged to arise out of or result from the negligent, careless or wrongful
acts, omissions, failures to act or misconduct of the utility or its
affiliates, officers, employees, agents, contractors or subcontractors in the
construction of facilities or occupancy of the rights-of-way, and in providing
or offering service over the facilities, whether such acts or omissions are
authorized, allowed or prohibited by this section or by a franchise, license,
or similar agreement; provided, however, that the utility’s indemnity
obligations hereunder shall not apply to any injuries, claims, demands,
judgments, damages, losses or expenses arising out of or resulting from the
negligence, misconduct or breach of this section by the city, its officials,
officers, employees, agents or representatives.
   (J)   Security.
      (1)   Purpose. The permittee shall establish a security fund in a form
and in an amount as set forth in this division (J). The security fund shall be
continuously maintained in accordance with this division (J) at the permittee’s
sole cost and expense until the completion of the work authorized under the
permit. The security fund shall serve as security for:
         (a)   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the
requirements of this section;
         (b)   Any expenditure, damage, or loss incurred by the city occasioned
by the permittee’s failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations,
orders, permits and other directives of the city issued pursuant to this
section; and
         (c)   The payment by permittee of all liens and all damages, claims,
costs, or expenses that the city may pay or incur by reason of any action or
nonperformance by permittee in violation of this section including, without
limitation, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this section to perform that the city must perform itself or have
completed as a consequence solely of the permittee’s failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the city from the permittee pursuant to
this section or any other applicable law.
      (2)   Form. The permittee shall provide the security fund to the city in
the form, at the permittee’s election, of cash, a surety bond in a form
acceptable to the city, or an unconditional letter of credit in a form
acceptable to the city. Any surety bond or letter of credit provided pursuant
to this division (J)(2) shall, at a minimum:
         (a)   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
city and the permittee;
         (b)   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection
by the city of any amounts covered by it; and
         (c)   Shall provide a location convenient to the city and within the
State of Illinois at which it can be drawn.
      (3)   Amount. The dollar amount of the security fund shall be sufficient
to provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right-of-way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the city Public Works Director, and may also include
reasonable, directly related costs that the city estimates are likely to be
incurred if the permittee fails to perform such restoration. Where the
construction of facilities proposed under the permit will be performed in
phases in multiple locations in the city, with each phase consisting of
construction of facilities in one location or a related group of locations, and
where construction in another phase will not be undertaken prior to substantial
completion of restoration in the previous phase or phases, the city Public
Works Director may, in the exercise of sound discretion, allow the permittee to
post a single amount of security which shall be applicable to each phase of the
construction under the permit. The amount of the security fund for phased
construction shall be equal to the greatest amount that would have been
required under the provisions of this division (J)(3) for any single phase.
      (4)   Withdrawals. The city, upon 14 days’ advance written notice clearly
stating the reason for, and its intention to exercise withdrawal rights under
this division (J)(4), may withdraw an amount from the security fund, provided
that the permittee has not reimbursed the city for such amount within the 14-
day notice period. Withdrawals may be made if the permittee:
         (a)   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
         (b)   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due
and unpaid;
         (c)   Fails to reimburse the city for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the city has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or non-performance by the permittee; or
         (d)   Fails to comply with any provision of this chapter that the city
determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the security fund.
      (5)   Replenishment. Within 14 days after receipt of written notice from
the city that any amount has been withdrawn from the security fund, the
permittee shall restore the security fund to the amount specified in division
(J)(3) above.
      (6)   Interest. The permittee may request that any and all interest
accrued on the amount in the security fund be returned to the permittee by the
city, upon written request for said withdrawal to the city, provided that any
such withdrawal does not reduce the security fund below the minimum balance
required in division (J)(3) above.
      (7)   Closing and return of security fund. Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the security fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the city for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
section or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the permit,
the security fund, and any and all accrued interest therein, shall become the
property of the city to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable costs,
loss or damage incurred by the city as a result of said revocation, provided
that any amounts in excess of said costs, loss or damage shall be refunded to
the permittee.
      (8)   Rights not limited. The rights reserved to the city with respect to
the security fund are in addition to all other rights of the city, whether
reserved by this section or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to said security fund shall affect
any other right the city may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the city
shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any of its
rights which may be infringed or otherwise violated.
   (K)   Permit suspension and revocation.
      (1)   City right to revoke permit. The city may revoke or suspend a
permit issued pursuant to this section for one or more of the following
reasons:
         (a)   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting, or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
         (b)   Non-compliance with this section;
         (c)   Permittee’s physical presence or presence of permittee’s
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights-
of-way presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety, or
welfare; or
         (d)   Permittee’s failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
      (2)   Notice of revocation or suspension. The city shall send written
notice of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this
section stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the
alternatives available to permittee under this division (K).
      (3)   Permittee alternatives upon receipt of notice of revocation or
suspension. Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the city, the permittee shall have the following options:
         (a)   Immediately provide the city with evidence that no cause exists
for the revocation or suspension;
         (b)   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the city, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the city within five working days after receipt of the written
notice of revocation; or
         (c)   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above,
along, upon, under, across, or within the rights-of-way and restore the rights-
of-way to the satisfaction of the city providing written proof of such removal
to the city within ten days after receipt of the written notice of revocation.
         (d)   The city may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend
the time periods provided in this division (K)(3).
      (4)   Stop work order. In addition to the issuance of a notice of
revocation or suspension, the city may issue a stop work order immediately upon
discovery of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within division (K)(1)
of this section.
      (5)   Failure or refusal of the permittee to comply. If the permittee
fails to comply with the provisions of division (K)(3) of this section, the
city or its designee may, at the option of the city: (i) correct the
deficiencies; (ii) upon not less than 20 days’ notice to the permittee, remove
the subject facilities or equipment; or (iii) after not less than 30 days’
notice to the permittee of failure to cure the non-compliance, deem them
abandoned and property of the city. The permittee shall be liable in all events
to the city for all costs of removal.
   (L)   Change of ownership or owner’s identity or legal status.
      (1)   Notification of change. A utility shall notify the city no less
than 30 days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the right-
of-way or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility or
the facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the
former owner under the permit, if any, and applicable laws, ordinances, rules
and regulations, including this section, with respect to the work and
facilities in the right-of-way.
      (2)   Amended permit. A new owner shall request that any current permit
be amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the city’s right-of-
way.
      (3)   Insurance and bonding. All required insurance coverage or bonding
must be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer.
   (M)   General construction standards.
      (1)   Standards and principles. All construction in the right-of-way
shall be consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws rules and
regulations, and commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and
construction principles, sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the
principles and standards set forth in the following IDOT publications, as
amended from time to time:
         (a)   Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction;
         (b)   Supplemental Specifications and Recurring Special Provisions;
         (c)   Highway Design Manual;
         (d)   Highway Standards Manual;
         (e)   Standard Specifications for Traffic Control Items;
         (f)   Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (92 Ill. Adm.
Code § 545);
         (g)   Flagger's Handbook; and
         (h)   Work Site Protection Manual for Daylight Maintenance Operations.
      (2)   Interpretation of municipal standards and principles. If a
discrepancy exists between or among differing principles and standards required
by this section, the city Public Works Director shall determine, in the
exercise of sound engineering judgment, which principles apply and such
decision shall be final. If requested, the Public Works Director shall state
which standard or principle will apply to the construction, maintenance, or
operation of a facility in the future.
   (N)   Traffic control.
      (1)   Minimum requirements. The city’s minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT’s Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices and this code.
      (2)   Warning signs, protective devices, and flaggers. The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting applicable federal, state, and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility’s workers when
performing any work on the rights-of-way.
      (3)   Interference with traffic. All work shall be phased so that there
is minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
      (4)   Notice when access is blocked. At least 48 hours prior to beginning
work that will partially or completely block access to any residence, business
or institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business or institution
of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work; provided, however,
that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to division (T) of this
section, the utility shall provide such notice as is practicable under the
circumstances.
      (5)   Compliance. The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility’s attention by the city.
   (O)   Location of facilities.
      (1)   General requirements. In addition to location requirements
applicable to specific types of utility facilities, all utility facilities,
regardless of type, shall be subject to the general location requirements of
this division (O)(1).
         (a)   No interference with city facilities. No utility facilities
shall be placed in any location if the city Public Works Director determines
that the proposed location will require the relocation or displacement of any
of the city’s utility facilities or will otherwise interfere with the operation
or maintenance of any of the city’s utility facilities.
         (b)   Minimum interference and impact. The proposed location shall
cause only the minimum possible interference with the use of the right-of-way
and shall cause only the minimum possible impact upon, and interference with
the rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin said right-
of-way.
         (c)   No interference with travel. No utility facility shall be placed
in any location that interferes with the usual travel on such right-of-way.
         (d)   No limitations on visibility. No utility facility shall be
placed in any location so as to limit visibility of or by users of the right-
of-way.
         (e)   Size of utility facilities. The proposed installation shall use
the smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals,
and/or cabinets then in use by the facility owner, regardless of location, for
the particular application.
      (2)   Parallel facilities located within highways.
         (a)   Overhead parallel facilities. An overhead parallel facility may
be located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
            1.   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right-of-way
line and as nearly parallel to the right-of-way line as reasonable pole
alignment will permit;
            2.   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable
from the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (0.6 m) behind the face of
the curb, where available;
            3.   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement
edge as practicable with minimum distance of four feet (1.2 m) outside the
outer shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
            4.   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
            5.   Any ground-mounted appurtenance is located within one foot
(0.3 m) of the right-of-way line or as near as possible to the right-of-way
line.
         (b)   Underground parallel facilities. An underground parallel
facility may be located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
            1.   The facility is located as near the right-of-way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet (2.4 m) from and parallel to the
right-of-way line;
            2.   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
highway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
            3.   In the case of an underground power or communications line,
the facility shall be located as near the right-of-way line as practicable and
not more than five feet (1.5 m) from the right-of-way line and any above-
grounded appurtenance shall be located within one foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-
way line or as near as practicable.
      (3)   Facilities crossing highways.
         (a)   No future disruption. The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of city highways may
require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement or
additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
         (b)   Cattle passes, culverts, or drainage facilities. Crossing
facilities shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts, or drainage
facilities.
         (c)   Ninety degree crossing required. Crossing facilities shall cross
at or as near to a 90 degree angle to the centerline as practicable.
         (d)   Overhead power or communication facility. An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
            1.   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ICC’s
rules entitled, “Construction of Electric Power and Communication Lines” (83
Ill. Adm. Code § 305);
            2.   Poles are located within one foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way
line of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
            3.   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
         (e)   Underground power or communication facility. An underground
power or communication facility may cross a highway only if:
            1.   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance-free service life; and
            2.   Capacity for the utility’s foreseeable future expansion needs
is provided in the initial installation.
         (f)   Markers. The city may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right-of-way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility, and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current federal regulations. (49 C.F.R. § 192.707
(1989)).
      (4)   Facilities to be located within particular rights-of-way. The city
may require that facilities be located within particular rights-of-way that are
not highways, rather than within particular highways.
      (5)   Freestanding facilities.
         (a)   The city may restrict the location and size of any freestanding
facility located within a right-of-way.
         (b)   The city may require any freestanding facility located within a
right-of-way to be screened from view.
      (6)   Facilities installed above ground. Above ground facilities may be
installed only if:
         (a)   No other existing facilities in the area are located
underground;
         (b)   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
         (c)   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting
armless, single-pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and
cable. Existing utility poles and light standards shall be used wherever
practicable; the installation of additional utility poles is strongly
discouraged.
      (7)   Facility attachments to bridges or roadway structures.
         (a)   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive, or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk and such installations are not
permitted.
         (b)   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
            1.   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
            2.   The type, length, value, and relative importance of the
highway structure in the transportation system;
            3.   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
            4.   The proposed method of attachment;
            5.   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
            6.   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and
painting;
            7.   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
            8.   The public benefit expected from the utility service as
compared to the risk involved.
      (8)   Appearance standards.
         (a)   The city may prohibit the installation of facilities in
particular locations in order to preserve visual quality.
         (b)   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the right-of-way user or to adjacent residents and property owners, and if it
does not impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed.
   (P)   Construction methods and materials.
      (1)   Standards and requirements for particular types of construction
methods.
         (a)   Boring or jacking.
            1.   Pits and shoring. Boring or jacking under rights-of-way shall
be accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the
Director of Public Works from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring or
jacking shall be excavated no more than 48 hours in advance of boring or
jacking operations and backfilled within 48 hours after boring or jacking
operations are completed. While pits are open, they shall be clearly marked and
protected by barricades. Shoring shall be designed, erected, supported, braced,
and maintained so that it will safely support all vertical and lateral loads
that may be imposed upon it during the boring or jacking operation.
            2.   Wet boring or jetting. Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
            3.   Borings with diameters greater than six inches. Borings over
six inches (0.15 m) in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and
following pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside
diameter of the following pipe by more than one inch (25 mm).
            4.   Borings with diameters six inches or less. Borings of six
inches or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with
auger, or auger and following pipe method.
            5.   Tree preservation. Any facility located within the drip line
of any tree designated by the city to be preserved or protected shall be bored
under or around the root system.
         (b)   Trenching. Trenching for facility installation, repair, or
maintenance on rights-of-way shall be done in accord with the applicable
portions of Section 603 of IDOT’s “Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction.”
            1.   Length. The length of open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipe-line testing. Only
one-half of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless special
permission is obtained from the Public Works Director.
            2.   Open trench and excavated material. Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by Chapter 6 of the Illinois
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where right-of-way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off-road location.
            3.   Drip line of trees. The utility shall not trench within the
drip line of any tree designated by the city to be preserved.
         (c)   Backfilling.
            1.   Any pit, trench, or excavation within two feet of a paved
roadway shall be backfilled with controlled low strength material in accordance
with §
99.06.
            2.   Any pit, trench, or excavation more than two feet beyond a
paved roadway created during the installation of facilities shall be backfilled
for its full width, depth, and length using methods and materials in accordance
with IDOT’s “Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction.” When
excavated material is hauled away or is unsuitable for backfill, suitable
granular backfill shall be used.
            3.   For a period of three years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore
any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the Public Works Director, the utility, at its expense, shall remove
any pavement and backfill material to the top of the installed facility, place
and properly compact new backfill material, and restore new pavement, sidewalk,
curbs, and driveways to the proper grades, as determined by the Public Works
Director.
         (d)   Pavement cuts. Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall be permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed
to traffic. If a variance to the limitation set forth in this division (P)(1)
(d) is permitted under division (U) of this section, the following requirements
shall apply:
            1.   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled with
controlled low strength material in accordance with §
99.06.
            2.   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as
soon as practicable, and temporary repair with compacted aggregate (CA06) shall
be provided immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair
or the restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the city.
            3.   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
            4.   For all rights-of-way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last seven years, or resurfaced in the last three
years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to be an
emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before the
time of the reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a
J.U.L.I.E. locate.
         (e)   Encasement. The following rules on encasement shall only apply
to highways with an average daily traffic count of 2,000 vehicles per day, as
determined by the most recent published count from Illinois Department of
Transportation.
            1.   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one-piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
city.
            2.   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way line. No above-ground vent pipes shall be
located in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of
the highway.
            3.   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement
shall be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or city approved
jointed pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is
installed prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or
mechanical joints are of a type approved by the city.
            4.   In the case of gas pipelines of 60 psig or less, encasement
may be eliminated.
            5.   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines
with installations of more than 60 psig, encasement may be eliminated only if:
               A.   Extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance
or repair; and
               B.   Cathodic protection of the pipe is provided.
            6.   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right-of-way.
         (f)   Minimum cover of underground facilities. Cover shall be provided
and maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for
minimum cover for the type of facility:
 
TYPE OF FACILITY                      MINIMUM COVER
Electric lines                        30 inches (0.8 m)
Communication, cable or video service 17 to 24 inches (0.6 m, as determined by
lines                                 city)
Gas or petroleum products             30 inches (0.8 m)
Water line                            Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                      protection
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer, or       Sufficient cover to provide freeze
drainage line                         protection
 
      (2)   Standards and requirements for particular types of facilities.
         (a)   Electric power or communication lines.
            1.   Code compliance. Electric power or communications facilities
within city rights-of-way shall be constructed, operated, and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Ill. Adm. Code Part 305 (formerly General
Order 160 of the Illinois Commerce Commission) entitled “Rules for Construction
of Electric Power and Communications Lines,” and the National Electrical Safety
Code.
            2.   Overhead facilities. Overhead power or communication
facilities shall use single pole construction and, where practicable, joint use
of poles shall be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design
the installation so guys and braces will not be needed. Variances may be
allowed if there is no feasible alternative and if guy wires are equipped with
guy guards for maximum visibility.
            3.   Underground facilities.
               A.   Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing, provided
that special consideration is given to boring in order to minimize damage when
crossing improved entrances and side roads.
               B.   If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement
shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated
only if: (i) the crossing is installed by the use of “moles,” “whip augers,” or
other approved method which compress the earth to make the opening for cable
installation, or (ii) the installation is by the open trench method which is
only permitted prior to roadway construction.
               C.   Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the National
Electrical Safety Code.
            4.   Burial of drops. All temporary service drops placed between
November 1 of the prior year and March 15 of the current year, also known as
“snowdrops,” shall be buried by May 31 of the current year, weather permitting,
unless otherwise permitted by the city. Weather permitting, utilities shall
bury all temporary drops, excluding snowdrops, within ten business days after
placement.
         (b)   Underground facilities other than electric power or
communication lines. Underground facilities other than electric power or
communication lines may be installed by:
            1.   The use of “moles,” “whip augers,” or other approved methods
which compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
            2.   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
            3.   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch
lines or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
            4.   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is
not possible by other means.
         (c)   Gas transmission, distribution and service. Gas pipelines within
rights-of-way shall be constructed, maintained, and operated in a city approved
manner and in conformance with the Federal Code of the Office of Pipeline
Safety Operations, Department of Transportation, Part 192 -Transportation of
Natural and Other Gas by Pipeline: Minimum Federal Safety Standards (49 C.F.R.
§ 192), IDOT’s “Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction,” and
all other applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
         (d)   Petroleum products pipelines. Petroleum products pipelines
within rights-of-way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI Standard
Code for Pressure Piping. (Liquid Petroleum Transportation Piping Systems ANSI-
B 31.4).
         (e)   Waterlines, sanitary sewer lines, storm water sewer lines or
drainage lines. Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines, and
drainage lines within rights-of-way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of
the current “Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in
Illinois.”
         (f)   Ground-mounted appurtenances. Ground-mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right-of-way, shall
be provided with a vegetation-free area extending one foot (305 mm) in width
beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation-free area may be
provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or
similar material approved by the Public Works Director. With the approval of
the Public Works Director, shrubbery surrounding the appurtenance may be used
in place of vegetation-free area. The housing for ground-mounted appurtenances
shall be painted a neutral color to blend with the surroundings.
      (3)   Materials.
         (a)   General standards. The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights-of-way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT’s “Standards
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction,” the requirements of the
Illinois Commerce Commission, or the standards established by other official
regulatory agencies for the appropriate industry.
         (b)   Material storage on right-of-way. No material shall be stored on
the right-of-way without the prior written approval of the city Public Works
Director. When such storage is permitted, all pipe, conduit, wire, poles, cross
arms, or other materials shall be distributed along the right-of-way prior to
and during installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public or an
obstacle to right-of-way maintenance or damage to the right-of-way and other
property. If material is to be stored on right-of-way, prior approval must be
obtained from the city.
         (c)   Hazardous materials. The plans submitted by the utility to the
city shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the
construction of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
      (4)   Operational restrictions.
         (a)   Construction operations on rights-of-way may, at the discretion
of the city, be required to be discontinued when such operations would create
hazards to traffic or the public health, safety, and welfare. Such operations
may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when conditions are such
that construction would result in extensive damage to the right-of-way or other
property.
         (b)   These restrictions may be waived by the Public Works Director
when emergency work is required to restore vital utility services.
         (c)   Unless otherwise permitted by the city, the hours of
construction are between 7 a.m. and 4 p.m. on weekdays.
      (5)   Location of existing facilities. Any utility proposing to construct
facilities in the city shall contact J.U.L.I.E. and ascertain the presence and
location of existing above-ground and underground facilities within the rights-
of-way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The city will make its permit
records available to a utility for the purpose of identifying possible
facilities. When notified of an excavation or when requested by the city or by
J.U.L.I.E., a utility shall locate and physically mark its underground
facilities within 48 hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in accordance with
the Illinois Underground Facilities Damage Prevention Act (ILCS Ch. 220, Act
50, §§ 1 et seq.).
   (Q)   Vegetation control.
      (1)   Electric utilities—compliance with state laws and regulations. An
electric utility shall conduct all tree-trimming and vegetation control
activities in the right-of-way in accordance with applicable Illinois laws and
regulations, and additionally, with such local franchise or other agreement
with the city as permitted by law.
      (2)   Other utilities—tree trimming permit required. Tree trimming that
is done by any other utility with facilities in the right-of-way and that is
not performed pursuant to applicable Illinois laws and regulations specifically
governing same, shall not be considered a normal maintenance operation, but
shall require the application for, and the issuance of, a permit in accordance
with § 99.70.
         (a)   Application for tree trimming permit. Applications for tree
trimming permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by
competent workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning
practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the
interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
         (b)   Damage to trees. Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The city will require
compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed without
authorization. The formula developed by the International Society of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The city may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
      (3)   Specimen trees or trees of special significance. The city may
require that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of
special significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side
arm extensions, covered wire or other means.
      (4)   Chemical use.
         (a)   Except as provided below in this division (Q)(4), no utility
shall spray, inject or pour any chemicals on or near any trees, shrubs or
vegetation in the city for any purpose, including the control of growth,
insects or disease.
         (b)   Spraying of any type of brush-killing chemicals will not be
permitted on rights-of-way unless the utility demonstrates to the satisfaction
of the Public Works Director that such spraying is the only practicable method
of vegetation control.
   (R)   Removal, relocation, or modifications of utility facilities.
      (1)   Notice. Within 90 days following written notice from the city, a
utility shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or permanently
disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any utility
facilities within the rights-of-way whenever the corporate authorities have
determined that such removal, relocation, change or alteration, is reasonably
necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance, or installation of any
city improvement in or upon, or the operations of the city in or upon, the
rights-of-way.
      (2)   Removal of unauthorized facilities. Within 30 days following
written notice from the city, any utility that owns, controls, or maintains any
unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the rights-of-way shall,
at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or appurtenances
from the rights-of-way. A facility is unauthorized and subject to removal in
the following circumstances:
         (a)   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee’s license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
         (b)   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior
grant of a license or franchise, if required;
         (c)   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior
issuance of a required permit in violation of this chapter; or
         (d)   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee’s license or franchise.
      (3)   Emergency removal or relocation of facilities. The city retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights-of-
way of the city, as the city may determine to be necessary, appropriate or
useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If circumstances
permit, the municipality shall attempt to notify the utility, if known, prior
to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if known, after
cutting or removing a facility.
      (4)   Abandonment of facilities. Upon abandonment of a facility within
the rights-of-way of the city, the utility shall notify the city within 90
days. Following receipt of such notice the city may direct the utility to
remove all or any portion of the facility if the city Public Works Director
determines that such removal will be in the best interest of the public health,
safety and welfare. In the event that the city does not direct the utility that
abandoned the facility to remove it, by giving notice of abandonment to the
city, the abandoning utility shall be deemed to consent to the alteration or
removal of all or any portion of the facility by another utility or person.
   (S)   Clean-up and restoration. The utility shall remove all excess material
and restore all turf and terrain and other property within ten days after any
portion of the rights-of-way are disturbed, damaged or destroyed due to
construction or maintenance by the utility, all to the satisfaction of the
city. This includes restoration of entrances and side roads. Restoration of
roadway surfaces shall be made using materials and methods approved by the
Public Works Director. Such cleanup and repair may be required to consist of
backfilling, regrading, reseeding, resodding, or any other requirement to
restore the right-of-way to a condition substantially equivalent to that which
existed prior to the commencement of the project. The time period provided in
this division (S) may be extended by the Public Works Director for good cause
shown.
   (T)   Maintenance and emergency maintenance.
      (1)   General. Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or
within rights-of-way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the city and at the utility’s expense.
      (2)   Emergency maintenance procedures. Emergencies may justify non-
compliance with normal procedures for securing a permit:
         (a)   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right-of-way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right-of-way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
         (b)   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify
the Public Works Director or his or her duly authorized agent of the emergency,
informing him or her as to what steps have been taken for protection of the
traveling public and what will be required to make the necessary repairs. If
the nature of the emergency is such as to interfere with the free movement of
traffic, the city police shall be notified immediately.
         (c)   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to
complete repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to
the traveling public.
      (3)   Emergency repairs. The utility must file in writing with the city a
description of the repairs undertaken in the right-of-way within 48 hours after
an emergency repair.
   (U)   Variances.
      (1)   Request for variance. A utility requesting a variance from one or
more of the provisions of this section must do so in writing to the Public
Works Director as a part of the permit application. The request shall identify
each provision of this section from which a variance is requested and the
reasons why a variance should be granted.
      (2)   Authority to grant variances. The Public Works Director shall
decide whether a variance is authorized for each provision of this section
identified in the variance request on an individual basis.
      (3)   Conditions for granting of variance. The city Public Works Director
may authorize a variance only if the utility requesting the variance has
demonstrated that:
         (a)   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility
(such as terrain features or an irregular right-of-way line) create a special
hardship that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the
public purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
         (b)   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities
that would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
      (4)   Additional conditions for granting of a variance. As a condition
for authorizing a variance, the Public Works Director may require the utility
requesting the variance to meet reasonable standards and conditions that may or
may not be expressly contained within this section but which carry out the
purposes of this section.
      (5)   Right to appeal. Any utility aggrieved by any order, requirement,
decision or determination, including denial of a variance, made by the Public
Works Director under the provisions of this section shall have the right to
appeal to the City Council, or such other board or commission as it may
designate. The application for appeal shall be submitted in writing to the City
Clerk within 30 days after the date of such order, requirement, decision or
determination. The City Council shall commence its consideration of the appeal
at the Council’s next regularly scheduled meeting occurring at least seven days
after the filing of the appeal. The City Council shall timely decide the
appeal.
   (V)   Enforcement. Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting
any additional or further remedies that the city may have for enforcement of
this section.
(Ord. 2010-5309, passed 9-7-2010) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.31 SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES IN THE RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Purpose; scope.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish regulations,
standards and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless
facilities on rights-of-way within the city's jurisdiction, or outside the
rights-of-way on property zoned by the city exclusively for commercial or
industrial use, in a manner that is consistent with the Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act (the “Act”).
      (2)   Conflicts with other ordinances. This section supersedes all
ordinances or parts of ordinances adopted prior hereto that are in conflict
herewith, to the extent of such conflict.
      (3)   Conflicts with state and federal laws. In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
section, the wireless provider shall comply with the requirements of this
section to the maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws
or regulations.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
provisions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits or receives
electromagnetic radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless
services.
      APPLICABLE CODES. Uniform building, fire, electrical, plumbing, or
mechanical codes adopted by a recognized national code organization or local
amendments to those codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
      APPLICANT. Any person who submits an application and is a wireless
provider.
      APPLICATION. A request submitted by an applicant to the city for a permit
to collocate small wireless facilities, and a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such application.
      COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate,
or replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure
or utility pole.
      COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. Cable service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(6), as
amended; information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(53), as amended; mobile
service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(53), as amended; or wireless service other
than mobile service.
      COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER. A cable operator, as defined in 47
U.S.C. 522(5), as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47
U.S.C. 153(24), as amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47
U.S.C. 153(51), as amended; or a wireless provider.
      FCC. The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
      FEE. A one-time charge.
      HISTORIC DISTRICT or HISTORIC LANDMARK. A building, property, or site, or
group of buildings, properties, or sites that are either:
         (a)   Listed in the National Register of Historic Places or formally
determined eligible for listing by the Keeper of the National Register, the
individual who has been delegated the authority by the federal agency to list
properties and determine their eligibility for the National Register, in
accordance with Section VI.D.1.a.i through Section VI.D.1.a.v of the Nationwide
Programmatic Agreement codified at 47 CFR Part I, Appendix C; or
         (b)   Designated as a locally landmarked building, property, site, or
historic district by an ordinance adopted by the city pursuant to a
preservation program that meets the requirements of the Certified Local
Government Program of the Illinois State Historic Preservation Office or where
such certification of the preservation program by the Illinois State Historic
Preservation Office is pending.
      LAW. A federal or state statute, common law, code, rule, regulation,
order, or local ordinance or resolution.
      MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches in height
and that has an exterior antenna, if any, no longer than 11 inches.
      MUNICIPAL UTILITY POLE. A utility pole owned or operated by the city in
public rights-of-way.
      PERMIT. A written authorization required by the city to perform an action
or initiate, continue, or complete a project.
      PERSON. An individual, corporation, limited liability company,
partnership, association, trust, or other entity or organization.
      PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY. The functional division of the federal government,
the state, a unit of local government, or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within this state, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical, or other emergency services to
respond to and manage emergency incidents.
      RATE. A recurring charge.
      RIGHTS-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, public sidewalk, alley, or utility easement dedicated for compatible
use. RIGHTS-OF-WAY do not include city-owned aerial lines.
      SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications:
         (a)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six
cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements,
the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an imaginary
enclosure of no more than six cubic feet; and
         (b)   All other wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole
associated with the facility is cumulatively no more than 25 cubic feet in
volume. The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not included
in the calculation of equipment volume: electric meter, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation box, ground-based enclosures, grounding
equipment, power transfer switch, cut-off switch, and vertical cable runs for
the connection of power and other services.
      UTILITY POLE. A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in
part by a communications service provider or for electric distribution,
lighting, traffic control, or a similar function.
      WIRELESS FACILITY.
         (a)   Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including:
            1.   Equipment associated with wireless communications; and
            2.   Radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable,
regular and backup power supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of
technological configuration.
         (b)   WIRELESS FACILITY includes small wireless facilities.
         (c)   WIRELESS FACILITY does not include:
            1.   The structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated; or
            2.   Wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber optic cable
that is between wireless support structures or utility poles or coaxial, or
fiber optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or directly
associated with an antenna.
      WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the state that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the city.
      WIRELESS PROVIDER. A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless
services provider.
      WIRELESS SERVICES. Any services provided to the general public, including
a particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory
basis using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or
mobile, provided using wireless facilities.
      WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless services.
      WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. 
         (a)   A freestanding structure, such as a monopole; tower, either
guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or proposed structure
designed to support or capable of supporting wireless facilities.
         (b)   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE does not include a utility pole.
   (C)   Regulation of small wireless facilities.
      (1)   Permitted use. Small wireless facilities shall be classified as
permitted uses and subject to administrative review, except as provided in
division (C)(9) regarding height exceptions or variances, but not subject to
zoning review or approval if they are collocated:
         (a)   In rights-of-way in any zoning district, or
         (b)   Outside rights-of-way in property zoned exclusively for
commercial or industrial use.
      (2)   Permit required. An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from
the city to collocate a small wireless facility. An application shall be
received and processed, and permits issued shall be subject to the following
conditions and requirements:
         (a)   Application requirements. A wireless provider shall provide the
following information to the city, together with the city’s small cell
facilities permit application, as a condition of any permit application to
collocate small wireless facilities on a utility pole or wireless support
structure:
            1.   Site specific structural integrity and, for a municipal
utility pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that
term is defined in Section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of
1989;
            2.   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed. This should include a depiction of the
completed facility;
            3.    Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural
engineer, as that term is defined in Section 4 of the Structural Engineering
Practice Act of 1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the
application as it is proposed to be installed;
            4.   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
            5.   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of
each small wireless
facility covered by the application, if approved; and
            6.   Certification that the collocation complies with the
collocation requirements and conditions contained herein, to the best of the
applicant’s knowledge.
            7.   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to
be attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the city, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of
the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation.
         (b)   Application process. The city shall process applications as
follows:
            1.   The first completed application shall have priority over
applications received by different applicants for collocation on the same
utility pole or wireless support structure.
            2.   A.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility on
an existing utility pole or wireless support structure, or replacement of an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and shall be deemed approved if the city fails to
approve or deny the application within 90 days after the submission of a
completed application.
               B.    However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the
permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the
city in writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner
than 75 days after the submission of a completed application.
               C.   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the
ninetieth day after submission of the complete application or the tenth day
after the receipt of the deemed approved notice by the city. The receipt of the
deemed approved notice shall not preclude the city’s denial of the permit
request within the time limits as provided under this section.
            3.   A.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility
that includes the installation of a new utility pole shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the city fails to approve or
deny the application within 120 days after the submission of a completed
application.
               B.    However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the
permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the
city in writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner
than 105 days after the submission of a completed application.
               C.   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the
one hundred twentieth day after submission of the complete application or the
tenth day after the receipt of the deemed approved notice by the city. The
receipt of the deemed approved notice shall not preclude the city’s denial of
the permit request within the time limits as provided under this section.
            4.   A.   The city shall deny an application which does not meet
the requirements of this section.
               B.   If the city determines that applicable codes, ordinances or
regulations that concern public safety, or the collocation requirements and
conditions contained herein require that the utility pole or wireless support
structure be replaced before the requested collocation, approval shall be
conditioned on the replacement of the utility pole or wireless support
structure at the cost of the provider.
               C.   The city shall document the basis for a denial, including
the specific code provisions or application conditions on which the denial is
based, and send the documentation to the applicant on or before the day the
city denies an application.
               D.   The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the
city and resubmit the revised application once within 30 days after notice of
denial is sent to the applicant without paying an additional application fee.
The city shall approve or deny the revised application within 30 days after the
applicant resubmits the application or it is deemed approved. Failure to
resubmit the revised application within 30 days of denial shall require the
application to submit a new application with applicable fees, and
recommencement of the city’s review period.
               E.   The applicant must notify the city in writing of its
intention to proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis,
which may be submitted with the revised application.
               F.   Any review of a revised application shall be limited to the
deficiencies cited in the denial. However, this revised application does not
apply if the cure requires the review of a new location, new or different
structure to be collocated upon, new antennas, or other wireless equipment
associated with the small wireless facility.
            5.   Pole attachment agreement. Within 30 days after an approved
permit to collocate a small wireless facility on a municipal utility pole, the
city and the applicant shall enter into a Master Pole Attachment Agreement,
provided by the city for the initial collocation on a municipal utility pole by
the application. For subsequent approved permits to collocate on a small
wireless facility on a municipal utility pole, the city and the applicant shall
enter into a License Supplement of the Master Pole Attachment Agreement.
         (c)   Completeness of application. 
            1.   Within 30 days after receiving an application, the city shall
determine whether the application is complete and notify the applicant. If an
application is incomplete, the city must specifically identify the missing
information. An application shall be deemed complete if the city fails to
provide notification to the applicant within 30 days after all documents,
information and fees specifically enumerated in the city’s permit application
form are submitted by the applicant to the city.
            2.   Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the city sends
the notice of incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the missing
information.
         (d)   Tolling. The time period for applications may be further tolled
by:
            1.   An express written agreement by both the applicant and the
city; or
            2.   A local, state or federal disaster declaration or similar
emergency that causes the delay.
         (e)   Consolidated applications. An applicant seeking to collocate
small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the city shall be allowed,
at the applicant’s discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a
single permit for the collocation of up to 25 small wireless facilities if the
collocations each involve substantially the same type of small wireless
facility and substantially the same type of structure. If an application
includes multiple small wireless facilities, the city may remove small wireless
facility collocations from the application and treat separately small wireless
facility collocations for which incomplete information has been provided or
that do not qualify for consolidated treatment or that are denied. The city may
issue separate permits for each collocation that is approved in a consolidated
application.
         (f)   Duration of permits.
            1.   The duration of a permit shall be for a period of not less
than five years, and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent durations
unless the city makes a finding that the small wireless facilities or the new
or modified utility pole do not comply with the applicable city codes or any
provision, condition or requirement contained in this section.
            2.   If the Act is repealed as provided in Section 90 therein,
renewals of permits shall be subject to the applicable city code provisions or
regulations in effect at the time of renewal.
         (g)   Means of submitting applications. Applicants shall submit
applications, supporting information and notices to the city by personal
delivery at the city’s designated place of business, by regular mail postmarked
on the date due or by any other commonly used means, including electronic mail.
      (3)   Collocation requirements and conditions.
         (a)   Public safety space reservation. The city may reserve space on
municipal utility poles for future public safety uses, for the city’s electric
utility uses, or both, but a reservation of space may not preclude the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless the city reasonably determines
that the municipal utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
         (b)   Installation and maintenance. The wireless provider shall
install, maintain, repair and modify its small wireless facilities in safe
condition and good repair and in compliance with the requirements and
conditions of this section. The wireless provider shall ensure that its
employees, agents or contracts that perform work in connection with its small
wireless facilities are adequately trained and skilled in accordance with all
applicable industry and governmental standards and regulations.
         (c)   No interference with public safety communication frequencies.
            1.   The wireless provider’s operation of the small wireless
facilities shall not interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety
agency for public safety communications.
            2.   A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of
the type and frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a
public safety agency’s communications equipment.
            3.   Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured
in accordance with industry standards and the FCC’s regulations addressing
unacceptable interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum
licensed by a public safety agency.
            4.   If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the
wireless provider has been given written notice of the interference by the
public safety agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall remedy
the interference in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC
including 47 CFR 22.970 through 47 CFR 22.973 and 47 CFR 90.672 through 47 CFR
90.675.
            5.   The city may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility
based on such interference if the wireless provider is not in compliance with
the Code of Federal Regulations cited in division (C)(3)(c)(4). Failure to
remedy the interference as required herein shall constitute a public nuisance.
         (d)   1.   The wireless provider shall not collocate small wireless
facilities on city utility poles that are part of an electric distribution or
transmission system within the communication worker safety zone of the pole or
the electric supply zone of the pole.
            2.   However, the antenna and support equipment of the small
wireless facility may be located in the communications space on the city
utility pole and on the top of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the
wireless provider complies with applicable codes for work involving the top of
the pole.
            3.   For purposes of this division (C)(3)(d), the terms
“communications space”, “communication worker safety zone”, and “electric
supply zone” have the meanings given to those terms in the National Electric
Safety Code as published by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
Engineers.
         (e)   The wireless provider shall comply with all applicable codes and
local code provisions or regulations that concern public safety.
         (f)   The wireless provider shall comply with written design standards
that are generally applicable for decorative utility poles, or reasonable
stealth, concealment and aesthetic requirements that are set forth in a city
ordinance, written policy adopted by the city, a comprehensive plan or other
written design plan that applies to other occupiers of the rights-of-way,
including on a historic landmark or in a historic district.
         (g)   Alternate placements.
            1.   Except as provided in this division (C)(3), a wireless
provider shall not be required to collocation small wireless facilities on any
specific utility pole, or category of utility poles, or be required to
collocate multiple antenna systems on a single utility pole. However, with
respect to an application for the collocation of a small wireless facility
associated with a new utility pole, the city may propose that the small
wireless facility be collocated on an existing utility pole or existing
wireless support structure within 100 feet of the proposed collocation, which
the applicant shall accept if it has the right to use the alternate structure
on reasonable terms and conditions, and the alternate location and structure
does not impose technical limits or additional material costs as determined by
the applicant.
            2.   If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the city,
the applicant shall provide written certification describing the property
rights, technical limits or material cost reasons the alternate location does
not satisfy the criteria in this division (C)(3)(g).
         (h)   Height limitations.
            1.   The maximum height of a small wireless facility shall be no
more than ten feet above the utility pole or wireless support structure on
which the small wireless facility is collocated.
            2.   New or replacement utility poles or wireless support
structures on which small wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed the
higher of:
               A.   Ten feet in height above the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place
on the date the application is submitted to the city, that is located within
300 feet of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless support structure
and that is in the same right-of-way within the jurisdictional boundary of the
city, provided the city may designate which intersecting right-of-way within
300 feet of the proposed utility pole or wireless support structures shall
control the height limitation for such facility; or
               B.   Forty- five feet above ground level.
         (h)   Height exceptions or variances. If an applicant proposes a
height for a new or replacement pole in excess of the above height limitations
on which the small wireless facility is proposed for collocation, the applicant
shall apply for a variance in conformance with procedures, terms and conditions
set forth in §
159.05 of the Mattoon Code of Ordinances.
         (i)   Contractual design requirements. The wireless provider shall
comply with requirements that are imposed by a contract between the city and a
private property owner that concern design or construction standards applicable
to utility poles and ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way.
         (j)   Ground-mounted equipment spacing. The wireless provider shall
comply with applicable spacing requirements in applicable codes and ordinances
concerning the location of ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way
if the requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses
wireless provider requests for exception or variance and do not prohibit
granting of such exceptions or variances.
         (k)   Undergrounding regulations. The wireless provider shall comply
with local code provisions or regulations concerning undergrounding
requirements that prohibit the installation of new or the modification of
existing utility poles in a right-of-way without prior approval if the
requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses requests
to install such new utility poles or modify such existing utility poles and do
not prohibit the replacement of utility poles.
         (l)   Collocation completion deadline. Collocation for which a permit
is granted shall be completed within 180 days after issuance of the permit,
unless the city and the wireless provider agree to extend this period or a
delay is caused by make-ready work for a municipal utility pole or by the lack
of commercial power or backhaul availability at the site, provided the wireless
provider has made a timely request within 60 days after the issuance of the
permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and the additional time to
complete installation does not exceed 360 days after issuance of the permit.
Otherwise, the permit shall be void unless the city grants an extension in
writing to the applicant.
      (4)   Application fees. Application fees are imposed as follows:
         (a)   Applicant shall pay an application fee of $650 for an
application to collocate a single small wireless facility on an existing
utility pole or wireless support structure, and $350 for each small wireless
facility addressed in a consolidated application to collocate more than one
small wireless facility on existing utility poles or wireless support
structures.
         (b)   Applicant shall pay an application fee of $1,000 for each small
wireless facility addressed in an application that includes the installation of
a new utility pole for such collocation.
         (c)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of state law or local
ordinance, applications pursuant to this division (C)(4) shall be accompanied
by the required application fee. Application fees shall be nonrefundable.
         (d)   The city shall not require an application, approval or permit,
or require any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider
authorized to occupy the rights-of-way, for:
            1.   Routine maintenance;
            2.   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless
facilities that are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the
wireless provider notifies the city at least ten days prior to the planned
replacement and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of
equipment consistent with division (C)(2)(a) above; or
            3.   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or
replacement of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung
between
existing utility poles in compliance with applicable safety codes.
         (d)   Wireless providers shall secure a permit from the city to work
within rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or require
lane closures.
      (5)   Exceptions to applicability. Nothing in this section authorizes a
person to collocate small wireless facilities on:
         (a)   Property owned by a private party or property owned or
controlled by the city or another unit of local government that is not located
within rights-of-way, or a privately owned utility pole or wireless support
structure without the consent of the property owner;
         (b)   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
         (c)   1.   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under § 18c-
7201 of the Illinois Vehicle Code (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 18c-7201), Metra
Commuter Rail or any other public commuter rail service, or an electric utility
as defined in § 16-102 of the Public Utilities Act (ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 16-
102), without the consent of the rail carrier, public commuter rail service, or
electric utility. The provisions of this section do not apply to an electric or
gas public utility or such utility’s wireless facilities if thefacilities are
being used, developed and maintained consistent with the provisions of § 16-
108.5(i) of the Public Utilities Act (ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 16-108.5(i)).
            2.   For the purposes of this division (C)(5)(c), “public utility”
has the meaning given to that term in § 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act (ILCS
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 3-105). Nothing in this section shall be construed to relieve
any person from any requirement (a) to obtain a franchise or a state-issued
authorization to offer cable service or video service or (b) to obtain any
required permission to install, place, maintain, or operate communications
facilities, other than small wireless facilities subject to this section.
      (6)   Pre-existing agreements.
         (a)   Existing agreements between the city and wireless providers that
relate to the collocation of small wireless facilities in the rights-of-way,
including the collocation of small wireless facilities on city utility poles,
that are in effect on June 1, 2018, remain in effect for all small wireless
facilities collocated on the city’s utility poles pursuant to applications
submitted to the city before June 1, 2018, subject to applicable termination
provisions contained therein. Agreements entered into after June 1, 2018, shall
comply with this section.
         (b)   A wireless provider that has an existing agreement with the city
on the effective date of the Act may accept the rates, fees and terms that the
city makes available under this section for the collocation of small wireless
facilities or the installation of new utility poles for the collocation of
small wireless facilities that are the subject of an application submitted two
or more years after the effective date of the Act by notifying the city that it
opts to accept such rates, fees and terms. The existing agreement remains in
effect, subject to applicable termination provisions, for the small wireless
facilities the wireless provider has collocated on the city’s utility poles
pursuant to applications submitted to the city before the wireless provider
provides such notice and exercises its option under this division (C)(6).
      (7)   Annual recurring rate.
         (a)   A wireless provider shall pay to the city an annual recurring
rate to collocate a small wireless facility on a city utility pole located in a
right-of-way that equals (i) $200 per year or (ii) the actual, direct and
reasonable costs related to the wireless provider’s use of space on the city
utility pole.
         (b)   If the city has not billed the wireless provider actual and
direct costs, the fee shall be $200 payable on the first day after the first
annual anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice of intent to
collocate, and on each annual anniversary date thereafter.
      (8)   Abandonment.
         (a)   A small wireless facility that is not operated for a continuous
period of 12 months shall be considered abandoned. The owner of the facility
shall remove the small wireless facility within 90 days after receipt of
written notice from the city notifying the wireless provider of the
abandonment.
         (b)   The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested, by the city to the owner at the last known address of the
wireless provider. If the small wireless facility is not removed within 90 days
of such notice, the city may remove or cause the removal of such facility
pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment agreement for municipal utility
poles or through whatever actions are provided for abatement of nuisances or by
other law for removal and cost recovery.
         (c)   A wireless provider shall provide written notice to the city if
it sells or transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the
city. Such notice shall include the name and contact information of the new
wireless provider.
   (D)   Dispute resolution. The Circuit Court of Coles County shall have
exclusive jurisdiction to resolve all disputes arising under the Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act. Pending resolution of a dispute concerning rates for
collocation of small wireless facilities on municipal utility poles within the
rights-of-way, the city shall allow the collocating person to collocate on its
poles at annual rates of no more than $200 per year per municipal utility pole,
with rates to be determined upon final resolution of the dispute.
   (E)   Indemnification. A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the city
harmless against any and all liability or loss from personal injury or property
damage resulting from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or
occupancy of the city improvements or rights-of-way associated with such
improvements by the wireless provider or its employees, agents, or contractors
arising out of the rights and privileges granted under this section and the
Act. A wireless provider has no obligation to indemnify or hold harmless
against any liabilities and losses as may be due to or caused by the sole
negligence of the city or its employees or agents. A wireless provider shall
further waive anyclaims that they may have against the city with respect to
consequential, incidental, or special damages, however caused, based on the
theory of liability.
   (F)   Insurance.
      (1)   The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless provider’s own
cost and expense, the following insurance:
         (a)   Property insurance for its property’s replacement cost against
all risks;
         (b)   Workers’ compensation insurance, as required by law; and
         (c)   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its
activities on the city improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum
protection limits consistent with its requirements of other users of city
improvements or rights-of-way, including coverage for bodily injury and
property damage.
      (2)   The wireless provider shall include the city as an additional
insured on the commercial general liability policy and provide certification
and documentation of inclusion of the city in a commercial general liability
policy prior to the collocation of any wireless facility.
      (3)   A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirement required by the city. A wireless
provider that self-insures is not required, to the extent of the self-
insurance, to comply with the requirement for the name of additional insureds
under this division (F). A wireless provider that elects to self-insure shall
provide to the city evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to
self-insure the insurance coverage limits required by the city.
(Ord. 2018-5407, passed 7-17-2018)
SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION
§ 99.40 STATE LAW APPLICABLE.
   (A)   All sidewalks shall be constructed under the pro visions of ILCS Ch.
65, Act 5, §§ 11-84-1 through 11-84-8.
('68 Code, § 6.25)
§ 99.41 BOARD OF OFFICERS.
   The Board of Officers provided for in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-84-2, shall
consist of the City Manager, City Clerk and City Engineer, or if there is no
City Engineer, then the Public Works Director. The City Manager shall act ex-
officio as chairman of the Board, and the City Clerk as Clerk thereof. The
Clerk shall be the keeper of the records of the Board.
(‘68 Code, § 6.25) (Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 99.42 WIDTH AND GRADE OF SIDEWALKS.
   All sidewalks laid after 1953 shall be of uniform width, lines and grade;
provided that no sidewalk of less width than five feet shall be constructed
except to connect with a four-foot concrete sidewalk previously laid and
accepted. In the Pine Acres Subdivision to the city it shall be lawful to
construct sidewalks three feet in width. All sidewalks shall be of concrete.
Any sidewalk or pavement which does not conform substantially to the grade, or
line, or to the materials and workmanship required, is declared to be a
nuisance, and the person building the same, or the owner of the adjoining
premises, shall remove the same on five days' notice from the City Engineer. In
such case, the walk may be summarily removed and reconstructed by the city, and
the expense collected from the property owner.
('68 Code, § 6.25)
§ 99.43 SIDEWALK SPECIFICATIONS.
   All sidewalks constructed in this city, upon any street, shall be of
concrete and shall conform to such specifications as may be determined by the
City Engineer.
('68 Code, § 6.25)
§ 99.44 PAYMENT.
   A sidewalk is hereby declared to be a local improvement and the cost thereof
and the expense connected therewith to be paid for by special taxation of the
lot, lots and parcels of land contiguous to and abutting on said street and
touching upon the line of said improvement according to and in proportion to
their frontage on said sidewalk. The levy of such cost shall be made against
each lot, lots and parcels of land touching upon the line of said sidewalk,
according to its frontage upon said street.
('68 Code, § 6.25)
§ 99.45 NOTICE.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Officers of the city, without delay,
after the passage of any ordinance for such improvement to send by mail to each
party who paid the last general taxes on the respective lot, lots or parcels of
land touching on or contiguous to the line where said sidewalk is to be
constructed, a notice of the passage of such ordinance and it shall be the duty
of each owner of any lot or parcel of land touching the line where the sidewalk
is ordered to be constructed, to construct such sidewalk in front of their
respective lots or parcels of land in accordance with the specifications within
30 days after the mailing of the notice of the passage of such ordinance
addressed to the party who paid the last general taxes on the respective lots
or parcels of land.
('68 Code, § 6.25)
§ 99.46 DEFAULT.
   In default thereof, the city will enter into a contract for the furnishing
of said material and the construction of the sidewalk as hereinafter provided.
The cost thereof shall be charged to and against the lots or parcels of land
along the line of said street where the said sidewalk is to be built according
to the frontage thereof and to be collected as hereinafter provided.
('68 Code, § 6.25)
§ 99.47 SUPERVISION OF CONSTRUCTION.
   The material and construction of a sidewalk shall be under the supervision
of and subject to the approval of the Board of Officers of the city. Whenever
the owner of any lot, lots or parcels of land touching upon the line of this
improvement shall desire to build his own sidewalk in conformity with this
subchapter, it shall be the duty of the Board of Officers of the city, upon
demand of such owner, within 30 days after the mailing of the notice as
aforesaid, to see he is furnished with grade stakes and a copy of this
subchapter. All such sidewalks as provided for in this subchapter constructed
by the owner or owners in front of the lot, lots or parcels of land as
hereinbefore provided shall be subject to the approval of the Board of Officers
of the city and shall fully conform to the requirements of this subchapter.
('68 Code, § 6.25)
§ 99.48 LETTING CONTRACT.
   The contract for the construction of the sidewalk or any part thereof that
the property owners have not constructed within 30 days as aforesaid, shall be
let to the lowest responsible bidder as provided by ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-
84-7.
('68 Code, § 6.25)
§ 99.49 BILL OF COST.
   A bill of the cost of such sidewalk showing the cost of construction and
supervision thereof shall be made by the Board of Officers of the city,
together with a list of the lots or parcels of land touching upon the line of
said sidewalk, the names of the parties who paid the last general taxes on the
respective lots or parcels of land, and the frontage of each of the lots or
parcels of land touching upon the line of such sidewalk; and if the owner of
any lot, block, tract or parcel of land fails, neglects or refuses to construct
said sidewalk in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter, the Board
of Officers shall proceed to prepare a special tax against said lots, blocks,
tracts or parcels of land in front of or touching upon which said sidewalk has
not been constructed, ascertain by computation, the amount of special taxes to
be charged against each of said lots, blocks, tracts or parcels of land on
account of the construction of the sidewalk according to and in proportion to
their frontage upon such sidewalk which special tax list shall be filed in the
office of the Board of Officers.
('68 Code, § 6.25)
§ 99.50 SPECIAL TAX COLLECTION.
   Upon the filing in the office of the Board of Officers of the said special
tax, the Board shall thereupon issue warrants directed to the City Clerk for
the collection of the amount of special tax so ascertained and appearing from
said special tax list to be due from the respective lots, blocks, tracts or
parcels of land touching upon the line of the sidewalk. The City Clerk shall
proceed to collect such warrants by giving notice in writing by mailing the
same to the address of the party who paid the last general taxes on the
respective lots, blocks, tracts or parcels of land in said list and all money
so collected by the City Clerk shall be by him immediately paid over to the
City Treasurer.
('68 Code, § 6.25)
§ 99.51 ACCEPTANCE OF IMPROVEMENT; PAYMENT.
   Where the improvement provided for in the ordinance is constructed under
contract with the city, the Board of Officers shall upon the completion and
acceptance of said improvement report such completion and acceptance to the
Council. The City Manager and City Clerk are thereupon authorized to issue
noninterest bearing vouchers to the contractor in payment for such improvement,
payable solely out of the special tax provided for in this code when the same
is collected.
(‘68 Code, § 6.25) (Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 99.52 REPORT OF TAX TO COUNTY TREASURER.
   Upon the failure to collect such special tax or any part thereof as provided
for in this subchapter, it shall be the duty of the City Collector on or before
the first day of August next after the same shall become due and payable to
make report in writing of such special tax to the County Treasurer of all lots
and parcels of land upon which such special tax is unpaid, with the names of
the respective owners thereof, so far as the same are known to the City Clerk,
and the amount due and unpaid an each tract, together with a copy of this
subchapter, which report shall be accompanied by oath that it is a correct
return of the lots and parcels of land on which special tax levied by authority
of the city for the cost of the sidewalk in this subchapter specified remains
due and unpaid, and that the amounts therein stated as due and unpaid have not
been collected.
('68 Code, § 6.25)
§ 99.53 REMOVAL OF EXCAVATIONS.
   The person constructing any sidewalk shall for a distance of one foot on the
outside of the sidewalk leave the surface of the ground one inch lower than the
walks, and shall remove all surplus dirt excavated by him, other rubbish or
materials from the street or premises. He shall also replace all connecting
sidewalks, aprons or crossings in a workmanlike manner, under the direction of
the City Engineer or the Superintendent of Streets.
('68 Code, § 6.25)
§ 99.54 BOND.
   In no case shall any contract be let either by the city or by the owner,
agent or lessee of any lot or parcel of land for the construction of any
sidewalk in the city, except that such contractor before doing any work upon
such contract shall execute a bond with sureties to be approved by the Board of
Officers, payable to the city, which bond shall be in a penal sum equal to 33%
of the amount of the costs of such sidewalk to be constructed by such
contractor. The bond shall guarantee the construction, workmanship and
materials of the sidewalk for a term of three years from the date of the
completion of such walk.
('68 Code, § 6.25)
§ 99.55 USE OF SIDEWALKS FOR CAFÉS.
   (A)   Permit required. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm,
corporation, organization or association to use the public sidewalk for the
operation of a sidewalk café, whether offering direct service to the table or
not, without obtaining a sidewalk café permit. Permits will be issued only to
businesses owning or leasing property immediately adjacent to an improved
sidewalk within a public right-of-way. No permit shall be issued to any
business which is not in compliance with all provisions of this code.
   (B)   Definition. OUTDOOR CAFÉ shall mean a use of public sidewalk by a food
service establishment for the serving of food and beverages. The use will be
characterized by the outdoor use of tables, and chairs, umbrellas, and
perimeter boundary defining barriers.
   (C)   Application. Application for an outdoor café permit shall be made on
forms supplied by the city, and submitted to the City Clerk for review by the
Community Development and Planning Director. The application shall require the
following:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the owners of the
property and the food service establishment related to the permit.
      (2)   A copy of a valid permit or license from the Coles County Health
Department.
      (3)   A drawing or sketch which will include the dimensions of the
proposed permit area and which shows the location and type of the tables,
chairs, trash receptacles, and other equipment proposed to be used, location of
ingress and egress, the curb line and any existing public or utility-owned
equipment facilities in or adjacent to the area proposed which are visible to
the eye, including but not limited to parking meters, trees, manhole covers and
utility poles or openings.
      (4)   An operations plan specifying the proposed dates, days and hours of
operation of the outdoor café, the hours of operation of the adjacent
restaurant, scheduled maintenance of the permit area, maximum seating capacity,
and method of providing security and maintenance.
      (5)   An original of a certificate of insurance listing the required
coverage amounts and policy periods of the permittee’s general liability
policies.
      (6)   An executed waiver of liability in a form approved by the City
Attorney.
      (7)   Any other information related to the requirements of this chapter
that the City Manager or City Clerk deems necessary.
   (D)   Review of applications. The City Clerk shall review the application
for a sidewalk café permit and determine whether to issue the permit. No permit
shall be issued pursuant to this chapter unless the Community Development and
Planning Director has determined the following:
      (1)   There are no outstanding fines, fees, taxes or other charges due
and owed to the city by the applicant or the owners of the real property on
which the establishment is located.
      (2)   The applicant has supplied all of the information required on or by
the application, and any additional information requested by the City Clerk.
      (3)   All of the requirements of this chapter have been met.
   (E)   Additional conditions. The Clerk may impose conditions upon the
issuance of a sidewalk café permit in order to protect the use of adjacent
right-of-way for its intended purpose, to prevent congestion of vehicular or
pedestrian traffic flow and to otherwise carry out the purpose and intent of
this chapter and this code.
   (F)   Regulations. All permit holders are subject to the following
regulations:
      (1)   An outdoor café is permitted only on sidewalks. The permit area
shall be immediately adjacent to the establishment requesting the permit, or on
sidewalks contiguous to the sidewalk adjacent to the establishment.
      (2)   No permit will be allowed if seats or equipment in the outdoor café
result in the need for additional restrooms or additional parking and unless
such additional restrooms or parking are provided.
      (3)   Outdoor café permits are valid from April 1 to October 31 of each
year. All permits shall expire annually on November 1 of each year.
      (4)   The hours when service is permitted at the outdoor café shall be
during business hours of the permittee.
      (5)   Any person making use of an outdoor café shall do so in a
reasonable manner with due regard for the health and safety of persons and
property. No permittee shall make any physical alteration to public property
without the written permission of the Public Works Director. A permittee shall
owe a duty to the city and third persons to maintain the permit area in a
clean, safe and sanitary condition.
      (6)   The permittee shall keep the permit area free of litter, cans,
bottles and spills at all times. The permittee shall promptly collect and
dispose of all litter, trash and other waste materials associated with the
outdoor café, including material in the adjacent public right-of-way or
property originating from the outdoor café. The permittee shall dispose of any
such waste in their trash containers only, no trash may be put into city-
maintained trash receptacles.
      (7)   No cooking or food preparation shall be permitted at any time
within the permit area.
      (8)   Upon the expiration or other termination of an outdoor café use
permit, the permittee shall immediately remove all tables, chairs, furnishings,
equipment and other items of personal property from the permit area. Any such
items remaining on the pubic right-of-way may be removed and disposed of by the
city at the sole cost and expense of the permittee.
      (9)   No live entertainment shall be allowed at any time within the
permit area. This provision shall not prohibit piped-in-sound, so long as such
sound otherwise complies with the city’s noise regulations.
      (10)   Only the following types of furniture or other equipment may be
located in an outdoor café; tables and chairs, umbrellas, waste receptacles,
bussing carts, one sandwich board sign.
      (11)   All items placed on the sidewalk must be located in accordance
with the approved drawing submitted with the application for permit. If the
permittee wished to change the location of items on the sidewalk a drawing of
the new configuration must be submitted to the Community Development and
Planning Director for approval.
      (12)   All items must be placed so as not to create hazards. Incidental
items placed in the public sidewalk during the operations of the permittee
shall be properly weighted to prevent a wind-blown hazard and shall be removed
at the end of each business day.
      (13)   Said furniture and other equipment shall be portable, shall not be
chained, bolted or otherwise secured together as a unit, shall not be affixed
to the surface of the permit area, and shall be removed on a nightly basis
within 30 minutes after cessation of service in the outdoor café.
      (14)   Tables shall be freestanding with detached chairs or seating,
unless it is determined that another design meets the intent of these
regulations and a specific exception is permitted in writing by the Community
Development and Planning Director.
      (15)   Umbrellas shall have a maximum diameter of six feet, a weighted
base and be fabric covered.
      (16)   No signs, banners, sandwich boards or other like advertising,
except for one sandwich board, no larger than six square feet in area on any
one of two sides, no greater than four feet in height, shall be located in the
permit area.
      (17)   Tables, chairs, umbrellas, sandwich boards, and other permissible
equipment shall be located in the outdoor café area so that there remains open,
at all times, a longitudinal walking space, the location of which shall be
determined by the Community Development and Planning Director or designee, of a
minimum of four feet in width, which distance may be increased if the Community
Development and Planning Director deems it necessary for pedestrian safety,
with a cross-slope not to exceed Americans and Disability Act (ADA)
requirements.
      (18)   The placement of portable heaters must be reviewed and approved by
the city’s Fire Chief.
      (19)   The City Clerk and Community Development and Planning Director may
promulgate administrative rules relating to the requirements contained in this
chapter. Such rules shall be attached to the permit and be followed by the
permittee.
      (20)   Subject to the requirements of the code, the permit holder shall,
as part of the right granted pursuant to the permit, be entitled to remove or
exclude persons from the permit area during hours of business operation, such
permittee is authorized to give notice to any such person to prevent such
entry. No cover charge or minimum purchase may be required for admittance to an
outdoor café area in the public right-of-way.
   (G)   Fees. The fee for a sidewalk café permit shall be $25 per table per
season. The fee shall be paid upon the issuance of the permit.
   (H)   Indemnification; payment for cleaning or damages. As an express
condition of the issuance of the permit, each permittee shall agree in writing
to indemnify and hold harmless the city against all claims, liability, loss,
injury, death or damage whatsoever in connection with or arising out of the use
of the outdoor café by anyone, except where the claim is the result of the sole
negligence of the city. Additionally, as an express condition of the issuance
of the permit, the permittee shall agree to, within seven days after the
billing date, pay to the city all costs associated with damage to the pavement
or other city-owned facilities located in or adjacent to the permit area caused
by operation of the food service establishment, or the cleaning of or trash
removal from the permit area or adjacent premises occasioned by the failure of
the permittee to clean or removed such trash.
   (I)   Insurance requirements. All persons, prior to receiving a permit,
shall procure and maintain for the duration of the permit, public liability and
property damage insurance pertaining to the permit area in a minimum amount of
$2,000,000 per person and $2,000,000 in the aggregate per occurrence and
property damage in a minimum amount of $2,000,000, which shall name the City of
Mattoon, its officers and employees as additional insureds and the same shall
provide that the policy shall not terminated or be canceled prior to the
expiration date without 30 days advance written notice to the city. Proof of
such insurance, issued by an insurance company licensed to do business in the
State of Illinois in the form of a certificate of insurance, shall be attached
to the application.
   (J)   Enforcement.
      (1)   The city may inspect the permit area at any time. The city shall
mail or deliver the results of the inspection to the permittee.
      (2)   Any violation of the provisions of this section shall be remedied
within the time given in the notice or if not stated in the notice, within
seven calendar days from the date of delivery of post-mark on the notice.
      (3)   The use of a public sidewalk as an outdoor café shall be subject to
temporary suspension or termination at any time by the city in the interest of
the public health, safety and welfare. To the extent that a permit area is
needed by the city for the purposes for which it was dedicated, or any other
public purpose, the city may immediately terminate the revocable use permit by
sending written notice to the permittee and assume full possession and control
of the permit area. The permittee shall remove all furniture from the right-of-
way within the time specified by the notice. If the furniture is not removed by
the permittee, the city shall be authorized to remove all furniture and other
objects of permittee from the permit area. If such furniture is not reclaimed
by the permittee within seven days after removal by the city, the property
shall be presumed abandoned and subject to disposal.
      (4)   The permittee shall be subject to the penalty provisions and
procedures set forth in §
10.99 of this code.
(Ord. 2007-5240, passed 9-18-2007; Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
BICYCLE COMMITTEE
§ 99.60 BICYCLE COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The Bicycle Committee shall consist of community members appointed by
the Mayor. The Bicycle Committee shall present findings and recommendations to
the Public Works Advisory Board.
   (B)    The Bicycle Committee shall have the following duties:
      (1)   To advocate for, and promote, the city's efforts to establish a
network of bicycle routes throughout the city;
      (2)   To advise and present recommendations to the City Manager, the
Public Works Director, and the Public Works Advisory Board for revisions to the
City's Bikeway Plan;
      (3)   To assist with the preparation of grant applications, and securing
of funding for the projects promoted by the Bicycle Committee; and
      (4)   To advise and present recommendations to the City Manager, the
Public Works Director, and the Public Works Advisory Board for the care and
maintenance of the city's Bikeway Network.
(Ord. 2019-5417, passed 6-4-2019; Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
TREES
§ 99.70 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Mattoon Tree Ordinance.”
(Ord. 2006-5216, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 99.71 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this subchapter to promote and protect
the public health, safety, and general welfare by providing for a Tree
Commission.
   (B)   Intent. It is the intent of the City Council that the terms of this
subchapter shall be construed so as to promote:
      (1)   The planting, maintenance, restoration, and survival of desirable
trees and other plants on public property within the city; and
      (2)   To protect the public health, safety and general welfare which may
be effected by improper planting, maintenance, or removal of trees or other
plants located on public property within the city.
(Ord. 2006-5216, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 99.72 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OTHER PLANTS. All other vegetation not meeting the definition of a tree,
except for lawn, grass, and flowers of less than 24 inches in height.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY.  All property within the corporate limits of the city which
is owned by the city, or is dedicated to the public for present or future use.
   TOP CUT.  The cutting of the vertical stem (leader) and upper primary limbs
on mature trees to stubs at a uniform height. TOP CUTTING is also referred to
as heading, stubbing, or dehoming.
   TREE.  A woody plant having one main trunk and having a diameter at breast
height (DBH) of two inches or more.
   TREE CONTRACTOR.  An individual or company annually certified by the city to
do tree maintenance on trees on public property within the city limits.
(Ord. 2006-5216, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 99.73 TREE COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Tree Commission shall consist of community members appointed by
the Mayor. The Tree Commission shall present findings and recommendations to
the Public Works Advisory Board.
   (B)   The Tree Commission shall have the following duties:
      (1)   To advocate for, and promote, the proper management of the city's
tree inventory;
      (2)   To assist with the preparation of tree inventories and other
studies recommended by the Tree Commission;
      (3)   To advise and present recommendations to the City Manager, the
Public Works Director, and the Public Works Advisory Board for revisions to the
city's standards for tree care and maintenance;
      (4)   To advise and present recommendations to the City Manager, the
Public Works Director, and the Public Works Advisory Board for new tree
planting projects and programs; and
      (5)   To assist with the preparation of grant applications, and securing
of funding for the projects promoted by the Tree Commission.
(Ord. 2006-5216, passed 4-4-2006; Am. Ord. 2019-5419, passed 7-2-2019; Am. Ord.
2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 99.74 STANDARDS ADOPTED.
   The following standards are adopted by the City Council and are incorporated
herein by reference: City Tree Care Manual and any amendments thereto.
(Ord. 2006-5216, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 99.75 VIOLATIONS.
   The following are hereby declared to be a violation of this subchapter:
   (A)   To place a tree on public property within the city without a permit;
   (B)   To intentionally damage or destroy a tree growing on public property
within the city;
   (C)   For any person not certified by the city as a tree contractor to trim
a tree higher than ten feet above the ground or greater than two inches in
diameter on public property within the city;
   (D)   For any person not certified by the city as a tree contractor to
remove a tree on public property within the city;
   (E)   To top cut a tree on public property within the city; or
   (F)   To attach any foreign object, including but not limited to, ropes,
wires, nails, signs, or posters to any tree or other plant on public property
within the city.
(Ord. 2006-5216, passed 4-4-2006)
Penalty, see § 99.79
§ 99.76 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   A no-charge permit must be obtained from the Public Works Office to
make any changes to trees on city owned property. The permit will be approved,
altered, or denied by the Public Works Director or his/her designee within five
working days.
   (B)   Activities requiring a permit include:
      (1)   The planting on public property within the city an approved tree or
other plant from the city tree list located in the tree care manual. The size
and species must be also approved;
      (2)   The trimming at a height greater than ten feet above the ground or
greater than two inches in diameter of a tree on public property within the
city;
      (3)   The removal of any tree or other plant on public property within
the city.
   (C)   Exemptions from permits in time of emergencies. Personnel employed by
the city, county, state, or public utility, are hereby exempt from the permit
requirements in the event that work otherwise requiring a permit needs to be
accomplished to meet a bona fide emergency.
   (D)   A permit will not be required for the removal of limbs or branches
that obstruct normal passage on city sidewalks or roadways. A maximum clearance
height of ten feet above a sidewalk and 13 feet above a roadway is allowed
without a permit.
(Ord. 2006-5216, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 99.77 NUISANCE TREE REMOVAL.
   (A)   A tree on public property within the city that is on the nuisance
species list below may be removed at the adjacent landowner's expense, provided
that the landowner will allow the city to replace the tree at the city's
expense.
   (B)   The nuisance species list includes:
      (1)   Sweet gum (Liquidambar styraciflua); and
      (2)   Ginkgo (Ginkgo biloba) (female of the species).
   (C)   Other trees which are not on the nuisance species list may be removed
if they are determined to be a nuisance by the Public Works Director or his/her
designee.
(Ord. 2006-5216, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 99.78 TREE CONTRACTOR CERTIFICATION.
   A tree contractor desiring to do work that requires a permit as defined in
this subchapter shall be certified by the city.
   (A)   To become certified the person must be:
      (1)   A certified arborist by the International Society of Arboriculture;
      (2)   A certified tree specialist by the Tree Care Industry Association;
or
      (3)   Certified by the city in a process where the person watches an
instructional video and passes a written examination.
   (B)   Any person desiring to engage in the business of tree contracting work
on public property within the city shall make a written application for a
certificate of registration on forms provided by the City Clerk. The
application must contain the name, address and phone number of the business and
all supervisors’ names and phone numbers. Proof of either certification with an
organization listed in division (A) above or a passing grade on the city tree
exam will be required. The application shall be filed with the City Clerk
together with the sum of $50. The certification shall expire December 31 of
each year.
   (C)   A certificate of insurance shall be provided giving evidence that the
person desiring certification as a tree contractor has insurance coverage,
which lists the city as additionally insured, in limits not less than
$1,000,000 per occurrence, covering personal injury, death and property damage
exposures.
   (D)   All permitted work sites must have a certified tree contractor present
while work is being done.
(Ord. 2006-5216, passed 4-4-2006)
Penalty, see § 99.79
§ 99.79 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this tree subchapter shall be subject to a
fine equal to at least the city's cost to correct the violation. The fine will
be determined by the removal cost of the tree, replacement cost of the tree,
and value of the tree.
(Ord. 2006-5216, passed 4-4-2006)
ENCROACHMENTS
§ 99.90 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSTRUCTION EASEMENT AREA. That area lying between the project right-of-way
limits and the platted street limits within which the city, by concurrence in
the establishment of the project right-of-way lines, will permit the state to
enter to perform all necessary construction operations.
   ENCROACHMENT. Any building, fence, sign (excluding certain signs located
over sidewalks) or any other structure or object of any kind (with the
exception of utilities and public road signs), which is placed, located or
maintained in, on, under or over any portion of the project right-of-way or the
roadway right-of-way where no project right-of-way line has been established.
   PERMISSIBLE ENCROACHMENT. Any existing awning, marquee, or sign advertising
activity on the property, or similar overhanging structure supported from a
building immediately adjacent to the limits of the platted street where there
is a sidewalk extending to the building line and which does not impair the free
and safe flow of pedestrian traffic or traffic on the highway. The permissive
retention of overhanging signs is not to be construed as being applicable to
those signs supported from poles constructed outside the project right-of-way
line and not confined by adjacent buildings.
   PROJECT RIGHT-OF-WAY. Those areas within the project right-of-way lines
established jointly by the city and state, which will be free of encroachments
except as defined in this section.
   ROADWAY RIGHT-OF-WAY. Those areas existing or acquired by dedication or by
fee simple for highway purposes; also, the areas acquired by permanent easement
and temporary easement during the time the easement is in effect.
(Ord. 80-4402, passed 2-5-1980; Ord. 82-4434, passed 6-15-1982; Ord. 84-4456,
passed 5-1-1984; Ord. 85-4497, passed 11-19-1985; Ord. 86-4523, passed 12-16-
1986; Ord. 87-4531, passed 2-17-1987; Ord. 88-4587, passed 11-15-1988; Am. Ord.
99-4987, passed 5-4-1999; Am. Ord. 2009-5271, passed 1-20-2009)
§ 99.91 ENCROACHMENTS WITHIN LIMITS OF PROJECT RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect or cause
to be erected, to retain or cause to be retained, any encroachment as
hereinabove defined within the limits of the project right-of-way or roadway
right-of-way where no project right-of-way lines have been established.
(Ord. 80-4402, passed 2-5-1980; Ord. 82-4434, passed 6-15-1982; Ord. 84-4456,
passed 5-1-1984; Ord. 85-4497, passed 11-19-1985; Ord. 86-4523, passed 12-16-
1986; Ord. 87-4531, passed 2-17-1987; Ord. 88-4587, passed 11-15-1988; Am. Ord.
99-4987, passed 5-4-1999; Am. Ord. 2009-5271, passed 1-20-2009)
Penalty, see § 99.99
§ 99.92 PROJECT RIGHT-OF-WAY LINES.
   Project right-of-way lines have been established at the following locations:
none.
(Ord. 80-4402, passed 2-5-1980; Ord. 82-4434, passed 6-15-1982; Ord. 84-4456,
passed 5-1-1984; Ord. 85-4497, passed 11-19-1985; Ord. 86-4523, passed 12-16-
1986; Ord. 87-4531, passed 2-17-1987; Ord. 88-4587, passed 11-15-1988; Am. Ord.
99-4987, passed 5-4-1999; Am. Ord. 2009-5271, passed 1-20-2009)
§ 99.93 REVOCABLE PERMITS ISSUED BY CITY.
   Revocable permits have been issued by the city for the temporary retention
of the following permissible encroachments: none.
(Ord. 80-4402, passed 2-5-1980; Ord. 82-4434, passed 6-15-1982; Ord. 84-4456,
passed 5-1-1984; Ord. 85-4497, passed 11-19-1985; Ord. 86-4523, passed 12-16-
1986; Ord. 87-4531, passed 2-17-1987; Ord. 88-4587, passed 11-15-1988; Am. Ord.
99-4987, passed 5-4-1999; Am. Ord. 2009-5271, passed 1-20-2009)
§ 99.99 PENALTY.
    (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating §
99.18 or §
99.91 shall be fined for each offense and the general penalty of §
10.99 shall apply upon conviction. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
for each and every day during which a violation continues or exists. Costs of
the court proceeding shall also be assessed, as provided by law.
   (B)   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to
comply with any of the provisions of §
99.30 shall be subject to fine in accordance with the penalty provisions of
this code. There may be times when the city will incur delay or other costs,
including third party claims, because the utility will not or cannot perform
its duties under its permit and §
99.30. Unless the utility shows that another allocation of the cost of
undertaking the requested action is appropriate, the utility shall bear the
city’s costs of damages and its costs of installing, maintaining, modifying,
relocating, or removing the facility that is the subject of the permit. No
other administrative agency or commission may review or overrule a permit
related cost apportionment of the city. Sanctions may be imposed upon a utility
that does not pay the costs apportioned to it.
(Ord. 80-4402, passed 2-5-1980; Ord. 82-4434, passed 6-15-1982; Ord. 84-4456,
passed 5-1-1984; Ord. 85-4497, passed 11-19-1985; Ord. 86-4523, passed 12-16-
1986; Ord. 87-4531, passed 2-17-1987; Ord. 88-4587, passed 11-15-1988; Am. Ord.
97-4909, passed 8-19-1997; Am. Ord. 97-4916, passed 11-18-1997; Am. Ord. 99-
4987, passed 5-4-1999; Am. Ord. 2009-5271, passed 1-20-2009; Am. Ord. 2009-
5281, passed 9-15-2009; Am. Ord. 2010-5309, passed 9-7-2010)
CHAPTER 100: SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS
Section
   
100.01   Sale of tobacco products
   
100.02   Definitions
   
100.03   Prohibited sales and delivery signs
   
100.04   Minimum age to sell tobacco products
   
100.05   Purchase by minors prohibited
   
100.06   Possession by minors prohibited
   
100.07   Proximity to certain institutions
   
100.08   Certain free distributions prohibited
   
100.09   Locking device on vending machines
 
   
100.99   Penalty
§ 100.01 SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, give, provide or distribute any
tobacco products or to allow any person under the age of 21 years to have
possession of any tobacco products in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 90-4641, passed 9-4-1990; Am. Ord. 2022-5453, passed 4-19-2022)
§ 100.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS. A product or device not consisting of or
containing tobacco that provides for the ingestion into the body of nicotine,
whether by chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling, snorting,
sniffing, or by any other means.
   ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE. Any device that employs a battery or other mechanism
to heat a solution or substance to produce vapor or aerosol intended for
inhalation; any cartridge or container of a solution or substance intended to
be used with or in the device to refill the device; or any solution or
substance, whether or not it contains nicotine intended for use in the device.
ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE includes, but is not limited to,  any electronic nicotine
delivery system, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe,
electronic hookah, vape pen, or similar product or device, and any components
or parts that can be used to build the product or device.
   TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Any substance containing or made from tobacco leaf,
whether by chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling, snorting,
sniffing, or by any other means, including, but not limited to, cigarettes,
cigarette papers, cigars, little cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff, chewing tobacco,
snuff, snus, and any other smokeless tobacco product which contains tobacco or
dipping tobacco.
   VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical, electric or electronic, self-service device
which, upon insertion of money, tokens or other forms of payment, dispenses
tobacco, electronic cigarette or any alternative nicotine products.
(Ord. 90-4641, passed 9-4-1990; Am. Ord. 2022-5453, passed 4-19-2022)
§ 100.03 PROHIBITED SALES AND DELIVERY SIGNS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, give away
or deliver tobacco products or electronic cigarette or any alternative nicotine
products to any person under the age of 21 years.
   (B)   Signs informing the public of the age restriction provided for herein
shall be posted at, or near, every display of tobacco products or electronic
cigarette or any alternative nicotine products, and on, or upon every vending
machine, which offers tobacco products or electronic cigarette or alternative
nicotine products for sale. Each such sign shall be plainly visible and shall
state:
      THE SALE OF TOBACCO OR ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS TO PERSONS UNDER 21
YEARS OF AGE IS PROHIBITED BY LAW.
   (C)   The text of such signs shall be in red letters on a white background,
the letters being at least one inch high.
(Ord. 90-4641, passed 9-4-1990; Am. Ord. 2022-5453, passed 4-19-2022)
§ 100.04 MINIMUM AGE TO SELL TOBACCO PRODUCTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any business entity, individual, corporation,
representative, agent or employee of any business, corporation or business
entity to engage, employee or permit any person under 16 years of age to sell
tobacco products in any premises.
(Ord. 90-4641, passed 9-4-1990)
§ 100.05 PURCHASE BY MINORS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to purchase
tobacco products or electronic cigarette or any alternative nicotine products,
or to misrepresent their identity or age, or to use any false or altered
identification for the purpose of purchasing tobacco products or electronic
cigarette or any alternative nicotine products.
(Ord. 90-4641, passed 9-4-1990; Am. Ord. 2022-5453, passed 4-19-2022)
§ 100.06 POSSESSION BY MINORS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to possess any
tobacco products or electronic cigarette or any alternative nicotine products,
provided that the possession by a person under the age of 21 years under the
direct supervision of the parent or guardian of such person in the privacy of
the parent’s or guardian’s home shall not be prohibited.
(Ord. 90-4641, passed 9-4-1990; Am. Ord. 2022-5453, passed 4-19-2022)
§ 100.07 PROXIMITY TO CERTAIN INSTITUTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, give away or
deliver tobacco products or electronic cigarette or any alternative nicotine
products within 100 feet of any school, child care facility, or other building
used for education or recreation programs for persons under the age of 21
years.
(Ord. 90-4641, passed 9-4-1990; Am. Ord. 2022-5453, passed 4-19-2022)
§ 100.08 CERTAIN FREE DISTRIBUTIONS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in the business of selling or otherwise
distributing, promoting or advertising tobacco products or any employee or
agent of any such person, in the course of such person's business, to
distribute, give away, or deliver tobacco products free of charge to any person
on any right-of-way, park, playground, or other property owned by the city,
school properties, park district properties or public library located within
the city.
(Ord. 90-4641, passed 9-4-1990)
§ 100.09 LOCKING DEVICE ON VENDING MACHINES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or business to offer tobacco
products or electronic cigarette or any alternative nicotine products for sale
through a vending machine unless such vending machine is equipped with a
locking device, the locking device being and existing for the purpose of
incapacitating the vending machine so as to prevent the sale of tobacco
products or electronic cigarette or any alternative nicotine products to
individuals under the age of 21 years of age.
   (B)   The following business, or entities, shall be exempt from requiring
locking devices on vending machines:
      (1)   Any business or entity that prohibits the entry of individuals
under the age of 21 years upon the premises; and
      (2)   Any businesses or entities that are not open to the general public
and do not allow individuals under the age of 21 years in the vicinity of the
vending machines.
(Ord. 90-4641, passed 9-4-1990; Am. Ord. 2022-5453, passed 4-19-2022)
§ 100.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined in an
amount according to the general penalty of §
10.99 upon conviction.
(Ord. 90-4641, passed 9-4-1990; Am. Ord. 2009-5281, passed 9-15-09)
CHAPTER 101: PARKS
Section
   
101.01   Definitions
   
101.02   Park hours
 
   
101.99   Penalty
§ 101.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC PARKS. Peterson Park, Lawson Park, Kinzel Park, Little Kinzel Park,
Veterans Park, Van Laningham Park and Cunningham-Allison Park.
(Ord. 90-4646, passed 11-6-1990)
§ 101.02 PARK HOURS.
   (A)   Public parks shall be open for general public use between the hours of
5:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. only; provided, however, that programs or events
sponsored or approved by the city, or for which a city permit has been issued,
the hours of operation may be extended during any such program or event and for
a period of 60 minutes following the conclusion of such program or event. Signs
stating park hours shall be posted prominently in each park.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to be present within the confines
of a public park at a time other than allowed by this chapter.
(Ord. 90-4646, passed 11-6-1990)
Penalty, see § 101.99
§ 101.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall upon conviction be
subject to a fine according to the general penalty of §
10.99.
(Ord. 90-4646, passed 11-6-1990; Am. Ord. 2009-5281, passed 9-15-09)
CHAPTER 102: OBSCENITY
Section
   
102.01   Definitions
   
102.02   Offense of obscenity
 
   
102.99   Penalty
§ 102.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OBSCENE PERFORMANCE OR EXHIBITION. A performance or an exhibition that:
      (1)   The average person, applying contemporary adult community
standards, would find that taken as a whole appeals to the prurient interest in
sex; and
      (2)   Has no redeeming social value; and
      (3)   Depicts or describes:
         (a)   Patently offensive representations or descriptions of ultimate
sexual acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including sexual
intercourse, sodomy, and sexual bestiality; or,
         (b)   Patently offensive representations or descriptions of
masturbation, excretory functions, sadism, masochism, lewd exhibition of the
genitals, the male or female genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or
arousal, covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid state; or,
         (c)   The actual or simulated exhibition, touching, caressing, or
fondling of the breasts, buttocks, anus, vulva or genitals; or,
         (d)   The actual or simulated displaying of the breasts, buttocks,
anus, vulva or genitals; or,
         (e)   The permitting of any person to remain in or upon the licensed
premises who exposes to view any portion of his or her breasts, buttocks, anus,
vulva or genitals; or,
         (f)   The displaying of films or pictures depicting acts, or depicting
a live performance, which is prohibited by this chapter; or,
         (g)   The physical contact between employees engaged in any exhibition
or performance as prohibited by this chapter and patrons or guests; or,
         (h)   The performance of a dance or other exhibition which displays
the breasts, buttocks, anus, vulva or genitals.
   PRURIENT INTEREST IN SEX. A shameful or morbid interest in sex.
   PROMOTION OR EXHIBITION. The open display of live human beings, male or
female; or, the open display of movies, video tapes or still pictures of human
beings engaging in conduct prohibited by this chapter.
(Ord. 93-4757, passed 12-21-1993)
§ 102.02 OFFENSE OF OBSCENITY.
   A person commits the offense of obscenity if such person alone, or in
combination or agreement with any other person, actively or passively
participates in, promotes, or allows an obscene performance or exhibition to
occur on premises which are owned or controlled by him.
(Ord. 93-4757, passed 12-21-1993)
Penalty, see § 101.99
§ 102.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm of corporation violating any provisions of this chapter
shall be fined the general penalty of §
10.99 upon conviction. A separate offense shall be deemed committed during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 93-4757, passed 12-21-1993; Am. Ord. 2009-5281, passed 9-15-2009)
CHAPTER 103: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
103.01   Declaration of policy
   
103.02   Definitions
   
103.03   Prohibited acts
 
   
103.99   Penalty
§ 103.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   (A)   In furthering the policy of the State of Illinois as expressed in its
Constitution and other laws; in order that the safety and general welfare,
peace and health of all the inhabitants of the city may be ensured. it is
hereby declared the policy of the city to assure equal opportunity to all
residents, regardless of race, color. religion, national origin or ancestry,
sex, creed, or physical or mental handicap to live in decent, sanitary,
healthful, standard living quarters.
   (B)   It is the policy of the city that no owner, lessee, sub-lessee,
assignee, managing agent, or other person, firm or corporation having the right
to sell, rent, lease (or otherwise control) any housing accommodation and/or
real property within the city, or any agent of these shall refuse to sell,
rent, lease, or otherwise deny to or withhold from any person or group of
persons such housing accommodations and/or real property because of race,
color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or physical or mental
handicap of such person or persons or discriminate against any person or
persons because of race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex,
creed or physical or mental handicap in the conditions, terms, privileges of
the sale, rental or lease of any housing accommodation and/or real property or
in the furnishing of facilities and/or services in connection therewith.
   (C)   Relocation shall be carried out in a manner that will promote maximum
choice within the community's total housing supply; lessen racial, ethnic, and
economic concentrations; and facilitate desegregation and racially inclusive
patterns of occupancy and use of public and private facilities.
(Ord. 96-4847, passed 4-16-1996)
§ 103.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DECENT, SANITARY, HEALTHFUL STANDARD LIVING QUARTERS. Housing which is in
sound, clean, and weathertight condition in conformance with applicable local,
state, and national codes.
   DISCRIMINATE. The terms "discriminate" or "discrimination" means any
difference expressed in any way toward a person or persons in the terms of the
sale, exchange, lease, rental or financing for, housing accommodation and/or
real property in regard to such sale, exchange, rental, lease or finance
because of race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or
physical or mental handicap of such person.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. The term "financial institution" means any person,
institution or business entity of any kind which loans money to persons and
receives as security for said loans a secured interest of any kind in the real
property of the borrower.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATION. Includes any building, structure, or portion thereof
which is used or occupied, maintained, arranged or designed to be used or
occupied as a home, residence or sleeping place of one or more human beings, or
any real estate so used, designed or intended for such use.
   OWNER. Any person/persons who hold legal or equitable title to, or owns any
beneficial interest in any real property or who hold legal or equitable title
to shares of, or hold any beneficial interest in any real estate cooperative
which owns any real property and/or housing accommodations.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER. Any person, partnership, association, corporation and/or
agent thereof, who for a fee or other valuable consideration offers, sells,
purchases, exchanges or rents, or negotiates, for the sale, purchase, exchange
or rental of a housing accommodation and/or real property of another, or
collects rental for the use of a housing accommodation and/or real property of
another.
   REAL PROPERTY. Any real estate, vacant land, building, structure or housing
accommodations within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 96-4847, passed 4-16-1996)
§ 103.03 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner of real estate, lessee, sub-lessee,
real estate broker or salesperson, financial institution or employee of the
financial institution, advertiser, or agent of any or all of the foregoing, to
discriminate against any person or persons because of their race, color,
religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or physical or mental
handicap with regard to the sale, exchange or rental, or any dealing concerning
any housing accommodation and/or real property.
   (B)   In addition to the foregoing, it shall also be unlawful for any real
estate broker or employee thereof, owner or other person, or financial
institution dealing with housing or real property in the city:
      (1)   To discriminate against any person in the availability of or the
price, terms, conditions, or privileges of any kind relating to the sale,
rental, lease, or occupancy of any housing accommodation or real property in
the city or in furnishing of any facilities or services in connection
therewith.
      (2)   To publish or circulate, or cause to be published or circulated,
any notice, statement or advertisement, or to announce a policy, or to use any
form of application for the purchase, lease, rental or financing of real
property, or to make any record of inquiry in connection with the prospective
purchase, rental or lease of such real estate, which expresses directly or
indirectly any discrimination as to race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed or physical or mental handicap of any person.
      (3)   To discriminate in connection with lending money, guaranteeing
loans, accepting mortgages or otherwise obtaining or making available funds for
the purchase, acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair or maintenance
of any housing accommodation and/or real property.
      (4)   To solicit for sale, lease, or listing for the sale or lease, of
any housing accommodation and/or real property on the ground of loss of value
because of the present or prospective entry into any neighborhood of any person
or persons of any particular race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed, or physical or mental handicap.
      (5)   To distribute or cause to be distributed, written material or
statements designed to induce any owner or any housing accommodation and/or
real property to sell or lease his or her property because of any present or
prospective change in the race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry,
sex, creed, or physical or mental handicap of persons in the neighborhood.
      (6)   To make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale or
the anticipated listing for sale or the sale of any housing accommodation and/
or real property for the purpose of inducing or attempting to induce the sale
or listing for sale of any housing accommodation and/or real property by
representing that the presence or anticipated presence of persons of any
particular race, color, religion, National origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or
physical or mental handicap in the area will or may result in the lowering of
property values in the block, neighborhood or area in which the property is
located.
      (7)   For an owner to solicit any real estate broker to sell, rent or
otherwise deal with such owner's housing accommodations and/or real property
with any limitation on its sale based on race, color, religion, national origin
or ancestry, sex, creed, physical or mental handicap.
      (8)   For an owner to refuse to sell, rent, or otherwise deal with any
housing accommodation and/or real property because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry sex. creed, or physical or mental handicap of the
proposed buyer or tenant.
(Ord. 96-4847, passed 4-16-1996)
§ 103.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be punished by a fine according to the general penalty of §
10.99. Each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation.
This section shall in no way abrogate or impair the right of the city to
specifically enforce, by any legal means, any of the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 96-4847, passed 4-16-1996; Am. Ord. 2009-5281, passed 9-15-09)
CHAPTER 104: HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
Section
   
104.01   Title
   
104.02   Definitions
   
104.03   Releases of hazardous materials or environmentally damaging substances
   
104.04   Liability for costs
   
104.05   Requirements for persons handling hazardous materials
   
104.06   Response fee
   
104.07   Exclusions
   
104.08   Access to facility
 
   
104.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Emergency Services and Disaster Agency, see §§
33.130 through 33.141
§ 104.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the City of Mattoon Hazardous Materials and
Environmentally Damaging Substance Ordinance.
(Ord. 99-4997, passed 9-21-1999)
§ 104.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Mattoon, Illinois and Departments therein to include, but
not limited to: The Emergency Services and Disaster Agency, Fire Department,
Police Department, Street Department, Water Department, Sewer Department and
Department of Public Health.
   CLEAN UP. Includes all the activities necessary to contain, collect,
analyze, treat, disperse, remove and dispose of hazardous materials and or
environmentally damaging substances and to restore the site to pre-incident
condition.
   CLEAN UP CONTRACTOR. A person, company or corporation that performs clean up
activities at hazardous materials release sites.
   COSTS. All expenses incurred by the city for any fire fighting, medical
treatment, remedial, removal, or clean up activities involving a hazardous
materials or environmentally damaging substances release, threatened release of
fire. Costs include, but; are not limited to contractual services, wages,
salaries, damaged or destroyed equipment, spill control supplies, protective
clothing, fire fighting or vapor suppressing foam, medical care and medical
supplies. Costs include expenses incurred for the supervision and verification
of remedial and clean up activities. Costs shall not include the expense of
actual fire suppression services and emergency medical services which are
normally or usually provided to the public by the city and which are unrelated
to hazardous materials or environmentally damaging substances.
   EMERGENCY MANAGER. The City of Mattoon ESDA Coordinator/Public Safety
Officer.
   ENVIRONMENTALLY DAMAGING SUBSTANCES. Any substance which if spilled or
released into the environment in sufficient quantity that will cause actual or
potential public health risks or damage to the environment if not "cleaned up."
   ESDA. The City of Mattoon Emergency Services and Disaster Agency.
   EXTREMELY HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE. Products that have an extremely high degree
of toxicity.
   FACILITY. Any building, structure, installation equipment, pipe or pipeline
including, but not limited to, any pipe into a sewer or publicly owned
treatment works, well pit, pond, lagoon, impoundment ditch, landfill storage
container, motor vehicle, rolling stock or aircraft or any other thing into
which substances have been deposited, stored or transported.
   FIRE DEPARTMENT. The City of Mattoon Fire Department.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Substances or materials in quantity and/or forms which
may pose an unreasonable risk to public health, safety or the environment when
stored, transported or used in commerce. Such materials include, but are not
limited to: explosives, blasting agents, chemicals, poisons, flammable gases,
corrosives, oxidizers, organic peroxides, flammable solids, radioactive
materials or etiological agents. Hazardous materials also includes hazardous
substances and hazardous wastes.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES. Any substances designated under the Clean Water Act
and Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act
(CERCLA) (42 U.S.C. § 9601 et seq.), as now or hereafter amended, as posing a
threat to the waterways and the environment when released and that can produce
an adverse effect on the public health or safety.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Discarded materials under Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act (RCRA) (42 U.S.C. § 9601 et seq.), regulated by the United States
Environmental protection Agency because of public health and safety concerns.
   INCIDENT. A fire, release or threatened release of hazardous materials or
environmentally damaging substances.
   OWNER. Owner includes both legal and beneficial title or interest holder and
is not limited to record title holder.
   PERSON. Any individual, business, firm, partnership, corporation,
association, trust, estate, joint venture, or other legal entity, or their
legal representative or agent.
   PLACARD VEHICLE. A vehicle, that when transporting hazardous materials, is
required by the United States Department of Transportation to be marked with
placards to warn emergency responders of the hazardous cargo, pursuant to the
Hazardous Materials Transportation Act, 49 U.S.C. § 1801 et seq.
   RELEASE. Any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, escaping,
emptying, discharging, injecting, leaching, dumping, disposing, exploding, or
burning of hazardous materials or environmentally damaging substances.
   REMEDIAL ACTION. Any action consistent with the remediation of a release or
the prevention of a threatened release of hazardous materials or
environmentally damaging substances into the environment. The term includes,
but is not limited to, actions at the location of a release such as diking,
damming, trenching, covering, diverting, foaming, neutralizing, isolating,
burning, closing, plugging, moving, repairing, transferring, recycling, etc.
The actions required may also include the evacuation, sheltering and feeding of
people, provision of alternative water supplies and other activities to protect
the public health and welfare and the environment.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY OR PARTIES. The "responsible party" includes the
following:
      (1)   The owner and operator of a facility or vessel from which there is
a fire or release or threatened release of hazardous materials or
environmentally damaging substances;
      (2)   Any person who at the time of disposal, transport, storage, or
treatment of hazardous materials or environmentally damaging substances owned
or operated the facility or vehicle used for such disposal, transport,
treatment or storage from which there was a fire, release, or threatened
release of hazardous materials, or environmentally damaging substances;
      (3)   Any person who by contract, agreement, or otherwise has arranged
with another party or entity for transport, storage, disposal, or treatment of
hazardous materials, or environmentally damaging substances owned, and operated
by another party or entity from which there is fire, release, or threatened
release of such hazardous materials or environmentally damaging substances;
      (4)   Any person who accepts any hazardous materials or environmentally
damaging substances for transport to disposal, storage, or treatment sites from
which there is a fire, release, or threatened release of hazardous materials or
environmentally damaging substances;
      (5)   Any person who owned, operated or otherwise controlled activities
at any abandoned facility or vehicle immediately prior to abandonment.
(Ord. 99-4997, passed 9-21-1999)
§ 104.03 RELEASES OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS OR ENVIRONMENTALLY DAMAGING
SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   Unlawful releases prohibited. No person shall cause, threaten, or
allow the release of hazardous materials or environmentally damaging
substances, unless such release is in accordance with an appropriate permit
granted by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency or other State or
Federal Agency having primary authority over the release and such release is in
such a place and manner as will not create a substantial present or potential
hazard to human health, property or the environment. Any prohibited release is
hereby declared a public nuisance.
   (B)   Response authority. The Fire Department shall have the authority to
respond to and control all activities at the fire, release or threatened
release involving hazardous materials or environmentally damaging substances
and perform such remedial or fire fighting activities as are deemed necessary
to control any incident within the city or in areas where such release
threatens the public health or environment of the city.
   (C)   Emergency purchases. Emergency purchases during an incident and clean
up from a fire, release or threatened release may be made by the Fire Chief, or
Emergency Manager or their designee.
   (D)   Clean up and remediation required.
      (1)   A responsible party or parties shall clean up the facility and site
which there has been a fire, release or threatened release of hazardous
materials or environmentally damaging substances. The removal shall be in
accordance with state and federal laws, rules and regulations. The site shall
be restored to pre-incident condition and meet Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency (IEPA) Standards. The site shall be restored to pre-incident
conditions and shall be free of noticeable odors or liquid runoff. Any remedial
action shall prevent or minimize the release of hazardous materials or
environmentally damaging substances to prevent a substantial present or
potential hazard to public health, property or the environment.
      (2)   The IEPA shall supervise and verify the adequacy of all remedial
and clean up actions.
      (3)   The Fire Chief and/or the Emergency Manager or their designee shall
have the authority to order the responsible party or parties of a fire, release
or threatened release of hazardous materials to hire a clean up contractor to
clean up the site if the responsible party or parties are not equipped or
prepared to properly handle hazardous material or environmentally damaging
substances.
      (4)   In the event that a responsible party or parties fails or refuses
to clean up or remediate an incident, or in the event of an emergency incident,
the city shall clean up the site and shall assess all costs against the
responsible party or parties as provided elsewhere in this chapter.
(Ord. 99-4997, passed 9-21-1999)
§ 104.04 LIABILITY FOR COSTS.
   (A)   Each responsible party or parties shall be liable to the Fire
Department or City for all costs incurred by the city resulting from a fire,
release or threatened release involving hazardous materials or environmentally
damaging substances.
   (B)   Payment for incurred costs. Each responsible party shall remit payment
to the city within 30 days upon written notification of cost by the city.
(Ord. 99-4997, passed 9-21-1999)
§ 104.05 REQUIREMENTS FOR PERSONS HANDLING HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
   (A)   Notification of hazardous materials required. Any person using,
producing, researching, and/or storing hazardous materials shall notify the
Emergency Services and Disaster Agency and the Fire Department. The
notification shall include an accurate site safety plan and a list of all
hazardous material safety data sheet on each hazardous material at the
facility. A publication containing all the above information shall also be kept
at the facility, to be used by facility personnel and responding Fire
Department personnel. The publication shall be placed in a prominent location
so that it can be easily located during an emergency response or inspection.
   (B)   Warning placards on hazardous materials facilities.
      (1)   Any person using, researching, producing or storing hazardous
materials shall place warning placards inside and on the outside of the
structure in a prominent location. The content of the placard shall be
determined by the Fire Department utilizing the National Fire Protection
Association Standard 704M Hazardous Materials Placarding System to determine
the warning numbers of the placard.
      (2)   The placard for the outside of the facility shall be 30 inches
square, constructed of a weather resistant material, mounted square on point in
a location approved by the Fire Department. A placard shall be mounted inside
the facility to mark special hazards at a place approved by the Fire
Department. Placards shall not be removed or moved without the permission of
the Fire Department and/or the Emergency Services. Permission shall be
requested from the Fire Department or Emergency Services to remove placards
from any facility that no longer contains hazardous materials.
   (C)   Safe hazardous materials storage required. Hazardous materials shall
be stored in a safe manner. Products which, when in combination, react
violently or create toxic fumes, vapors, or gases, or become hazardous by
reason of toxicity, oxidizing power, flammability or other properties shall not
be stored in close proximity. Such materials must be stored separately,
segregated by distance, partitions, or other methods, so as avoid unsafe
combination or mixing.
(Ord. 99-4997, passed 9-21-1999)
§ 104.06 RESPONSE FEE.
   (A)   A "response fee" shall be paid to the city for all costs incurred by
the city as a consequence of any remedial action taken by the city. The
"response fee" shall be paid by the responsible party or parties as elsewhere
defined in this chapter. The "response fee" shall be the total sum of the
"primary response fee"; and "hourly fee" times the number of hours that the
specialized Response Team is on site; and, all other out-of-pocket costs and
expenses.
   (B)   The primary response fee shall be in the sum of $200. The hourly fee
will be in the amount of $100 per hour. The hourly fee shall be for the entire
Specialized Response Team and shall be rounded to the nearest dollar for all
hours that the Specialized Response Team is at the remediation site.
   (C)   In addition to the primary response fee and the hourly fee, all out-
of-pocket costs, as elsewhere defined in this chapter, shall be assessed.
(Ord. 99-4997, passed 9-21-1999)
§ 104.07 EXCLUSIONS.
   The following are excluded from the scope of this chapter.
   (A)   Any food, food additive, color additive, drug, or cosmetic regulated
by the Food and Drug Administration.
   (B)   Any substance present as a solid in any manufactured item to the
extent exposure to the substance does not occur under normal conditions of use.
   (C)   Any substance to the extent it is used for personal, family, or
household purposes, or is present in the same form and concentration as a
product packaged for distribution and use by the general public.
   (D)   Any substance to the extent it is used in a research laboratory or a
hospital or other medical facility under the direct supervision of technically
qualified individuals.
   (E)   Any substance to the extent it is used in routine agricultural
operations or is a fertilizer held for sale by a retailer to the ultimate
customer.
(Ord. 99-4997, passed 9-21-1999)
§ 104.08 ACCESS TO FACILITY.
   Upon request to an owner or operator of a facility which files a hazardous
materials permit fee form under this chapter, the owner or operator of the
facility shall allow the Fire Department and/or Emergency Services and Disaster
Agency to conduct an on-site inspection of the facility and shall provide to
the Fire Department and Emergency Services and Disaster Agency specific
location information on hazardous chemicals at the facility.
(Ord. 99-4997, passed 9-21-1999)
§ 104.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of this chapter shall constitute a petty offense and shall be
punishable by a fine according to the general penalty of §
10.99 upon conviction. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate
offense and shall be chargeable and punishable separately. Any person found
guilty of the violation of this chapter shall be assessed court costs in
addition to any fine assessed.
(Ord. 99-4997, passed 9-21-1999; Am. Ord. 2009-5281, passed 9-15-09)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
110.   GENERAL LICENSE REGULATIONS
   
111.   ADVERTISING
   
112.   AMUSEMENTS
   
113.   FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY TAX
   
114.   LIQUOR CONTROL
   
115.   PAWNBROKERS; JUNK DEALERS
   
116.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
   
117.   TAXICABS
   
118.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
   
119.   CABLE AND VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDERS
   
120.   PRODUCTION AND DISTRIBUTION OF CANNABIS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSE REGULATIONS
Section
   
110.01   Licenses or permit required
   
110.02   Application
   
110.03   Payment of fee; proration
   
110.04   Bond and insurance
   
110.05   Approval or denial of licenses
   
110.06   Issuance of certificates; exhibition
   
110.07   Record of licenses and permits to be kept
   
110.08   Term of license and permit
   
110.09   Nontransference
   
110.10   Renewal
   
110.11   Revocation
   
110.12   Appeal; hearing
   
110.13   Inspection of premises
   
110.14   Licensing schedule; fees
§ 110.01 LICENSES OR PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in any trade, profession, business or privilege in
the city for which a license or permit is required by any provision of this
code without first obtaining such license or permit from the city in the manner
provided in this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided.
('68 Code, § 31.01)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.02 APPLICATION.
   Unless otherwise provided, application for a license or permit shall be made
in writing to the City Clerk, upon forms provided by the city, and applicant
shall state the location of the proposed activity and such other facts as may
be required for or be applicable to the granting of such a license or permit.
('68 Code, § 31.02)
§ 110.03 PAYMENT OF FEE; PRORATION.
   The fees required for any license or permit shall be paid at the office of
the City Clerk before the granting of the license or permit. No fee paid shall
be refunded unless the license or permit is denied. Where over half the license
year has expired the license fee for the remainder of the license year shall be
one-half of the annual license fee.
('68 Code, § 31.03)
§ 110.04 BOND AND INSURANCE.
   All required bonds shall be executed by two sureties, or a surety company,
and be subject to the approval of the City Attorney. Where policies of
insurance are required, such policies shall be approved as to substance and
form by the City Attorney. Satisfactory evidence of coverage by bond or
insurance shall be filed with the city before the license or permit is issued.
('68 Code, § 31.04)
§ 110.05 APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Where the approval of any city officer or state officer is required
prior to the issuance of any license or permit, such approval must be presented
to the city before any license or permit is issued.
   (B)   No license or permit shall be approved by any city officer or issued
by the city if it appears that the conduct of the activity for which a license
or permit is sought will be contrary to the health, safety or welfare of the
public or any regulation, law or ordinance applicable to such activity.
('68 Code, § 31.05)
§ 110.06 ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATES; EXHIBITION.
   (A)   Licenses or permit certificates shall show the name of the licensee or
permittee, the date of issue, the activity licensed and the term of the license
or permit, and shall be signed in the name of the city by the City Manager and
City Clerk, and be impressed with the city seal. (‘68 Code, § 31.06)
   (B)   Every licensee or permittee shall carry his license or permit
certificate upon his person at all times when engaged in the activity for which
the license or permit was granted, except that where such activity is conducted
at a fixed place or establishment, the license or permit certificate shall be
exhibited at all times in some conspicuous place in his place of business. The
licensee or permittee shall exhibit the license certificate when applying for a
renewal and upon demand of any police officer or person representing the
issuing authority. (‘68 Code, § 31.08)
(Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.07 RECORD OF LICENSES AND PERMITS TO BE KEPT.
   The City Clerk shall keep a record of all licenses and permits issued.
('68 Code, § 31.06)
§ 110.08 TERM OF LICENSE AND PERMIT.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided, the term of the license year shall end on
May 1 of each year.
   (B)   Where the issuance of licenses for a period of less than one year is
permitted, the effective date of such license shall commence with the date of
issuance.
   (C)   Permits shall be issued for the term set forth in the permit.
('68 Code, § 31.07)
§ 110.09 NONTRANSFERENCE.
   Unless otherwise provided, no license or permit shall be transferable or
assignable.
('68 Code, § 31.09)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.10 RENEWAL.
   Unless otherwise provided, license or permit renewals shall be issued in the
same manner and be subject to the same conditions as original licenses or
permits.
('68 Code, § 31.10)
§ 110.11 REVOCATION.
   Any license or permit issued by the city may be suspended or revoked by the
City Manager for any of the following causes:
   (A)   Fraud, misrepresentation or incorrect statement contained in the
application or made in carrying on the licensed or permitted activity.
   (B)   Conviction of any crime or misdemeanor.
   (C)   Conducting such activity in such manner as to constitute a breach of
the peace, or a menace to the health, safety or welfare of the public, or a
disturbance of the peace or comfort of residents of the city, upon
recommendation of the appropriate city official.
   (D)   Expiration or cancellation of any required bond or insurance.
   (E)   Actions unauthorized or beyond the scope of the license or permit
granted.
   (F)   Violation of any regulation or provision of this code applicable to
the activity for which the license or permit has been granted, or any
regulation or law of the state so applicable.
   (G)   Failure to continuously comply with all conditions required as
precedent to the approval of the license or permit.
(‘68 Code, § 31.11) (Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 110.12 APPEAL; HEARING.
   Any person aggrieved by the action of any city official in denying or
revoking a license or permit shall have the right to a hearing before the
Council on any such action, provided a written request therefor is filed with
the City Clerk within ten days after receipt of the notice of such suspension
or revocation. The Council after a hearing may confirm such suspension or
revocation or reinstate any such license or permit. The action taken by the
Council after a hearing shall be final.
('68 Code, § 31.12)
§ 110.13 INSPECTION OF PREMISES.
   City officials may enter upon the premises where any licensed or permitted
activity is being conducted for the purpose of inspection at any reasonable
time.
('68 Code, § 31.13)
§ 110.14 LICENSING SCHEDULE; FEES.
   No person shall engage in or maintain any of the following businesses or
activities without a license therefor from the city and payment of the
prescribed license fee as specified in §
35.01.
(Ord. 2009-5283, passed, 12-15-2009)
CHAPTER 111: ADVERTISING
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Bill posting
Handbills
   
111.15   License required
   
111.16   Application; investigation
   
111.17   Indiscriminate distribution of advertising matter prohibited
Billboards
   
111.30   Nuisance condition prohibited
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 BILL POSTING.
   No person shall, without the consent of the owner or occupant of the
premises, post or place any handbill, showbill, placard or notice, or paint any
sign or advertisement upon any tree, fence, wall, utility pole or building of
any kind.
('68 Code, § 42.05)
Penalty, see § 10.99
HANDBILLS
§ 111.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to distribute indiscriminately to the public, by
leaving at stores, offices or houses or residences in the city, any cards,
circulars, handbills, samples of merchandise, or any other advertising matter
without having first secured a license therefor. This shall not apply to the
sale of articles by licensed peddlers.
('68 Code, § 32.03(a)) (Ord. 3545, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.16 APPLICATION; INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Application for such license shall contain a statement of the nature
of the article, cards or advertisement to be distributed, the name of the
applicant and the name of the manufacturer or distributor of such article or
service advertised.
('68 Code, § 32.03(b))
   (B)   No such license shall be issued to any but a person of good character.
The Chief of Police shall make or cause to be made an investigation into the
character of each applicant and shall report the results thereof to the City
Clerk before any such license shall be issued.
('68 Code, § 32.03(c))
(Ord. 3545, passed - - )
§ 111.17 INDISCRIMINATE DISTRIBUTION OF ADVERTISING MATTER PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to distribute indiscriminately to the public any cards,
circulars, handbills, samples of merchandise or any other advertising matter on
any public street or sidewalk or other public place in the city. This does not
prohibit the peddling or sale of any article or publication that may carry or
be accompanied by advertising matter where a charge is made or a price paid for
such article or publication.
('68 Code, § 32.03(d)) (Ord. 3545, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
BILLBOARDS
§ 111.30 NUISANCE CONDITION PROHIBITED.
   No person shall erect, keep or maintain any billboard or board for
advertising, upon any public ground or place, or upon any private premises
adjacent to any sidewalk or street in such manner as to occasion danger or
inconvenience to the public.
('68 Code, § 42.04)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 112: AMUSEMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   License required; fee
   
112.02   Proper conduct; noise
   
112.03   Obstructing passage in public halls
   
112.04   Minors in dance halls
   
112.05   Indecent shows prohibited
   
112.06   Fortune telling
Amusement Devices
   
112.20   Definitions
   
112.21   License required
   
112.22   Application
   
112.23   License fees; disposition
   
112.24   Revocation
   
112.25   Closing hours
Coin-Controlled Mechanical Musical Devices
   
112.35   Definition
   
112.36   License required
   
112.37   Application
   
112.38   License fees
   
112.39   Denial of license
   
112.40   Regulation of operation
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   No person shall, for gain, operate or maintain any circus, public
dance, concert or entertainment of any kind without a license from the city
therefor. No license is required for exhibitions or entertainments given by or
for a chartered lodge, patriotic association, society or church, or for a
wholly charitable purpose.
      (1)   The following fees shall be paid for a license issued under this
section:
         (a)   Circus      $25 per day.
         (b)   Carnival   $250 per day.
      (2)   The owner or manager of any public building or business wherein
musical entertainment is provided to patrons, other than coin-operated musical
devices, shall procure a license for $50 per year, which fee shall entitle the
management to provide musical entertainment in the building or business during
the license period.
('68 Code, § 32.02) (Ord. 70-4194, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.02 PROPER CONDUCT; NOISE.
   Every person conducting any exhibition, show or amusement, or operating a
place of amusement shall preserve good order in and about the place where the
same is conducted, and if necessary shall employ one or more special police, at
his own expense. No musical devices or instruments, as an advertisement or
otherwise, shall be played at the entrance of or in connection with any
entertainment, exhibition or amusement, the sounds of which are, or may become
a nuisance to the neighborhood.
('68 Code, § 32.08(b))
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.03 OBSTRUCTING PASSAGE IN PUBLIC HALLS.
   No chairs, stools or seats shall be placed or permitted to remain in the
aisles or passageways in any theater, hall or public building when the same is
occupied by the public. It shall be the duty of the members of the police force
to see that this section is observed; and in case of any violation thereof to
forthwith proceed to clear any obstructed aisle or passage-way, and to arrest
the offender.
('68 Code, § 42.34)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.04 MINORS IN DANCE HALLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or operating any public dance
hall, or place where public dancing is permitted, to permit any boy or girl
under the age of 16 years to patronize or frequent such dance or place unless
accompanied by his parent or legal guardian.
('68 Code, § 42.28)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.05 INDECENT SHOWS PROHIBITED.
   No license shall be granted for and no person shall present indecent or lewd
plays, exhibitions or entertainments.
('68 Code, § 32.08(a))
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.06 FORTUNE TELLING.
   No person shall obtain money or property from another by holding himself out
as skilled in fortune telling by means of card reading, palmistry,
clairvoyancy, astrology, seership, spirit mediumship or any crafty science, or
by any other devices or practices where money is obtained from the general
public on the pretense of the exercise of occult or psychic powers. This
section shall not be construed to prohibit the exercise of the spiritual
functions or offices of any accredited representative of any religion and shall
not include or refer to the practice of the belief known as spiritualism or to
any attempted communications with the spirit world by or through so-called
mediums.
('68 Code, § 42.17) (Ord. 3783, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
AMUSEMENT DEVICES
§ 112.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMUSEMENT ARCADE. A place or building housing various and sundry mechanical
or other devices and exhibitions operated for hire, such place being operated
solely as a place of amusement and under one ownership.
   COIN-CONTROLLED AMUSEMENT DEVICE. A machine whose operation is controlled by
the expenditure and use of a coin in the machine itself, and which machine is
operated solely as a matter of amusement and involves a factor or element of
skill in its operation.
('68 Code, § 32.09(a)) (Ord. 3574, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 3586, passed - - )
§ 112.21 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall place or install or maintain or operate in any
business house, store, restaurant, tavern, hotel or other building or place
within the city any coin-controlled amusement device, except a coin-controlled
mechanical musical device, for use by the public and for which a fee is
charged, without a license from the city for each place or location where such
mechanical coin-controlled amusement device is installed, maintained or
operated, except where operated in amusement arcades.
   (B)   No person shall maintain or operate an amusement arcade in the city
without a license from the city therefor.
('68 Code, § 32.09(b)) (Ord. 3574, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 3586, passed - - )
§ 112.22 APPLICATION.
   The application for such license shall set forth the full name of the
applicant and his address, the location and character of the building or place
where such mechanical coin-controlled amusement devices are to be located,
maintained and operated, the number of such devices to be located, maintained
and operated in such building or place, and the charge to be made to the
customer for operating each of such devices.
('68 Code, § 32.09(c)) (Ord. 3574, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 3586, passed - - )
§ 112.23 LICENSE FEES; DISPOSITION.
   (A)   The annual license fee for each such building, or place or location
shall be computed upon the basis of the number of amusement devices to be
installed as set forth in the application, at the rate of $25 for each
amusement device for which the charge to the public is $.05 or more, and $2 for
each amusement device for which the charge to the public for the use of the
same is less than $.05; except where such amusement device is operated within
and as a part of an amusement arcade.
   (B)   The annual license fee for the operation of an amusement arcade shall
be $200, payable semi-annually in advance.
   (C)   All license fees shall become due and payable upon July 1 of each
year, provided that no license fee shall be required for the expired portion of
the license year at the time such license is first applied for.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as licensing the use of any
amusement device for any purpose in violation of any of the laws of the state
or ordinances of the city.
('68 Code, § 32.09(d))
   (E)   All license fees collected under this section shall be distributed in
the following manner: 40% to the Fire Department; 40% to the Police Department;
and 20% to the salary fund. The fees collected shall be paid over to the City
Treasurer who shall distribute them as above provided.
('68 Code, § 32.09(g))
(Ord. 3574, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 3586, passed - - )
§ 112.24 REVOCATION.
   Any license issued under this subchapter may be revoked by the City Manager
whenever in the judgment of either the public welfare requires such revocation,
or when any mechanical amusement device is used in violation of the laws of the
state or the ordinances of the city.
(‘68 Code, § 32.09(e)) (Ord. 3574, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 3586, passed - - ; Am.
Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025 )
§ 112.25 CLOSING HOURS.
   All amusement arcades shall be closed between the hours of 12:00 midnight
and 6:00 a.m.
('68 Code, § 32.09(f)) (Ord. 3574, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 3586, passed - - )
Penalty, see §
10.99
COIN-CONTROLLED MECHANICAL MUSICAL DEVICES
§ 112.35 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MECHANICAL MUSICAL DEVICE. A phonograph, a mechanical piano or any other
mechanical musical instrument, the operation of which may be controlled by the
deposit of a coin or token therein so that the person inserting the coin or
token can cause the device to reproduce a selected musical piece which has been
recorded on a disc, cylinder or other type of record.
('68 Code, § 32.10(a)) (Ord. 3554, passed - - )
§ 112.36 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to locate, install, keep, maintain, use
or display for public use or permit the location, installation, keeping,
maintenance, use or display for public use upon his premises of any mechanical
musical device without a license from the city therefor.
('68 Code, § 32.10(b)) (Ord. 3554, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.37 APPLICATION.
   An application for such license shall contain the name of the applicant, the
place where the device or machine will be operated, a description by trade
name, model number and serial number of each such device, and evidence that the
applicant is a responsible person of good character and reputation having a
residence or business address in the city, and if the City Clerk shall be
satisfied that such applicant is of good character and reputation he shall
cause a license to be issued upon the payment of the license fees.
('68 Code, § 32.10(c)) (Ord. 3554, passed - - )
§ 112.38 LICENSE FEES.
   The applicant shall pay the sum of $12 per year for each original license
and any renewal thereof for each mechanical musical device, except in the case
of an original application where the application is made and the machine
installed on or after July 1, in which case the license fee for the remainder
of the year shall be $6. Any license issued shall be posted in a conspicuous
place upon each machine so licensed. A license shall be valid only for the
place of business and for the machine described in the license and shall not be
transferable or assignable.
('68 Code, § 32.10(d)) (Ord. 3554, passed - - )
§ 112.39 DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   No application for a license shall be issued:
   (A)   If the construction and location of the place of business are such
that the operation of the mechanical musical device would constitute a nuisance
or would unreasonably annoy residents of the neighborhood;
   (B)   If the place of business is being operated in such a manner that the
operation of a mechanical musical device therein would constitute a nuisance or
would unreasonably annoy the residents of the neighborhood; or
   (C)   If the building in which the mechanical musical device is to be
operated is structurally unsafe for the accommodation of patrons, or other
persons who may be in such place, or if there would be any fire hazard to the
patrons or other persons.
('68 Code, § 32.10(e)) (Ord. 3554, passed - - )
§ 112.40 REGULATION OF OPERATION.
   No mechanical musical device or machine shall be operated or kept for
operation in any public place:
   (A)   At any time when, because of the construction or location of the
establishment or the nature of the mechanical musical device or machine or the
time of the day or night or any other reason, the operation of the mechanical
musical device or machine would constitute a nuisance or fire hazard or would
unreasonably annoy the residents of the neighborhood or the general public.
   (B)   At any time on Sunday or between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. if because
of the nearness of residences or the opening of windows or other
characteristics of the place of business any of the sound can be heard in any
building in which people reside or sleep.
('68 Code, § 32.10(f)) (Ord. 3554, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 113: FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY TAX
Section
   
113.01   Tax or license fee
   
113.02   Report of premiums; payment of percentage
   
113.03   Transaction of business prohibited until account rendered
   
113.04   Recovery of full amount of tax
   
113.05   Disposition; fund for Fire Department
§ 113.01 TAX OR LICENSE FEE.
   All corporations, companies and associations not incorporated under the laws
of this state, and which are engaged in the city in effecting fire insurance,
shall pay to the City Treasurer annually on or before July 15 of each year, a
sum equal to 2% of the gross receipts of premiums by such corporation, company
or association, or their agency or agents, for business effected or transacted
for fire insurance within the city for the year ending July 1 preceding.
('68 Code, § 35.01)
§ 113.02 REPORT OF PREMIUMS; PAYMENT OF PERCENTAGE.
   Every person acting as agent or otherwise, for or upon behalf of any such
corporation, company or association shall on or before July 15 of each year,
render to the City Clerk a full, true and just account, verified by oath, of
all the premiums, which, during the year ending on July 1 preceding, shall have
been received by him or any other person for him, in behalf of any such
corporation, company or association. The agent shall also at the time of the
making of the report, pay to the City Treasurer the sum of 2% upon the gross
receipts of such corporation, company or association, obtained as premiums for
effecting fire insurance in the city as specified in this chapter.
('68 Code, § 35.02)
§ 113.03 TRANSACTION OF BUSINESS PROHIBITED UNTIL ACCOUNT RENDERED.
   If such account is not rendered on or before July 15, or if the above
mentioned tax or license fee shall remain unpaid after that day, it shall be
unlawful for any such corporation, company or association to transact any
business of fire insurance in the city until the requirements hereof have been
fully complied with. This provision shall in no way affect the validity of any
risk that may be taken in violation hereof, between such corporation, company,
or association, and the person so insured.
('68 Code, § 35.03)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 113.04 RECOVERY OF FULL AMOUNT OF TAX.
   In addition to the penalty provided for violation of this code, the city
shall recover, in an action, in its name, for its use, against such
corporation, company or association violating this chapter the full amount of
such license tax which would be due under the provisions hereof.
('68 Code, § 35.04)
§ 113.05 DISPOSITION; FUND FOR FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   All sums received under the provisions of this chapter shall form and
constitute a fund to be kept separate by the City Treasurer for the
maintenance, use and benefit of the Fire Department of the city.
('68 Code, § 35.05)
CHAPTER 114: LIQUOR CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
114.01   Short title
   
114.02   Adoption of state liquor control act
   
114.03   Definitions
   
114.04   Public possession, consumption of alcoholic liquor
   
114.05   Publication and availability of regulations
Licenses and Permits
   
114.15   Local Liquor Control Commissioner and powers
   
114.16   License or permit required
   
114.17   Applications
   
114.18   Application fee and conditions to granting license or permit
   
114.19   Insurance
   
114.20   Grant of license or permit by Commissioner
   
114.21   Restriction of license or permit
   
114.21.1   Prohibited license holders
   
114.22   Classifications of licenses
   
114.22.1   Caterer retail permit
   
114.22.2   Outdoor café liquor permit
   
114.23   Payment of fees; disposition
   
114.24   Term
   
114.25   Limitation of number of licenses
   
114.25.1   Downtown restricted numbers
   
114.26   Record of licenses and permits
   
114.27   Permit for new location
   
114.28   Nature of license or permit; privilege of renewal
   
114.29   Assignment of renewal privilege
   
114.30   Suspension or revocation of license or permit
Sales and Operation
   
114.40   Restrictions on establishment, use and operation of premises
   
114.40.1   License or permit to be posted
   
114.40.2   Product sampling
   
114.41   Consumption on premises
   
114.42   Zoning
   
114.42.1   Drive up window
   
114.43   Curb service
   
114.44   Peddling
   
114.45   Sanitary conditions
   
114.46   Employees; employing minors
   
114.47   Advertising restrictions
   
114.48   Sales to minors, habitual drunkards, mental incompetents
   
114.49   Persons under 21 years frequenting licensed establishments
   
114.50   Possession of alcoholic liquor by underage persons
   
114.51   Misstatement of age
   
114.52   Gambling
   
114.53   Hours
   
114.54   Adult entertainment provision
   
114.55   Burgess-Osborne Auditorium
 
   
114.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 114.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, may be cited, and is hereafter designated as
"The City of Mattoon Liquor Control Ordinance."
(Ord. 99-4981, passed 3-2-1999; Am. Ord. 2006-5214, passed 1-17-2006)
§ 114.02 ADOPTION OF STATE LIQUOR CONTROL ACT.
   Because of the controlling nature of “An Act Relating to Alcoholic Liquors,”
enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Illinois, approved January 31,
1934, over and with respect to the subject matter of this chapter, and to
eliminate any inconsistencies therewith except as modified herein, each and
every part of said Act of the General Assembly commonly known and hereafter
referred to as “Liquor Control Act,” as the same is or may be hereafter
amended, which relates in any manner to the sale at retail of alcoholic
liquors, is hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter by reference
thereto, to the same extent and with the sense legal effect as if fully set
forth herein, and any applicable and adopted provisions of said Liquor Control
Act shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and be subject to the penalties
herein fixed.
(Ord. 99-4981, passed 3-2-1999; Am. Ord. 2006- 5214, passed 1-17-2006; Am. Ord.
2025-5495, passed 5-20-2025)
§ 114.03 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless explicitly stated below or the context otherwise requires, words and
phrases are used in this chapter in the sense given them by definition
contained in Section 2 of Article I of said Liquor Control Act and in Rules and
Regulations of Illinois Liquor Control Commission, hereby adopted by reference
thereto and made a part of this section.
   CATER RETAILER.  A person or business who serves alcoholic liquors for
consumption as an incidental part of food service that serves prepared food
items. Prepared meals and alcoholic liquors are sold at a package price agreed
upon under contract.
   DISPENSE. The opening of a sealed container of an alcoholic beverage or the
placing of an alcoholic beverage into a glass, cup or other container
immediately prior to or as an incident to the sale of the alcoholic beverage.
   ENTERTAINMENT AND TOURISM VENUE. An establishment dedicated to the sole
purpose of attracting visitors to the community or providing entertainment and
nightlife opportunities. Such an establishment shall have sufficient occupancy
of 200 or more persons prior to the granting of said licensure. Gaming
terminals shall not be located on the premises. Alcoholic liquor may be
consumed inside the premises and outdoors on the premises provided the patrons
remain on private property.
   LICENSEE. Any person, firm, corporation, club or association which has a
current license for the sale of alcoholic beverages issued by the City of
Mattoon, Coles County, Illinois, under
Chapter 114 of the City of Mattoon, Illinois Code of Ordinances.
   OUTDOOR CAFÉ. A use of public sidewalk by a food service establishment for
the serving of food and beverages. The use will be characterized by the outdoor
use of tables, chairs and umbrellas.
   PERMITTEE. Any person, firm, corporation, club or association which has a
current permit for the sale of alcoholic beverages issued by the City of
Mattoon, Coles County, Illinois, under
Chapter 114 of the City of Mattoon, Illinois Code of Ordinances.
   PREMISES SPECIFIED.  The premises specifically described in the application
and license. Only one location is permitted by each license.
   PREPARED FOOD. Any food or beverage prepared on the restaurant and/or retail
food establishment's premises using any cooking or food preparation technique.
PREPARED FOOD shall not include any raw uncooked meat, fish or eggs unless
provided for consumption without further food preparation nor shall it include
alcoholic beverages unless they are brewed on the premises. PREPARED FOOD shall
not include any prepackaged food items that only require re-heating, or heating
in a microwave or similar appliance.
   RESTAURANT. Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out
to the public as a place where meals are served, without sleeping
accommodations, such space being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen
and dining room equipment and capacity and having employed therein a sufficient
number and kind of employees  to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its
guests and which during the preceding three-month period has generated more
than 50% of its total gross revenues from the sale of prepared food.
   RENTAL HALL BUSINESS. A business organized in such a way that it provides a
place available for rental by member of the general public. The building
housing the business must be designed to accommodate a minimum of 250 persons
safely. Such a business is typified by wedding celebrations, parties, or dances
by private clubs or individuals. In this type of business, the lessor or
licensee is paid a fee by the lessee for use of the hall and for providing
alcoholic liquor.
   SERVE.  The delivery of a prepared alcoholic beverage to a customer of the
licensee.
   SPECIAL EVENT. A “charity benefit”, wedding reception, anniversary
reception, or other such event during which a particular organization, person,
or family has contracted with the licensee for the licensee’s premises or a
specifically segregated portion of his or her premises, to be available
exclusively for the special event to the exclusion of the general public.
   SPECIFICALLY SEGREGATED. A portion of a licensee’s premises separated from
the remainder of the licensee’s premises by physical barricades, ropes, walls,
or other devices which are effective to prevent persons attending the special
event from frequenting the balance of the licensee’s premises and persons
frequenting the balance of the licensee’s premises from moving freely into the
area segregated for the special event.
   VIDEO GAMING PARLOR. An establishment operating video gaming terminals,
where operation of said video gaming terminals is no longer a minor source of
income, as it comprises more than a third (33-1/3%) of total revenues. The
establishment of the business and sale of alcoholic liquor is incidental to the
purpose of video gaming as the business could not survive without the operation
of video gaming terminals.
   VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL. Any electronic video game machine that, upon
insertion of cash, electronic cards or vouchers, or any combination thereof, is
available to play or simulate the play of a video game, including but not
limited to video poker, line up, and blackjack, as authorized by the Board
utilizing a video display and microprocessors in which the player may receive
free games or credits that can be redeemed for cash. The term does not include
a machine that directly dispenses coins, cash, or tokens or is for amusement
purposes only.
(Ord. 99-4981, passed 3-2-1999; Am. Ord. 2004-5193, passed 10-5-2004; Am. Ord.
2006- 5214, passed 1-17-2006; Am. Ord. 2007-5239, passed 9-18-2007; Am. Ord.
2015-5378, passed 5-19-2015; Am. Ord. 2024-5484, passed 11-19-2024; Am. Ord.
2025-5495, passed 5-20-2025)
§ 114.04 PUBLIC POSSESSION, CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.
   (A)   Public possession. It shall be unlawful for any person to carry or
possess any alcoholic liquor other than in the original package with the seal
unbroken on any public street, parkway, park, public or private school grounds
or public place whatsoever, with the exception of that space occupied by a
properly licensed outdoor café.
   (B)   Public consumption of alcoholic liquor. It shall be unlawful to drink
any alcoholic liquor on any public street, parkway, park, public or private
school grounds or public place, with the exception of that space occupied by a
properly licensed outdoor café, that space occupied by a licensee with a Class
T (Special Use) permit, or that space occupied by a properly licensed caterer
or Class T licensee at a location approved by the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner.
(Ord. 99-4981, passed 3-2-1999; Am. Ord. 2006- 5214, passed 1-17-2006; Am. Ord.
2007-5239, passed 9-18-2007; Am. Ord. 2015-5378, passed 5-19-2015) Penalty, see
§
114.99
§ 114.05 PUBLICATION AND AVAILABILITY OF REGULATIONS.
   This chapter shall be published in book or pamphlet form. The City Clerk
hereby is authorized by the City Council to make such publication, and have
printed not less than 100 copies of the same, three of which shall at all times
be kept on file in the office of the City Clerk and be available for public use
and examination in the Clerk's office.
(Ord. 99-4981, passed 3-2-1999; Am. Ord. 2006-5214, passed 1-17-2006)
LICENSES AND PERMITS
§ 114.15 LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER AND POWERS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be the Local Liquor Control Commissioner and shall
have the powers, functions and duties conferred and imposed by applicable
provisions of Sections 2, 3, 4 and 5 of Article N of the Liquor Control Act,
Section 20 of Article VI, and of other applicable provisions of said Liquor
Control Act, hereby adopted by reference thereto and made a part of this
section.
   (B)   The phrase “provisions of this Act,” as used in said Section 3,
Article IV of the Liquor Control Act, shall be construed to include provisions
of this chapter.
(Ord. 99-4981, passed 3-2-1999; Am. Ord. 2006-5214, passed 1-17-2006)
§ 114.16 LICENSE OR PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, either by himself, herself, or
agent, or any person acting as an agent, barkeeper, clerk or servant of
another, to sell, display, or offer for sale at retail in the city any
alcoholic liquor, without first having obtained a license or permit so to do as
hereinafter provided, and it shall likewise be unlawful for any such person to
sell or offer for sale any alcoholic liquor, in violation of the terms and
conditions of such license or permit.
   (B)   The word “person,” as used in this section, means any individual,
partnership, club, association or corporation.
(Ord. 99-4981, passed 3-2-1999; Am. Ord. 2006-5214, passed 1-17-2006)
§ 114.17 APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for a license or permit shall be made in writing to the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner, signed by the applicant, if an individual; by all
partners, if a partnership; or by a duly authorized officer thereof, if a club
or corporation; verified by affidavit, and shall be submitted and filed with
the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, and shall contain the following
information and statements:
   (A)   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of a co-partnership, the persons entitled to share in
the profits thereof; and in the case of a corporation; for profit, or a club,
the date of incorporation, the objects for which it was organized, the names
and addresses of the officers and directors, and if a majority in interest of
the stock of such corporation is owned by one person or his or her nominees,
the name and address of such person;
   (B)   The citizenship of the applicant, his or her place of birth and if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of his or her naturalization;
   (C)   The character of business of the applicant; and in case of a
corporation, the objects for which it was formed;
   (D)   The length of time that the applicant has been in business of that
character, or in the case of a corporation, the date on which its charter was
issued;
   (E)   The amount of goods, wares and merchandise on hand at the time
application is made;
   (F)   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license, and that the licensee owns said
premises or has a lease thereon for the full term for which the license is
requested. In the event the applicant has a lease for the premises, a
photostatic copy of the lease shall be attached to the application;
   (G)   A statement whether applicant has made similar application for a
similar other license or permit on premises other than described in this
application, and the disposition of such application;
   (H)   A statement that applicant has never been convicted of a felony and is
not disqualified to receive a license or permit by reason of any matter or
thing contained in this chapter, the laws of this state, or the ordinances of
this city.
   (I)   Whether a previous license or permit by any state or subdivision
thereof, or by the federal government has been revoked, and the reasons
therefore;
   (J)   A statement of the length of time the applicant has resided in the
city and in the State of Illinois prior to the submission of the application;
   (K)   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of the
State of Illinois or of the United States, or any ordinance of the city, in the
conduct of his or her place of business; and
   (L)   In addition to the foregoing information, such application shall
contain such other and further information as the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner may by rule or regulation, not inconsistent with law, prescribe.
(Ord. 99-4981, passed 3-2-1999; Am. Ord. 2006-5214, passed 1-17-2006)
§ 114.18 APPLICATION FEE AND CONDITIONS TO GRANTING LICENSE OR PERMIT.
   (A)   For a new liquor license or permit (with exception of a class “T”
license), an applicant shall deliver, along with a completed application, a
non-refundable fee in the amount of $100. If the application is approved, the
fee will be credited toward the cost of the license.
   (B)   Applications are valid for a period of six months from the date they
are filed with the City Clerk. If the applicant is unable to meet the license
or permit requirements within the application period, the application fee is
forfeited and a new application must be completed (with a new application fee)
before the applicant will be reconsidered for a liquor license or permit.
Allowance is made for special circumstances, however. If the applicant can show
evidence that the six-month limit is a hardship and if they contact the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner within the initial six-month application period,
they can be granted, in writing by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, an
extension of not more than six additional months.
   (C)   Renewals are not subject to the six-month application period and are
not required to submit the $100 application fee.
   (D)   Before a new liquor license or permit may be issued, the following
requirements must be met:
      (1)   A valid, signed application must be completed and filed with the
City Clerk.
      (2)   An Application fee of $100 must be remitted (for all except a new
Class A and B1 - the application fee is $5,000, new Class D2 - the application
fee is $2,500 and Class T has no application fee).
      (3)   Applicant must complete the waiver for background check and
personal history form.
      (4)   The background check must not reveal any history that would not
allow the applicant to hold a liquor license or permit in the city.
      (5)   Applicant must own a business that is open to the public, a
business that is preparing to open to the public, or provide a letter of intent
of a business opening and show significant progress toward that opening.
      (6)   Provide a license and permit bond in the amount of $500 payable to
the city.
      (7)   Provide proof of ownership/control of the property in the form of a
purchase contract or lease agreement.
      (8)   Any valid license for the property that has been issued to another
license holder must be surrendered.
      (9)   All fees for the license or permit must be paid according to the
conditions stated herein.
(Ord. 99-4981, passed 3-2-1999; Am. Ord. 2006- 5214, passed 1-17-2006; Am. Ord.
2015-5378, passed 5-19-2015)
§ 114.19 INSURANCE.
   Evidence of dram shop liability insurance covering the entire period of the
license in the form of a certificate of insurance issued by an insurance
company licensed to do business in the State of Illinois. The certificate shall
insure applicant and owner or lessor of the premises in such amounts as may be
required by the Illinois Liquor Control Act, or in an amount of not less than $
1,000,000, whichever amount is greater. The certificate shall be submitted to
the Local Liquor Commissioner upon application for or renewal of the liquor
license.
(Ord. 99-4981, passed 3-2-1999; Am. Ord. 2006- 5214, passed 1-17-2006; Am. Ord.
2011-5333, passed 11-15-2011)
§ 114.20 GRANT OF LICENSE OR PERMIT BY COMMISSIONER.
   Subject to the limitations and restrictions herein set forth and all other
lawful limitations and restrictions, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner may
from time to time grant licenses or permits for the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor within the corporate limits of the city to the person required to obtain
a license or permit under §
114.16 hereof and eligible to hold a license or permit under this chapter,
provided, however, that proper and prescribed application therefore be made in
writing and be supported by sufficient evidence to satisfy the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner of the eligibility of applicant to hold a license or
permit.
(Ord. 99-4981, passed 3-2-1999; Am. Ord. 2006-5214, passed 1-17-2006)
§ 114.21 RESTRICTION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT.
   No license or permit shall be issued to any such person declared to be
ineligible to license or permit under the applicable provisions of Sections 2,
8, 8a or 21 of Article VI of said Liquor Control Act of the State of Illinois,
hereby adopted by reference thereto and made a part of this section.
(Ord. 99-4981, passed 3-2-1999; Am. Ord. 2006-5214, passed 1-17-2006)
§ 114.21.1 PROHIBITED LICENSE HOLDERS.
   (A)   Any law enforcing public official. The City of Mattoon shall follow
Illinois state statute and the Liquor Control Act of 1934.
   (B)   A person who is indebted to the city or other governmental entity for
payment of any other fines, fees, charges, bills or taxes, which he or she is
obligated to pay but have remained unpaid for more than 45 days.
   (C)   Any premises or for any locations where it is determined to be
detrimental to the general character of the surrounding neighborhood and the
projected impact of the premises upon the surrounding neighborhood of the city
as a whole would be considered detrimental.
   (D)   Any premises that is a nuisance property.
   (E)   Any store owner or other place of business when the majority of
customers are less than 21 years of age or when the principal business
transacted consists of schoolbooks, school supplies, food, lunches or drinks
for such customers.
   (F)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he or she resides.
(Ord. 2011-5333, passed 11-15-2011; Am. Ord. 2015-5378, passed 5-19-2015)
§ 114.22 CLASSIFICATIONS OF LICENSES.
   Such licenses shall be and hereby are divided into six major
classifications:
   (A)   (1)   Class A, Tavern licenses as follows:
         (a)   1.   Class A license shall authorize the sale of alcoholic
liquor at retail in original package forms or by the drink on the premises
specified, for consumption on or off said premises. Sales in original package
form shall be secondary to sales for consumption on the premises of the
licensee and shall not for any 30-day period exceed 50% of the total sales of
alcoholic beverages for the licensed establishment.
            2.   Prior to the issuance of any new Class A licenses, a $5,000
fee shall be deposited with the City Treasurer’s office. This fee shall be a
one-time application fee payable at the time of application and only refundable
if the license is ultimately denied by the City Liquor Commissioner. This fee
shall not apply to a change in ownership of an entity or the transfer of a
license between entities with the same ownership.
         (b)   Not more than 17 such licenses shall be issued and outstanding.
No such license shall be issued to a hotel, restaurant or bowling alley. In the
event that a licensee holding a Class A license applies for and is issued a
Class R license at any time after the effective date of this chapter for the
same premises for which the Class A license was issued, the total number of
Class A licenses authorized to be issued and outstanding shall be reduced
accordingly.
         (c)   All licensees holding a Class A license on the effective date of
this chapter, who could qualify for a Class R license shall have the option of
continuing as a Class A license, or as a Class R license, provided that all
other requirements to be a licensee are met.
      (2)   Class A-NVG, Tavern Non- Video Gaming license as follows:
         (a)   Class A-NVG license shall authorize the sale of alcoholic liquor
at retail in original package forms or by the drink on the premises specified,
for consumption on or off said premises. Sales in original package form shall
be secondary to sales for consumption on the premises of the licensee and shall
not for any 30-day period exceed 50% of the total sales of alcoholic beverages
for the licensed establishment.
            1.   No video gaming terminals shall be permitted on the premises.
            2.   Prior to the issuance of any new Class A-NVG licenses, a
$5,000 fee shall be deposited with the City Treasurer's office. This fee shall
be a one-time application fee payable at the time of application and only
refundable if the license is ultimately denied by the City Liquor Commissioner.
This fee shall not apply to a change in ownership of an entity or the transfer
of a license between entities with the same ownership.
         (b)   The total amount of such licenses shall not be limited in number
and may be granted upon the sole discretion of the Liquor Commissioner. No such
license shall be issued to a hotel, restaurant or bowling alley.
         (c)   All licensees holding a Class A license on the effective date of
this chapter, who could qualify for a Class A-NVG license shall have their
license automatically transferred to an A-NVG license, provided that all other
requirements to be a licensee are met.
   (B)   Class B licenses as follows:
      (1)   (a)   Class B-1, Package license shall authorize the sale of
alcoholic liquor at retail in original package forms on the premises specified,
but not for consumption on the premises where sold. Not more than 12 such
licenses shall be issued and outstanding.
         (b)   Prior to the issuance of any new Class B-1 licenses, a $5,000
fee shall be deposited with the City Treasurer’s office. This fee shall be a
one-time application fee payable at the time of application and only refundable
if the license is ultimately denied by the City Liquor Commissioner. This fee
shall not apply to a change in ownership of an entity or the transfer of a
license between entities with the same ownership.
      (2)   Class B-2, Bowling and Hotel license shall authorize the sale of
alcoholic liquor at retail by a hotel or bowling alley, for consumption on the
premises specified where sold. Not more than five such licenses shall be issued
and outstanding.
      (3)   Class B2-NVG, Bowling and Hotel Non-Video Gaming license shall
authorize the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail by a hotel or bowling alley,
for consumption on the premises specified where sold. The total amount of such
licenses shall not be limited in number and may be granted upon the sole
discretion of the Liquor Commissioner. No video gaming terminals shall be
permitted on the premises.
      (4)   Class B-3, Entertainment and Tourism Venue license shall authorize
the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail by an entertainment and tourism venue,
for consumption on the premises specified where sold. There shall be no
limitation to the number of such licenses.
   (C)   Class C licenses shall authorize the sale of alcoholic liquor at
retail by the drink by a club for consumption on the premises where sold. A
Class C license shall be issued only to a club, and applicant therefore must
have the qualifications as provided by the laws of the state and this chapter
relating to alcoholic liquors.
   (D)   Class D licenses as follows:
      (1)   (a)   Class D-l, Food, Beer and Wine license shall authorize the
retail sale of beer and wine, only, upon the licensed premises to the general
public for consumption in an enclosed structure on the premises only. The
principal business of the license shall be the service of food and shall follow
the public health department regulations and guidelines for operation of a
business with the service of food being the principle business. The licensed
premises shall seat not less than 25 customers at any one time. Not more than
nine such licenses shall be issued and outstanding.
         (b)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner may require the applicant
of a Class D-I license or a licensee with a Class D-l license to submit
reasonable proof, from time to time, that the licensee is in fact operating a
business with the principal business of service of food, and which during the
preceding three-month period has generated more than 50% of its total gross
revenues from the sale of prepared food.
      (2)   (a)   Class D-2, Convenience licenses shall authorize the retail
sale of beer and wine, only, upon the licensed premises in original packaged
forms, but not for consumption on the premises where sold. The principal
business of the licensee shall be a retail sale of groceries and/or convenience
store items. The total amount of such licenses shall not be limited in number
and may be granted upon the sole discretion of the Liquor Commissioner.
         (b)   Prior to the issuance of any new Class D-2 licenses, a $2,500
fee shall be deposited with the City Treasurer’s office. This fee shall be a
one-time application fee payable at the time of application and only refundable
if the license is ultimately denied by the City Liquor Commissioner. This fee
shall not apply to a change in ownership of an entity or the transfer of a
license between entities with the same ownership.
   (E)   Class R licenses as follows:
      (1)   Class R, Restaurant license shall authorize the sale of alcoholic
liquor by the drink on the premises specified, for consumption on the premises.
The principal business of the licensee shall be the business of conducting a
“restaurant”, which shall meet public health kitchen code regulations. The
number of such licenses to be issued is not limited.
      (2)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner may require the applicant for
a Class R license or a licensee with a Class R license to submit reasonable
proof, from time to time, that the licensee is in fact operating a restaurant,
and which during the preceding three-month period has generated more than 50%
of its total gross revenues from the sale of prepared food.
      (3)   No gaming terminals shall be permitted on the premises until three
months of revenues have been submitted to the City of Mattoon and the
requirements of division (E)(2) above have been satisfied pertaining to total
gross revenues from the sale of prepared food.
   (F)   Class T, Temporary licenses shall authorize the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor at a picnic, outing, festival or other such special occasion,
including, but not limited to “special events” as defined in this chapter, for
consumption on the premises or within an area specifically designated in such
licenses. Class T licenses shall be designated as Class T-1, T-2, or T-3 and
shall be issued as follows:
      (1)   Class T-1, Special Event Nonprofit license may be issued to an
educational, civic, service, charitable or other not-for-profit organizations.
The provision that alcoholic liquor may not be consumed on public property
shall not apply to such premises designated in the area specifically designated
for the Class T-1 license; provided, however, that no alcoholic beverage may be
sold or consumed in an area within ten feet of any public street open to
vehicular traffic unless in a location currently designated as a Festival
District. A licensee holding an event on public property shall provide a
certificate of general liability insurance with combined single limits of not
less than $1,000,000 along with the required certificate of dram shop
insurance. Each such certificate of insurance shall show the city as an
additional insured. The time and days of operation shall be specifically
requested in the application and shall be specifically provided for in the T-
1 license and the licensee shall not sell alcoholic beverages at any other
times except for those provided and allowed in the T-1 license.
      (2)   A Class T-2, Special Event license may be issued for special events
to licensees holding other classifications of licenses for premises which the
licensee otherwise owns or has a right to use and which is contiguous to and
which extends no further than 100 feet from the business premises for which the
licensee holds an existing license. The provision that alcoholic liquor may not
be consumed on public property shall not apply to such premises designated in
the area specifically designated for the Class T-2 license; provided, however,
that no alcoholic beverage may be sold or consumed in an area within ten feet
of any public street open to vehicular traffic unless in a location currently
designated as a Festival District. A licensee holding an event on public
property shall provide a certificate of general liability insurance with
combined single limits of not less than $1,000,000 along with the required
certificate of dram shop insurance. Each such certificate of insurance shall
show the city as an additional insured. The license fee for a Class T-2 license
shall be in the amount of $100 for each 24-hour period or fraction thereof.
      (3)   A Class T-3, Off-Premise Special Event license may be issued a
special use permit for licensees to allow for the transfer of alcoholic
beverages from an existing licensed retail premises to a designated site for a
special event with approval by the Local Liquor Commissioner. A licensee
holding an event on public property shall provide a certificate of general
liability insurance with combined single limits of not less than $1,000,000
along with the required certificate of dram shop insurance. Each such
certificate of insurance shall show the city as an additional insured. The
license fee for a Class T-3 license shall be in the amount of $100 for each 24-
hour period or fraction thereof.
      (4)   Class T-1 and T-2 licenses shall be issued for a specific period of
time not to exceed three consecutive days.
      (5)   No applicant or licensee shall be issued more than 12 Class T-1 or
six Class T-2 licenses in anyone calendar year.
         (a)   Notwithstanding the limitations in division (F)(5), any business
with a pourers license may apply for additional Class T-2 licenses to host
events beyond the annual maximum specified. Such applications shall be subject
to approval by the Local Liquor Commissioner, who may consider factors such as
the nature of the event, impact on the community, availability of the city
property, and compliance with city regulations. The maximum number of
additional Class T-2 licenses granted to any business or organization for
events on city property shall not exceed 24 per calendar year;
         (b)   Additional Class T-2 licenses granted through division (F)(5)(a)
may be revoked at any time at the sole discretion of the Local Liquor
Commissioner or their designee.
      (6)   A Class T license, if issued, shall not in any manner be regarded
as to relieve the license holder from complying with all other requirements of
law.
      (7)   When a picnic, outing, festival or other similar special event is
held out of doors pursuant to any category of Class T license, the license
holder shall:
         (a)   Use only paper or plastic products to serve alcoholic liquor or
food;
         (b)   Provide fencing or a barricade with at least two means of
ingress and egress around the area designated in the license; types of fencing
shall contribute positively to the character of the community as determined by
the Local Liquor Commissioner, in writing prior to the event license approval;
         (c)   Monitor each means of ingress and egress so as to provide
adequate crowd control;
         (d)   Prevent alcoholic liquor from being removed from the designated
area by patrons, invitees or customers of the licensee;
         (e)   Remove as quickly as feasible, and not longer than 24 hours
after the ending time of the event, all refuse, litter, debris, garbage and the
like from the property used for the event in the abutting public right-of-way.
Failure to comply with this division (F)(7)(e) may be deemed a public nuisance
and the licensee prosecuted under applicable provisions of the City of Mattoon,
lllinois Code of Ordinances relating to public nuisances. Failure to comply
with this division (F)(7)(e) may preclude the issuance of Class T license to
the licensee at any time in the future and shall be considered by the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner in determining whether the Local Liquor
Commissioner should issue subsequent Class T licenses.
         (f)   Any portion of a Class T-1 and T-2 licensed event held outside
shall cease operations at midnight or at a time communicated by the Local
Liquor Commissioner in writing prior to the event license approval.
      (8)   Festival District as follows:
         (a)   The Liquor Commissioner, by special order, may designate a
particular geographic area as a Festival District for a period of time not to
exceed three consecutive days, with an alcoholic beverage consumption period of
time determined by the Liquor Commissioner. The Liquor Commissioner may declare
an end to a Festival District at any time.
         (b)   During such time that a geographic area is designated as a
Festival District, open containers of alcohol may be carried out of a licensed
premises and possessed or consumed on the public way within that designated
area, so long as the individual is of legal age to possess and consume alcohol
and the individual is in compliance with all rules and regulations related to
the Festival District that are promulgated by the Liquor Commissioner,
including but not limited to wearing any required wristbands, displaying any
required credentials, or utilizing any required beverage containers required
within the Festival District.
         (c)   A Festival District location shall be presented to the Liquor
Commissioner officially in writing at least 30 days before the formal start
date in order for vendors to have adequate time to submit applications.
Variations to this division (F)(8) may be considered by the Liquor Commissioner
on a case- by-case basis.
         (d)   In order to participate in the Festival District, any vendors
possessing a valid license for onsite consumption that wish to operate within
the designated Festival District area shall submit an application to the Liquor
Commissioner in the form designated by the Liquor Commissioner, pay any
associated fee or fees as designated by rule of the Liquor Commissioner, and at
all times comply with any rules and regulations promulgated by the Liquor
Commissioner. All alcohol purchased must be dispensed by a server aged 21 or
older.
         (e)   The Liquor Commissioner shall provide a clearly drawn map of the
area designated as a Festival District to be publicly displayed in a digital
format at least 48 hours prior to the enactment of the Festival District. No
open containers of alcohol purchased within a Festival District shall be
allowed outside of the boundaries of said district.
            1.   Visible physical signage shall be posted at all Festival
District boundaries for attendees.
            2.   Festival District maps shall be given to all businesses
selling alcohol within the Festival District.
            3.   Festival District maps shall be displayed physically at all
businesses selling alcohol within the Festival District for the entirety of its
duration.
               a.    Businesses selling alcohol that do not display this map to
customers shall be considered in violation of this section.
         (f)   The Liquor Commissioner may promulgate fees, rules, and
regulations implementing this section.
         (g)   Alcoholic beverages for consumption in the Festival District
must be contained in plastic or paper cups only. Possession of an open
alcoholic beverage in a container other than a plastic or paper cup from a
participating licensee within a Festival District shall be subject to penalty
as per §
114.99.
   (G)   Class H license shall authorize the licensee to sell alcoholic liquor
at retail, by the drink or pitcher only, for consumption on the premises only,
in the course of a rental hall business. In the course of this business, the
licensee is totally responsible for control of patron in the business premises
and the licensee’s employees must dispense all alcoholic liquor. At all times
that the premises are used for the sale of alcoholic liquor, the licensee or a
manager acting for the licensee must be on the premises.
   (H)   Class MWD, Microbrewery, Winery, or Distillery license shall authorize
the manufacture and retail sale for consumption of beer, cider, spirits, and
wine on the premises. This license further authorizes the sale of alcohol
brewed or manufactured on the licensed premises in its original package form
for the purposes of off premise consumption. Alcohol brewed or manufactured by
another company off premise is not allowed for the purposes of off premise
consumption, but is allowed for the purposes of on site consumption provided
alcohol brewed or manufactured on the licensed premises is also available for
the same purpose. Businesses or organizations granted this licensure shall be
permitted the ability to host tours to members of the public and are hereby
granted Continuous Product Sampling Status by right. There shall be no
limitations to the amount of available Class MWD licenses.
      (1)   Licensee shall not operate video gaming terminals or a video gaming
parlor on the premises.
      (2)   The initial fee for a Class MWD license shall be $1,400. This
figure shall be refunded in the event that an application for such a license is
denied.
      (3)   A business holding a Class MWD license must have brewing facilities
on site or within a reasonable distance within the corporate limits of the City
of Mattoon.
   (I)   Class VGPS, Video Gaming Parlor Supplementary liquor license shall
authorize and allow the retail sale and serving of alcoholic beverages,
including beer, wine and liquor, for consumption on the licensed premises only,
in a video gaming parlor subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   Qualification. Businesses which currently possess any
classification of liquor license that derive more than 34% of their annual
gross revenue from video gaming activities shall be required to obtain a Class
VGP Supplementary license in addition to their current liquor license
classification. No existing businesses shall be “grandfathered” into an
exemption from this requirement. Licensed fraternal establishments or 501(c)(3)
organizations shall be exempt from the need to acquire a VGP Supplementary
liquor license.
      (2)   Businesses that derive 34% or more of their annual gross revenue
from video gaming activities that do not obtain a Class VGP Supplementary
license shall be considered in violation of this chapter.
      (3)   Annual license fee. The initial annual fee for a Class VGP
Supplementary license shall be $10,000.
      (4)   Businesses currently operating video gaming parlors as defined in
this chapter at the time of implementation of this section shall adhere to the
requirements of this section by June 30, 2025.
(Ord. 99-4981, passed 3-2-1999; Am. Ord. 99-4995, passed 8-17-1999; Am. Ord.
99-5009, passed 12-7-1999; Am. Ord. 2002-5100, passed 2-5-2002; Am. Ord. 2006-
5214, passed 1-17-2006; Am. Ord. 2011-5334, passed 12-6-2011; Am. Ord. 2011-
5336, passed 12-6-2011; Am. Ord. 2011- 5337, passed 12-6-2011; Am. Ord. 2011-
5338, passed 12-6-2011; Am. Ord. 2012-5347, passed 3- 6-2012; Am. Ord. 2015-
5378, passed 5-19-2015; Am. Ord. 2018-5404, passed 4-3-2018; Am. Ord. 2023-
5461, passed 3-7-2023; Am. Ord. 2023-5468, passed 7-5-2023; Am. Ord. 2024-5484,
passed 11-19-2024; Am. Ord. 2025-5495, passed 5-20-2025)
§ 114.22.1 CATERER RETAIL PERMIT.
   (A)   Upon approval of application and payment of application fees as set
forth in §§
114.17 and
114.18, a Caterer Retail Permit shall be issued to a caterer retailer, as
defined by §
114.03 and shall allow the permit holder to serve alcoholic liquors as an
incidental part of a food service that serves prepared food items. The issuance
of the Caterer Retail Permit shall be subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   All restrictions contained in §
114.17 shall apply to all Caterer Retail Permit applications with the exception
of §
114.17(F).
      (2)   All application procedures contained in §
114.18 shall apply for an applicant for a Caterer Retail Permit with the
exception of §
114.18(D)(7) and (8).
      (3)   All applicants for a Caterer Retail Permit shall comply with the
requirement for a bond as contained in §
114.19.
      (4)   All holders of Caterer Retail Permit may renew their permits
pursuant to the terms and conditions of §
114.28.
      (5)   All caterer retailers shall provide a written list of catered
events, including the location and hours, no less than ten working days prior
to the catered event on a form provided by the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner.
      (6)   All applicants shall submit proof of dram shop insurance with their
completed application.
      (7)   No holder of a Caterer Retail Permit shall sell, offer for sale or
dispense any alcoholic liquor during the following hours;
         Monday through Saturday 1:00 a.m. until 6:00 a.m.
         Sunday 1:00 a.m. until 9:00 a.m.
   (B)   A copy of the Caterer Retail Permit shall be displayed in accordance
with §
114.31.
   (C)   Each Caterer Retail Permit shall be for a period of one year, or
otherwise is determined by this chapter by suspension or revocation, and shall
commence on July 1 and terminate on June 30.
(Ord. 2006-5214, passed 1-17-2006; Am. Ord. 2011-5338, passed 12-6-2011; Am.
Ord. 2025-5495, passed 5-20-2025)
§ 114.22.2 OUTDOOR CAFÉ LIQUOR PERMIT.
   Upon approval of application and payment of application fees as set forth in
§§
114.17 and
114.18, a Class R restaurant license holder may operate an outdoor café where
alcohol may be served. The liquor licensee shall:
   (A)   Not allow or permit any customer, employee or other person to remove
alcoholic liquor from the area designated in the outdoor café permit or the
service premises of the licensee.
   (B)   Not serve, allow or permit any person to be served, be in possession
of, or consume alcoholic liquor in the area designated in the outdoor café
permit unless that person is utilizing the seating which has been approved in
accordance with the site plan approved with the outdoor café permit.
   (C)   Provide table service, which shall include food service, in the
outdoor café area during the hours when alcoholic liquor is permitted to be
served.
   (D)   The outdoor café area shall be subject to all provisions of this
chapter and §
99.55 as though the outdoor café was part of the licensee's service premises
during the times permitted by this section for alcoholic liquor sales.
   (E)   Prior to issuance of an Outdoor Café Liquor Permit the licensee shall
provide proof of dram shop insurance. The policy shall name the city as an
additional insured and will indemnify and hold it harmless from any action,
proceeding or claim of liability asserted against it as a result of the
operation of an outdoor café. Failure by the licensee to maintain the insurance
requested by this section shall result in the revocation of the license.
   (F)   This permit shall expire December 31 of each year.
(Ord. 2007-5239, passed 9-19-2007; Am. Ord. 2011-5338, passed 12-6-2011)
§ 114.23 PAYMENT OF FEES; DISPOSITION.
   (A)   All license and permit fees except Class T-2 license may be paid in
two installments of 50% each. The first installment to be paid on or before the
first day of July and the second installment to be paid on or before the first
day of January of the following year. In the event that a payment is made after
the due date for such payment, a penalty in the amount of 10% of the amount due
shall be assessed if paid during the first 30 days after the due date. If the
payment due is not paid within 30 days after the applicable due date, the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner shall hold a hearing to determine whether such
license or permit shall be renewed. The hearing shall be pursuant to notice and
the cost of the hearing shall be assessed against the licensee or permittee.
   (B)   All such application fees paid to the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner at the time application is made shall be forthwith turned over to
the City Treasurer. If the license or permit is granted, then the additional
license or permit fee shall also be turned over to the City Treasurer to be
deposited in the general corporate fund, or in such other fund as shall have
been designated by the City Council by proper action of that body.
(Ord. 99-4981, passed 3-2-1999; Am. Ord. 2002-5140, passed 9-17-2002; Am. Ord.
2006-5214, passed 1-17-2006)
§ 114.24 TERM.
   Each such license or permit shall terminate at the end of the semi-annual
period of the calendar year next following its issuance, unless sooner revoked.
The fee to be paid shall be reduced in proportion to the full calendar months
which have expired in the semi-annual period prior to the issuance of the
license or permit.
(Ord. 99-4981, passed 3-2-1999; Am. Ord. 2006-5214, passed 1-17-2006)
§ 114.25 LIMITATION OF NUMBER OF LICENSES.
   So that the health, safety and general welfare of the people of the city
shall be protected and persons under 21 years of age shall be prevented from
purchasing alcoholic liquors, all lawful licenses of any class issued and in
force on and after the effective date of this chapter shall be renewed or re-
issued upon strict compliance with the laws and ordinances in force in the city
at the time of the application for such renewal or re-issue. No requirement of
this section shall affect the right of the surviving spouse or children of a
deceased licensee to procure a license for the location of the deceased
licensee in continuance of deceased’s business.
(Ord. 99-4981, passed 3-2-1999; Am. Ord. 2006- 5214, passed 1-17-2006; Am. Ord.
2025-5495, passed 5-20-2025)
§ 114.25.1 DOWNTOWN RESTRICTED NUMBERS.
   (A)   A maximum of ten Class A and five Class B-1 retail liquor licenses
shall be permitted within the area which is described as follows:
      Beginning at the intersection of 21st Street and Richmond Avenue
extending east to the intersection of Richmond Avenue and 6th Street, then
extending south to the intersection of Charleston Avenue and 6th Street, then
extending west along Charleston Avenue to the intersection of Charleston Avenue
and 21st Street and then extending north the intersection of 21st Street and
Richmond Avenue.
   (B)   Should any of the ten Class A or five Class B-l retail liquor licenses
referenced in this division become available for issuance due to the death of
the licensee; termination of a partnership or corporation, or bankruptcy of a
licensee, or due to the revocation of a license or for any other reason, the
number of Class A or B-l retailer's licenses issued or available in the above
described area shall be reduced until there are no more than a total of ten
Class A or five Class B-l retailer's licenses issued or available in the above
described area. No Class A or Class B-1 retailer's licenses shall be
transferred to locations within the above described area which would increase
the total number of Class A or Class B-1 retailer's licenses issued or
available in that area to a number of in excess of ten or five. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to prevent a Class A or Class B-1 retailer's license
in existence and located within the above described area on the effective date
of this section from transferring to another location within the above
described area.
(Ord. 2011-5333, passed 11-15-2011)
§ 114.26 RECORD OF LICENSES.
   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall keep or cause to be kept a
complete record of all such licenses or permits issued by him or her, and shall
furnish the City Clerk a copy thereof. Upon the issuance of any new license, or
the revocation of any old license, or the suspension of any license, the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner shall give written notice thereof to the City Clerk
within 48 hours of such action, and shall keep such record and give such notice
as required by the Liquor Control Act hereby adopted by reference thereto and
made a part of this section.
(Ord. 99-4981, passed 3-2-1999; Am. Ord. 2006-5214, passed 1-17-2006)
§ 114.27 PERMIT FOR NEW LOCATION.
   The location described in the license and application may be changed only
upon a written permit to make such change issued by the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner, and only then if the proposed new location is a proper one for
the retail sale of alcoholic liquor under the ordinances of the city and the
laws of the State of Illinois. Such permit fee shall be $25.
(Ord. 99-4981, passed 3-2-1999; Am. Ord. 2006-5214, passed 1-17-2006)
§ 114.28 NATURE OF LICENSE OR PERMIT; PRIVILEGE OF RENEWAL.
   (A)   A license or permit issued under this chapter shall be good for a
period of not to exceed the end of the semi-annual period of the calendar year
next following its issuance, unless sooner revoked as herein provided, and
shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor on or in the premises described in
the application, license or permit, and only under the conditions and
restrictions imposed in this chapter on the particular class of license or
permit described herein.
   (B)   A license or permit issued under this chapter shall be purely a
personal privilege and shall not constitute property, nor shall it be subject
to attachment, garnishment, or execution, nor shall it be alienable or
transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or
hypothecated. Such license or permit shall not descend by the laws of estate or
intestate devolution, but shall cease upon the death of the licensee or
permittee; provided, that executors or administrators of the estate of any
deceased licensee or permittee and the trustee of any insolvent or bankrupt
licensee or permittee, when such estate consists in part of alcoholic liquor,
may continue the business of the sale of alcoholic liquor under order of the
appropriate court, and may exercise the privileges of the deceased or insolvent
or bankrupt licensee or permittee after the death of such decedent, or such
insolvency or bankruptcy, until the expiration of the license or permit, but no
longer than six months after the death, bankruptcy or insolvency of such
licensee or permittee. Upon the death of a licensee or permittee, if the
executor or administrator does not continue the business under such license or
permit, there shall be a refund made of that portion of the license or permit
fee paid for any period in which the executor or administrator may not operate.
   (C)   There shall be no refund of any license or permit fee paid hereunder
except as above provided, but any licensee or permittee hereunder shall have
and be given the right to a renewal or reissue of such license at the same
place upon compliance with the ordinances now in force in the city, or which
may hereafter be enacted, governing the issuance of such licenses, and provided
that the renewal privilege herein provided for shall not be construed as a
fixed right which shall in any case prevent the City Council from decreasing
the number of licenses to be issued within its jurisdiction.
(Ord. 99-4981, passed 3-2-1999; Am. Ord. 2006-5214, passed 1-17-2006)
§ 114.29 ASSIGNMENT OF RENEWAL PRIVILEGE.
   (A)   A licensee or permittee hereunder may assign or convey the privilege
or right of renewal or re-issue of a license or permit provided for herein to
another person, firm or corporation, in accordance with the procedure
hereinafter set forth, who, upon full compliance with the ordinances then in
force in the city, governing the issuance of such licenses or permits, shall be
entitled to a renewal or re-issue of such license or permit in his, her, their,
or its own name, and which holder of a license or permit, in turn, may assign
or convey such privilege or right to renewal or re-issue of such license or
permit upon the same terms and conditions as the original owner and holder
thereof could do hereunder; provided, however, that the privilege or right of
renewal, and re-issue provided in this chapter shall apply only so long as the
license or permit in each case shall have been kept in force continually add
uninterruptedly in the name of the licensee, permit or his or her successor in
interest, and nothing herein provided shall be deemed to restrict the right of
the Local Liquor Control Commissioner to revoke any such license or permit.
   (B)   All such assignments shall be in writing, signed by the licensee or
permit, and shall be filed with the Local Liquor Control Commissioner of the
city, who shall keep, or cause to be kept, a true and complete record of all
such assignments. Upon the filing of any such assignment, the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner shall endorse thereon the time of filing, and upon
compliance by the assignee with all the laws and ordinances then in force in
the city pertaining to the qualifications of an applicant for such license or
permit and the surrender of the old license or permit for cancellation, there
shall (unless the old license or permit shall have been revoked add not
thereafter restored) be issued to the assignee named in such assignment, a
license or permit for the same place as that specified in the old license or
permit, in lieu of the one so surrendered, for the unexpired portion of the
period covered by the license or permit so surrendered; upon condition,
however, that such new license or permit shall be issued only upon the payment
of a fee to the issuing officer of $25.
   (C)   If a licensed or permitted business suspends operation, the licensee
or permittee has 30 days in which to notify the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner of their intent. If the Local Liquor Control Commissioner is not
contacted within 30 days from the close of business, the liquor license or
permit held at that address may be voided and surrendered to the City Clerk at
the discretion of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner. After being contacted
by the licensee or permittee, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner may extend
the validity of the license or permit, in writing, for a reasonable period not
to exceed six months.
(Ord. 99-4981, passed 3-2-1999; Am. Ord. 2006-5214, passed 1-17-2006)
§ 114.30 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT.
   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner may revoke or suspend any license or
permit for the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail for any violation of any
provision of this chapter, or other valid ordinances or resolutions enacted by
the City Council, or any applicable rule or regulation established by the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner which is not inconsistent with law, or for any
violation of any state law pertaining to the sale of alcoholic liquor, or any
applicable rule or regulation established by the Illinois Liquor Control
Commission which is not inconsistent with law, according to the power and
manner provided by Sections 5 and 6 of Article VII of the Liquor Control Act of
the State of Illinois; and such revocation or suspension may be in addition to
any fine or penalty imposed for the violation. Any appeal of a decision of the
Local Liquor Control Commissioner to the Illinois Liquor Control Commission
shall be heard "on the record," and shall only involve a review of the official
record of proceedings before the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, with no
additional evidence being offered.
(Ord. 99-4981, passed 3-2-1999; Am. Ord. 2006- 5214, passed 1-17-2006; Am. Ord.
2020-5427, passed 2-4-2020)
SALES AND OPERATION
§ 114.40 RESTRICTIONS ON ESTABLISHMENT, USE AND OPERATION OF PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful to establish, maintain, use or operate the licensed
premises contrary to or in violation of license granted or contrary to or in
violation of the prohibitions, impositions and requirements of Sections 8, 8a,
9, 10, 12b, 18, 20, 21 or 22 of Article VI of said Liquor Control Act of the
State of Illinois, or of other applicable provisions thereof, hereby adopted by
reference thereto and made a part of this section.
(Ord. 99-4981, passed 3-2-1999; Am. Ord. 2006-5214, passed 1-17-2006)
Penalty, see § 114.99
§ 114.40.1 LICENSE OR PERMIT TO BE POSTED.
   Every license or permit issued under the provisions of this code shall be
framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises
or at the catered event and the same shall be visible to customers.
(Ord. 2006-5214, passed 1-17-2006)
§ 114.40.2 PRODUCT SAMPLING.
   (A)   A Class B-1 or D-2 liquor licensee may hold a product sampling event
at its licensed retail location once per month. For the purpose of this section
a PRODUCT SAMPLING EVENT is defined as an event encompassing no more than eight
continuous hours at which wine, beer or spirits is dispensed to consumers. Up
to three samples, consisting of no more than:
      (1)   One-quarter ounce of distilled spirits;
      (2)   One ounce of wine; or
      (3)   Two ounces of beer may be served to one consumer at any event for
which the license holder makes no charge and receives no monetary
consideration.
   (B)   The license holder must comply with the then current policy of the
Illinois Liquor Control Commission, and the Mayor must be notified by the
license holder, in writing, five days in advance of the product sampling event,
of the time, date and location of the event.
   (C)   The product sampling event will take place within the licensed
premises as specified in the original license application. The product sampling
event will not conflict with or otherwise violate this or any other ordinance
of the city.
   (D)   A Class B-1 liquor licensee that has constructed a sampling area, with
the express written consent of the Liquor Commissioner, may be granted
Continuous Product Sampling Status during their regular operating hours.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section a SAMPLING AREA shall be defined
as: a location on the premises of a business possessing a Class B-1 liquor
license that is designated entirely for tasting events, with an area of at
least 100 square feet and also contains seating.
      (2)   Continuous Product Sampling Status shall follow the regular product
sampling ordinance outlined within this section with the following exception
(s):
         (a)   Continuous Product Sampling Status licensees may hold product
sampling events in perpetuity during the regular operating hours of their
business, during times when products of such a nature are able to be purchased
pursuant to §
114.53.
      (3)   Continuous Product Sampling Status shall not be permitted for
customers visiting a B-1 liquor licensee if patronizing the establishment for
drive-through services.
      (4)   The Liquor Commissioner may revoke Continuous Product Sampling
Status from any licensee at any time when the granting of such a status is
deemed detrimental to public health and safety.
(Ord. 2011-5333, passed 11-15-2011; Am. Ord. 2020-5427, passed 2-4-2020; Am.
Ord. 2023-5461, passed 3-7-2023; Am. Ord. 2025-5495, passed 5-20-2025)
§ 114.41 CONSUMPTION ON PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone not having a Caterer Retail Permit, Class A,
Class B-2, Class C, Class D-1, Class R, Class H or Class T license or their
non-video gaming equivalent licensure to sell, or offer for sale, alcoholic
liquor for consumption on the premises where sold, or to permit the same to be
consumed on the premises where sold.
(Ord. 99-4981, passed 3-2-1999; Am. Ord. 2006- 5214, passed 1-17-2006; Am. Ord.
2025-5495, passed 5-20-2025) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.42 ZONING.
   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to permit the sale of alcoholic
liquors in any place where the conduct of such business is prohibited under the
terms and provisions of zoning ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 99-4981, passed 3-2-1999; Am. Ord. 2006-5214, passed 1-17-2006)
§ 114.42.1 DRIVE UP WINDOW.
   (A)   Drive-up windows maintained and operated on premises duly licensed for
the sale of alcoholic liquors within the corporate limits of the city shall be
adequately lighted during business hours by natural or artificial white light
so that all persons or vehicles transacting business at such windows shall be
clearly visible. From sunset until closing time, said drive-up windows shall be
directly lighted by no less than two, 300-watt incandescent lamps or their
equivalent, spaced at least eight feet apart, located directly over or near
said drive-up window, with light rays so directed as to most effectively light
the outside area immediately adjacent to said window. Existing drive-up window
liquor sales will be grandfathered in this provision until ownership has
changed or the business has been out of operation for more than six months.
   (B)   In order to enforce this section, the city shall have the right to
require the filing with it of plans, drawings and photographs showing the
lighting as above required. This division shall constitute an additional
regulation of premises licensed for the sale of alcoholic liquors.
   (C)   Only "package sales" are permitted at drive-up windows.
   (D)   Only a licensee having a Class B-1 license shall maintain and operate
a drive-up window at which alcoholic liquors are sold.
(Ord. 2011-5333, passed 11-15-2011)
§ 114.43 CURB SERVICE.
   No curb service for the sale of alcoholic liquor shall be carried on in
connection with premises for which a license has been granted for the sale of
alcoholic liquor for consumption upon the premises, either upon the public
street, or private property, contiguous to such premises so licensed.
(Ord. 99-4981, passed 3-2-1999; Am. Ord. 2006-5214, passed 1-17-2006)
§ 114.44 PEDDLING.
   It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor within the corporate limits
of the city.
(Ord. 99-4981, passed 3-2-1999; Am. Ord. 2006-5214, passed 1-17-2006)
Penalty, see § 114.99
§ 114.45 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor or for the storage
of such alcoholic liquor for such sale, shall be kept in a clean and sanitary
condition, and shall be kept in full compliance with the ordinances regulating
the condition of the premises used for the storage or sale of food for human
consumption.
(Ord. 99-4981, passed 3-2-1999; Am. Ord. 2006-5214, passed 1-17-2006)
§ 114.46 EMPLOYEES; EMPLOYING MINORS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to employ in any premises used for the retail
sale of alcoholic liquor any person who is afflicted with, or who is a carrier
of any contagious, infectious, or venereal disease; and it shall be unlawful
for any person who is afflicted with, or a carrier of any such disease, to work
in, or about any such premises or to engage in any way in the handling,
preparation or distribution of such liquor; provided, the Coles County Health
Department may require such employee to submit to a physical examination, if
such officer suspects such employee of being afflicted as herein set forth.
   (B)   (1)   With the exception of division (B)(2) hereof, it shall be
unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any licensee or permittee to allow
or to employ any person under the age of 21 years to dispense or sell alcoholic
liquor in any place licensed under this chapter.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any
licensee or permittee to employ or permit any person, under the age of 18
years, to serve any alcoholic liquor or beverage. This division is limited to
Caterer Retail Permit, Class R, Class D-1, Class D-2 and Class H licensees.
   (C)   Manager of a liquor establishment.  
      (1)   Anything stated in this chapter to the contrary notwithstanding,
any corporation, limited liability company, association, trust, partnership or
other similar entity, which is granted a liquor license by the city shall
identify and designate a bona fide manager of the facility licensed to sell
alcoholic liquors by the city.
      (2)   Each licensee shall submit to the city the name and address of such
manager and upon the effective date of any change in said manager, the licensee
shall notify the city of the new manager's name and address. Failure to give
notice of a change in manager could result in the suspension or revocation of
said liquor license.
(Ord. 99-4981, passed 3-2-1999; Am. Ord. 2006- 5214, passed 1-17-2006; Am. Ord.
2011-5333, passed 11-15-2011)
Penalty, see § 114.99
§ 114.47 ADVERTISING RESTRICTIONS.
   No licensee shall advertise any alcoholic liquor by means of a sign or
lights in any form hanging over or on any public street, sidewalk, or other
public property, within the city, provided that this section shall not apply to
existing installations.
(Ord. 99-4981, passed 3-2-1999; Am. Ord. 2006-5214, passed 1-17-2006)
§ 114.48 SALES TO MINORS, HABITUAL DRUNKARDS, MENTAL INCOMPETENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee or permittee, or any officer,
associate, members, representative, agent or employee of any licensee or
permittee to sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to any person under the age
of 21 years, or to any intoxicated person or to any person known by him or her
to be an habitual drunkard, spendthrift, insane, mentally ill, mentally
deficient or person in need of mental treatment. Any person, after purchasing
or otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor, shall not sell, give, or deliver such
alcoholic liquor to another person under the age of 21 years, except in
performance of a religious ceremony.
(Ord. 99-4981, passed 3-2-1999; Am. Ord. 2006-5214, passed 1-17-2006)
Penalty, see § 114.99
§ 114.49 PERSONS UNDER 21 YEARS FREQUENTING LICENSED ESTABLISHMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any licensee to
permit or allow any person under the age of 21 years to frequent any premises
licensed under the city Code of Ordinances, with the following exceptions:
   (A)   Persons under the age of 21 years may frequent the dining room or
dining rooms of a restaurant of any licensed establishment provided said
individual is in said establishment for the purpose of purchasing prepared
food.
   (B)   Persons under the age of 21 years may frequent licensed
establishments, or that portion of a licensed establishment specifically
segregated, for the purpose of attending special events when such attendance is
denied to the general public and when that person is accompanied by a parent,
legal guardian, or other person over the age of 21 years.
(Ord. 99-4981, passed 3-2-1999; Am. Ord. 2006-5214, passed 1-17-2006)
Penalty, see § 114.99
§ 114.50 POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR BY UNDERAGE PERSONS.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any person to whom
the sale, gift or delivery of alcoholic liquor is prohibited because of age, to
purchase or accept a gift of alcoholic liquor or have alcoholic liquor in his
or her possession.
(Ord. 99-4981, passed 3-2-1999; Am. Ord. 2006-5214, passed 1-17-2006)
Penalty, see § 114.99
§ 114.51 MISSTATEMENT OF AGE.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any person under
the age of 21 years to represent that he or she is of sufficient age for the
purpose of gaining entrance to any licensed premises in violation of this
chapter or for the purpose of acquiring by purchase, gift or delivery of
alcoholic liquor in violation of this chapter. No person shall transfer, alter
or deface an official identification card; carry or use a false or forged
identification card; obtain an identification card by means of false
information; or, use the identification card of another for the purpose of
avoiding the age restrictions of this chapter.
(Ord. 99-4981, passed 3-2-1999; Am. Ord. 2006-5214, passed 1-17-2006)
Penalty, see § 114.99
§ 114.52 GAMBLING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee hereunder to permit or allow
anyone to play for money, or other valuable thing, at any game with cards, dice
or chips, or with any other article, instrument or thing whatsoever, which may
be used for the purpose of playing or betting upon or winning or losing money,
or any other thing or article of value, or to bet on any game others may be
playing, upon any premises licensed under this chapter. This shall not include
the operation of video gaming terminals at locations which are permitted to
dispense alcohol for consumption where video gaming terminals are not
prohibited.
   (B)   Failure to maintain adequate fee verification and/or registration
(i.e. video gaming stickers) per §
35.01(G)(11) shall result in the mandatory revocation of video gaming terminals
on the premises and the automatic transference of the applicable licensure to
its non-video gaming equivalent.
   (C)   All video gaming terminal locations constructed after the passage of
this section shall be required to locate in a separate room where the video
gaming terminals are not directly visible by patrons of the establishment.
Permitted signage to designate the intended purpose of the room shall be
limited to “Gaming” or “Video Gaming” written in plain text and shall not
contain any imagery or be associated adjacently with imagery or any kind.
(Ord. 99-4981, passed 3-2-1999; Am. Ord. 2006- 5214, passed 1-17-2006; Am. Ord.
2025-5495, passed 5-20-2025) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.53 HOURS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to sell or offer for sale at
retail, serve, dispense, or provide free of charge, any alcoholic liquor in the
city between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. of any day except Sunday,
when it shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale, any alcoholic liquor from
1:00 a.m. on Sunday morning until 9:00 a.m. on the same Sunday.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to keep open for business, or admit the public to
any licensed premises where alcoholic liquor is sold at retail, during the
hours the sale of such liquor is prohibited; provided, however, that in the
case of restaurants, grocery stores, clubs and hotels, hall rental businesses
and other separate business conducted on said premises, such establishment may
be kept open during such hours, but no alcoholic liquor may be sold during said
hours.
   (C)   Class A Liquor license holders may be open during the hours of 6:00
a.m. and 12:00 p.m. on Sundays for the purposes of serving food only. No
alcoholic liquor may be sold or given during those hours.
(Ord. 99-4981, passed 3-2-1999; Am. Ord. 2006- 5214, passed 1-17-2006; Am. Ord.
2006-5221, passed 11-21-2006; Am. Ord. 2011-5333, passed 11-15-2011; Am. Ord.
2025-5495, passed 5-20-2025) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.54 ADULT ENTERTAINMENT PROVISION.
   (A)   The sale or dispensing of alcoholic liquor is prohibited at premises
whereat, or at premises which have any access which leads from said premises to
any premises whereat, the following acts or conduct is permitted:
      (1)   The employment or use of any person in the sale or service of
alcoholic liquors or for the entertainment or diversion of others while such
person is unclothed or in such attire, costume or clothing as to expose to view
or to
show with less than a fully opaque covering any portion of the breast below the
top of the areola or any portion of the pubic hair, anus, buttocks, vulva or
genitals.
      (2)   The performance of acts, or simulated acts, of sexual intercourse,
masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation or any sexual
acts prohibited by law.
      (3)   The actual or simulated exhibition, displaying, touching or
caressing or fondling of or on the breasts, buttocks, anus or genitals.
      (4)   The permitting or encouragement of any person to remain in or upon
said premises who expose to view any portion of the body described in divisions
(1), (2) or (3) hereof.
      (5)   The showing of film, still pictures, electronic reproduction or
other visual reproduction depicting the acts or conduct described in division
(2) hereof, or any person being touched, caressed or fondled on the breasts,
buttocks, anus or genitals, or scenes wherein artificial devices or inanimate
objects are employed to depict, or drawings are employed to portray the
activities described in this division.
   (B)   Obscenity prohibited. The engaging in, or performance of, any act or
conduct described in division (A) above on premises as to which a license has
been issued under the provisions of this chapter is prohibited.
(Ord. 2011-5333, passed 11-15-2011)
§ 114.55 BURGESS-OSBORNE AUDITORIUM.
   (A)   Alcohol shall only be allowed to be served and/or consumed at Burgess-
Osborne Auditorium under the following conditions:
      (1)   When served by a caterer licensed by the city in accordance with §
114.22.1.
      (2)   When served by a licensed alcohol retailer in accordance with §
114.22(F)(3), (Class T-3 license) subject to approval of the Liquor Control
Commissioner.
   (B)   Alcohol use at Burgess-Osborne Auditorium shall only be allowed for
the following events:
      (1)   Wedding receptions;
      (2)   Class reunions;
      (3)   Family reunions;
      (4)   Corporate meetings and/or corporate holiday parties.
   (C)   Alcohol use shall be limited to events hosting the families and
company employees traditionally associated the type of events listed in
division (B) above. Alcohol use shall not be allowed for use under the
provisions of divisions (A) and (B) above for events which are open to the
public.
   (D)   Alcohol use allowed under divisions (A), (B) and (C) above shall be
confined to the inside of the facility, and shall be prohibited outside.
   (E)   Alcohol use for events other than those specifically described in
divisions (A) through (D) above may be considered for approval, on a case by
case basis, by the Liquor Commissioner.
(Ord. 2018-5404, passed 4-3-2018)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $1,000 for each offense; and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues. In addition to any fine imposed, the Liquor
Commissioner may also suspend or revoke any license issued under this chapter.
(Ord. 99-4981, passed 3-2-1999; Am. Ord. 2006-5214, passed 1-17-2006)
CHAPTER 115: PAWNBROKERS; JUNK DEALERS
Section
Pawnbrokers
   
115.01   Regulations governing pawnbrokers adopted by reference
Junk Dealers
   
115.15   Written consent required from parent of minor
PAWNBROKERS
§ 115.01 REGULATIONS GOVERNING PAWNBROKERS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   No pawnbroker in the city shall violate the provisions of ILCS Ch. 205, Act
510 governing pawnbrokers, which provisions are hereby adopted by reference and
made a part of this chapter.
('68 Code, § 32.07)
Penalty, see § 10.99
JUNK DEALERS
§ 115.15 WRITTEN CONSENT REQUIRED FROM PARENT OF MINOR.
   The proprietor, agent or clerk keeping a junk shop, second-hand store or
pawn broker shop, or other person, shall not purchase or receive any article or
goods from any minor without the written consent of his parent or guardian.
('68 Code, § 42.23)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 116: PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
Section
   
116.01   Request or invitation by owner or occupant required before entry upon
premises permitted; exception
   
116.02   Itinerant vendors of drugs and medicines; license required; fee
   
116.03   Distribution of drugs
§ 116.01 REQUEST OR INVITATION BY OWNER OR OCCUPANT REQUIRED BEFORE ENTRY UPON
PREMISES PERMITTED; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   The practice of going in and upon private residences, business
establishments or offices in the city by solicitors, peddlers, hawkers,
itinerant merchants and transient vendors of merchandise, not having been
requested or invited so to do by the owners or occupants of said private
residences, business establishments or offices, for the purpose of soliciting
orders for the sale of goods, wares and merchandise, or for the purpose of
disposing of or peddling or hawking, the same is hereby declared to be a
nuisance and a misdemeanor.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to a person regularly
employed by any established merchant, business firm or corporation located and
regularly doing business in the city for a period of one year or more, or to
farmers selling any food items raised or produced by themselves, or to
permanently established residents who are voters in the city, provided that
such residents who are voters in this city personally do the soliciting.
('68 Code, § 32.05) (Ord. 3807, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 116.02 ITINERANT VENDORS OF DRUGS AND MEDICINES; LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE.
   No itinerant or transient vendor of drugs and medicines shall set up,
maintain or carry on within the city, any store, stand or other establishment
for the selling or giving away of drugs or medicine without a license therefor.
The fee for such license shall be $25 per week or fraction thereof.
('68 Code, § 11.07)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 116.03 DISTRIBUTION OF DRUGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to scatter, distribute or leave in any
public place or upon any premises owned or occupied by any persons within the
city, any bottle, box, package or sample of any medicine, or any drug, nostrum,
ointment or appliance of any kind intended or professing to care or treat
disease, or any substance which may be dangerous to life, or injurious to
health, if eaten or used by children.
('68 Code, § 11.06)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 117: TAXICABS
Section
   
117.01   Definitions
   
117.02   Number of taxicab operators licenses available
   
117.03   Licenses required
   
117.04   License fees; disposition
   
117.05   Insurance
   
117.06   Inspection of vehicles
   
117.07   Markings on vehicles
   
117.08   Drivers to be licensed; conduct
   
117.09   Taxicab stands
§ 117.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LIMOUSINE SERVICE. A service provided to carry passengers in an automobile
with a greater seating capacity than six passengers and registered with the
Secretary of State for the State of Illinois as a "livery" vehicle and
displaying a current "livery" license plate.
   OPERATOR. The person owning and operating a taxicab or taxicabs in the city.
   STREET. Any street, alley, lane, court or public place in the city.
   TAXICAB. Any motor vehicle carrying passengers for hire for which public
patronage is solicited; provided that railroad cars and motor buses operated by
the city or operated under franchise or under the authority and jurisdiction of
the State Commerce, shall not be considered taxicabs; provided further that a
limousine service shall not be considered a taxi cab.
('68 Code, § 38.01) (Ord. 3576, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 92-47-6, passed 10-20-
1992)
§ 117.02 NUMBER OF TAXICAB OPERATORS LICENSES AVAILABLE.
   The total number of taxicab operators licenses available to be issued within
the city shall be unlimited.
(Ord. 2011-5328, passed 10-4-2011)
§ 117.03 LICENSES REQUIRED.
   No person, whether acting as owner, principal, agent, employee, lessee or
licensee shall operate or permit to be operated upon the streets of the city a
taxicab without an operator's license and a license for the respective taxicabs
used in such business.
('68 Code, § 38.02) (Ord. 3576, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 117.04 LICENSE FEES; DISPOSITION.
   (A)   Each operator shall pay an annual operator’s license fee as listed in
§
35.01(G)(26).
   (B)   All license fees shall become due and payable on July 1 of each year.
No license shall be issued until the terms of this chapter have been complied
with. No portion of any license fee shall be refunded for any cause.
(‘68 Code, § 38.05) (Ord. 3576, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2011-5328, passed 10-4-
2011)
§ 117.05 INSURANCE.
   Before any license for a taxicab shall be issued, the owner shall file with
the Secretary of State an insurance policy issued by an insurance company
licensed to do business in the state, providing insurance coverage for each
taxicab owned, operated and leased by applicant in conformity with the Illinois
Financial Responsibility Law.
('68 Code, § 38.04) (Ord. 3576, passed - - )
§ 117.06 INSPECTION OF VEHICLES.
   All taxicabs shall be kept clean, sanitary and mechanically safe at all
times. The City Manager may cause such taxicabs to be inspected from time to
time, and if found in an unsanitary or unsafe condition he may order such
taxicabs withdrawn from service until placed in a fit and serviceable
condition, and upon failure to comply with such order the license for such
taxicab may be repealed and no portion of the license fee shall be refunded.
(‘68 Code, § 38.06) (Ord. 3576, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-
2025)
§ 117.07 MARKINGS ON VEHICLES.
   Each taxicab shall have the name under which such taxicab operates, together
with the word "Taxicab" and the number of the cab clearly painted on the sides
and rear of the vehicle in letters and figures at least three inches in height.
('68 Code, § 38.07) (Ord. 3576, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 117.08 DRIVERS TO BE LICENSED; CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall drive a taxicab not licensed and equipped in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Any driver convicted of driving a cab while intoxicated or convicted
on a charge of reckless driving or any driver operating a taxicab without a
chauffeur's license shall have his driver's license revoked and shall be
suspended from service for a period not less than one year.
('68 Code, § 38.09) (Ord. 3576, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 117.09 TAXICAB STANDS.
   When signs are erected indicating a motor vehicle parking area as a taxicab
stand, it shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle other than a
licensed taxicab in any area designated by ordinance as a taxicab stand, except
that the operator of any passenger vehicle may temporarily stop in any such
stand for the purpose of and while actually engaged in the loading or unloading
of passengers.
   (A)   The first designated parking place for a motor vehicle east of the
Illinois Central Railroad Station on the north side of Broadway Avenue is
hereby designated as a taxicab stand for the use of a taxicab licensed to do
business in the city.
   (B)   The first designated parking place for a motor vehicle west of 19th
Street on the north side of Western Avenue is hereby designated as a taxicab
stand for the use of a taxicab licensed to do business in the city.
('68 Code, § 38.10) (Ord. 3914, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 118: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
118.01   Purpose and findings
   
118.02   Definitions
   
118.03   Sexually oriented business license required
   
118.04   Sexually oriented business employee license required
   
118.05   Sexually oriented business license application
   
118.06   Issuance of a sexually oriented business license
   
118.07   Sexually oriented business employee license application
   
118.08   Issuance of sexually oriented business employee license
   
118.09   Fees
   
118.10   Expiration and renewal of license
   
118.11   Suspension
   
118.12   Revocation
   
118.13   Appeal rights
   
118.14   Transfer of license
   
118.15   Additional regulations concerning the operation of sexually oriented
businesses
   
118.16   Injunction
 
   
118.99   Penalty
§ 118.01 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known as and may be cited as the Sexually
Oriented Business Licensing Ordinance, and is also referred to herein as this
chapter.
   (B)   The purpose of this chapter is to establish reasonable and uniform
regulations to minimize and control the negative secondary effects of adult
entertainment facilities and sexually oriented businesses (hereafter “sexually
oriented businesses”) within the municipality in order to promote the health,
safety, and welfare of the citizens of the municipality. The provisions of this
chapter have neither the purpose nor the effect of imposing a limitation or
restriction on the content any communicative materials or communication,
including sexually oriented entertainment. Similarly, it is not the purpose or
effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to sexually
oriented entertainment protected by the First Amendment, or to deny access by
distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented entertainment to their
intended market. Furthermore, it is not the intent or effect of this chapter to
condone or legitimize the distribution or exhibition of entertainment that is
obscene.
   (C)   Based on evidence concerning the adverse secondary effects of sexually
oriented businesses presented to the municipality from findings incorporated in
the cases of City of Erie v. Paps A.M., 529 U.S. 277, 120 S.Ct. 1382 (2000);
Barnes v. Glen Theatre, Inc., 501 U.S. 560 (1991), City of Renton v. Playtime
Theaters, Inc., 475 U.S. 41 (1986) Young v. American Mini Theaters, 426 U.S. 50
(1976), Berg v. Health and Hospital Corporation, 865 F.2d 797 (7th Cir 1989);
Ellwest Stereo Theaters v. Wenner, 681F. 2d 1243 (9th Cir. 1982); Bamon Corp.
v. City of Dayton, 730 F.Supp 80 (S.D. Ohio, 1990) and EWAP Inc. v. City of Los
Angeles, 97 Cal. App 3d 179, 158 Cal. Rptr. (1979), and on studies in other
cities including the Report of the Attorney General’s Working Group on the
Regulation of Sexually Oriented Businesses (Minnesota, 1989); Memorandum re:
Adult Entertainment Ordinance, of the Assistant Chief of Police of the Tucson,
Arizona (May 1, 1990); Hecht, Peter R., Ph.D., Report to the American Center
for Law and Justice on the Secondary Impacts of Sex Oriented Businesses (March
31, 1996); Adult Entertainment Businesses in Indianapolis, An Analysis (1984)
and McCleary, Richard, Ph.D. and Meeker, James W., Ph.D., Final Report to the
City of Garden Grove: The Relationship Between Crime and Adult Business
Operations on Garden Grove Boulevard, (Garden Grove, CA, October 23, 1991),
this Legislative body finds:
      (1)   Sexually oriented businesses lend themselves to ancillary unlawful
and unhealthy activities.
      (2)   Sexual acts, including masturbation, oral sex and anal sex, occur
at sexually oriented businesses, especially those which provide private or
semi-private booths or rooms for viewing films, videos, or live sexually
oriented entertainment. Such activities may result in spreading communicable
diseases such as syphilis, gonorrhea, and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).
      (3)   Offering sexually oriented entertainment under conditions that
encourage such activities creates unhealthy conditions.
      (4)   Sanitary conditions in some sexually oriented businesses are
unhealthy, in part because of the failure of owners and operators to regulate
those activities and maintain their facilities.
      (5)   Numerous studies and reports have determined that semen is found in
the areas of sexually oriented businesses where persons view sexually oriented
films concealed from public view.
   (D)   The findings noted in §
118.01(C)(1) through (5) raise compelling and substantial governmental concerns
for protecting the public health, safety, and welfare.
   (E)   Sexually oriented businesses have operational characteristics which
should be reasonably regulated in order to protect the compelling and
substantial governmental interest in protecting the public health, safety, and
welfare.
   (F)   A reasonable licensing procedure is an appropriate mechanism to place
the burden of that reasonable regulation on the owners and operators of
sexually oriented businesses. Further, such a licensing procedure will place a
heretofore nonexistent incentive on operators to see that sexually oriented
businesses are run in a manner consistent with the health, safety and welfare
of patrons and employees, as well as the citizens of the municipality. It is
appropriate to require reasonable assurances that the licensee is the actual
operator of the sexually oriented business, and fully in possession and control
of the premises and activities occurring therein.
   (G)   the regulation of nudity, semi-nudity, and physical contact between
employees and patrons in sexually oriented businesses will further the
compelling and substantial governmental interests in preventing prostitution
and other sex-related crimes, including illegal sex acts, and protecting the
public health, safety, and welfare.
   (H)   Requiring open sight lines in sexually oriented businesses and
requiring sufficient lighting will advance the compelling and substantial
governmental interest in curbing the illegal and unsanitary sexual activity
occurring in sexually oriented businesses and will facilitate enforcement of
the provisions of this chapter and other federal, state and local laws, thereby
furthering the compelling and substantial governmental interest in protecting
the public health, safety, and welfare.
   (I)   The disclosure of certain information by those persons ultimately
responsible for the day-to-day operation and maintenance of sexually oriented
businesses, and by employees of such businesses, will facilitate the
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter and other federal, state and
local laws, and will thereby further the compelling and substantial government
interest in protecting the public health, safety, and welfare.
   (J)   A person who recently has been convicted of a sexually related crime
is not an appropriate individual to operate or be employed in a sexually
oriented business.
   (K)   Barring such individuals from the management of and employment in
sexually oriented businesses for a period of years serves as a deterrent to and
prevents the commission of sexually related criminal acts, including conduct
which leads to the transmission of sexually transmitted diseases.
   (L)   A reasonable licensing procedure for sexually oriented businesses
assists the municipality in preventing the adverse secondary effects of such
businesses on property values, the prevention of crime, and the public health.
(Ord. 2014-5372, passed 12-16-2014)
§ 118.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment having as a substantial or significant
portion of its stock in trade, books, magazines, and other periodicals which
are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas or an establishment with a segment or section devoted to the sale or
display of such material.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CABARET. A public or private establishment which
features topless or nude dancers and/or waitresses, strippers, male or female
impersonators and/or similar entertainers.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CENTER. An enclosed building with the capacity for less
than 50 persons used for presenting material distinguished or characterized by
an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein.
   ADULT GIFT SHOP. An establishment having as a substantial or significant
portion of its stock in trade pictures, photographs, drawings, diagrams,
paraphernalia, apparatus or other objects which are distinguished or
characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas or an establishment
with a segment or section devoted for the sale or display of such material.
   ADULT MOVIE THEATER. An enclosed building with a capacity of 50 persons or
more used primarily for presenting material distinguished or characterized by
an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein.
   EMPLOYEE. A natural person who performs any service or work on the premises
of a sexually oriented business, including but not limited to providing
entertainment, performing work of a management or supervisory nature, or
performing support functions, on a full-time, part-time or contract basis,
whether or not the person is denominated an EMPLOYEE, independent contractor,
agent, or otherwise and whether or not the person is paid a salary, wage or
other compensation by the operator of the business. EMPLOYEE does not include a
person on the premises exclusively for repair or maintenance of the premises or
equipment on the premises, or for the delivery of goods to the premises.
   EMPLOYEE STATION. An area on the premises of a sexually oriented business
designated for occupancy exclusively by one or more employees whose duties
include assuring compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The Chief of Police of the City of Mattoon or his or
her designee.
   EXCRETORY FUNCTIONS. Urination, defecation, lactation, ejaculation and
menstruation. It shall not mean urination and defecation performed in a public
or employee-only restroom in the manner in which those facilities arc intended
to be used, and when not performed or presented for a commercial purpose. It
shall not mean lactation as part of breast-feeding an infant, unless performed
or displayed for a commercial purpose other than education and training in the
art, science or technique of breast-feeding an infant.
   LICENSEE. With respect to a sexually oriented business license issued under
this chapter, a person in whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual(s) designated on the
license application as principally responsible for the operation of the
sexually oriented business. With respect to a sexually oriented business
employee license issued under this chapter, LICENSEE means a natural person in
whose name a license has been issued authorizing employment in a sexually
oriented business.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Mattoon, Illinois.
   NUDITY or NUDE. Exposing to view specified anatomical areas or any device,
costume, or covering that gives the appearance of or simulates any specified
anatomical areas.
   OPERATE or CAUSE TO BE OPERATED. To control or hold primary responsibility
for the operation of a sexually oriented business, either as a business entity,
as an individual, or as part of a group of individuals with shared
responsibility. It shall also mean to cause to function or to put or keep in
operation. A person may be found to be operating or causing to be operated a
sexually oriented business whether or not that person is an owner, part owner,
or licensee of the business.
   OPERATOR. Any person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually
oriented business.
   PATRON. Any natural person who is not an employee or operator.
   PERSON. shall mean a natural person, proprietorship, partnership, limited
liability company, firm, association, joint stock company, joint venture,
corporation or combination of individuals of whatever form or character.
   SEMI-NUDITY or SEMI-NUDE. Exposing to view, with less than a fully opaque
covering, any portion of the female breast below the top of the areola, any
portion of female or male buttocks, or the male genitals in a discernibly
turgid state, even if entirely covered by an opaque covering. This definition
shall include the entire lower portion of the female breast, but shall not
include any portion of the cleavage of the female breast exhibited by a dress,
blouse, shirt, leotard, bathing suit, or other clothing, provided that the
areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Any of the following when done in a place where
the public is invited or permitted, or when done for any commercial purpose
including sale and rental, regardless of who pays or receives the consideration
therefor, and regardless of the form of consideration:
      (1)   Adult entertainment cabaret and any other live exhibition or
display of a natural person or people in the state of nudity or semi-nudity, or
engaged in specified sexual activities or excretory functions.
      (2)   Engaging in, promoting or permitting a natural person or people to
engage in specified sexual activities or excretory functions.
      (3)   Offering of physical contact in the form of wrestling or rumbling
between natural persons, when one or more of the persons is nude or semi-nude.
      (4)   Offering of products, services or activities by or with a natural
person or people when one or more of the people, whether a patron, agent,
employee or otherwise, is in a state of nudity or semi-nudity.
      (5)   Adult bookstore, adult entertainment center, adult gift shop, adult
movie theater, and any other establishment displaying or offering to others any
publication or recorded depiction of a natural person, or created image or
character, as in cartoons and animation, by any medium, including without
limitation film, videotape, closed-circuit television, digital video disc
(DVD), laser disc, compact disc (CD), floppy disc, photograph, slide,
television, book, magazine, and computer software, which is:
         (a)   Characterized or distinguished by an emphasis on the depiction
or description of specified sexual activities, excretory functions, or
specified anatomical areas; or
         (b)   Advertised or otherwise held out to the public as being
characterized or distinguished by an emphasis on the depiction or description
of specified sexual activities, excretory functions, or specified anatomical
areas, including without limitation, the use of the term “adult” and the use of
the designation of one or more “X” such as, but not limited to, “XXX”.
      (6)   The display and offering to others of novelties, instruments,
devices, or paraphernalia that are designed primarily for use in connection
with specified sexual activities or that give the appearance of or simulate any
of the specified anatomical areas.
      (7)   The term sexually oriented business shall exclude the following:
         (a)   The display and offering to others of condoms, spermicide or
other nonprescription contraceptives;
         (b)   The display and offering to others of drugs, instruments or
devices which require a prescription, that are designed primarily for use in
connection with specified sexual activities, and which are in fact dispensed by
or under the supervision of a pharmacist licensed by the State of Illinois;
         (c)   The display and offering to others of instruments, devices, or
paraphernalia that are designed primarily for use in connection with specified
sexual activities if they are displayed and offered to others on the premises
where a pharmacist licensed by the State of Illinois is employed to dispense
prescription drugs, instruments or devices;
         (d)   Breast-feeding an infant, unless performed or displayed for a
commercial purpose other than education and training in the art, science or
technique of breast-feeding an infant;
         (e)   The display and offering to others of motion pictures, by any
format, which have received a rating from the Motion Picture Association of
America of G, PG, PG-13, R or NC-17, when offered or displayed substantially in
then-entirety;
         (f)   Libraries and museums funded in whole or in part by federal,
state or local governmental funds;
         (g)   The display and offering to others of items described in
division (5) of this definition, if and only if the display and offering are
done for a commercial purpose, and all of the following apply to the business
displaying and offering such items to others:
            1.   Less than 5% of its gross income comes from the sale, rental
or exhibition of the following types of items:
               a.   Items which are characterized or distinguished by an
emphasis on the depiction or description of specified sexual activities,
excretory functions, or specified anatomical areas or any combination thereof;
and
               b.   Items which are advertised or otherwise held out to the
public as being characterized or distinguished by an emphasis on the depiction
or description of specified sexual activities, excretory functions, or
specified anatomical areas or any combination thereof, including without
limitation, the use of the term “adult” and the use of the designation of one
or more “X” such as, but not limited to, “XXX”; and
            2.   Less than 5% of its display space is used for the sale, rental
or exhibition of the items described in divisions 1.a. and b. above; and
            3.   Less than 5% of the items it offers to others are the items
described in divisions 1.a. and b. above; and
            4.   The items described in divisions l.a. and b. above are
segregated from all other displays and retail areas of the premises by a solid
partition from floor to ceiling with no openings or windows and with entrance
and egress by means of a solid door posted with a sign not less than one foot
by one foot with the words “UNDER 18 NOT ADMITTED” lettered on the sign, except
that magazines characterized or distinguished by an emphasis on the depiction
or description of specified sexual activities, excretory functions, or
specified anatomical areas or any combination thereof may be displayed on racks
or other display cases only if the magazine is encased or otherwise covered up
and concealed from common view of anything other than the magazine title or
text or other materials which would not be described as sexually oriented.
   Certain uses which fall within the definition of SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS
may also constitute uses which are illegal under local, state or federal law,
such as obscenity or child pornography. Even if such illegal uses constitute a
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS under the definition set forth in this chapter, they
shall not be permitted to receive a sexually oriented business license.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. The human genitals, pubic area, perineum, anus,
anal cleft or cleavage, pubic hair, any portion of the areola of the female
breast if less than a fully and opaquely covered; and the male genitals in a
discernibly turgid state, even if entirely covered by an opaque covering. In
determining whether any of the foregoing portions of the anatomy are fully and
opaquely covered, coverage by make-up, paint, or similar matter applied
directly to the skin, shall not be considered to be fully and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY.
      (1)   Any of the following offenses, as set forth in the Illinois
Criminal Code of 1961, as amended, or any substantially similar offenses to
those set forth below under the criminal or penal code of any local
jurisdiction, state, country, or international law: indecent solicitation of a
child, indecent solicitation of an adult, adultery, fornication, public
indecency, sexual exploitation of a child, custodial sexual misconduct,
presence within school zone by child sex offenders prohibited, sexual relations
within families, bigamy, marrying a bigamist, prostitution, solicitation of a
sexual act, soliciting for a prostitute, soliciting for a juvenile prostitute,
pandering, keeping a place of prostitution, keeping a place of juvenile
prostitution, patronizing a prostitute, patronizing a juvenile prostitute,
pimping, juvenile pimping, exploitation of a child, obscenity, child
pornography, commercial film and photographic print processor - reports,
harmful material, tie-in sales of obscene publications to distributors,
criminal sexual assault, aggravated criminal sexual assault, predatory criminal
sexual assault of a child, criminal sexual abuse, aggravated criminal sexual
abuse, criminal transmission of HIV, ritualized abuse of a child, female
genital mutilation, violation of the sex offender registration act, stalking
(if the basis of the conviction is the threat of immediate or future sexual
assault, or placing a person in reasonable apprehension of immediate or future
sexual assault), first degree murder (if the basis for the conviction is ILCS
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 9-1(a)(3), commonly known as felony murder, where the
predicate felony is any felony otherwise set forth in this definition),
burglary (if the basis for the conviction is an intent to commit any felony
otherwise set forth in this definition), residential burglary (if the basis for
the conviction is an intent to commit any felony otherwise set forth in this
definition), armed violence (if the basis for the conviction is an intent to
commit any felony otherwise set forth in this definition), attempt to commit
any of the foregoing crimes, conspiracy to commit any of the foregoing crimes,
and any other felony or misdemeanor for which an element of the offense is the
commission of any of the foregoing crimes or an intent to commit any of the
foregoing crimes,
      (2)   For which: (A) less than two years have elapsed since the date of
conviction or the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor, business
offense or petty offense; or (B) less than five years have elapsed since the
date of conviction or the date of release from confinement for the conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense.
      (3)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall not prevent such
conviction from constituting a specified criminal activity as defined in this
chapter.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any of the following, whether actual or
simulated:
      (1)   The fondling or other erotic touching of specified anatomical
areas, regardless of whether the performer or recipient is clothed, in a state
of nudity or in a state of semi-nudity;
      (2)   The manipulation of the human body of another, including massage,
by the use of any portion of manipulator’s body, whether covered or uncovered,
or by any device, if the person performing the manipulation is in a state of
nudity or semi-nudity.
      (3)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, heterosexual, homosexual or
bisexual, including without limitation intercourse, fellatio, cunnilingus,
analingus, masturbation, bestiality, sodomy, bondage and discipline, sadism and
masochism, and any other act intended to cause sexual arousal;
      (4)   Sex acts between animals when offered or displayed for the purpose
or with the intent of causing the sexual arousal of a human viewer.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Any of the
following:
      (1)   the sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfers
by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing
the ownership or control.
(Ord. 2014-5372, passed 12-16-2014)
§ 118.03 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall operate a sexually oriented business without a valid
sexually oriented business license issued by the municipality pursuant to this
chapter.
   (B)   No person shall, in connection with operating a sexually oriented
business, retain the services of a person as an employee who is not licensed as
a sexually oriented business employee by the municipality pursuant to this
chapter.
   (C)   Prior to issuance of any license under this chapter, the applicant
shall have procured the appropriate zoning permits for such uses unless located
on a legal non-conforming property.
(Ord. 2014-5372, passed 12-16-2014) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.04 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS EMPLOYEE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall act as an employee on the premises of a sexually oriented
business without having secured a sexually oriented business employee license
pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-5372, passed 12-16-2014) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.05 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for a sexually oriented business license shall be
submitted to the municipality’s clerk on a form provided by the enforcement
officer. The application may request and the applicant shall provide such
information as reasonably necessary (including fingerprints) to enable the
municipality to determine whether the applicant meets the qualifications
established in this chapter.
   (B)   An application for a sexually oriented business license shall identify
the following persons and be signed under oath by the persons that the
information contained therein is true:
      (1)   If the business entity is a sole proprietorship, that sole
proprietor;
      (2)   If the business entity is a corporation, each officer and director
of the corporation and each individual with a 10% or greater ownership interest
in the corporation;
      (3)   If the business entity is a partnership, each general partner, and
each limited partner who owns 10% or more of total limited partnership
interest;
      (4)   If the business is a limited liability company, each manager, and
each member with a 10% or greater ownership interest in the company. If the
limited liability company does not have any managers, then each member holding
a 10% or greater ownership interest in the company.
   (C)   An application for a sexually oriented business license must designate
one or more natural persons who are to be principally responsible for the
operation of the proposed sexually oriented business, if a license is granted.
At least one natural person so designated must be involved in the day-to-day
operation of the proposed sexually oriented business on a regular basis. Each
natural person so designated, as well as the business entity itself, shall be
considered a license applicant, must qualify as a licensee under this chapter,
and shall be considered a licensee if a license is granted.
   (D)   An application for a sexually oriented business license shall be
completed according to the instructions of the application form, which shall
require the following:
      (1)   If the applicant is:
         (a)   An individual, state the legal name, address, date of birth,
social security number, and any aliases of such individual;
         (b)   A partnership, state the complete name of the partnership and
all of its partners and whether the partnership is general or limited, and
provide a copy of the partnership agreement, if any, and the information
specified in division (A) of this section for each partner;
         (c)   A corporation, state the complete name of the corporation and
the date of its incorporation, provide evidence that the corporation is in good
standing under the laws of its state of incorporation and of Illinois, and
state the names and capacity of all officers and directors, all persons owning
10% or more of the stock of the corporation, the name of the registered
corporate agent, and the address of the registered office for service of
process, and the information specified in division (A) of this section for each
officer, director and owner of 10% or more of the stock;
         (d)   A limited liability company, state the complete name of the
company and the date of its organization, provide evidence that the company is
in good standing under the laws of its state of organization and of Illinois,
and state the names and capacity of all members, owners and managers, the name
of the registered agent, and the address of the registered office for service
of process, and the information specified in division (A) of this section for
each member, owner and manager;
      (2)   If the applicant intends to operate the sexually oriented business
under a name other than that of the applicant, state the fictitious name to be
used and submit copies of documentation evidencing the registration of the
business name under applicable laws.
      (3)   State whether any applicant has been convicted of a specified
criminal activity, and if so, the specified criminal activity involved and the
date, place, and jurisdiction of each such conviction.
      (4)   State whether any applicant has had a previous license under this
chapter or other similar regulation of another jurisdiction denied, suspended
or revoked, including the name and location of the sexually oriented business
for which the permit was denied, suspended or revoked, as well as the date of
the denial, suspension or revocation; and state whether the applicant has been
a partner in a partnership or an officer, Director or 10% or greater owner of a
corporation, or a member or manager of a limited liability company, licensed
under this chapter whose license has previously been denied, suspended or
revoked, including the name and location of the business for which the permit
was denied, suspended or revoked as well as the date of denial, suspension or
revocation.
      (5)   State whether any applicant holds any other licenses under this
chapter or other similar regulation from this or another jurisdiction and, if
so, the names and locations of other such licensed businesses.
      (6)   State the nature of the sexually oriented business for which the
applicant is filing.
      (7)   State the location of the proposed sexually oriented business,
including a legal description of the property (i.e., block and lot), street
address, telephone number(s), e-mail address and internet website URL, if any.
      (8)   State the mailing address of each applicant and each person signing
the application.
      (9)   For any applicant who is a natural person, describe and identify
the location of any tattoos on such person’ s face, arms, legs, or hands, or
any other anatomical area that normally would be visible when such person is on
the premises of the proposed sexually oriented business.
      (10)   Submit proof that each applicant who is a natural person is at
least 18 years old.
      (11)   Submit a sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the
premises of the sexually oriented business, including the location of all
stages, walls, partitions, designated sales areas, book cases, and patron
seating, and a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The
diagram shall also designate the place at which the sexually oriented business
license will be conspicuously posted, if granted. The sketch or diagram need
not be professionally prepared, but it must be drawn to a designated scale or
drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of
plus or minus one foot.
      (12)   The applicant is under a continuing affirmative duty to notify the
municipality in writing of any change, alteration, or event respecting
divisions (D)(1), (2), (3), (4), (5), and (11) of this section.
(Ord. 2014-5372, passed 12-16-2014)
§ 118.06 ISSUANCE OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a completed application for a sexually oriented
business license, the municipality’s clerk shall immediately file a copy of the
completed application with the enforcement officer.
   (B)   Upon receipt of a copy of a completed application for a sexually
oriented business license, the enforcement officer, or any peace officer
designated by the enforcement officer, shall promptly investigate the
information provided in the application concerning the criminal background of
the applicants and shall record the results of the investigation in writing
within five days of the completion of the investigation. If the investigation
is done by a peace officer designated by the enforcement officer, then the
written results of the investigation shall also be filed with the enforcement
officer within five days of the completion of the investigation.
   (C)   Within five days of receipt of a copy of a completed application for a
sexually oriented business license, the enforcement officer shall notify the
municipality’s Fire Chief and Building Department of such application. In
making such notification, the enforcement officer shall request that the Fire
Chief and the Building Department promptly inspect the premises for which the
sexually oriented business license is sought to assess compliance with the
regulations under their respective jurisdictions.
   (D)   The Fire Chief shall provide to the enforcement officer a written
certification of whether the premises are in compliance with the Fire Code
within five days of completing the inspection.
   (E)   The Building Department shall provide the enforcement officer a
written certification of whether the premises are in compliance with the
Building Code, the Planning and Zoning Code, and the provisions of this chapter
related to physical characteristics of the premises within five days of
completing the inspection.
   (F)   The enforcement officer shall approve the issuance of a license to an
applicant unless the enforcement officer determines by a preponderance of the
evidence that one or more of the following findings is true:
      (1)   An applicant is a natural person is under 18 years of age.
      (2)   An applicant has failed to provide information reasonably necessary
for issuance of the license as requested on the application form, or has
provided false information.
      (3)   An applicant has been denied a sexually oriented business license
or has had a license to operate a sexually oriented business revoked within the
preceding 12 months by any jurisdiction.
      (4)   An applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal activity.
      (5)   The proposed sexually oriented business or the premises on which it
would operate would violate or fait to be in compliance with any provisions of
the Zoning Code, the provisions of this chapter related to physical
characteristics of the premises, or any state or federal law.
      (6)   The application and investigation fee required by this chapter has
not been paid.
      (7)   An applicant is otherwise in violation of or is not in compliance
with any provision of this chapter.
   (G)   If the enforcement officer determines that no grounds for denial of a
license exist under this section, the enforcement officer shall not delay
approval of the application.
   (H)   A sexually oriented business license, if granted, shall state on its
face the name of the person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration
date, and the address of the licensed sexually oriented business. All sexually
oriented business licenses shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near
the entrance to the business so that they may be easily read at any time.
   (I)   The enforcement officer shall advise the applicant in writing of the
reasons for any license denial. The written license denial shall be either
served on the applicant personally or by placing it in a sealed envelope,
addressed to the applicant at the address set forth in the application, and
depositing it with the United States Postal Service, proper first class postage
prepaid. The enforcement officer may, but is not required to serve the written
license denial by certified or registered mail, as set forth above.
(Ord. 2014-5372, passed 12-16-2014)
§ 118.07 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS EMPLOYEE LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for a sexually oriented business employee license shall
be submitted to the municipality’s clerk on a form provided by the enforcement
officer. The application may request and the applicant shall provide such
information as reasonably necessary (including fingerprints) to enable the
municipality to determine whether the applicant meets the qualifications
established in this chapter.
   (B)   An application for a sexually oriented business Employee license shall
be completed according to the instructions of the application form, signed by
the applicant under oath that the information contained therein is true, and
shall require the following;
      (1)   State the applicant’ s name and any other names (including “stage”
names) or aliases used by the applicant.
      (2)   State the applicant’ s date and place of birth.
      (3)   State the applicant’ s height, weight, and hair and eye color.
      (4)   Describe and identify the location of any tattoos on the applicant’
s face, arms, legs, or hands, or any other anatomical area that normally would
be visible when the applicant is on the premises of the proposed sexually
oriented business.
      (5)   State the applicant’ s present and intended business address and
telephone number, identifying the sexually oriented business at which the
applicant intends employment.
      (6)   Submit proof that the applicant is at least 18 years old.
      (7)   Provide a statement detailing the sexually oriented business
employee license history of the applicant for the five years immediately
preceding the date of the filing of the application, including whether such
applicant previously operated or is seeking to operate a sexually oriented
business, in this or any other jurisdiction, and whether the applicant has ever
had a sexually oriented business license or a sexually oriented business
employee license, permit, or authorization to do business denied, revoked, or
suspended by this or any other jurisdiction. In the event of any such denial,
revocation, or suspension, state the name of the issuing or denying
jurisdiction and describe in mil the reason for the denial, revocation, or
suspension. Attach a copy of any order of denial, revocation, or suspension.
      (8)   State whether the applicant has been convicted of a specified
criminal activity and, if so, the specified criminal activity involved and the
date, place and jurisdiction of each such conviction, and the date of release
from confinement, if any, for such conviction.
      (9)   The applicant is under a continuing affirmative duty to notify the
municipality in writing of any change, alteration, or event respecting
divisions (B)(7) and (8) of this section.
(Ord. 2014-5372, passed 12-16-2014)
§ 118.08 ISSUANCE OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS EMPLOYEE LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a completed application for a sexually oriented
business employee license, the municipality’s clerk shall immediately file a
copy of the completed application with the enforcement officer.
   (B)   Upon receipt of a copy of a completed application for a sexually
oriented business employee license, the enforcement officer, or any peace
officer designated by the enforcement officer, shall promptly investigate the
information provided in the application concerning the criminal background of
the applicant and shall record the results of the investigation in writing
within five days of the completion of the investigation. If the investigation
is done by a peace officer designated by the enforcement officer, then the
written results of the investigation shall also be filed with the enforcement
officer within five days of the completion of the investigation.
   (C)   The enforcement officer shall approve the issuance of a license to an
applicant unless the enforcement officer determines by a preponderance of the
evidence that one or more of the following findings is true:
      (1)   The applicant has failed to provide information reasonably
necessary for issuance of the license as requested on the application form, or
has given false information.
      (2)   The applicant is under 18 years of age.
      (3)   The applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal activity.
      (4)   The sexually oriented business Employee license is to be used for
employment in a business prohibited by local, state, or federal law, statute,
rule or regulation.
      (5)   The sexually oriented business where the applicant intends
employment is not a licensed sexually oriented business pursuant to this
chapter.
      (6)   The applicant has been denied a sexually oriented business license
or a sexually oriented business Employee license, or has had a sexually
oriented business license or a sexually oriented business employee license
revoked within the preceding 12 months by any jurisdiction.
   (D)   The enforcement officer shall advise the applicant in writing of the
reasons for any license denial. The written license denial shall be either
served on the applicant personally of by placing it in a sealed envelope,
addressed to the applicant at the address set forth in the application, and
depositing it with the United States Postal Service, proper first class postage
prepaid. The enforcement officer may, but is not required to serve the written
license denial by certified or registered mail, as set forth above.
(Ord. 2014-5372, passed 12-16-2014)
§ 118.09 FEES.
   Fees for sexually oriented business and sexually oriented business employee
licenses shall be $ 1,000 and shall be in addition to any other licenses or
fees required by law.
(Ord. 2014-5372, passed 12-16-2014)
§ 118.10 EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Each license issued pursuant to this chapter shall expire one year
from the date of issuance and may be renewed by making application as provided
in this section. Application for renewal shall be made no more than 90 days and
no less than 28 days before the expiration date. If application is made less
than 28 days before the expiration date, the license will not be extended
pending a decision on the application, but will expire on its normal expiration
date.
   (B)   An application for renewal of a sexually oriented business license or
sexually oriented business Employee license shall be submitted to the
municipality’s clerk on a form provided by the enforcement officer. The renewal
application may request and the applicant shall provide such information as
reasonably necessary to enable the municipality to determine whether the
applicant meets the qualifications established in this chapter. The completed
renewal application shall describe any changes or additions to, or deletions
from, the information provided in the applicant’s initial license application.
The completed renewal application shall be accompanied by copies of any
document or material submitted in connection with the initial license
application that has been revised or requires revision to reflect any change in
circumstances or conditions. Sketches or diagrams submitted with an initial
sexually oriented business license application may be resubmitted with
subsequent renewal applications, provided that the applicant certifies in
writing that the sketch or diagram still depicts the premises accurately.
   (C)   The enforcement officer shall make the determination concerning the
approval of license renewals based on the same criteria and using the same
procedures used to evaluate applications for new licenses under this chapter.
   (D)   The enforcement officer shall advise the applicant in writing of the
reasons for any renewal denial, and shall the written renewal denial on the
applicant in the same manner as a denial of an initial application.
   (E)   When the enforcement officer denies an application for renewal of a
license, the applicant shall not be issued another license for one year from
the date of denial.
(Ord. 2014-5372, passed 12-16-2014)
§ 118.11 SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The enforcement officer shall suspend a sexually oriented business
license for a period not to exceed 60 days if the enforcement officer
determines that a licensee: (1) has violated or is not in compliance with any
section of this chapter except as set forth in division (B) of this section; or
(2) has knowingly allowed an employee to violate or fail to comply with any
section of this chapter.
   (B)   The enforcement officer shall suspend a sexually oriented business
employee license for a period not to exceed 60 days if the enforcement officer
determines that a licensee has violated or is not in compliance with any
section of this chapter, except as set forth in division (C) of this section.
   (C)   The enforcement officer shall advise the licensee in writing of the
reasons for any suspension. The written suspension shall be either served on
the applicant personally on or before five days before the suspension is to
take effect, or by placing it in a sealed envelope, addressed to the licensee
at the address set forth in the application, and depositing it with the United
States Postal Service, proper first class postage prepaid, on or before five
days before the suspension is to take effect. The enforcement officer may, but
is not required to serve the written suspension by certified or registered
mail, as set forth above.
(Ord. 2014-5372, passed 12-16-2014)
§ 118.12 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The enforcement officer shall revoke a sexually oriented business
license or sexually oriented business employee license if a cause of suspension
under §
118.11 of this chapter occurs and the license has been suspended two times
within the preceding 12 months.
   (B)   The enforcement officer shall revoke a sexually oriented business
license if he/she determines that:
      (1)   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application or renewal process;
      (2)   A licensee has knowingly allowed possession, use, or sale of
controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   A licensee has knowingly allowed any specific criminal activity, or
the commission of any felony on the premises;
      (4)   A licensee knowingly operated the sexually oriented business during
a period of time when the licensee’s license was pending initial application,
expired or suspended;
      (5)   A licensee has knowingly allowed one or more specified sexual
activities to occur in or on the licensed premises;
      (6)   A licensee has been convicted of a specified criminal activity
during the term of the license; or
      (7)   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the municipality for any
taxes or fees past due that were assessed or imposed in relation to any
business or business property.
   (C)   The Enforcement officer shall revoke a sexually oriented business
Employee license if he/she determines that:
      (1)   The licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application or renewal process;
      (2)   The licensee has knowingly acted as an Employee on the premises of
a sexually oriented business during a period of time when the licensee’s
license was pending initial application, expired or suspended; or
      (3)   The licensee has been convicted of a specified criminal activity
during the term of the license.
   (D)   The Enforcement officer shall advise the licensee in writing of the
reasons for any revocation. The written revocation shall be either served on
the applicant personally on or before five days before the revocation is to
take effect, or by placing it in a sealed envelope, addressed to the licensee
at the address set forth in the application, and depositing it with the United
States Postal Service, proper first class postage prepaid, on or before five
days before the revocation is to take effect. The Enforcement officer may, but
is not required to serve the written revocation by certified or registered
mail, as set forth above.
   (E)   When the enforcement officer revokes a license, the licensee shall not
be issued another license for three years from the date the revocation became
effective.
(Ord. 2014-5372, passed 12-16-2014)
§ 118.13 APPEAL RIGHTS.
   (A)   Any denial, suspension, or revocation of a new or renewal license
under this chapter may be appealed to the mayor of the municipality by written
notice filed with the municipality’s clerk within ten days of the effective
date of such denial, suspension, or revocation. A suspension or revocation of a
license under this chapter shall be stayed pending appeal.
   (B)   The City Manager shall notify the appellant in writing of the date for
the hearing on the appeal. The written notice shall be either served on the
appellant personally on or before five days before the hearing, or by placing
it in a sealed envelope, addressed to the appellant at the address set forth in
the application, and depositing it with the United States Postal Service,
proper first class postage prepaid, on or before seven days before the hearing.
The City Manager may, but is not required to, serve the written notice by
certified or registered mail, as set forth above.
   (C)   The City Manager shall conduct a hearing on the appeal within 14 days
of receipt of the written notice of appeal by the municipality’s clerk, at
which hearing the appellant may present witnesses or other evidence opposing
the denial, suspension or revocation. The enforcement officer may also present
witnesses or other evidence supporting the denial, suspension or revocation.
Both parties shall have the right to cross-examine witnesses.
   (D)   The City Manager shall determine whether the preponderance of the
evidence presented at the hearing supported the decision of the enforcement
officer to deny, suspend or revoke the license of the appellant.
   (E)   The City Manager shall issue a written decision setting forth his
findings regarding the evidence presented at the hearing, and his or her
decision to affirm or overrule the decision of the enforcement officer. The
City Manager shall serve a copy of his or her written decision on the appellant
and the enforcement officer in writing. The written decision shall be either
served on the parties personally on or before five days after the date of the
hearing, or by placing it in a sealed envelope, addressed to the respective
parties at the address set forth in the application and at the enforcement
officer’s ordinary business address, and depositing it with the United States
Postal Service, proper first class postage prepaid, on or before five days
after the hearing. The mayor may, but is not required to, serve the written
decision by certified or registered mail, as set forth above.
   (F)   The written decision of the City Manager shall be considered a final
decision.
(Ord. 2014-5372, passed 12-16-2014; Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 118.14 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A sexually oriented business license is not transferable from one
licensee to another or from one location to another. Any purported transfer of
a sexually oriented business license shall automatically and immediately revoke
that license.
   (B)   A sexually oriented business employee license is not transferable from
one licensee to another, but the use of the license by the individual to whom
it was issued may be transferred from one licensed sexually oriented business
to another such licensed establishment during the term of the license, provided
that the licensee gives written notice of such transfer to the enforcement
officer within 15 days after such transfer.
(Ord. 2014-5372, passed 12-16-2014)
§ 118.15 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE OPERATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED
BUSINESSES.
   (A)   No employee on the premises of a sexually oriented business may engage
in any specified criminal activity, specified sexual activities or excretory
functions.
   (B)   Any employee appearing on the premises of a sexually oriented
business, in a place that can be viewed by patrons, when said employee is in a
state of nudity or semi-nudity must be on a stage that is at least 45 inches
from the floor, and at a distance at least 72 inches from all parts of a
clearly designated area in which patrons will be present, and no patron shall
be permitted in any area closer than 72 inches from the stage.
   (C)   No employee appearing on the premises of a sexually oriented business
in a state of nudity or semi-nudity may intentionally or knowingly touch a
patron or a patron’s clothing or permit himself or herself to be touched by a
patron or a patron’ s clothing. No employee may intentionally or knowingly
touch specified anatomical areas of a patron either directly or through
clothing or other covering. No employee may intentionally or knowingly permit a
patron to touch specified anatomical areas of an employee either directly or
through clothing or other covering. For purposes of this subsection, touching
need not be accomplished by the hand, and includes the touching by any part of
the toucher’s body, clothing or device held by the toucher.
   (D)   All sexually oriented businesses that offer live entertainment must
provide separate dressing room facilities for female and male employees, and
which shall not be occupied or used in any way by anyone other than employees.
   (E)   No person under the age of 18 years shall be permitted on the premises
of a sexually oriented business. Mistake of age is not a defense to a charge
under this section, unless the person under the age 18 who was permitted on the
premises exhibited to the employee a driver’s license, or other apparently
official government-issued identification card bearing the patron’s photograph,
and purporting to show that the person was 18 years of age or over, and the
employee to whom that document was exhibited did not otherwise have reasonable
cause to believe that the person seeking admittance was under 18 years.
   (F)   No sexually oriented business shall remain open at any time between
the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. on weekdays and Saturdays, and 12:00 a.m.
and noon (12:00 p.m.) on Sundays, nor shall any entertainment, service, or
product be provided to a patron on the premises of a sexually oriented business
during those hours.
   (G)   A sexually oriented business shall meet the following standards for
minimum lighting levels:
      (1)   The premises of every sexually oriented business shall be equipped
with overhead lighting fixtures of sufficient intensity to illuminate every
place to which patrons are permitted access, including restrooms, at an
illumination level of not less than 50 foot candles as measured at floor level.
      (2)   The illumination described in division (G)(1) of this section shall
be maintained at all times that any patron is present in the premises. In the
event of a power failure, the business shall stop operating immediately and all
patrons shall be cleared from the premises. The premises shall not be reopened
until the minimum illumination level is restored.
   (H)   No sexually oriented business shall be operated in any manner that
permits the observation from outside the premises of any image, material or
entertainment depicting or describing excretory functions, specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas or any person in a state of nudity or
semi-nudity, whether by means of display, decoration, sign, window or any other
means.
(Ord. 2014-5372, passed 12-16-2014) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.16 INJUNCTION.
   Any person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business in violation of this chapter is subject to a suit for injunction as
well as prosecution for ordinance violations as provided in §
10.99.
(Ord. 2014-5372, passed 12-16-2014)
§ 118.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates or who intentionally or knowingly permits the
violation of any section of this chapter shall be fined not less than $500 and
each day on which any violation occurs shall constitute a separate violation
that may be subject to such fine.
(Ord. 2014-5372, passed 12-16-2014)
CHAPTER 119: CABLE AND VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDERS
Section
Cable/Video Service Provider Fee
   
119.01   Definitions
   
119.02   Cable/video service provider fee imposed
   
119.03   Applicable principles
   
119.04   No impact on other taxes due from holder
   
119.05   Audits of cable/video service provider
   
119.06   Late fees/payments
Cable and Video Customer Protection Law
   
119.15   Customer service and privacy protection law
   
119.16   Enforcement
   
119.17   Customer credits
 
   
119.99   Penalties
CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE
§ 119.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following
meanings.
   CABLE SERVICE.  That term as defined in 47 USC section 522(6).
   COMMISSION.  The Illinois Commerce Commission.
   GROSS REVENUES.  All consideration of any kind or nature, including, without
limitation, cash, credits, property, and in-kind contributions received by the
holder for the operation of a cable or video system to provide cable service or
video service within the holder's cable service or video service area within
the city.
      (1)   GROSS REVENUES  shall include the following:
         (a)   Recurring charges for cable or video service.
         (b)   Event based charges for cable service or video service,
including, but not limited to, pay per view and video on demand charges.
         (c)   Rental of set top boxes and other cable service or video service
equipment.
         (d)   Service charges related to the provision of cable service or
video service, including, but not limited to, activation, installation, and
repair charges.
         (e)   Administrative charges related to the provision of cable service
or video service, including, but not limited to, service order and service
termination charges.
         (f)   Late payment fees or charges, insufficient-funds check charges,
and other charges assessed to recover the costs of collecting delinquent
payments.
         (g)   A pro rata portion of all revenue derived by the holder or its
affiliates pursuant to compensation arrangements for advertising or for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services derived from the operation
of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service within the
city. The allocation shall be based on the number of subscribers in the city
divided by the total number of subscribers in relation to the relevant regional
or national compensation arrangement.
         (h)   Compensation received by the holder that is derived from the
operation of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service
with respect to commissions that are received by the holder as compensation for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services on the holder's network,
such as a "home shopping" or similar channel, subject to division (1)(h) below.
         (i)   In the case of a cable service or video service that is bundled
or integrated functionally with other services, capabilities, or applications,
the portion of the holder's revenue attributable to the other services,
capabilities, or applications shall be included in the gross revenue unless the
holder can reasonably identify the division or exclusion of the revenue from
its books and records that are kept in the regular course of business.
         (j)   The service provider fee permitted by Ch. 220 ILCS 5/21-801(b).
      (2)   GROSS REVENUES  do not include any of the following:
         (a)   Revenues not actually received, even if billed, such as bad
debt, subject to Ch. 220 ILCS 5/21-801(c)(l)(vi).
         (b)   Refunds, discounts, or other price adjustments that reduce the
amount of gross revenues received by the holder of the state issued
authorization to the extent the refund, rebate, credit, or discount is
attributable to cable service or video service.
         (c)   Regardless of whether the services are bundled, packaged, or
functionally integrated with cable service or video service, any revenues
received from services not classified as cable service or video service,
including, without limitation, revenue received from telecommunication
services, information services, or the provision of directory or internet
advertising, including yellow pages, white pages, banner advertisement, and
electronic publishing or any other revenues attributed by the holder to
noncable service or nonvideo service in accordance with the holder's books and
records and records kept in the regular course of business and any applicable
laws, rules, regulations, standards, or orders.
         (d)   The sale of cable services or video services for resale in which
the purchaser is required to collect the service provider fee from the
purchaser's subscribers to the extent the purchaser certifies in writing that
it will resell the service within the city and pay the fee permitted by Ch. 220
ILCS 5/21-801(b) with respect to the service.
         (e)   Any tax or fee of general applicability imposed upon the
subscribers or the transaction by a city, state, federal, or any other
governmental entity and collected by the holder of the state issued
authorization and required to be remitted to the taxing entity, including sales
and use taxes.
         (f)   Security deposits collected from subscribers.
         (g)   Amounts paid by subscribers to "home shopping" or similar
vendors for merchandise sold through any home shopping channel offered as part
of the cable service or video service.
      (3)   Revenue of an affiliate of a holder shall be included in the
calculation of gross revenues to the extent the treatment of the revenue as
revenue of the affiliate rather than the holder has the effect of evading the
payment of the fee permitted by Ch. 220 ILCS 5/21-801(b) which would otherwise
be paid by the cable service or video service.
   HOLDER.  A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or
provide cable or video service from the Illinois Commerce Commission pursuant
to Ch. 220 ILCS 5/21-401.
   SERVICE.  The provision of "cable service" or "video service" to subscribers
and the interaction of subscribers with the person or entity that has received
authorization to offer or provide cable or video service from the commission
pursuant to Ch. 220 ILCS 5/21-401.
   SERVICE PROVIDER FEE.  The amount paid under this chapter and Ch. 220 ILCS
5/21-801 by the holder to a city for the service areas within its territorial
jurisdiction.
   VIDEO SERVICE.  Video programming and subscriber interaction, if any, that
is required for the selection or use of such video programming services, and
which is provided through wireline facilities located at least in part in the
public right of way without regard to delivery technology, including internet
protocol technology. This definition does not include any video programming
provided by a commercial mobile service provider defined in 47 USC section 332
(d) or any video programming provided solely as part of, and via, service that
enables users to access content, information, electronic mail, or other
services offered over the public internet.
(Ord. 2017-5393, passed 2-7-2017)
§ 119.02 CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE IMPOSED.
   (A)   Fee imposed. A fee is hereby imposed on any holder providing cable
service or video service in the city.
   (B)   Amount of fee. The amount of the fee imposed hereby shall be 5% of the
holder's gross revenues.
   (C)   Notice to the city. The holder shall notify the city at least ten days
prior to the date on which the holder begins to offer cable service or video
service in the city.
   (D)   Holder's liability. The holder shall be liable for and pay the service
provider fee to the city. The holder's liability for the fee shall commence on
the fust day of the calendar month following 30 days after receipt of the
ordinance adopting this chapter by the holder. The ordinance adopting this
chapter shall be sent by mail, postage prepaid, to the address listed on the
holder's application notice sent pursuant to Ch. 220 ILCS 5/21-401(b)(6) to the
city.
   (E)   Payment date. The payment of the service provider fee shall be due
annually and payable 90 days after the close of the preceding calendar year. If
mailed, the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked. Each payment
shall be accompanied by a brief report prepared by a representative of the
grantee showing the basis for the computation.
   (F)   Exemption. The fee hereby imposed does not apply to existing cable
service or video service (gw) providers that have an existing franchise
agreement with the city in which a fee is paid.
   (G)   Credit for other payments. An incumbent cable operator that elects to
terminate an existing agreement pursuant to Ch. 220 ILCS 5/21-301(c) with
credit for prepaid franchise fees under that agreement may deduct the amount of
such credit from the fees that operator owes under division (B) of this
section.
(Ord. 2017-5393, passed 2-7-2017)
§ 119.03 APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES.
   All determinations and calculations under this chapter shall be made
pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles.
(Ord. 2017-5393, passed 2-7-2017)
§ 119.04 NO IMPACT ON OTHER TAXES DUE FROM HOLDER.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to exempt a holder from
any tax that is or may later be imposed by the city, including any tax that is
or may later be required to be paid by or through the holder with respect to
cable service or video service. A State issued authorization shall not affect
any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the city's simplified
municipal telecommunications tax or any other tax as it applies to any
telephone service provided by the holder. A State issued authorization shall
not affect any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the local
unit of government's 911 or E911 fees, taxes or charges.
(Ord. 2017-5393, passed 2-7-2017)
§ 119.05 AUDITS OF CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER.
   (A)   Audit requirement. The city will notify the holder of the requirements
it imposes on other cable service or video service providers to submit to an
audit of its books and records. The holder shall comply with the same
requirements the city imposes on other cable service or video service providers
in its jurisdiction to audit the holder's books and records and to re compute
any amounts determined to be payable under the requirements of the city. If all
local franchises between the city and cable operator terminate, the audit
requirements shall be those adopted by the city pursuant to the local
government taxpayers' bill of rights act, Ch. 50 ILCS 45/1 et seq. No
acceptance of amounts remitted should be construed as an accord that the
amounts are correct.
   (B)   Additional payments. Any additional amount due after an audit shall be
paid within 30 days after the municipality's submission of an invoice for the
sum.
(Ord. 2017-5393, passed 2-7-2017)
§ 119.06 LATE FEES/PAYMENTS.
   All fees due and payments which are past due shall be governed by ordinances
adopted by this municipality pursuant to the local government taxpayers' bill
of rights act, Ch. 50 ILCS 45/1 et seq.
(Ord. 2017-5393, passed 2-7-2017)
CABLE AND VIDEO CUSTOMER PROTECTION LAW
§ 119.15 CUSTOMER SERVICE AND PRIVACY PROTECTION LAW.
   (A)   Adoption. The regulations of Ch. 220 ILCS 5/70-501 are hereby adopted
by reference and made applicable to the cable or video providers offering
services within the city's boundaries.
   (B)   Amendments. Any amendment to the cable and video customer protection
law that becomes effective after the effective date of this chapter shall be
incorporated into this chapter by reference and shall be applicable to cable or
video providers offering services within the municipality's boundaries.
However, any amendment that makes its provisions optional for
   (C)   Adoption by municipalities shall not be incorporated into this chapter
by reference without formal action by the corporate authorities of the city.
(Ord. 2017-5393, passed 2-7-2017)
§ 119.16 ENFORCEMENT.
   The city does hereby pursuant to law declare its intent to enforce all of
the customer service and privacy protection standards of the cable and video
protection law with respect to complaints received from residents within the
city.
(Ord. 2017-5393, passed 2-7-2017)
§ 119.17 CUSTOMER CREDITS.
   The city hereby adopts the schedule of customer credits for violations.
Those credits shall be as provided for in the provisions of Ch. 220 ILCS 5/70-
50l(s) and applied on the statement issued to the customer for the next billing
cycle following the violation or following the discovery of the violation. The
cable or video provider is responsible for providing the credits and the
customer is under no obligation to request the credit.
(Ord. 2017-5393, passed 2-7-2017)
§ 119.99 PENALTIES.
   The city, pursuant to Ch. 220 ILCS 5/70-50l(r)(l), does hereby provide for a
schedule of penalties for any material breach of the cable and video protection
law by cable or video providers in addition to the penalties provided in the
law. The monetary penalties shall apply on a competitively neutral basis and
shall not exceed $750 for each day of the material breach, and shall not exceed
$25,000 for each occurrence of a material breach per customer.
   (A)   "Material breach" means any substantial failure of a cable or video
provider to comply with service quality and other standards specified in any
provision of the law.
   (B)   The city shall give the cable or video provider written notice of any
alleged material breaches of the law and allow such provider at least 30 days
from the receipt of the notice to remedy the specified material breach.
   (C)   A material breach, for the purposes of assessing penalties, shall be
deemed to occur for each day that a material breach has not been remedied by
the cable or video service provider after the notice in division (B) of this
section.
(Ord. 2017-5393, passed 2-7-2017)
CHAPTER 120: PRODUCTION AND DISTRIBUTION OF CANNABIS
Section
   
120.01   Definitions
   
120.02   Purpose and intent
   
120.03   Special permitted use
   
120.04   Conformance with regulations
   
120.05   Principal use
   
120.06   Petition
   
120.07   Special requirement for cultivation centers, adult-use cultivation
centers and adult-use craft growers
   
120.08   Special requirements for dispensing organizations or adult-use
dispensing organizations
   
120.09   Dissolution of use and revocation of zoning
§ 120.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT. An adult-use cannabis cultivation
center, craft grower, processing organization, infuser organization, dispensing
organization or transporting organization.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER. A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, dry, cure and package cannabis and perform other necessary
activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or
use at a processing organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, and
subsequent amendments.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to cultivate process transport and perform necessary activities to
provide cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act and subsequent
amendments.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed
cannabis business establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing
cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds paraphernalia or related
supplies to purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and
caregivers, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, and subsequent amendments.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER. A facility operated by
an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, and subsequent amendments.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR. A facility operated
by an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act and subsequent amendments.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER. An organization
or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or a
community college licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational
Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act and subsequent
amendments.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS WHOLESALER. A business that sells cannabis products in
large quantities at low prices, typically to retailers.
   AREA ZONED FOR RESIDENTIAL USE. Means the R-1, R-2, R-3, as well as similar
districts in adjacent jurisdictions.
   CANNABIS. Has the meaning given that term in the Illinois Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act and the Illinois Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis
Pilot Program Act and any subsequent amendments.
   ENCLOSED, LOCKED FACILITY. A room, greenhouse, building, or other enclosed
area equipped with locks or other security devices that permit access only by a
cultivation center's or a craft grower's agents or a dispensing organization's
agents working for the registered cultivation center or the registered
dispensing organization to cultivate, store, and distribute cannabis as per the
Illinois Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act and the Illinois Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Act and any subsequent amendments regulations implementing
same.
   MEDICAL CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER, OR CULTIVATION CENTER. A facility
operated by an organization or business that is registered by the Illinois
Department of Agriculture under the Illinois Compassionate Use of Medical
Cannabis and any subsequent amendments, to perform necessary activities to
provide registered medical cannabis dispensing organization within the State of
Illinois with usable medical cannabis.
   MEDICAL CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER AGENT(S) AND/OR MEDICAL CANNABIS
DISPENSING ORGANIZATION AGENT(S). Shall be defined as provided in the Illinois
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Act and subsequent amendments.
   MEDICAL CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER OR DISPENSING CENTER REGISTRATION, OR
REGISTRATION. A registration issued by the Illinois Department of Agriculture
for the operation of a medical cannabis cultivation center or the Illinois
Department of Financial and Professional Regulation for the operation of a
medical cannabis dispensing organization subject to the provisions of the
Illinois Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Act and subsequent amendments.
   MEDICAL CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION, OR DISPENSING ORGANIZATION, OR
DISPENSARY. A facility operated by an organization or business that is
registered by the Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation
under the Illinois Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Act and subsequent
amendments, to acquire medical cannabis from a registered cultivation center
for the purpose of dispensing cannabis, paraphernalia, or related supplies and
educational materials to registered qualifying patients.
   PRE-EXISTING. Existing as of the date of submission of a petition for the
zoning of a cultivation center or dispensing organization to the City of
Mattoon Zoning Official.
(Ord. 2020-5431, passed 6-2-2020)
§ 120.02 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of these regulations is to provide a uniform and comprehensive
set of standards for the location and development of facilities intended for
the production and distribution of medical cannabis and adult-use cannabis as
provided in the Illinois Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act and the Illinois
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Act and any subsequent amendments. The
intent of these regulations is to protect the public health, safety and
community welfare while allowing the development of centers for the regulated
and controlled production and distribution of cannabis for medical purposes,
and adult-use purposes while ensuring that the provisions of state and city law
are met.
(Ord. 2020-5431, passed 6-2-2020)
§ 120.03 SPECIAL PERMITTED USE.
   Medical cannabis cultivation centers, adult-use cannabis cultivation
centers, adult-use craft growers, adult-use cannabis infusers, and adult-use
processing organizations shall be special permitted uses in the C-D and (I)
Industrial zoning districts on single parcels of land. Medical cannabis
dispensing organizations and adult-use cannabis dispensing organizations shall
be special permitted uses in the C-3, C-4, C-D and (I) Industrial zoning
districts on single parcels of land. Cannabis transporting organizations and
wholesalers shall be a special permitted use in C-4, C-D and (I) Industrial
zoning districts.
(Ord. 2020-5431, passed 6-2-2020)
§ 120.04 CONFORMANCE WITH REGULATIONS.
   Cultivation centers and dispensing organizations, adult-use cultivation
centers, adult-use dispensing organizations, adult-use craft growers, adult-use
cannabis infusers, adult use transporting organizations and adult-use
processing organizations shall conform to and meet all regulations established
by the State of Illinois and the City of Mattoon. Nonconformance may be
considered a dissolution of use, allowing for the revocation of zoning.
(Ord. 2020-5431, passed 6-2-2020)
§ 120.05 PRINCIPAL USE.
   Cultivation centers, adult-use cultivation centers, adult-use craft growers
shall be considered a principal use. Nor shall they be established on multiple-
use property or tenant property, or on a property that shares parking with
other uses. They shall not be located on the same parcel as the offices of a
physician or other medical provider, nor shall they share a facility that
includes the offices of a physician or other medical provider. Dispensing
organizations, adult-use dispensing organizations, adult-use graft growers, and
adult-use infusers shall follow the zoning rules for the zoning district in
which it is located.
(Ord. 2020-5431, passed 6-2-2020)
§ 120.06 PETITION.
   All policies, procedures and standards of § 159.45 (special permitted uses)
shall apply except as otherwise noted in this section. In addition to other
information that may be required of a zoning petition by the Zoning Official,
the petition for a special permitted use (SPU) under this section shall
include:
   (A)   Relevant parties. The name(s), address(es), and phone numbers(s) of
the owner(s), operator(s) and agents(s) of the cultivation center or
dispensary.
   (B)   Site plan. A site plan of the cultivation center or dispensary, drawn
to scale, showing:
      (1)   Boundaries of the facility site and parcel on which the facility
will be located;
      (2)   Nature of the structure to be used for the purpose of medical
cannabis or use production or distribution;
      (3)   Demonstration that the facility meets the conditions for an
enclosed, locked facility;
      (4)   Distance from all facilities and uses requiring setbacks as
described in § 120.07
      (5)   All locally required perimeter setback lines;
      (6)   Public access roads and the location of access drives into the site
with respect to their creating traffic or security hazards;
      (7)   Location of all existing structures on the site with their uses
identified;
      (8)   Current uses, zoning, public roads and structures adjacent to the
site;
      (9)   Location of video surveillance equipment;
      (10)   Proposed lighting of the premises;   
      (11)   Proposed signage for the premises;
      (12)   Location, height and nature of any fences or any other barriers
meant to provide security for the site; and
      (13)   Nature and adequacy of supervision and security at the site.
   (C)   Setbacks. Evidence demonstrating that the cultivation center or
dispensing organization or adult-use cultivation center. Adult-use craft grower
or dispensing organization would meet all requirements of state law regarding
setbacks required in the Illinois Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act and the
Illinois Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Act and any subsequent
amendments.
   (D)   State fees. Evidence demonstrating that all state required fees have
been or can be paid.
   (E)   Limitation of liability.
      (1)   At the time of submission of a zoning petition under this section,
the petitioner shall submit a written acknowledgment that the petitioner agrees
to and accepts the limitations of liability and the requirement to indemnify,
hold harmless and defend the City of Mattoon and the city's employees and
agents, including that: the City of Mattoon shall not be liable to the
cultivation center or dispensing organization, cultivation center's or
dispensing organization's employees, qualifying patients or caregivers,
qualifying patient's or caregiver's employer or employees, family members or
guests, for any damage, injury, accident, loss, compensation or claim, based
on, arising out of, or resulting from the property for which the zoning is
requested being used pursuant to the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis
Pilot Program, including, but not limited to, the following: arrest, seizure of
persons or property, prosecution pursuant to federal or state laws, any fire,
robbery, theft, mysterious disappearance or any other casualty; or the actions
of any other registrants or persons. This limitation of liability provision
shall survive expiration or the early termination of the registration if the
registration is granted, or dissolution of use or any subsequent change in
zoning.
      (2)   At the time of submission of a zoning petition under this section
the petitioner shall submit a written acknowledgment that the petitioner agrees
to and accepts the limitations of liability and the requirement to indemnify,
hold harmless and defend the City of Mattoon and the city's employees and
agents, including that: the City of Mattoon shall not be liable to the adult-
use cultivation center or adult-use dispensing organization. Adult-use
cultivation center's or adult-use dispensing organization's employees,
customers, customer's employer or employees, family members or guests. for any
damage, injury, accident, loss, compensation or claim, based on, arising out
of, or resulting from the property for which the zoning is requested being used
pursuant to the Illinois Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, including, but not
limited to the following: arrest, seizure of persons or property, prosecution
pursuant to federal or state laws any fire, robbery, theft, mysterious
disappearance or any other casualty: or the actions of any other registrants or
persons. This limitation of liability provision shall survive expiration or the
early termination of the registration if the registration is granted, or
dissolution of use or any subsequent change in zoning.
   (F)   Provision of notice. At the time of submission of a zoning petition
under this section, the petitioner shall submit a signed statement certifying
that the petitioner has actual notice that, notwithstanding state law and any
action by the City of Mattoon, that:
      (1)   Cannabis is a prohibited Schedule I controlled substance under
federal law;
      (2)   Participation in either the Illinois Cannabis Regulation and Tax
Act or the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program is permitted
only to the extent provided by the strict requirements of the Act and
subsequent implementing regulations;
      (3)   Any activity not sanctioned by either the Illinois Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act or the Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act and its
subsequent implementing regulations may be a violation of state law and may
result in the revocation of zoning;
      (4)   Growing, distribution or possessing cannabis in any capacity,
except through a federally approved research program, is a violation of federal
law;
      (5)   Use of medical cannabis or adult-use cannabis may affect an
individual's ability to receive federal or state licensure in other areas;
      (6)   Use of medical cannabis or adult-use cannabis , in tandem with
other conduct, may be a violation of state or federal law;
      (7)   Participation in the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot
Program or the Illinois Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act or approval of zoning
by the City of Mattoon does not authorize any person to violate federal or
state law and, other than as set out in Section 25 of the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act or the Illinois Cannabis Regulation and Tax
Act does not provide any immunity from or affirmative defense to arrest or
prosecution under federal or state law; and
      (8)   Petitioners for the zoning of cultivation centers or dispensaries
or adult-use cultivation centers or adult-use dispensaries or adult-use craft
growers or adult-use infusers by the City of Mattoon shall indemnify, hold
harmless, and defend the City of Mattoon for any and all civil or criminal
penalties resulting from participation in the Compassionate Use of Medical
Cannabis Pilot Program the Illinois Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act.
(Ord. 2020-5431, passed 6-2-2020)
§ 120.07 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR CULTIVATION CENTERS, ADULT-USE CULTIVATION
CENTERS AND ADULT-USE CRAFT GROWERS.
   (A)   Location. No cultivation center or adult-use cultivation center shall
be located within 2,500 feet of the property line of a pre-existing public or
private pre-school or elementary or secondary school or day care center, day
care home, group day care home, part day care facility, or an area zoned R-1,
R-2, R-3 or C-D. Such distances shall be measured linearly and shall be the
shortest distance between the closest points of the property lines of the
places. This requirement shall not be subject to variance. If a boundary line
measured touches upon any portion of a parcel or lot, the parcel or lot shall
be within the area being identified by the City Zoning Official.
   (B)   Setback from other cultivation centers-dispensaries. Adult-use
cultivation centers, and adult-use dispensaries. No cultivation center or
adult-use cultivation center or adult-use craft grower may: be located within
1,500 feet of another cultivation center, dispensary, adult-use cultivation
center, or adult-use dispensary or adult-use craft grower absent demonstration
of a variance provided by the Illinois Department of Agriculture or the
Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation. Such setback
shall be measured from property line to property line. Such distances shall be
measured linearly and shall be the shortest distance between the closest points
of the property lines of the places. This requirement shall not be subject to
variance. If a boundary line measured touches upon any portion of a parcel or
lot, the parcel or lot shall be within the area being identified by the City
Zoning Official.
   (C)   Perimeter setbacks of structures on a site. Unless otherwise limited
under this chapter, the perimeter setback for a cultivation center or adult-use
cultivation center or adult-use craft grower shall be the same as that of the
zoning district in which it is located.
   (D)   Minimum yard requirements. Unless otherwise limited under this
chapter, cultivation centers or adult-use cultivation centers must meet the
requirements for the zoning district in which it is located.
   (E)   Parking. Cultivation centers or adult-use cultivation centers shall
minimally have three visitor parking spaces and one parking space per employee
per shift. Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, the parking area shall
meet all requirements for off-street parking and loading applicable to the
zoning district in which it is located. Parking areas shall be lit in
accordance with § 151.02 and monitored by video surveillance equipment whose
live images can be viewed by cultivation center or adult-use cultivation center
staff and continually recorded and stored for 180 days in a tamper proof
format.
   (F)   Exterior signage.
      (1)   Other than the signs as specified in divisions (H)(3) and (4) of
this section, all signage shall be limited to one flat wall sign not to exceed
ten square feet in area, and one identification sign not to exceed two square
feet. This identification sign may only include the cultivation center or
adult-use cultivation center address. Signage shall not be directly
illuminated.
      (2)   Electronic message boards and temporary signs are not permitted.
   (G)   Signs shall not include any realistic or stylized graphical
representation of the cannabis plant or its parts, or any realistic or stylized
graphical representation of drug paraphernalia, or cartoonish imagery oriented
toward youth. Age and access limitations. It shall be unlawful for any
cultivation center, adult-use cultivation center or adult-use craft grower to
allow any person who is not at least 21 years of age on the premises.
Cultivation centers, adult-use cultivation centers or adult-use craft growers
shall not employ anyone under the age of 21 years. Access shall be limited
exclusively to cultivation center, adult-use cultivation center, adult-use
craft grower staff and local and state officials and those specifically
authorized under the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program and
the Illinois Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act and any subsequent amendments.
   (H)   Security and video surveillance.
      (1)   The cultivation center, adult-use cultivation center and adult-use
craft grower shall be an enclosed, locked facility and shall provide and
maintain adequate security on the premises, including lighting, video
surveillance and alarms reasonably designed to ensure the safety of persons and
to protect the premises from theft. The facility shall be enclosed by high
security fence. The fence must be adequately secure to prevent unauthorized
entry and include gates tied to an access control system.
      (2)   The cultivation center, adult- use cultivation center and adult-use
craft grower parking area, cultivation, production, warehousing areas and
shipping bays and entrance shall be monitored by video surveillance equipment
whose live images can be viewed by cultivation center staff and continually
recorded and stored for 180 days in a tamper proof format.
      (3)   A sign shall be posted in a prominent location at each entrance to
the facility which reads: "These premises are under constant video
surveillance."
      (4)   A sign shall be posted in a conspicuous location at each entrance
to the facility that reads: "Persons under 21 years of age not permitted on
these premises."
      (5)   The Zoning Official shall review the adequacy of lighting, security
and video surveillance installations with assistance from the City of Mattoon
Police Chief.
      (6)   The loading of product shall occur within secure enclosed shipping
bays and shall not be visible from the exterior of the building.
      (7)   A medical cannabis cultivation center, adult-use cultivation center
or adult-use craft grower shall report all criminal activities to all
appropriate law enforcement agencies immediately upon discovery.
   (I)   Noxious odors. Cultivation centers, adult-use cultivation centers,
adult-use craft growers, adult-use transporting organizations, and adult-use
processing organizations shall operate in a manner that prevents odor impacts
on neighboring properties and, if necessary, the facility shall be ventilated
with a system for odor control approved by the Coles County Department of
Public Health.
   (J)   Conduct on site. It shall be unlawful to engage in the retail sale of
medical cannabis or medical cannabis infused products at or on the site of a
cultivation center. It shall also be unlawful to cultivate, manufacture,
process or package any product, other than medical cannabis and medical
cannabis infused products, at a cultivation center. It shall be unlawful to
engage in the retail sale of adult-use cannabis or adult-use cannabis infused
products at or on the site of an adult-use cultivation center, a cultivation
center or adult-use craft grower. It shall also be unlawful to cultivate,
manufacture, process or package any product, other than adult-use cannabis and
adult-use cannabis infused products, at an adult-use cultivation center,
cultivation center or adult-use craft grower.
(Ord. 2020-5431, passed 6-2-2020)
§ 120.08 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR DISPENSING ORGANIZATIONS OR ADULT- USE
DISPENSING ORGANIZATIONS.
   (A)   Location.
      (1)   No adult-use dispensing organizations shall be located within 1,500
feet of the property line of a pre-existing dispensary or 1,000 feet of a
public or private preschool or elementary or secondary school. It may not be
located in a house, apartment, condominium, the offices of a physician, or an
area zoned for residential use. These requirements shall not be subject to
variance. Such distances shall be measured linearly and shall be the shortest
distance between the closest points of the property lines of the places. If a
boundary line measured touches upon any portion of a parcel or lot, the parcel
or lot shall be within the area being identified by the City Zoning Official.
      (2)   It is further required they must be a standalone business, no
gaming or alcohol consumption or sale on the premises.
   (B)   Reserved.
   (C)   Parking. The dispensary or adult-use dispensary shall have a minimum
of one parking space per employee, and one for every 200 square feet available
to the public. Unless otherwise provided in this section, the parking area
shall meet all requirements for off-street parking and loading. Parking shall
be located in an area which is visible from a public road that is accessible to
the public. It may not be screened from the roadway with vegetation, fencing or
other obstructions, but such may be allowed with the presentation of evidence
of a safety or security need. Parking areas shall be lit in accordance with §
151.02 and monitored by video surveillance equipment whose live images can be
viewed by dispensing organization staff and continually recorded and stored for
180 days in a tamper proof format.
   (D)   Exterior display. No medical cannabis dispensary or adult-use
dispensary shall be maintained or operated in a manner that causes, creates or
allows the public viewing of medical cannabis, adult-use cannabis, medical
cannabis infused products, adult-use cannabis infused products, cannabis
paraphernalia or similar products from any sidewalk, public or private right-
of-way, or any property other than the lot on which the dispensary or adult-use
dispensary is located. No portion of the exterior of the dispensary or adult-
use dispensary shall utilize or contain any flashing lights, search lights,
spot lights, or any similar lighting system.
   (E)   Exterior signage.
      (1)   All exterior signs shall conform to the provisions set forth in
Title XV of the City of Mattoon Municipal Code. Exterior signs of the
dispensary or adult-use dispensary building shall not obstruct the entrance or
windows of the dispensary.
      (2)   Electronic message boards and temporary signs are not permitted.
      (3)   Signs shall not include any realistic or stylized graphical
representation of the cannabis plant or its parts, smoke, any realistic or
stylized graphical representation of drug paraphernalia, or cartoonish imagery
oriented toward youth.
      (4)   A sign shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near all
dispensary or adult-use dispensary entrances and shall include the following
language: Persons under the age of 21 are prohibited from entering." The
required text shall be no larger than one inch in height.
   (F)   Drug paraphernalia sales. Medical cannabis dispensaries or adult-use
cannabis dispensaries that display or sell drug paraphernalia shall do so in
compliance with the Illinois Drug Paraphernalia Control and the Illinois
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act and the Illinois
Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act and any subsequent amendments
   (G)   Hours of operation. Medical cannabis and adult-use dispensaries shall
operate only between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
   (H)   Age and access limitations. It shall be unlawful for any medical
cannabis or adult-use cannabis dispensary to allow any person who is not at
least 21 years of age on the premises. Dispensaries or adult-use dispensaries
shall not employ anyone under the age of 21 years. Access shall be limited
exclusively to dispensary or adult-use dispensary staff, customers, local and
state officials and those specifically authorized under the Illinois
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act and the Illinois
Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act and any subsequent amendments.
   (I)   Security and video surveillance.
      (1)   The medical cannabis dispensary or adult-use dispensary shall be an
enclosed, locked facility and shall provide and maintain adequate security on
the premises, including lighting, video surveillance and alarms reasonably
designed to ensure the safety of persons and to protect the premises from
theft.
      (2)   The dispensary or adult-use dispensary parking area, client
entrance, sales area, back room, storage areas, and delivery bay and entrance
shall be monitored by video surveillance equipment whose live images can be
viewed by dispensary or adult-use dispensary staff and continually recorded and
stored for 180 days in a tamper proof format.
      (3)   A sign shall be posted in a prominent location which includes the
following language: "These premises are under constant video surveillance."
      (4)   The Zoning Official shall review the adequacy of lighting, security
and video surveillance installations with assistance from the City of Mattoon
Police Department.
      (5)   A medical cannabis dispensary or adult-use dispensary shall report
all criminal activities to all appropriate law enforcement agencies immediately
upon discovery.
      (6)   Deliveries shall occur during normal business hours within a secure
enclosed delivery bay. No delivery shall be visible from the exterior of the
building.
   (J)   Conduct on site.
      (1)   Residential co-location. No person shall reside in or permit any
person to reside in a dispensary or adult-use dispensary or on the property of
same.
      (2)   Drive-through services. Drive thorough services shall be
prohibited. This regulation shall not be varied.
      (3)   Outdoor seating. Outdoor seating shall be prohibited.
      (4)   Loitering. Loitering is prohibited on dispensary property.
      (5)   Smoking and use of cannabis products. It shall be prohibited to
smoke, inhale, or consume cannabis products in the medical cannabis dispensary
or adult-use dispensary or anywhere on the property occupied by the dispensary
or adult-use dispensary. A sign, at least eight and one-half inches by 11
inches, shall be posted inside the dispensary or adult-use dispensary building
in a conspicuous place and visible to a client or customer and shall include
the following language: "Smoking, eating, drinking or other forms of
consumption of cannabis products is prohibited on dispensary property."
      (6)   Noxious odors. Dispensing organizations and adult-use dispensing
organizations shall operate in a manner that prevents odor impacts on
neighboring properties and, if necessary, the facility shall be ventilated with
a system for odor control approved by the Coles County Department of Public
Health.
(Ord. 2020-5431, passed 6-2-2020; Am. Ord. 2022-5449, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 120.09 DISSOLUTION OF USE AND REVOCATION OF ZONING.
   (A)   Failure to obtain state registration.
      (1)   Should a cultivation center, dispensing organization, adult-use
cultivation center, adult-use craft grower, adult-use transporting
organization, adult-use processing organization or adult-use dispensing
organization fail to provide evidence to the Zoning Official that the facility
has achieved its approval of registration from the State of Illinois within 180
days of the approval of its zoning by the City Council, its conditional
permitted use shall become null and void, and the zoning of the parcel shall
revert to that which existed prior to the City Council action which provided
the SPU under this section.
      (2)   Within 90 working days of the date upon which such conditional
permitted use was approved, a cultivation center, dispensing organization,
adult-use cultivation center, adult-use craft grower, adult-use transporting
organization, adult-use processing organization or adult-use dispensing
organization may request of the City Council through the Zoning Official an
extension of the 180 days for an additional 90 days, upon the provision of
evidence providing the cause of the delay and the need for an extension. Such
additional extensions may be allowed only at the discretion of the City
Council.
   (B)   Failure to comply with state and city regulations. Should a
cultivation center, dispensing organization, adult-use cultivation center,
adult-use craft grower, adult-use transporting organization, adult-use
processing organization or adult-use dispensing organization fail to conform to
and meet all laws, rules and regulations established by the State of Illinois
and the City Council pursuant to the production and distribution of medical
cannabis and other associated products as allowed under Illinois Compassionate
Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act and the Illinois Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act and any subsequent amendments this may be considered a dissolution
of use, allowing for the revocation of zoning by the City Council. Should
zoning be revoked, the zoning of the subject parcel shall revert to that which
existed prior to the City Council action which provided for the SPU under this
section.
   (C)   Termination of use. Should a cultivation center, dispensing
organization, adult-use cultivation center, adult-use craft grower, adult use
transporting organization, adult-use processing organization or adult-use
dispensing organization fail to use the property for the purpose under which
the SPU was provided for a period of 180 days, this may be considered
dissolution of use, allowing for the revocation of zoning by the City Council.
Should zoning be revoked, the zoning of the subject parcel shall revert to that
which existed prior to the City Council action, which provided for the SPU
under this section.
(Ord. 2020-5431, passed 6-2-2020)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
Chapter
   
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
   
132.   OFFENSES PERTAINING TO PROPERTY
   
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
   
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
   
135.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
   
136.   GAMBLING OFFENSES
   
137.   WEAPONS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Responsibility for acts
   
130.02   Accessories
   
130.03   Attempt at violations
§ 130.01 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ACTS.
   Every person concerned in the commission of an act prohibited by this code,
whether he directly commits the act, or prosecutes, counsels, aids or abets in
its commission, may be prosecuted and on conviction is punishable as if he has
directly committed such act.
('68 Code, § 1.07)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.02 ACCESSORIES.
   Any person who aids, abets, assists, advises or encourages the commission of
any act prohibited by ordinance, or advises, aids or encourages any child or
other person to do so, or by any direct means procures any such offense to be
committed, or commits an offense to be committed, or commits an offense though
the intervention of an agent, employee or person under his control, shall be
deemed guilty to the same extent, and may be proceeded against in the same
manner as though said offense had been committed by him directly and with his
own hand. Any agent or other person doing any prohibited act for and on behalf
of another, shall be deemed guilty of such act equally with his employer or
principal, and be subject to the penalty provided in this code.
('68 Code, § 42.01)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.03 ATTEMPT AT VIOLATIONS.
   Whoever attempts to commit any offense prohibited by ordinance, and does any
act toward it but fails, or is intercepted or prevented in its execution, where
no express provision is made, shall, on conviction of such attempt, be subject
to the same penalty as prescribed for the actual commission of the offense.
('68 Code, § 42.03)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
   
131.01   Assault
§ 131.01 ASSAULT
   No person shall be guilty of an assault and battery, or of an affray, or
make an assault upon another with a deadly weapon.
('68 Code, § 42.02)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES PERTAINING TO PROPERTY
Section
Theft and Related Offenses
   
132.01   Theft
   
132.02   Possession of burglar tools
Damage and Trespass to Property
   
132.15   Damage to property
   
132.16   Tampering with signal boxes or wires
   
132.17   Trespass to land
THEFT AND RELATED OFFENSES
§ 132.01 THEFT.
   It shall be unlawful to commit theft. A person commits theft when he
knowingly:
   (A)   Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of the owner;
   (B)   Obtains by deception control over property of the owner; or
   (C)   Obtains control over stolen property knowing the property to have been
stolen by another or under such circumstances as would reasonably induce him to
believe that the property was stolen, and
      (1)   Intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of
the property; or
      (2)   Knowingly uses, conceals or abandons the property in such manner as
to deprive the owner permanently of such use or benefit; or
      (3)   Uses, conceals or abandons the property knowing such use,
concealment or abandonment probably will deprive the owner permanently of such
use or benefit.
('68 Code, § 42.43) (Ord. 4295, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 132.02 POSSESSION OF BURGLAR TOOLS.
   No person shall have in his possession any nippers of the description known
as burglar's nippers, or any picklock, skeleton key, key to be used with a bit
or bits, jimmy or other burglar's tools or instrument of whatever kind or
description, unless it be shown that such possession is innocent or for a
lawful purpose.
('68 Code, § 42.32)
Penalty, see § 10.99
DAMAGE AND TRESPASS TO PROPERTY
§ 132.15 DAMAGE TO PROPERTY.
   No person shall willfully and maliciously tear up, injure, deface or destroy
any sidewalk, curbing, or street paving upon any street, alley or public ground
or any sewer or drain, or any other municipal improvement; or any building or
bridge, or any other property real or personal, belonging to the city; or any
property used in any business impressed with a public interest and usually
designated as a public utility, or maliciously or wilfully interfere or meddle
in any way with the operation of any such property.
('68 Code, § 42.33)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 132.16 TAMPERING WITH SIGNAL BOXES OR WIRES.
   No person shall open any signal boxes or break, cut, deface, derange, or in
any manner meddle or interfere with any signal box or fire alarm or telegraph
wires unless it be for the purpose of communicating an alarm of fire.
('68 Code, § 42.15(b))
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 132.17 TRESPASS TO LAND.
   No person shall be found trespassing upon the premises of another or shall
trespass upon any private premises or public grounds, and injure, destroy or
carry away any flower, fruit, vegetable, plant, shrub, tree or other thing.
('68 Code, § 42.40)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
Section
   
133.01   Disorderly conduct
   
133.02   Disturbing the peace
   
133.03   Drunkenness
   
133.04   Keeping of disorderly house
   
133.05   Unlawful assembly
   
133.06   Disturbing assembly
   
133.07   Interference with work
   
133.08   Curfew for minors
   
133.09   Loitering
   
133.10   Vagrancy
   
133.11   Drugs, drug paraphernalia, and synthetic alternative drugs
   
133.12   Truancy
§ 133.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   No person shall disturb the peace, or shall be guilty of any violent,
tumultuous, offensive, or disorderly conduct, or of threatening, traducing,
quarreling, challenging to fight or fighting, or shall use obscene, offensive,
profane or unseemly language to the annoyance, disturbance, or vexation of
another, or shall be guilty of any conduct calculated to provoke a breach of
peace.
('68 Code, § 42.08)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 133.02 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   No person shall disturb the peace and quiet of the city, or of any
neighborhood, family or person, by loud and unusual noise, shouting, singing,
or by tumultuous, offensive, boisterous or unseemly conduct.
('68 Code, § 42.11)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 133.03 DRUNKENNESS.
   No person shall be drunk or shall be in a state of intoxication in any
public place, or in any private house or place to the annoyance of any person.
('68 Code, § 42.12)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 133.04 KEEPING OF DISORDERLY HOUSE.
   No person shall keep a common, ill-governed and disorderly house, to the
encouragement of idleness, gaming, drinking, fornification or other
misbehavior.
('68 Code, § 42.09)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 133.05 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   (A)   Any two or more persons who shall assemble for the purpose of
disturbing the peace, or of committing any unlawful act, shall disperse when
commanded or requested by any peace officer.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly suffer or permit any assemblage for the
purpose of disturbing the peace, or of committing any unlawful act, or shall
permit any breach of the peace, or any riotous, tumultuous, offensive or
disorderly conduct, or any loud or unusual noise or disturbance, or obscene,
offensive, profane or unseemly language, to the annoyance, disturbance or
vexation of others, in or upon any premises owned or occupied by him, or under
his control.
('68 Code, § 42.41)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 133.06 DISTURBING ASSEMBLY.
   No person shall willfully disturb or interrupt any school, or any assembly
met for the worship of God, or any other assembly met for a lawful purpose.
('68 Code, § 42.10)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 133.07 INTERFERENCE WITH WORK.
   No person shall by threat, intimidation or unlawful interference seek to
prevent any other person from working at any lawful business, or shall threaten
violence to the person or property of any witness, juror or public officer on
account of any act done by him in obedience to any duty required of him by law,
or to prevent the performance of such act.
('68 Code, § 42.22)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 133.08 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person who has not attained the age of 18
years to loiter in or wander about the streets or public places in the city
without being on any lawful business or lawful occupation, between the hours of
11:00 p.m. of any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday, and 6:00 a.m.
of the next succeeding day; or between the hours of midnight of any Friday or
Saturday, and 6:00 a.m. of the next succeeding day, unless said person be
accompanied by at least one of his parents or a person in loco parentis to him.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any parent or anyone in loco parentis having
the custody of any person who has yet to attain the age of 18 to knowingly or
willfully cause, aid or encourage any such person to violate this section
supra, or to knowingly or wilfully neglect to do that which will prevent any
such person from violating this section.
('68 Code, § 42.27) (Ord. 3857, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 133.09 LOITERING.
   It shall be unlawful for persons to loiter or congregate upon the stairway,
streets, sidewalks, or alleys in the vicinity of any church, school, theater,
hotel, railroad depot, store, factory, or other public place, to the annoyance,
disturbance, or obstruction of any person. Two or more persons who shall be so
loitering shall disperse when requested to do so by any member of the police
force or any person annoyed thereby.
('68 Code, § 42.24)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 133.10 VAGRANCY.
   No person shall be a vagrant or guilty of vagrancy as defined by the
Illinois Revised Statutes.
('68 Code, § 42.42)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 133.11 DRUGS, DRUG PARAPHERNALIA, AND SYNTHETIC ALTERNATIVE DRUGS.
   (A)   Definitions. All defined terms used in this
Chapter 133 which are not expressly defined herein shall have the meaning
ascribed to such term in the Illinois Controlled Substances Act or the Illinois
Cannabis Control Act. As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise
requires:
      (1)   CANNABIS. Shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Section 3 of the
Illinois Cannabis Control Act, as if that definition were incorporated herein.
      (2)   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES. Shall have the meaning ascribed to it in
Section 102 of the Illinois Controlled Substances Act, as if that definition
were incorporated herein.
      (3)   DELIVER OR DELIVERY. The actual, constructive or attempted transfer
of possession, with or without consideration, whether or not there is an agency
relationship.
      (4)   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
         (a)   All equipment, products and materials of any kind which are
used, intended for use or assigned for use, in planting, propagating,
cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting,
producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging,
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise
introducing into the human body, cannabis or a controlled substance in
violation of the Illinois Cannabis Control Act or the Illinois Controlled
Substances Act. It includes, but is not limited to:
            1.   Kits used, intended for use or designed for use in
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing or preparing
cannabis or controlled substances.
            2.    Isomerization devices used, intended for use of designed for
use in increasing the potency of any species of plant which is cannabis or a
controlled substance.
            3.   Testing equipment used, intended for use or designed for use
in identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of
cannabis or controlled substances.
            4.   Scales and balances used, intended for use or designed for use
in weighing or measuring cannabis or controlled substances.
            5.   Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine, hydrochloride,
mannitol, mannite, dextrose and lactose used, intended for use or designed for
use in cutting cannabis or controlled substances.
            6.   Separation gins and sifters used, intended for use or designed
in removing twigs and seeds from, or in otherwise cleaning or refining
cannabis.
            7.   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons and mixing devices used,
intended for use or designed for use in compounding cannabis or controlled
substances.
            8.   Capsules, balloons, envelopes and other containers used,
intended for use or designed for use in packaging small quantities of cannabis
or controlled substances.
            9.   Containers and other objects used, intended for use or
designed for use in storing or concealing cannabis or controlled substances.
            10.    Hypodermic syringes, needles and other objects used,
intended for use or designed for use in parenterally injecting cannabis or
controlled substances into the human body.
            11.   Objects used, intended for use or designed for use in
ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish or
hashish oil into the human body, such as:
               a.    Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic or ceramic
pipes with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads or punctured
metal bowls.
               b.    Water pipes.
               c.    Carburetion tubes and devices.
               d.    Smoking and carburetion masks.
               e.    Roach clips, meaning objects used to hold burning
material, such as a marijuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short
to be held in the hand.
               f.    Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials.
               g.    Chamber pipes.
               h.    Carburetor pipes.
               I.    Electric pipes.
               j.   Air driven pipes.
               k.    Chillums.
               l.    Bongs.
               m.   Ice pipes or chillers.
         (b)   In determining whether an object is DRUG PARAPHERNALIA, a court
or other authority consider, in addition to all other logically relevant
factors, the following:
            1.   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use.
            2.   Prior convictions, if any, of an owner or of anyone in control
of the object, under any state or federal law relating to any controlled
substance.
            3.   The proximity of the object in time and space to direct
violation of this chapter.
            4.   The proximity of the object to cannabis or controlled
substance.
            5.   The existence of any residue of cannabis or controlled
substances of the object.
            6.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner or
of anyone in control of the object to deliver it to persons whom he or she
knows or should reasonably know intend to use the object to facilitate a
violation of the Illinois Cannabis Control Act or the Illinois Controlled
Substances Act. The innocence of an owner or of anyone in control of the object
as to a direct violation of the Illinois Cannabis Control Act or the Illinois
Controlled Substances Act shall not prevent a finding that the object is
intended for use or assigned for use as “drug paraphernalia”.
            7.    Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object
concerning its use.
            8.   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or
depict its use.
            9.   National and local advertising concerning its use.
            10.   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale.
            11.   Whether the owner or anyone in control of the object is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a
licensed distributer or dealer of tobacco products.
            12.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ration of sales of
the object(s) to the total sales of the business enterprise.
            13.   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in
the community.
            14.   Expert testimony concerning its use.
      (5)   MANUFACTURER. The production, preparation, propagation,
compounding, conversion or processing of cannabis or controlled substances,
either directly or indirectly, by extraction from substances of natural origin,
or independently by means of chemical synthesis, or by a combination of
extraction and chemical synthesis, and includes any packaging or repackaging of
cannabis or controlled substances or labeling of its container; except, that
MANUFACTURER does not include the preparation, compounding, packaging or
labeling of cannabis or controlled substances as an incident to lawful
research, teaching or chemical analysis and not for sale.
      (6)   PRODUCT CONTAINING A SYNTHETIC ALTERNATIVE DRUG. Any product
containing a synthetic cannabinoid, stimulant or psychedelic/ hallucinogen, as
those terms are defined herein, or a drug that is misbranded or falsely
advertised as a product containing a synthetic alternative drug.
      (7)   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, government or governmental
subdivision or agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership or
association, or any other entity.
      (8)   PRODUCE OR PRODUCTION. Planting, cultivating, tending or
harvesting.
      (9)   STATE. Includes the state of Illinois and any state, district,
commonwealth, territory, insular possession thereof, and any area subject to
the legal authority of the United States of America.
      (10)   SYNTHETIC CANNABINOID. Any compound that functions similar to the
active ingredient in marijuana, tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), including, but not
limited to, any quantity of a natural or synthetic material, compound, mixture,
preparation, substance and their analog (including isomers, esters, ethers,
salts, and salts of isomers) containing a cannabinoid receptor agonist.
      (11)   SYNTHETIC PSYCHEDELIC/ HALLUCINOGEN. Any compound that functions
similar to the active ingredient of any substance listed on Schedule 1(d) and
Schedule 111(g) of the Illinois Controlled Substances Act, including, but not
limited to, any quantity of a natural or synthetic material, compound, mixture,
preparation, substance and their “controlled substance analog” (including
salts, isomers, esters, ethers and salts of isomers) which have a psychedelic/
hallucinogenic effect on the central nervous system and/or brain.
      (12)   SYNTHETIC STIMULANT. Any compound that functions similar to the
active ingredient of any substance listed on Schedule 1(f), Schedule 11(d) and
Schedule 111(b) of the Illinois Controlled Substances Act (such as cathinone,
methcathinone, MDMA and MDEA), including, but not limited to, any quantity of a
natural or synthetic material, compound, mixture, preparation, substance and
their “controlled substance analog” (including salts, isomers, and salts of
isomers) which have a stimulant effect on the central nervous system.
   (B)   Unlawful use or possession of drug paraphernalia. It is unlawful for
any person to use or to possess with intent to use drug paraphernalia to plant,
propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce,
process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject,
ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into the human body, cannabis or a
controlled substance in violation of the Illinois Cannabis Control Act or the
Illinois Controlled Substances Act.
   (C)   Possession of ten grams or less of cannabis. It is unlawful for any
person to knowingly possess ten grams or less of any substance containing
cannabis. Any person who violates this section shall be fined an amount not
less than $100 nor more than $200.
   (D)   Delivery or intent to deliver drug paraphernalia.
      (1)   Prohibited generally. It is unlawful for any person to deliver,
possess with intent to deliver or manufacture with intent to deliver drug
paraphernalia knowing, or under circumstances where one reasonably should know,
that it will be used to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest,
manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack,
repack, store, contain, inject, inhale or otherwise introduce into the human
body, cannabis or a controlled substance in violation of the cannabis control
act or the Illinois controlled substances act.
      (2)   Minors. Any person who is at least 18 years of age who violates
division (D)(1) of this section by delivering drug paraphernalia to a person
under 18 years of age who is at least three years his or her junior may be
sentenced to imprisonment for a term up to twice the maximum otherwise
authorized by division (D)(1) of this section.
   (E)   Advertising drug paraphernalia. It is unlawful for any person to place
in any newspaper, magazine, handbill or other publication any advertisement
knowing, or under circumstances where one reasonably should know, that the
purpose of the advertisement, in whole or in part, is to promote the sale of
objects designed or intended for use as drug paraphernalia.
   (F)   Sale or delivery of a synthetic alternative drug. It is unlawful for
any person to sell, offer for sale, publicly display for sale or attempt to
sell, give, deliver, or barter any product containing a synthetic alternative
drug.
   (G)   Possession of a synthetic alternative drug. It is unlawful for any
person to knowingly possess or deliver a product containing a synthetic
alternative drug with the intent of using the product for ingestion,
consumption, inhaling, or intravenous use. In determining intent under this
division, a trier of fact may take into consideration, among other things: the
proximity of the product to drug paraphernalia; the presence of the product on
or within drug paraphernalia; the proximity of the product to a different
controlled substance; and whether or not the individual in possession of the
product is exhibiting physical effects commonly associated with being under the
influence of a controlled substance.
   (H)   Use of a synthetic alternative drug. It is unlawful for any person to
be under the influence of a product containing a synthetic alternative drug.
   (I)   Manufacture. It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture, or
assemble the ingredients with the intent to manufacture, a product containing a
synthetic alternative drug. In determining intent under this division, a trier
of fact may take into consideration, among other things: the proximity of the
product or ingredients to drug paraphernalia; the presence of the product or
ingredients on or within drug paraphernalia; the proximity of the product or
ingredients to a different controlled substance.
   (J)   Penalties.
      (1)   Any person found to be in violation of §
133.11(F) or (I) shall be subject to fine of not less than $750 for each
violation thereof.
      (2)   Any person found to be in violation of §
133.11(G) or (H) shall be subject to fine of not less than $500 and not more
than $750 for each violation thereof.
      (3)   Any person found to be in violation of §
133.11(F), (G), and (I) Section 6, 7, and 9 shall be subject to a fine as
permitted about plus restitution. Restitution shall be the cost of testing the
substance and associated testing expenses of not less than $100 and not more
than $500 for each violation thereof.
      (4)   Each violation of §
133.11, or every day a violation continues to exist, shall constitute a new and
separate violation.
(Ord. 14-5367, passed 4-15-2014; Am. Ord. 2016-5388, passed 9-6-2016)
§ 133.12 TRUANCY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 enrolled in a
public, private or parochial school to absent himself or herself from
attendance at school without parental permission. Any person who shall so
absent himself or herself shall be guilty of the offense of truancy and be
subject to the penalty set forth in this code. Emergency or unforeseen
absenting himself or herself from school without parental permission shall not
constitute truancy if permission for such absence has been substantially
obtained from the parent or guardian of said person and such permission is
submitted in writing to the proper school authorities within 24 hours
immediately following said absence.
   (B)   It is hereby made unlawful for any parent, guardian or other person
having the legal care and custody of any person under 18 years of age to allow
or permit any such child, ward, or other person under such age enrolled in a
public, private or parochial school, to absent himself or herself from
attendance without fully complying with policies and requirement of the school
district in which the child is enrolled.
   (C)   Each day that such person under 18 years of age absents himself or
herself from attendance shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable as such.
(Ord. 2011-5340, passed 12-6-2011) Penalty see §
10.99
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
134.01   Refusing to aid an officer
   
134.02   Resisting or obstructing an officer
   
134.03   Rescuing prisoner
   
134.04   Hindering firefighters; injuring fire apparatus
   
134.05   Impersonating firefighter or official
   
134.06   Falsely representing an officer
§ 134.01 REFUSING TO AID AN OFFICER.
   Any police officer may call upon any male person over the age of 18 years to
aid him in the arrest or retaking in custody, of any person having committed
any unlawful act, and no such person shall neglect or refuse to give such aid
and assistance when so required.
('68 Code, § 3.12)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 134.02 RESISTING OR OBSTRUCTING AN OFFICER.
   No person shall willfully hinder, delay, resist or obstruct any city police
officer, or any person legally authorized by him, in the discharge of his duty,
or shall aid, abet or encourage any such hindering, delaying, resisting or
obstructing, or shall neglect or refuse to obey any lawful order or directions
of any such officer.
('68 Code, § 42.37)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 134.03 RESCUING PRISONER.
   No person shall rescue or attempt to rescue, or shall abet or encourage the
rescue or escape of any person from the custody of any officer or other person
legally having him in charge; or shall molest or interfere with any officer or
other person so legally having any person in custody; or shall aid, abet or
encourage the rescue or escape or the attempt to escape, from any prison, of
any person legally committed thereto, or shall supply or attempt to supply any
such person with any weapon or with any implement or means of escape, or for
attempt to escape.
('68 Code, § 42.38)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 134.04 HINDERING FIREFIGHTERS; INJURING FIRE APPARATUS.
   No person shall offer any hindrance to an officer or firefighter in the
performance of his duty at a fire, or in any manner destroy or deface any
engine or fire apparatus belonging to the city.
('68 Code, § 42.15(a))
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 134.05 IMPERSONATING FIREFIGHTER OR OFFICIAL.
   No person not a member of the Fire Department shall impersonate a
firefighter, or officer of the Fire Department, at a fire, or going to or
returning from a fire, by wearing a cap or badge or in any other way.
('68 Code, § 42.15(e))
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 134.06 FALSELY REPRESENTING AN OFFICER.
   No person shall falsely represent himself to be a police officer of this
city, or shall, without authority, exercise or attempt to exercise any of the
powers, duties or functions of any police officer.
('68 Code, § 42.36)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 135: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
   
135.01   Keeping house of ill fame
   
135.02   Loitering of prostitutes on streets
   
135.03   Public indecency
   
135.04   Obscenity
§ 135.01 KEEPING HOUSE OF ILL FAME.
   (A)   No person shall within the city keep or maintain directly or
indirectly any house of ill fame or house of assignation, or place for the
practice of fornification or adultery, or any bawdy or disorderly house.
   (B)   No person shall be an inmate or occupant of, or shall visit or
frequent or be found in any house of ill fame, bawdy houses, or house of
assignation, or place used for the practice of fornification or adultery within
the city.
   (C)   No person shall, within the city, entice, influence or persuade any
female to enter or frequent any bawdy house, house of ill fame or of
assignation, or place used for the practice of fornification or adultery; or
shall induce any minor to enter, visit or frequent, or shall allow or permit
any minor to remain in such house or place.
   (D)   When any police officer has good reason to believe that any house,
building or room is being used as a house of ill fame, bawdy house, house of
assignation, or place for the practice of fornification or adultery, such
officer may with or without warrant enter such house or place at any time and
place all persons found therein under arrest and take them before some court of
competent jurisdiction for trial. No person shall resist any such officer in
the discharge of his duty in this regard.
('68 Code, § 42.20)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 135.02 LOITERING OF PROSTITUTES ON STREETS.
   No lewd woman or prostitute shall in any manner ply her vocation upon the
streets, alleys, public places or parks of the city by loitering and in any
manner soliciting to acts of lewdness, or who shall be found loitering on the
streets or other public places during the night time.
('68 Code, § 42.25)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 135.03 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   No person shall be guilty of open lewdness, disorderly conduct, or any
indecent exposure of person or of any other act of indecency tending to debauch
public morals.
('68 Code, § 42.21)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 135.04 OBSCENITY.
   (A)   No person shall bring within the limits of the city, for the purpose
of sale or exhibition, or shall sell or offer to sell, or shall give away, or
offer to give away, or shall in any manner exhibit, or shall make, draw, print
or publish any obscene, indecent or scandalous book, pamphlet, newspaper,
journal, print, publication, paper, or writing of any kind, or any obscene,
indecent or lewd picture, drawing, engraving, card, photograph, model, cast or
instrument, or any article of indecent or immoral use, or shall keep or have in
his possession within the city any of the obscene or indecent articles or
things with or without intent to sell or dispose of the same.
('68 Code, § 42.30)
   (B)   No person shall, in any place open to public view, write, mark, draw,
cut or make any obscene or indecent word, sentence, design or figure.
('68 Code, § 42.31)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 136: GAMBLING OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
136.01   Gambling
   
136.02   Interference with seizure of gambling devices
Raffles and Other Games of Chance
   
136.15   Definitions
   
136.16   License required; application
   
136.17   License fee
   
136.18   Denial of license upon certain conditions
   
136.19   Raffles manager; bond
   
136.20   Records of gross receipts to be kept
   
136.21   Conduct of raffles; restrictions
   
136.22   Application of certain limitations
   
136.23   Continuous existence of organization
Statutory reference:
   Illinois Bingo License and Tax Act, see ILCS Ch. 230, Act 25
   Illinois Charitable Games Act, see ILCS Ch. 230, Act 30
   Illinois Lottery Law, see ILCS Ch. 20, Act 1605
   Illinois Pull Tabs and Jar Games Act, see ILCS Ch. 230, Act 20
   Illinois Video Gaming Act, see ILCS Ch. 230, Act 40
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 136.01 GAMBLING.
   (A)   No person shall within the city limits set up, keep or maintain, or
support any gambling house or room, or place used for practice of gaming or
playing for money or property, or anything to represent money, or procure or
permit any person or persons to frequent or to come together to play for money
or other valuable thing, or anything representing money in any such house,
room, or other place occupied by him, or shall keep, use or permit to be kept
or used in any building or place occupied or controlled by such person, any
instrument or device of any character, name or nature used for the purpose of
gaming, or shall keep or have in his possession any gaming instrument or device
of any kind for the purpose of gaming therewith. The magistrate where any trial
for the violation of any of the provisions of this section may be had, shall
order such gaming instrument, table or device to be destroyed.
('68 Code, § 42.18(a))
   (B)   No person shall be an inmate of any gaming house, room or place used
for the purpose of gaming within the city, or shall in any way be connected
therewith, or shall frequent or visit the same, or be found therein; or shall
play for any money or other valuable thing, or for anything representing money
at any game with cards, dice, billiards or any other instrument or device or
shall bet on any such game when played by others.
('68 Code, § 42.18(b))
   (C)   No person knowingly being the agent or owner of any house, building,
or room, hotel, or place for the purpose of gaming, shall suffer or permit such
house, building, room or place to be continued as such after knowledge of the
fact that the same is so used for a gaming house, or that gaming is permitted
therein, and fail to abate such gaming at once upon notice, either verbally or
in writing, by the Chief of Police or any police officer.
('68 Code, § 42.18(c))
   (D)   Provided, however, that the game commonly known as “bingo” when
conducted in accordance with the provisions of the Illinois Bingo License and
Tax Act, “pull tabs” and “jar games” when conducted in accordance with the
provisions of the Illinois Pull Tabs and Jar Games Act, “charitable games” when
conducted in accordance with the provisions of the Illinois Charitable Games
Act, “video gaming” when conducted in accordance with the provisions of the
Illinois Video Gaming Act, “raffles” when conducted in accordance with the
provisions of the City of Mattoon’s Code of Ordinances, and lotteries when
conducted by the State of Illinois in accordance with the Illinois Lottery Law,
shall be permitted and shall not be construed as a violation of this section.
(Ord. 2012-5350, passed 4-17-2012)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 136.02 INTERFERENCE WITH SEIZURE OF GAMBLING DEVICES.
   No person shall resist or obstruct any police officer in seizure or
destruction of any gaming implement, or shall keep or suffer to be kept in any
place occupied by him, any implements such as are used in gaming, or suffer any
implement of that kind to be used upon his premises or any part thereof for the
purposes of gaming for money or other property, or being the owner, occupant,
manager or clerk of any building, room or other place where gaming is done or
where there are good reasons for believing that gaming is done, shall resist or
hinder any police officer from entering such building, room or place when in
the lawful discharge of his duty, either with or without a warrant, upon being
informed of the purpose of such officer.
('68 Code, § 42.18(d))
Penalty, see § 10.99
RAFFLES AND OTHER GAMES OF CHANCE
§ 136.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION. An organization or institution organized and
operated to benefit an indefinite number of the public. The service rendered to
those eligible for benefits must also confer benefit on the public.
   EDUCATIONAL ORGANIZATION. An organization or institution organized and
operated to provide systematic institution and useful branches of learning by
methods common to schools and institutions of learning which compare favorably
in their scope and intensity with the course of study presented in tax
supported schools.
   FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION. An organization of persons having a common interest,
the primary interest of which is to both promote the welfare of its members and
to provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to lessen the
burdens of government by caring for those that otherwise would be cared for by
the government.
   LABOR ORGANIZATION. An organization composed of workers organized with the
objective of betterment of the conditions of those engaged in such pursuit and
the development of a higher degree of efficiency in their respective
occupations.
   NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATION. An organization or institution organized and
conducted on a not-for-profit basis with no personal profit inuring to anyone
as a result of the operation.
   RAFFLE. A form of lottery, as defined in Section 28-2(b) of the Criminal
Code of 1961, conducted by an organization licensed under this subchapter, in
which:
      (1)   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a change
represented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of numbers or by
some other medium, one or more of which chances is to be designated the winning
chance; or
      (2)   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by some
other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the part
of persons conducting or connected with the lottery, except that the winning
chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited sporting
contest.
   RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION. Any church, congregation, society or organization
founded for the purpose of religious worship.
   VETERANS ORGANIZATION. An organization or association comprised of members
of which substantially all are individuals who are veterans or spouses, widows
or widowers of veterans, the primary purpose of which is to promote the welfare
of its members and to provide assistance to the general public in such a way as
to confer a public benefit.
(Ord. 85-4499, passed 12-17-85)
§ 136.16 LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall conduct raffles or chances
without having first obtained a license therefore pursuant to this subchapter.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall issue a license to permit the conduct of raffles
to any bona fide non-profit, charitable, educational, religious, fraternal,
veterans or labor organization. Said license shall be issued only upon written
application signed by the president or secretary or other high officer of the
organization applying for the license.
   (C)   The license and application for license must specify the area or areas
within the city in which raffle chances will be sold or issued; the time period
during which raffle chances will be sold or issued; the time of determination
of winning chances; and the location or locations at which winning chances will
be determined.
   (D)   There are created under this section two classes of licenses:
      (1)   Class A. A license issued for single event raffles which are not of
a continuing nature or conducted on a regular basis.
      (2)   Class B. An annual license issued only to fraternal organizations
which conduct raffles on a continuous and frequent basis throughout the
calendar year.
(Ord. 85-4499, passed 12-17-85; Am. Ord. 94-4769, passed 3-15-94)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 136.17 LICENSE FEE.
   The fee for a Class A license issued under this subchapter shall be $25 and
shall expire upon the award of the prize which is to be awarded pursuant to the
raffle. The fee for a Class B license shall be $100 per year and shall be in
full force and effect from May 1 of each year until April 30 of the following
year.
(Ord. 85-4499, passed 12-17-1985; Am. Ord. 94-4769, passed 3-15-1994)
§ 136.18 DENIAL OF LICENSE UPON CERTAIN CONDITIONS.
   No license shall be issued to any of the following:
   (A)   Any person who has been convicted of a felony.
   (B)   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter.
   (C)   Any person who is not of good moral character.
   (D)   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in divisions (A)
through (C) of this section has a proprietary, equitable or credit interest, or
in which such a person is active or employed.
   (E)   Any organization in which a person defined in divisions (A) through
(C) of this section is an officer, director or employee, whether compensated or
not.
   (F)   Any organization in which a person defined in divisions (A) through
(C) of this section, is to participate in the management or operation of a
raffle as defined in this act.
(Ord. 85-4499, passed 12-17-1985)
§ 136.19 RAFFLES MANAGER; BOND.
   All operation of the conduct of raffles shall be under the supervision of a
single raffles manager designated by the organization. The manager shall give a
fidelity bond in the sum of $5,000 in favor of the organization applying for
the license. The fidelity bond shall provide that notice shall be given in
writing to the city not less than 30 days prior to its cancellation. The
requirement of this bond shall be waived if the application states that the
members of the organization applying for the license have requested the waiver
of the fidelity bond by unanimous vote.
(Ord. 85-4499, passed 12-17-1985)
§ 136.20 RECORDS OF GROSS RECEIPTS TO BE KEPT.
   (A)   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles and chances shall keep
records of its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds for each single
gathering or occasion at which winning chances are determined. All deductions
from gross receipts for each single gathering or occasion shall be documented
with receipts or other records indicating the amount, a description of the
purchased item or service or other reason for the education, and the recipient.
The distribution of the net proceeds shall be itemized as to payee, purposes,
amount and date of payment.
   (B)   Gross receipts from the operation of raffles programs shall be
segregated from other revenues of the organization, including bingo gross
receipts, if bingo games are also conducted by the same nonprofit organization
pursuant to license therefor issued by the Department of Revenue of the state,
and placed in a separate account. Each organization shall have separate records
of its raffles. The person who accounts for gross receipts, expenses and net
proceeds from the operation of raffles shall not be the same person who
accounts for other revenues of the organization.
   (C)   The licensee shall report promptly after the conclusion of each raffle
to its membership, and to the city, its gross receipts, expenses and net
proceeds from raffles, and the distribution of net proceeds itemized as
required in this section.
   (D)   Records required by this section shall be preserved for three years,
and licensees shall make available their records relating to operation of
raffles for public inspection at reasonable times and places.
(Ord. 85-4499, passed 12-17-1985)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 136.21 CONDUCT OF RAFFLES; RESTRICTIONS.
   The conduct of raffles is subject to the following restrictions:
   (A)   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purposes of the organization permitted to conduct that game.
   (B)   No person except a bona fide member of the sponsoring organization may
participate in the management or operation of the raffle.
   (C)   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating in
the management or operation of the raffle.
   (D)   A licensee may rent a premises on which to determine the winning
chance or chances in a raffle only from an organization which is also licensed
under this act.
   (E)   Raffle change may be sold or issued only within the area specified on
the license and winning chances may be determined only at those locations
specified on the license.
   (F)   No person under the age of 18 may participate in the conducting of the
raffles or chances. A person under the age of 18 may be within the area where
winning chances are being determined only when accompanied by his parents or
guardian.
(Ord. 85-4499, passed 12-17-1985)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 136.22 APPLICATION OF CERTAIN LIMITATIONS.
   The following limitations shall apply to all licenses:
   (A)   The aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise awarded by a
licensee in a single raffle shall not be limited.
   (B)   The maximum retail value of each prize awarded by a licensee in a
single raffle shall not be limited.
   (C)   The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance issued
or sold shall not exceed $100.
   (D)   The maximum number of days during which chances may be issued or sold
for any raffle shall not exceed 180 days.
   (E)   Each license shall be valid for only one raffle.
(Ord. 85-4499, passed 12-17-1985; Am. Ord. 2005-5197, passed 1-18-2005)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 136.23 CONTINUOUS EXISTENCE OF ORGANIZATION.
   Licenses must be organizations as previously defined in this subchapter and
must be organizations which have been in existence continuously for a period of
not less than five years immediately prior to making application for a license
under this subchapter.
(Ord. 85-4499, passed 12-17-1985)
CHAPTER 137: WEAPONS
Section
   
137.01   Discharge of firearms
   
137.02   Carrying concealed weapons
   
137.03   Slingshots
§ 137.01 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   No person except a police officer shall, in the city, fire or discharge any
pistol or other firearm unless he is on an established shooting range.
('68 Code, § 42.14)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 137.02 CARRYING CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   No person shall carry concealed upon or about his person any pistol,
revolver, derringer, switchblade, knife, dirk, slingshot, metallic knuckles, or
a razor as a weapon, or any other deadly weapon of like character, capable of
being concealed upon the person, or shall in a threatening or boisterous manner
flourish or display the same. This section does not apply to peace officers
while in the discharge of their official duties.
('68 Code, § 42.07)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 137.03 SLINGSHOTS.
   The use or possession of slingshots or similar instruments or devices, for
the projection or throwing of stones, bullets or any hard substance is
prohibited.
('68 Code, § 42.39)
Penalty, see § 10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
Chapter
   
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
   
151.   ELECTRICAL CODE
   
152.   FENCE CONSTRUCTION
   
153.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
   
154.   OIL AND GAS WELLS
   
155.   PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
   
156.   PLUMBING CODE
   
157.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
   
158.   TRAILER COACH PARKS
   
159.   ZONING
   
160.   SIGNS
   
161.   STORM WATER DETENTION
   
162.   LANDSCAPING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Code
   
150.01   Adoption of International Building Code
   
150.02   Revisions to the International Building Code
   
150.03   Adoption of the International Existing Building Code
   
150.04   Revisions to the International Existing Building Code
One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code
   
150.10   Adoption of International Residential Code for one- and two-family
dwellings
   
150.11   Revisions to the International Residential Code for one- and two-
family dwellings
Fire Code
   
150.20   Adoption of International Fire Code
   
150.21   Revisions to the International Fire Code
Mechanical Code
   
150.30   Adoption of International Mechanical Code
   
150.31   Revisions to the International Mechanical Code
Property Maintenance Code
   
150.40   Adoption of International Property Maintenance Code
   
150.41   Revisions to the International Property Maintenance Code
Policy on Waiver or Reduction of Fees
   
150.70   Statement of policy
 
   
150.99   Penalty
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE.
   The International Building Code, 2024 edition, and all supplements thereto
and hereafter, as published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby
adopted as the Building Code of the city for regulating and governing the
conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings and structures; by
providing the standards for supplied utilities and facilities and other
physical things and conditions essential to ensure that structures are safe,
sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the condemnation of buildings and
structures unfit for human occupancy and use and the demolition of such
structures as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits and
collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions and terms of said Building Code on file in the office of
the City Clerk are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof, as if
fully set out in this chapter, with the additions, insertions, deletions and
changes, if any, prescribed in §
150.02.
(Ord. 2004-5191, passed 10-21-2004; Am. Ord. 2024-5485, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 150.02 REVISIONS TO THE INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE.
   The following sections of the International Building Code are hereby
revised:
   (A)   Section 101.1. Title. Insert name of jurisdiction: City of Mattoon,
Coles County, State of Illinois.
   (B)   Section 105.2. Work exempt from permit. Delete: Fences not over 6 feet
(1829 mm) high. Insert: Siding and replacement windows with no structural
changes.
   (C)   Section 109.2. Schedule of permit fees. Change: On buildings,
structures, electrical, gas, mechanical and plumbing systems or alterations
requiring a permit, a fee for each permit shall be paid in accordance with §
35.01(E)(1).
   (D)   Delete Section 113.1. Board of Appeals. Replace Board of Appeals with
“City Manager.”
   (E)   Section 1612.3. Establishment of flood hazard areas. Insert name of
jurisdiction: City of Mattoon, Coles County, Illinois. Insert date of issuance
of flood insurance study: December 18, 1985.
   (F)   Section 3410.2. Applicability of compliance alternatives. Insert:
Structures existing prior to January 1, 2005 in which there is work involving
additions, alterations or changes of occupancy shall be made to conform to the
requirements of this section or the provisions of Sections 3403 through 3407.
The provisions in Sections 3410.2.1 through 3410.2.5 shall apply to existing
occupancies that will continue to be, or are proposed to be, in Groups A, B, E,
F, M, R, S and U. These provisions shall not apply to buildings with
occupancies in Group H or I.
(Ord. 2004-5191, passed 10-21-2004; Am. Ord. 2010-5290, passed 4-6-2010; Am.
Ord. 2024-5485, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 150.03 ADOPTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE.
   The International Existing Building Code 2024 edition, and all supplements
thereto and hereafter, as published by the International Code Council, be and
is hereby adopted as the Building Code of the city for regulating and governing
the conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings and structures; by
providing the standards for supplied utilities and facilities and other
physical things and conditions essential to ensure that structures are safe,
sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the condemnation of buildings and
structures unfit for human occupancy and use and the demolition of such
structures as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits and
collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions and terms of said Building Code on file in the Office of
the City Clerk are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof, as if
fully set out in this chapter, with the additions, insertions, deletions and
changes, if any, prescribed in §
150.04.
(Ord. 2024-5485, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 150.04 REVISIONS TO THE INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE.
   The following sections of the International Existing Building Code are
hereby revised: Not applicable.
(Ord. 2024-5485, passed 12-17-2024)
ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY DWELLING CODE
§ 150.10 ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE FOR ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY
DWELLINGS.
   The International Residential Code, 2024 edition, and all supplements
thereto and hereafter, as published by the International Code Council,
including all of the Appendix Chapters except Appendix I (Private Sewage
Disposal) and Appendix L (Electrical Code Provisions) be and is hereby adopted
as the Residential Code of the city for regulating and governing the
construction, alteration, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair,
equipment, location, removal and demolition of detached one- and two-family
dwellings and multiple single-family dwellings (townhouses) not more than three
stories in height with separate means of egress as herein provided; providing
for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all
of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said
Residential Code on file in the office of the City Clerk are hereby referred
to, adopted and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this chapter, with
the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in §
150.11.
(Ord. 2004-5191, passed 10-21-2004; Am. Ord. 2024-5485, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 150.11 REVISIONS TO THE INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE FOR ONE- AND TWO-
FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   The following sections of the International Residential Code for one- and
two-family dwellings are hereby revised:
   (A)   Section R101.1. Title. Insert name of jurisdiction: City of Mattoon,
Coles County, State of Illinois.
   (B)   Section R105.2. Work exempt from permit. Change: One-story detached
accessory structures used as tool and storage sheds, playhouses and similar
uses, provided the floor area does not exceed 120 square feet (11.5 m). Delete:
Fences not over 6 feet (1829 mm) high. Insert: Siding and replacement windows
with no structural changes.
   (C)   Section R108.2. Schedule of permit fees. Change: On buildings,
structures, electrical, gas, mechanical and plumbing systems or alterations
requiring a permit, a fee for each permit shall be in accordance with § 35.01
(E)(1).
   (D)   Delete Section R112. Board of Appeals. Replace Board of Appeals with
“City Manager.”
   (E)   Insert: Table R301.2 (1).
 
Table R301.2(1) Climatic and Geographic Design Criteria
                       Seismic  Subject to  Subject to  Subject to  Subject to
Ground snow Wind speed design   damage from damage from damage from damage from
load        (mph)      category weathering  frost line  termite     decay
                                            depth
20 lb/ft 2  90         C        Severe      3 feet      Moderate to Slight to
                                                        heavy       moderate
 
 
Winter design Ice shield
temp          underlament Flood hazards Air freezing index Mean annual temp
              required
0°F          Yes         12/18/85      1,500              0°F
   (F)   Delete: Chapters 25 through 32. The Illinois Plumbing License Law
(ILCS Ch. 225, Act 320) promulgates the minimum plumbing code of standards
applicable throughout the state of Illinois.
   (G)   Delete: Chapters 34 through 42. The National Electric Code adopted at
Chapter 151 of the Mattoon Code of Ordinances establishes requirements
applicable to electrical systems within the city.
   (H)   Adopt Appendix BM, 3D-Printed Building Construction.
   (I)   Adopt Appendix BL, Hemp-Lime (Hempcrete) Construction.
   (J)   Appendix BM and Appendix BL. Add: “In the event that the Building
Inspector has concerns about the structural integrity of a Hemp- Lime or 3D
Printed Building, they may request a architect’s or structural engineer’s
approval of the proposed structure.”
   (K)   Delete: Section R309.1 Townhouse Automatic Sprinkler Systems. Replace
with: “When installed, automatic residential fire systems shall be designed and
installed in accordance with Section P2904 or NFPA 13D.”
   (L)   Delete: Section R309.2 One- and Two-Family Dwellings Automatic
Sprinkler Systems. Replace with: “When installed, automatic residential fire
systems shall be designed and installed in accordance with Section P2904 or
NFPA 13D.”
(Ord. 2004-5191, passed 10-21-2004; Am. Ord. 2010-5290, passed 4-6-2010; Am.
Ord. 2024-5485, passed 12-17-2024)
FIRE CODE
§ 150.20 ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE.
   The International Fire Code, 2024 edition, and all supplements thereto and
hereafter, as published by the International Code Council, including all of the
Appendix Chapters except Appendix A (Board of Appeals), Appendix B (Fire Flow
Requirements for Buildings), Appendix C (Fire Hydrant Locations and
Distribution), be and is hereby adopted as the Fire Code of the city regulating
and governing the safeguarding of life and property from fire and explosion
hazards arising from the storage, handling and use of hazardous substances,
materials and devices and from conditions hazardous to life or property in the
occupancy of buildings and premises as herein provided; providing for the
issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Fire Code on
file in the office of the City Clerk are hereby referred to, adopted and made a
part hereof, as if fully set out in this chapter, with the additions,
insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in §
150.21.
(Ord. 2004-5191, passed 10-21-2004; Am. Ord. 2024-5485, passed 12-17-2024)
§ 150.21 REVISIONS TO THE INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE.
   The following sections of the International Fire Code are hereby revised
   (A)   Section 101.1. Title. Insert name of jurisdiction: City of Mattoon,
Coles County, State of Illinois.
   (B)   Section 109.3. Violation penalties. Change: Persons who shall violate
a provision of this code or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements
thereof or shall erect, install alter, repair or do work in violation of the
approved construction documents or directive of the Fire Chief, or of a permit
or certificate used under the provisions of this code, shall be subject to
penalties established at §
10.99 of the Mattoon Code of Ordinances.
   (C)   Section 111.4. Failure to comply. Change: Any person who shall
continue any work after having been served with a stop-work order, except that
work as that person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe
condition, shall be subject to penalties established at §
10.99 of the Mattoon Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 2004-5191, passed 10-21-2004)
MECHANICAL CODE
§ 150.30 ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE.
   The International Mechanical Code, 2003 edition, and all supplements thereto
and hereafter, as published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby
adopted as the Mechanical Code of the city regulating and governing the design,
construction, quality of materials, erection, installation, alteration, repair,
location, relocation, replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of
mechanical systems as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits
and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Mechanical Code on file in
the office of the City Clerk are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part
hereof, as if fully set out in this chapter, with the additions, insertions,
deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in §
150.31.
(Ord. 2004-5191, passed 10-21-2004)
§ 150.31 REVISIONS TO THE INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE.
   The following sections of the International Mechanical Code are hereby
revised.
   (A)   Section 101.1. Title. Insert name of jurisdiction: City of Mattoon,
Coles County, State of Illinois.
   (B)   Section 106.5.2. Fee schedule. Change: On buildings, structures,
electrical, gas, mechanical and plumbing systems or alterations requiring a
permit, a fee for each permit shall be paid in accordance with §
35.01(E)(1).
   (C)   Section 106.5.3. Fee refunds. Insert: The code official shall
authorize the refunding of fees as follows:
      (1)   The full amount of any fee paid hereunder which was erroneously
paid or collected.
      (2)   Not more than 100% of the permit fee paid when no work has been
done under a permit issued in accordance with this code.
      (3)   Not more than 100% of the plan review fee paid when an application
for a permit for which a plan review fee has been paid is withdrawn or canceled
before any plan review effort has been expended.
      (4)   The code official shall not authorize the refunding of any fee
paid, except on written application filed by the original permittee not later
than 180 days after the date of the fee payment.
   (D)   Section 108.4. Violation penalties. Change: Persons who shall violate
a provision of this code or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements
thereof or who shall erect, install, alter or repair mechanical work in
violation of the approved construction documents or directive of the code
official, or of a permit of certificate issued under the provisions of this
code, shall be subject to penalties established at §
10.99 of the Mattoon Code of Ordinances
   (E)   Delete Section 109.2. Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 2004-5191, passed 10-21-2004; Am. Ord. 2010-5290, passed 4-6-2010)
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
§ 150.40 ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   The International Property Maintenance Code, 2003 edition, and all
supplements thereto and hereafter, as published by the International Code
Council, be and is hereby adopted as the Property Maintenance Code of the city
for the regulating and governing of the conditions and maintenance of all
property, buildings and structures; by providing for the standards for supplied
utilities and facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to
ensure that structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and
the condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use,
and the demolition of such existing structures as herein provided; providing
for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all
of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said
Property Maintenance Code on file in the office of the City Clerk are hereby
referred to, adopted and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this
chapter, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any,
prescribed in §
150.41.
(Ord. 2004-5191, passed 10-21-2004)
§ 150.41 REVISIONS TO THE INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   The following sections of the International Property Maintenance Code are
hereby revised.
   (A)   Section 101.1. Title. Insert name of jurisdiction: City of Mattoon,
Coles County, State of Illinois.
   (B)   Section 103.5. Fees. Change: Costs for activities and services
performed by the city in carrying out its responsibilities under this code
shall be recovered according to procedures provided for abating public nuisance
conditions at
Chapter 95 of the Mattoon Code of Ordinances.
   (C)   Delete Section 111.2. Board of Appeals.
   (D)   Section 302.4. Weeds. Change: All premises and exterior property shall
be maintained free from weeds or plant growth in excess of eight inches. All
noxious weeds shall be prohibited. Weeds shall be defined as all grasses,
annual plants and vegetation, other than trees or shrubs; provided, however,
this term shall not include cultivated flowers and gardens. Upon failure of the
owner or agent having charge of a property to cut and destroy weeds after
service of a notice violation, they shall be subject to abatement and
prosecution in accordance with procedures provided for abating public nuisance
conditions at
Chapter 95 of the Mattoon Code of Ordinances.
   (E)   Section 304.14. Insect screens. Insert: During the period from April 1
to October 31, every door, window and other outside opening required for
ventilation of habitable rooms, food preparation areas, food service areas or
any areas where products to be included or utilized in food for human
consumption are processed, manufactured, packaged or stored, shall be supplied
with approved tightly fitting screens of not less than 16 mesh per inch and
every swinging door shall have a self-closing device in good working condition.
   (F)   Section 602.3. Heat supply. Insert: Every owner and operator of any
building who rents, leases or lets one or more dwelling unit, rooming unit,
dormitory, or guestroom on terms, either expressed or implied, to furnish heat
to the occupants thereof shall supply heat during the period from October 15 to
April 15 to maintain a temperature of not less than 68F in all habitable rooms,
bathrooms and toilet rooms.
   (G)   Section 602.4. Occupiable work spaces.  Insert: Indoor occupiable work
spaces shall be supplied with heat during the period from October 15 to April
15 to maintain a temperature of not less than 65F during the period the spaces
are occupied.
(Ord. 2004-5191, passed 10-21-2004)
 
POLICY ON WAIVER OR REDUCTION OF FEES
§ 150.70 STATEMENT OF POLICY.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation, public or private, organized for profit,
shall be granted a waiver of any fee, tax, account, or other financial
obligation due to the city, unless same is entitled to such waiver pursuant to
the terms and provisions of Ordinance 89-4623, An Ordinance Establishing the
Coles Together Enterprise Zone Within the City of Mattoon, Illinois.
   (B)   Organizations or corporations that are designated not-for-profit by
the Internal Revenue Service shall, upon application, be entitled to an
exemption from fees for building permits, plumbing permits, electrical permits,
street cut permits and other permits for which revenue is reported in the
General Fund.
(Ord. 96-4842, passed 4-16-1996; Am. Ord. 98-4963, passed 11-3-1998; Am. Ord.
2005-5198, passed 2-1-2005)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, use, occupy or maintain any
building, property or other structure in violation of any provisions of this
code or to cause, permit or suffer any such violation to be committed. Any such
person shall be deemed guilty of a petty offense and upon conviction shall be
punished by a fine according to the general penalty of §
10.99. It shall be the responsibility of the offender to abate the violation as
expeditiously as possible, and each day that such violation is permitted to
continue shall constitute a separate offense. The city may seek other remedies,
legal and equitable, in addition to the provisions of this penalty clause.
(Ord. 86-4514, passed 8-5-1986; Am. Ord. 93-4743, passed 9-21-1993; Am. Ord.
94-4794, passed 1-3-1995; Am. Ord. 2009-5281, passed 9-15-09)
CHAPTER 151: ELECTRICAL CODE
Section
   
151.01   National Electric Code adopted
   
151.02   Lot lighting
   
151.03   Provisions superseded by local amendment
   
151.04   Article 80 adopted by reference
   
151.05   Provisions changed or supplemented
   
151.06   Certificate of registration
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 NATIONAL ELECTRIC CODE ADOPTED.
   The National Electric Code® (NEC®), as it may be amended from time to time,
is hereby adopted as the code of the city for regulating the design,
construction, quality of materials, erection, installation, alteration, repair,
location, relocation, replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of
electrical systems in the city.
(Ord. 2013-5362, passed 4-2-2013; Am. Ord. 2016- 5391, passed 12-20-2016)
§ 151.02 LOT LIGHTING.
   Any light used for illumination of buildings, signs, parking areas,
security, or for any other purposes shall be arranged so as to contain direct
lighting on the property on which the light source is located and away from
nearby residential properties and the vision of motorist on adjacent streets.
The cone of light from any light source other than a street light shall not
extend onto adjacent residential property or pavement.
   (A)   Outdoor lighting design.
      (1)   All commercial and industrial outdoor lighting shall be fully-
shielded (full-cutoff) as defined in this chapter. The city may waive this
requirement to allow for appropriate historic or decorative lighting fixtures.
      (2)   All outdoor lighting shall be so designed and placed as to limit
light trespass onto adjacent lots. Light levels at lot lines, with the
exception of ingress and egress points, shall be a maximum of one-half
footcandles.
      (3)   The average light level for all parking areas shall fall between
one and two footcandles. Light levels shall not exceed a minimum to maximum
ratio of 8:1, or an average to minimum ratio of 6:1. Increased light levels for
gas stations and retail car dealerships may be granted, but shall not exceed a
maximum of 30 footcandles or an average of 25 footcandles.
      (4)   The mounting height of outdoor lighting shall not exceed the
average roof height of the principal building to which it relates or 40 feet,
whichever is less. Unshielded residential and pedestrian fixtures shall not
exceed ten feet in height.
      (5)   In all multi-lot developments, unified lighting standards,
including mounting height and fixture style, shall be required.
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Luminaries used for public-roadway illumination shall be exempt
from the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   All temporary emergency lighting needed by the police or fire
departments, public utilities, or other emergency services, as well as all
vehicular luminaries, shall be exempt from the requirements of this chapter.
      (3)   All hazard-warning luminaries required by federal and state
regulatory agencies are exempt from the requirements of this chapter.
      (4)   Outdoor lighting for recreational facilities shall be exempt from
footcandle standards set forth in division (A). However, lighting at these
types of facilities shall not exceed IES (Illuminating Engineering Society)
standards for the type of field and use. Recreational facilities shall
otherwise adhere to the standards set forth in division (A) above.
(Ord. 2013-5362, passed 4-2-2013; Am. Ord. 2016- 5391, passed 12-20-2016)
§ 151.03 PROVISIONS SUPERSEDED BY LOCAL AMENDMENT.
   The following sections of the 2008 NEC® are hereby superseded by local
amendment.
   (A)   110.12 Mechanical Execution of Work. Electrical equipment, as defined
in the NEC, shall be installed in a neat and workmanlike manner.
      (1)   Neat and workmanlike manner will be reasonably determined by the
electrical inspector.
      (2)   Neat and workmanlike includes but is not limited to: proper bends
in conduit, proper support, and the elimination of exposed cable runs, field-
bent, kinked, flattened, or poorly measured raceway, as well as cabinets,
boxes, and enclosures not plumb or properly secured.
   (B)   230.70(A)(1) Service Disconnect. The service disconnecting means shall
be installed at a readily accessible location either outside of a building or
structure or inside nearest the point of entrance of the service conductors.
Except where an electric utility may prescribe more stringent requirements, in
locations where the main panel is greater than 15-cable feet from the meter, a
weatherproof protective disconnect shall be installed adjacent to the meter
installation.
   (C)   250.122 Size of Equipment Grounding Conductor. All new single phase
wiring done will be four-wire with an equipment grounding conductor sized in
accordance with table 250.122 in the 2008 NEC. All Three Phase WYE systems will
have a separate grounding conductor sized as well.
      (1)   It will not be acceptable to use a metallic raceway for grounding
conductor purposes.
   (D)   300.5(F) Backfill in Underground Installations. Backfill that contains
large rocks, paving materials, cinders, large or sharply angular substances, or
corrosive material shall not be placed in an excavation where materials may
damage raceways, cable, or other substructures or prevent adequate compaction
of fill or contribute to corrosion of raceway, cable, or other substructures.
Where necessary to prevent physical damage to the raceway or cable, protection
shall be provided in the form of granular or selected material, suitable
running boards, suitable sleeves, or other approved means.
      (1)   “Large rocks” are defined as particles incapable of passing through
a ½" sieve with square openings.
      (2)   Crushed gravel, as defined by the Illinois Department of
Transportation’s Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction
(adopted January 1, 2002) shall not be allowed.
   (E)   334.10 Nonmetallic-sheathed Cable Uses Permitted. Type NM, Type NMC
and Type NMS nonmetallic-sheathed cable may ONLY be used in dwellings not to
exceed four units (residential installations for the purpose of this ordinance)
and commercial structures utilizing a 200 ampere single phase service or less.
Furthermore this cable shall be sized no smaller than #12, unless on a switched
leg, or by special permission of the electrical inspector.
      (1)   Unless special permission is granted, anything other than the
installations mentioned above (commercial installations for the purpose of this
ordinance) shall be installed in approved metallic raceway, no smaller than
metric designator 16 (trade size ½").
      (2)   Metallic sheathed cable of metric designator 12 (trade size 3/8")
may be used in no lengths greater than 6', and where not exposed to physical
damage, to facilitate the wiring of branch circuit receptacles, and lighting
whip. Longer lengths may be permitted with special permission of the electrical
inspector.
   (F)   406.12 Tamper-Resistant Receptacles other than Dwelling Units. Within
the following areas all 125-volt, 15- and 20-ampere receptacles shall be listed
tamper-resistant receptacles.
      (1)   In all areas publicly accessible, this includes but is not limited
to all dining areas, waiting areas and the like.
      (2)   In all areas of transient occupancy such as hotel rooms, motel
rooms, and extended stay suites.
   (G)   550.32(A) Mobile Home Service Equipment.
      (1)   Mobile homes shall have a minimum 1-1/2 inch conduit for service
entrance conductors. This conduit shall be run from the service disconnect to
at least one foot inside the outer wall line of the mobile home.
         (a)   The conduit shall be run a minimum of 18 inches below grade from
the service equipment to under the mobile home where it shall be brought up to
a minimum of 6 inches above grade.
         (b)   This conduit shall have a weatherproof junction box sized in
accordance with the latest edition of the NEC ® for terminating the conductors
from the service disconnect to the mobile home.
      (2)   The mobile home park owner, rather than a tenant, shall furnish and
install the mobile home service equipment.
      (3)   The owner of a mobile home must obtain a permit before connecting
to the main power supply. After the mobile home has been connected to the power
supply, the owner or contractor who obtained the permit must call for a final
inspection.
   (H)   760.49 Non-Power Limited Fire Alarm Circuit Conductors.
      (D)   Raceway Identification. Conductors supplying NPLFA circuits shall
be installed in metallic raceway, no smaller than trade size 1/2 inch and
continuously red in color.
   (I)   760.176 Listing and Marking of Power Limited Fire Alarm Circuit
Cables.
      (H)   Cable Color. Cables supplying NPLFA circuits shall be continuously
red in color.
(Ord. 2013-5362, passed 4-2-2013; Am. Ord. 2016- 5391, passed 12-20-2016; Am.
Ord. 2017-5396, passed 11-7-2017)
§ 151.04 ARTICLE 80 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Article 80 of the 2008 edition of the NEC® is hereby adopted to provide for
the administration and enforcement of the NEC® except as amended by §
151.05 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-5362, passed 4-2-2013; Am. Ord. 2016- 5391, passed 12-20-2016)
§ 151.05 PROVISIONS CHANGED OR SUPPLEMENTED.
   The following sections of Article 80 of the 2008 edition of the NEC® are
hereby changed or supplemented by local amendment.
   (A)   80.9. Application.
      (A)   New Installations. This Code applies to new installations.
Buildings with construction permits dated after the effective date of this Code
shall comply with its requirements.
      (B)   Existing Installations. Existing electrical installations that do
not comply with the provisions of this Code shall be permitted to continue in
use unless the Electrical Inspector determines that the lack of conformity with
this Code presents an imminent danger to occupants. Where changes are required
for correction of hazards, a reasonable amount of time shall be given for
compliance, depending on the degree of the hazard.
      (C)   Additions, Alterations or Repairs. Additions, alterations or
repairs to any building, structure or premises shall conform to that required
of a new building without requiring the existing building to comply with all
the requirements of this Code. Additions, alternations, installations or
repairs shall not cause an existing building to become unsafe or to adversely
affect the performance of the building as determined by the Electrical
Inspector. Electrical wiring added to any existing service, feeder or branch
circuit shall not result in an installation that violates the provisions of the
Code in force at the time the additions are made.
      (D)   Policy Regarding Existing Installations. Strict enforcement of
updated versions of national codes could make continued use or reuse of
existing buildings and structures technically unfeasible or impose
disproportionate costs due to characteristics that may not be in compliance
with updated versions of the national codes. The various national codes
occasionally grant interpretative latitude and administrative discretion to the
officials responsible for code enforcement. It is the policy of the City
Council to encourage the continued use or reuse of existing buildings and
structures throughout the City of Mattoon. The provisions of updated versions
of national building, electrical and fire codes relating to the repair,
alteration, restoration and change of occupancy shall not be mandatory for
existing structures where such structures are judged to not constitute a
distinct life safety hazard. Where the building code, electrical code, fire
code and other development codes grant discretion and judgment in approving
alternative materials, alternative structural or dimensional design features,
alternative construction and/or operational features, officials responsible for
code enforcement are directed to employ discretion and judgment in the most
liberal manner possible provided public safety is not endangered thereby.
      (E)   Appeals. A person, who perceives he has been adversely affected by
determinations of the Electrical Inspector regarding imminent dangers, unsafe
conditions, electrical system performance or compliance time may appeal to the
Electrical Board. The Electrical Board may sustain, modify or reverse
determinations of the Electrical Inspector pursuant to the foregoing policy and
procedures provided at 80.15 (G) of this Article.
   (B)   80.13(13). Whenever any installation subject to inspection prior to
use is covered or concealed without having first been inspected, the authority
having jurisdiction shall be permitted to require that such work be exposed for
inspection. The authority having jurisdiction shall be notified when the
installation is ready for inspection and shall conduct the inspection within 2
business days.
   (C)   80.15(A). Creation of the Electrical Board. There is hereby created
the Electrical Board of the City of Mattoon, hereinafter designated as the
Board, consisting of six (6) members, as follows: The Chief Electrical
Inspector of the City in an advisory capacity; a registered professional or
Electrical engineer; an electrical contractor licensed within the City of
Mattoon; Journeyman Wireman or equivalent as recognized by the Dept. Of Labor;
current or acting Mattoon Fire Chief; and a representative of an electric
supply utility serving the City of Mattoon.
   (D)   80.15(C). Terms. Members shall be appointed by the City Manager. Each
appointment shall be for a term of 4 years or until a successor is appointed.
The Chair of the Board shall be appointed for a term not to exceed 2 years.
   (E)   80.15(D). Compensation. Each appointed member of the Board shall serve
without compensation. Subject to the prior approval of the City Manager, a
member of the Board may be reimbursed for direct lodging, travel and meal
expenses as covered by policies and procedures established by the City Council.
   (F)   80.17(F)(3). When any portion of the electrical installation within
the jurisdiction of an Electrical Inspector is to be hidden from view by the
permanent placement of parts of the building, the person, firm, or corporation
installing the equipment shall notify the Electrical Inspector, and such
equipment shall not be concealed until it has been approved by the Electrical
Inspector or until 2 business days have elapsed from the time of such
notification, provided that on large installations, where the concealment of
equipment proceeds continuously, the person, firm, or corporation installing
the equipment shall give the Electrical Inspector due notice in advance, and
inspections shall be made periodically during the progress of the work.
   (G)   80.19(E). Fees. An applicant for an electrical permit shall pay fees
before the permit is issued. The schedule of fees shall be found in section §
35.01(E)(2) of the City of Mattoon Code of Ordinances.
   (H)   80.21. Plans review. Review of plans and specifications shall conform
to 80.21(A) through (C), and (1) through (2).
      (1)   All “commercial installations” or above as determined by Section
334.10 of this ordinance shall be required to submit comprehensive electrical
plans. These plans must include panel schedules and load calculations to
determine service sizing.
      (2)   All “residential installations” as determined by section 334.10 of
this ordinance which planned service size exceeds 400 Amperes shall be held to
the same standards as (1) above.
   (I)   80.23 Penalties. Any person who fails to comply with the provisions of
this Code or who fails to carry out an order made pursuant to this Code or
violates any condition attached to a permit, approval or certificate shall be
subject to penalties established at § 10.99 of the City of Mattoon Code of
Ordinances.
   (J)   80.25(C). Notification. If, within 2 business days, after the
Electrical Inspector is notified of the completion of an installation of
electric equipment, other than a temporary approval installation, the
Electrical Inspector has neither authorized connection nor disapproved the
installation, the supplier of electricity is authorized to make connections and
supply electricity to such installation.
   (K)   80.27 Appointment, qualifications and experience of Electrical
Inspector.
      (A)   Appointment. The Community Development and Planning Director with
the advice of the Electrical Board and consent of the City Council shall
appoint the Electrical Inspector and an Interim Electrical Inspector, who
serves in the absence of the Electrical Inspector. The Public Works Director
and the Electrical Board evaluate the performance of the Electrical Inspectors.
A person appointed to an Electrical Inspector position shall be nominated
solely on the basis of his or her qualifications and experience consistent with
a job description adopted by the City Council.
      (B)   Experience. A person appointed to an electrical inspector position
must demonstrate the following experience:
         (1)   Have a demonstrated knowledge of the standard materials and
methods used in the installation of electric equipment.
         (2)   Be well versed in the approved methods of construction for
safety to persons and property.
         (3)   Have a demonstrated knowledge of the statutes of the Illinois
relating to electrical work and the National Electrical Code.
         (4)   Have had at least 3 years’ experience as an Electrical Inspector
or 5 years in the installation of electrical equipment. In lieu of such
experience, the applicant shall be a graduate in electrical engineering or of a
similar curriculum of a college or university considered by the Board as having
suitable requirements for graduation and shall have had two years’ practical
electrical experience.
      (C)   Certificate. A nationally recognized inspector certification
program accepted by the Board shall certify the Electrical Inspector within 6
months of appointment. The certification program shall specifically qualify the
inspector in electrical inspections. No person shall be employed as an
Electrical Inspector unless that person is the holder of an Electrical
Inspector’s certificate of qualification issued by the Board. A person
appointed on an interim basis during the absence of the Electrical Inspector or
the person serving as the Electrical Inspector on the date this ordinance goes
into effect shall be issued a special certificate permitting him or her to
continue to serve as the Electrical Inspector in the City of Mattoon.
      (D)   Recertification. Electrical inspectors shall be recertified as
established by the provisions of the applicable certification program.
      (E)   Revocation and Suspension of Authority. The Community Development
and Planning Director with the consent of the Electrical Board shall have the
authority to revoke an inspector’s authority to conduct inspections within the
City of Mattoon.
   (L)   80.29. Liability for damages. Article 80 shall not be construed to
affect the responsibility or liability of any party owning, designing,
operating, controlling or installing any electric equipment for damages to
persons or property caused by a defect therein, nor shall the City of Mattoon
or any of its officers or employees be held as assuming any such liability by
reason of the inspection, re-inspection or other examination authorized.
   (M)   80.35. Effective date. Article 80 shall take effect after 30 days
after its passage and publication.
(Ord. 2013-5362, passed 4-2-2013 Am. Ord. 2016- 5391, passed 12-20-2016; Am.
Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 151.06 CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of “Electrical
Contractor” or “Electrical Serviceperson”, as herein defined, in the city,
without a certificate of registration from the Electrical Board which may be
obtained in the manner as hereinafter set forth. No person, firm or corporation
shall engage in business as an electrical contractor or an electrical
serviceperson unless its supervising official shall be registered as
hereinabove required. An electrical contractor or electrical serviceperson who
has furnished proof of having paid a registration fee in any city or village
within the state having at least the minimum requirements including a
comparable examination showing knowledge for qualification as required herein,
must be issued registration at the current registration fee for such year in
the city.
   (A)   Definitions. Unless otherwise expressly stated the following words and
terms shall, for the purposes of this code, have the following meanings:
      (1)   DIRECT LIGHT. Light emitted directly from the lamp, off of the
reflector or reflector diffuser, or through the refractor or diffuser lens, of
a luminary.
      (2)   EDUCATIONAL CONTRACTOR. A person authorized by registration to
perform limited installation, alteration or repair of electrical equipment or
wiring for the sole purpose of education. The number of registrations shall be
limited to one at any given period of time.
      (3)   ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR. Any person engaged in the business of
installing, altering, erecting, repairing, or contracting to install, alter,
erect or repair electrical equipment or wiring to supply light, heat or power,
not including radio apparatus or equipment for wireless reception of sound or
signals, and not including apparatus, conductors and other equipment installed
for or by public utilities, including common carriers that are under the
jurisdiction of the Illinois Commerce Commission, for use in their operations
as public utilities. The term ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR includes any person who
supervises and is responsible for the electrical business. It does not include
employees employed by such contractors. Nothing in this section shall preclude
the principal owner of a single family residence from installing and erecting
electrical equipment and wiring to supply light, heat and power in his personal
place of residence.
      (4)   ELECTRICAL BOARD. An examination and registration authority of the
city created and established by Article 80.15 of the NEC® as supplemented by §
151.05 of this chapter.
      (5)   ELECTRICAL SERVICEPERSON. A person authorized by registration to
perform limited installation, alteration or repair of electrical equipment or
wiring for laundry washing and drying appliances, dishwashing appliances,
refrigerators, freezers, ranges, furnaces, garbage and trash compacting
appliances, garage door openers, air conditioning units, sump pumps, security,
alarm and telecommunication systems.
      (6)   FIXTURE. The assembly that houses the lamp or lamps and can include
all or some of the following parts: a housing, a mounting bracket or pole
socket, a lamp holder, a ballast, a reflector or mirror, and/or a refractor or
lens.
      (7)   FLOOD OR SPOTLIGHT. Any light fixture or lamp that incorporates a
reflector or a refractor to concentrate the light output into a directed beam
in a particular direction.
      (8)   FULLY-SHIELDED (FULL- CUTOFF) LIGHT. Outdoor light fixtures
shielded or constructed so that no light rays are emitted by the installed
fixture at angles above the horizontal plane as certified by a photometric test
report.
      (9)   GLARE. Light emitting from a luminary with an intensity great
enough to reduce a viewer’s ability to see, and in extreme cases causing
momentary blindness.
      (10)   GRANDFATHERED LUMINARIES. Luminaries not conforming to this
chapter that were in place at the time this chapter was voted into effect. When
an ordinance GRANDFATHERS a luminary, it means that such already existing
outdoor lighting does not need to be changed.
      (11)   HEIGHT OF LUMINARY. The height of a luminary shall be the vertical
distance from the ground directly below the centerline of the luminary to the
lowest direct-light-emitting part of the luminary.
      (12)   INDIRECT LIGHT. Direct light that has been reflected or has
scattered off of other surfaces.
      (13)   LAMP. The component of a luminary that produces the actual light.
      (14)   LIGHT TRESPASS. The shining of light produced by a luminary beyond
the boundaries of the property on which it is located.
      (15)   LUMINARY. This is a complete lighting system, and includes a lamp
or lamps and a fixture.
      (16)   MOUNTING HEIGHT. Includes the total height of any proposed base
combined with the height of the light pole and fixture.
      (17)   OUTDOOR FIXTURE. The nighttime illumination of an outside area or
object by any man-made device located outdoors that produces light by any
means.
      (18)   TEMPORARY OUTDOOR LIGHTING. The specific illumination of an
outside area of object by any man-made device located outdoors that produces
light by any means for a period of less than seven days, with at least 180 days
passing before being used again.
   (B)   Examination and registration duties of the Electrical Board. The
Electrical Board is charged with the duty of examining and providing
certificates of registration of persons applying to engage in the business of
“Electrical Contractor” or “Electrical Serviceperson”, as herein defined, in
the city. The Electrical Board shall meet at regular times at an established
place not less than two times a year, and more often as circumstances may
require. Special meetings may be called by the Chair, or by any three members
of the Board. The Electrical Board shall establish its own rules, not
inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter, which shall be in printed
form. Forty-eight hour advance notice shall be given to all members before a
special meeting. A majority shall constitute a quorum, and a majority of
members present and voting shall be required to pass any proposition.
   (C)   Application for a certificate of registration; fee. Any person
desiring to engage in the business of electrical contractor in the city shall
make a written application for a certificate of registration on forms provided
by the Electrical Board. The application must contain a resume documenting the
applicant’s work experience for the last five years, names, addresses and phone
numbers of employers, their business, work performed and supervisors’ names.
The application must contain a notarized affidavit statement indicating that
the applicant has been doing electrical work (both installation and
maintenance) for at least four years. Said application shall be filed with the
City Clerk together with the sum of $100 for electrical contractor
registration. If the applicant thereafter is issued a certificate of
registration, the fee paid shall be for the current year, and the certificate
shall expire December 31st of each year. If an applicant is denied a
certificate of registration, the fee shall be retained for the time and expense
of reviewing the application and conducting the examination.
   (D)   Application for a serviceperson’s registration; fee. Any person
desiring to engage in the business of electrical serviceperson in the city
shall make a written application for a certificate of registration on forms
provided by the Electrical Board. The application must contain a resume
documenting the applicant’s work experience for the last five years, names,
addresses and phone numbers of employers, their business, work performed and
supervisors’ names. The application must contain a notarized affidavit
statement indicating that the applicant has been doing electrical service work
(both installation and maintenance) for at least two years. Said application
shall be filed with the City Clerk together with the sum of $25 for electrical
serviceperson’s registration. If the applicant thereafter is issued a
certificate of registration, the fee paid shall be for the current year, and
the certificate shall expire December 31st of each year. If an applicant is
denied a certificate of registration, the fee shall be retained for the time
and expense of reviewing the application and conducting the examination.
   (E)   Examination. Before a certificate of registration shall be issued to
an applicant by the Electrical Board, the applicant shall, following reasonable
advance notice, present himself or herself for examination as instructed by the
Electrical Board at a time and place set by it. The Electrical Board shall
examine such applicant as to his or her practical knowledge of the installation
and alteration of electrical equipment as set forth in the rules and
regulations of city’s Electrical Code. Such examination shall be in whole or in
part in writing and shall be of practical character, but sufficiently strict to
thoroughly test the experience and qualifications of the applicant. The
applicant must receive a favorable evaluation from the Electrical Board before
he or she may receive a certificate of registration. If the applicant fails the
first test, he or she must wait 30 days before repeating the examination. If
the applicant fails the second test, he or she must wait 60 days before
repeating the examination.
   (F)   Bond and liability insurance requirements. The Electrical Board shall
issue a certificate of registration as an electrical contractor or as an
electrical serviceperson to any person who shall have filed a proper
application, paid the required fee, satisfactorily passed the examination,
filed proof of bonding and liability insurance. The bond shall be $10,000,
issued by a bonding company authorized to do business in Illinois that will
indemnify and save harmless the city from all liability arising out of any work
done under or by virtue of any permit that may be issued to the registrant by
the city. A certificate of insurance shall be provided giving evidence that the
registrant has insurance coverage in limits not less than $1,000,000 per
occurrence, covering both personal injury, death and property damage exposures.
   (G)   Registration fee; duration. The fee for registration as an electrical
contractor shall be $100 per annum, and shall permit an electrical contractor
to do all phases of electrical wiring within the city. The fee for registration
as an electrical serviceperson shall be $25 per annum. Any registration fee
shall be paid to the Finance Department and deposited in the city’s treasury,
in advance, with the application. The certificate of registration issued shall
expire on the 31st day of December of the year in which it is issued; provided
that any educational contractor, business manager, building or plant engineer
or electrician who shall engage in electrical installation work or repairs
solely upon the premises of his employer shall secure a certificate of
registration without charge, which certificate shall, however, be confined to
the premises of his employment and shall not permit engaging in such work in
any place other than upon such premises. Registrants shall be issued a new
certificate of registration for the ensuing year provided that they have paid
the required fee not later than December 31st of the ensuing year; they had
been issued valid certificate of registration for the previous calendar year
and submit evidence of bonding and insurance. Failure to pay the required fee
later than March 31st of the ensuing year will result in the standard
registration fee doubling. All other applicants shall be examined as provided
in division (C) or (D) as applicable hereof.
   (H)   Certificate of registration not transferable or assignable. A
certificate of registration issued by the Electrical Board shall not be
transferable or assignable.
   (I)   Suspension or revocation. A certificate of registration may, after
hearing, be suspended or revoked by the City Council upon the recommendation of
the Electrical Board for failure or refusal to comply with this chapter or with
the city’s Electrical Code.
(Ord. 2013-5362, passed 4-2-2013 Am. Ord. 2016- 5391, passed 12-20-2016; Am.
Ord. 2017-5396, passed 11-7-2017)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation that shall engage in the business of
electrical contractor without obtaining a certificate of registration as herein
provided, or fails to comply with the provisions of this chapter, or fails to
carry out an order made pursuant to this chapter, or violates any condition
attached to a permit or approval or certificate shall be subject to penalties
established at §
10.99 of this Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 2013-5362, passed 4-2-2013 Am. Ord. 2016- 5391, passed 12-20-2016)
CHAPTER 152: FENCE CONSTRUCTION
Section
   
152.01   Construction materials allowed
   
152.02   Residential zones
   
152.03   Commercial and Industrial zones
   
152.04   Commercial and Industrial zones used as residential property
   
152.05   Vegetation fences
   
152.06   Permit required
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS ALLOWED.
   (A)   Permitted materials. Fences may be constructed of stone, brick,
masonry or concrete, with proper foundation for stability, or wooden boards, or
pickets, chain link, metal tubing, wrought iron or other such metals having no
horizontal projections which might be hazardous, plastic and other new
materials designed specifically for the construction fencing.
   (B)   Prohibited materials.
      (1)   No person shall use rope, string, wire products including, but not
limited to chicken wire, hog wire, wire fabric, barbed wire (except as allowed
in other sections of this code), razor ribbon wire and similar welded or woven
wire fabrics, chain, netting, cut or broken glass, paper, metal panels,
corrugated metal panels, galvanized sheet metal, plywood, fiberglass panels or
plastic panels in any fence or any other materials that are not manufactured
specifically as fencing materials. The Building Official of the building
inspection division of the Community Development Department may require the
applicant to provide the manufacturer's standards to establish the intended use
of a proposed fencing material.
      (2)   No person shall construct, install or permit an electrically
charged fence of any kind in the city.
      (3)   No person shall construct a fence of wood, metal or plastic
products that are not specifically for fence construction.
      (4)   No person shall construct a fence of damaged or unsafe materials.
(‘68 Code, § 23.11) (Ord. 76-4338, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 85-4483, passed 7-16-
1985; Am. Ord. 86-4513, passed 7-1-1986; Am. Ord. 2009-5278, passed 8-18- 2009)
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.02 RESIDENTIAL ZONES.
   Fences constructed upon any lot or parcel of real estate located in a
residential zoned district shall not exceed four feet in height from the
building line to any street property line and shall not otherwise exceed six
feet in height. On a corner lot, the four feet height requirement shall apply
to the front yard in which the front entry of the structure is facing, unless
the rear or side lot line (that could be the secondary front yard) is
contiguous with the front yard of any other lot, then the four feet height
requirement shall also apply to the secondary front yard as applied to the
front yard of the contiguous lot. Furthermore on a corner lot the vision
clearance shall conform to §
159.51 and shall apply to all street intersection and any entrance to a public
right-of-way from a street, alley or driveway.
(Ord. 86-4513, passed 7-1-1986; Am. Ord. 2009- 5278, passed 8-18-2009; Am. Ord.
2009-5279, passed 9-2-2009) Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.03 COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL ZONES.
   In Zones C-3 Commercial, C-4 General Commercial, and I-Industrial districts,
the owner of commercial and industrial property therein may erect and construct
upon said property a protective cyclone chain link metal fence, screening or
privacy fence not to exceed eight feet in height; and further provided that
fences shall be free of signs and shall be subject to the provisions of the
Building Code and Zoning Ordinances of the city. On such eight foot high
protective cyclone chain link metal fences, barbed wire may be used on the top
one foot of such fence. Barbed wire may not be used on any other fence
constructed in the city.
(Ord. 86-4513, passed 7-1-1986; Am. Ord. 2009-5278, passed 8-18-2009)
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.04 COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL ZONES USED AS RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY.
   Any parcel or lot zoned C-3 Service Commercial, C-4 General Commercial or I-
Industrial which is primarily used as residential property, shall conform to §
152.02 hereof with respect to the construction of fences.
(Ord. 86-4513, passed 7-1-1986; Am. Ord. 2009-5278, passed 8-18-2009)
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.05 VEGETATION FENCES.
   The same regulations that apply to fences shall apply to vegetation fences
as to height from the building line to any street line. Vegetation fences shall
be cut back and trimmed smooth on the outside thereof so as not to encroach
upon any sidewalk or street or alley line or vison clearance triangle, defined
in §
159.51.
('68 Code, §23.11) (Ord. 76-4338, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 85-4483, passed 7-16-
1985; Am. Ord. 86-4513, passed 7-1-1986; Am. Ord. 2009-5278, passed 8-18-2009)
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.06 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, construct, enlarge,
alter, replace any fence regulated by this chapter without first obtaining a
permit for each fence and a fee in accordance with §
35.01(E)(1) been paid to the Community Development Office or other authorized
municipal agency and approved by the Community Development Coordinator. The
Community Development Coordinator may revoke a permit or approval issued under
the provisions of this section in case of any false statement or
misrepresentation of fact in the application or on the plans on which the
permit or approval was based.
   (B)   Vegetation fences are exempt from obtaining a permit.
(‘68 Code, § 23.11) (Ord. 76-4338, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 85-4483, passed 7-16-
1985; Am. Ord. 86-4513, passed 7-1-1986; Am. Ord. 2009-5278, passed 8-18-2009;
Am. Ord. 2010-5290, passed 4-6-2010)
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter or replace any fence,
without obtaining a permit before the commencement of work shall be in
violation of this chapter, shall pay a permit fee of $36 and subject to
penalties in accordance with §
10.99.
(‘68 Code, § 23.11) (Ord. 76-4338, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 85-4483, passed 7-16-
1985; Am. Ord. 86-4513, passed 7-1-1986; Am. Ord. 2009-5278, passed 8-18-2009;
Am. Ord. 2010-5290, passed 4-6-2010)
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
   
153.01   Purpose
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   Base flood elevation
   
153.04   Duties of the Community Development Coordinator
   
153.05   Development permit
   
153.06   Preventing increased flood heights and resulting damages
   
153.07   Protecting buildings
   
153.08   Subdivision requirements
   
153.09   Public health and other standards
   
153.10   Carrying capacity and notification
   
153.11   Variances
   
153.12   Disclaimer of liability
   
153.13   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
153.14   Severability
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to this city
by the Illinois Municipal Code (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5 §§ 1-2-1, 11-12-12, 11-30-2,
11-30-8 and 11-31-2) in order to accomplish the following purposes:
   (A)   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   (B)   Protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from flood
damage;
   (C)   To promote and protect the public health, safety, and general welfare
of the citizens from the hazards of flooding;
   (D)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
   (E)   Maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   (F)   Make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   (G)   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and stormwater impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development.
(Ord. 2011-5320, passed 5-3-2011)
§ 153.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year. The BASE FLOOD is also known as the 100-year flood. The base
flood elevation at any location is as defined in §
153.03 of this chapter.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation in relation to mean sea level of
the crest of the base flood.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a building having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. A walled and roofed structure, including gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground including manufactured homes,
prefabricated buildings and gas or liquid storage tanks. The term also includes
recreational vehicles and travel trailers installed on a site for more than 180
days per year.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. 
      (1)   Any facility which is critical to the health and welfare of the
population and, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the disaster.
Damage to these critical facilities can impact the delivery of vital services,
can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or can put special
populations at risk.
      (2)   Examples of CRITICAL FACILITIES where flood protection should be
required include: emergency services facilities (such as fire and police
stations), schools, hospitals, retirement homes and senior care facilities,
major roads and bridges, critical utility sites (telephone switching stations
or electrical transformers), and hazardous material storage facilities
(chemicals, petrochemicals, hazardous or toxic substances).
   DEVELOPMENT. 
      (1)   Any man-made change to real estate including, but not necessarily
limited to:
         (a)   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a
building, or any structural alteration to a building;
         (b)   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
         (c)   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site
for a manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than
180 days per year;
         (d)   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges,
culverts or similar projects;
         (e)   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls or fences;
         (f)   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating,
paving, or other alterations of the ground surface;
         (g)   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid
storage tanks, and channel modifications or any other activity that might
change the direction, height, or velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include routine maintenance of existing
buildings and facilities, resurfacing roads, or gardening, plowing, and similar
practices that do not involve filing, grading, or construction of levees.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots  on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations
adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD FRINGE. That portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP. A map prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a
community. This map includes insurance rate zones and may or may not depict
floodways and show base flood elevations.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE). The elevation of the base flood plus one
foot of freeboard at any given location in the floodplain.
   FLOODPLAIN and SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). 
      (1)   These two terms are synonymous. Those lands within the jurisdiction
of the city, the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city, or that may be
annexed into the city, that are subject to inundation by the base flood. The
floodplains of the city are generally identified as such on panel number(s) 260
and 280 of the countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of Coles County prepared by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated July 18, 2011. FLOODPLAIN
also includes those areas of known flooding as identified by the community.
      (2)   The floodplains of those parts of unincorporated Coles County that
are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city or that may be annexed
into the city are generally identified as such on the Flood Insurance Rate map
prepared for Coles County by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated
July 18, 2011.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural or nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form published by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry flood proofed to the flood protection
elevation.
   FLOODWAY. That portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the
base flood. The FLOODWAY for the floodplains of Kickapoo Creek shall be as
delineated on the countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of Coles County prepared
by FEMA and dated July 18, 2011. The FLOODWAYS for each of the remaining
floodplains of the city shall be according to the best data available from the
federal, state, or other sources.
   FREEBOARD. An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed
development, unknown localized conditions, wave actions and unpredictable
effects such as those caused by ice or debris jams.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register.
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily
determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district.
      (3)   Individually listed on the state inventory of historic places by
the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency.
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that
has been certified by the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency.
   IDNR/OWR. Illinois Department of Natural Resources/Office of Water
Resources.
   IDNR/OWR JURISDICTIONAL STREAM. Illinois Department of Natural Resource
Office of Water Resources has jurisdiction over any stream serving a tributary
area of 640 acres or more in an urban area, or in the floodway of any stream
serving a tributary area of 6,400 acres or more in a rural area. Construction
on these streams requires a permit from the Department. (Ill Admin. Code tit.
17, pt. 3700.30). The Department may grant approval for specific types of
activities by issuance of a statewide permit which meets the standards defined
in §
153.06 of this chapter.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR. Provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of §
153.07 of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections that is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a
community and includes any subsequent improvements of such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed on or after the effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by a community.
   NFIP. National Flood Insurance Program.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE or TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less in size;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SFHA. See definition of FLOODPLAIN.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement and means the date
the building permit was issued. This, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or
other improvement, was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start
means either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation or placement
of a manufactured home on a foundation. For a substantial improvement, ACTUAL
START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of a building whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. See BUILDING.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cumulative percentage of damage during the life the building equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred
regardless of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and materials must
be included in this determination. The term includes REPETITIVE LOSS BUILDINGS
(see definition).
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or improvement of a
structure taking place during the life of the building in which the cumulative
percentage of improvements:
         (a)   Equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure
before the improvement or repair is started; or
         (b)   Increases the floor area by more than 20%.
      (2)   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building
commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of
the structure. This term includes structures which have incurred repetitive
loss or substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work done.
      (3)   The term does not include:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or the Illinois Register of Historic Places.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the required federal, state, and/or local permits
and elevation certification is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as
the documentation is provided.
(Ord. 2011-5320, passed 5-3-2011)
§ 153.03 BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.
   This chapter’s protection standard is the base flood. The best available
base flood data are listed below. Whenever a party disagrees with the best
available data, the party shall finance the detailed engineering study needed
to replace the existing data with better data and submit it to the FEMA and
IDNR/OWR for approval prior to any development of the site.
   (A)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of Kickapoo Creek shall
be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the countywide Flood
Insurance Study of Coles County prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency and dated July 18, 2011.
   (B)   The base flood elevation for each floodplain delineated as an “AH
Zone” or “AO Zone” shall be that elevation (or depth) delineated on the county
wide Flood Insurance Rate Map of Coles County.
   (C)   The base flood elevation for each of the remaining floodplains
delineated as an “A Zone” on the countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of Coles
County shall be according to the best data available from federal, state or
sources. Should no other data exist, an engineering study must be financed by
the applicant to determine base flood elevations.
   (D)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of those parts of
unincorporated Coles County that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction
of the city, or that may be annexed into the city, shall be as delineated on
the 100-year flood profiles in the Flood Insurance Study of Coles County
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated July 18, 2011.
(Ord. 2011-5320, passed 5-3-2011)
§ 153.04 DUTIES OF THE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT COORDINATOR.
   The Community Development Coordinator shall be responsible for the general
administration of this chapter and ensure that all development activities
within the floodplains under the jurisdiction of the city meet the requirements
of this chapter. Specifically, the Community Development Coordinator shall:
   (A)   Process development permits in accordance with §
153.05;
   (B)   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of §
153.06;
   (C)   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to §
153.07 are met and maintain a record of the “as-built” elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) or floodproof certificate;
   (D)   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements of
§
153.08;
   (E)   Ensure that water supply and waste disposal systems meet the public
health standards of §
153.09;
   (F)   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of §
153.11 are met and maintain documentation of any variances granted;
   (G)   Inspect all development projects and take any and all penalty actions
outlined in §
153.99 as necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter;
   (H)   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state, and federal permits;
   (I)   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse;
   (J)   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
   (K)   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this chapter;
   (L)   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps,
copies of state and federal permits, and documentation of compliance for
development activities subject to this chapter;
   (M)   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with this chapter and
make substantial damage determinations for structures within the floodplain;
and
   (N)   Maintain the accuracy of floodplain maps including notifying IDNR/OWR
and/or submitting information to FEMA within six months whenever a modification
of the floodplain may change the base flood elevation or result in a change to
the floodplain map.
(Ord. 2011-5320, passed 5-3-2011)
§ 153.05 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body not exempted by law shall
commence any development in the floodplain without first obtaining a
development permit from the Community Development Coordinator. The Community
Development Coordinator shall not issue a development permit if the proposed
development does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
   (A)   The application for development permit shall be accompanied by:
      (1)   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line
dimensions;
      (2)   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from
excavation or filling;
      (3)   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings;
      (4)   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of §
153.07 of this chapter; and
      (5)   Cost of project or improvements as estimated by a licensed engineer
or architect. A signed estimate by a contractor may also meet this requirement.
   (B)   (1)   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the
Community Development Coordinator shall compare the elevation of the site to
the base flood elevation. Any development located on land that can be shown by
survey elevation to be below the base flood elevation. Any development located
on land that can be shown by survey data to be higher than the current base
flood elevation and which has not been filled after the date of the site’s
first Flood Insurance Rate Map is not in the floodplain and therefore not
subject to the requirements of this chapter. In addition, any development
located on land shown to be below the base flood elevation and hydraulically
connected to a flood source, but not identified as floodplain on the current
Flood Insurance Rate Map, is subject to the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   The Community Development Coordinator shall maintain documentation
of the existing ground elevation at the development site and certification that
this ground elevation existed prior to the date of the site’s first Flood
Insurance Rate Map identification.
      (3)   The Community Development Coordinator shall be responsible for
obtaining from the applicant copies of all other federal, state, and local
permits, approvals or permit-not-required letters that may be required for this
type of activity. The Community Development Coordinator shall not issue a
permit unless all other federal, state, and local permits have been obtained.
(Ord. 2011-5320, passed 5-3-2011)
§ 153.06 PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND RESULTING DAMAGES.
   Within any floodway identified on the countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map,
and within all other floodplains where a floodway has not been delineated, the
following standards shall apply:
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no development
shall be allowed which, acting in combination with existing and anticipated
development will cause any increase in flood heights or velocities or threat to
public health and safety. The following specific development activities shall
be considered as meeting this requirement:
      (1)   Bridge and culvert crossings of streams in rural areas meeting the
conditions of the Illinois Department of Natural Resources, Office of Water
Resources Statewide Permit Number 2;
      (2)   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 3;
      (3)   Aerial utility crossings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 4;
      (4)   Minor boat docks meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 5;
      (5)   Minor, non-obstructive activities such as underground utility
lines, light poles, sign posts, driveways, athletic fields, patios, playground
equipment, minor storage buildings not exceeding 70 square feet and raising
buildings on the same footprint which does not involve fill and any other
activity meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 6;
      (6)   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 7;
      (7)   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions
of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 8;
      (8)   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 9;
      (9)   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential
buildings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 10;
      (10)   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 11;
      (11)   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widening
meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide Permit Number 12;
      (12)   Temporary construction activities meeting the following conditions
of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 13;
      (13)   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely
within a flood fringe area shall be exempt from state floodway permit
requirements.
   (B)   Other development activities not listed in division (A) may be
permitted only if:
      (1)   Permit has been issued for the work by IDNR/OWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required); or
      (2)   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA when necessary, and
approval obtained from FEMA for a revision of the regulatory map and base flood
elevation.
(Ord. 2011-5320, passed 5-3-2011)
§ 153.07 PROTECTING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   In addition to the state permit and damage prevention requirements of
§
153.06 of this chapter, all buildings located in the floodplain shall be
protected from flood damage below the flood protection elevation. This building
protection requirement applies to the following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of a new building or alteration or
addition to an existing building valued at more than $1,000 or 70 square feet.
      (2)   Substantial improvements or structural alterations made to an
existing building that increase the floor area by more than 20% or equal or
exceed the market value by 50%. Alteration shall be figured cumulatively during
the life of the building. If substantially improved, the existing structure and
the addition must meet the flood protection standards of this section.
      (3)   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively during the life of the building. If substantially
damaged the entire structure must meet the flood protection standards of this
section within 24 months of the date the damage occurred.
      (4)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. (The building protection requirements do not apply to
returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage).
      (5)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days per year.
      (6)   Repetitive loss to an existing building as defined in §
153.02.
   (B)   Residential or non-residential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by one of the following methods:
      (1)   The building may be constructed on permanent land fill in
accordance with the following:
         (a)   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation.
         (b)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
before compaction and should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation
before sloping below the flood protection elevation.
         (c)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or other structural measure.
         (d)   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporated
debris or refuse material.
         (e)   Shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage from or
onto neighboring properties and when necessary storm water management
techniques such as swales or basins shall be incorporated.
      (2)   The building may be elevated on solid walls in accordance with the
following:
         (a)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls, crawlspace, or other foundation that is permanently open to flood
waters.
         (b)   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at
or above the flood protection elevation.
         (c)   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the flood protection
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry
and exit of flood waters. Designs must either be certified by a licensed
professional engineer or by having a minimum of one permanent opening on each
wall no more than one foot above grade with a minimum of two openings. The
openings shall provide a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding below the base flood
elevation.
         (d)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored,
designed, and certified so as to minimize exposure to hydrodynamic forces such
as current, waves, ice, and floating debris.
            1.   All structural components below the flood protection elevation
shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage.
            2.   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps, and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation provided they are waterproofed.
            3.   The area below the flood protection elevation shall be used
solely for parking or building access and not later modified or occupied as
habitable space; or
            4.   In lieu of the above criteria, the design methods to comply
with these requirements may be certified by a licensed professional engineer or
architect.
      (3)   The building may be constructed with a crawlspace located below the
flood protection elevation provided that the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
         (b)   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall
have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. A minimum of one opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than one square inch per one square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than one foot above grade.
         (c)   The interior grade of the crawlspace below the flood protection
elevation must not be more than two feet below the lowest adjacent exterior
grade.
         (d)   The interior height of the crawlspace measured from the interior
grade of the crawl to the top of the foundations wall must not exceed four feet
at any point.
         (e)   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawlspace within a reasonable period
of time after a flood event.
         (f)   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation
must be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage.
         (g)   Utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the
flood protection elevation.
   (C)   Non-residential buildings may be structurally dry floodproofed (in
lieu of elevation) provided a licensed professional engineer or architect
certifies that:
      (1)   Below the flood protection elevation the structure and attendant
utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood.
      (2)   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration, rate
of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy, and the
impact from debris and ice.
      (3)   Floodproofing measures will be incorporated into the building
design and operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity.
      (4)   Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
floodproofing for the purpose of this division.
   (D)   Manufactured homes or travel trailers to be permanently installed on
site shall be:
      (1)   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation in accordance
with division (B); and
      (2)   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement by
being tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations for the Illinois
Mobile Home Tie-Down Act issued pursuant to 77 Ill. Adm. Code § 870.
   (E)   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles on site for more than 180
days per year shall meet the elevation requirements of division (D) unless the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   The vehicle must be either self-propelled or towable by a light
duty truck.
      (2)   The hitch must remain on the vehicle at all times.
      (3)   The vehicle must not be attached to external structures such as
decks and porches.
      (4)   The vehicle must be designed solely for recreation, camping,
travel, or seasonal use rather than as a permanent dwelling.
      (5)   The vehicle’s largest horizontal projections must be no larger than
400 square feet.
      (6)   The vehicle’s wheels must remain on axles and inflated.
      (7)   Air conditioning units must be attached to the frame so as to be
safe for movement of the floodplain.
      (8)   Propane tanks as well as electrical and sewage connections must be
quick-disconnect.
      (9)   The vehicle must be licensed and titled as a recreational vehicle
or park model.
      (10)   Must either:
         (a)   Entirely be supported by jacks; or
         (b)   Have a hitch jack permanently mounted, have the tires touching
the ground and be supported by block in a manner that will allow the block to
be easily removed by use of the hitch jack.
   (F)   Garages, sheds or other minor accessory structures constructed
ancillary to an existing residential use may be permitted provided the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   The garage or shed must be non-habitable.
      (2)   The garage or shed must be used only for the storage of vehicles
and tools and cannot be modified later into another use.
      (3)   The garage or shed must be located outside of the floodway or have
the appropriate state and/or federal permits.
      (4)   The garage or shed must be on a single family lot and be accessory
to an existing principle structure on the same lot.
      (5)   Below the base flood elevation, the garage or shed must be built of
materials not susceptible to flood damage.
      (6)   All utilities, plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
must be elevated above the flood protection elevation.
      (7)   The garage or shed must have at least one permanent opening on each
wall not more than one foot above grade with one square inch of opening for
every one square foot of floor area.
      (8)   The garage or shed must be less than $15,000 in market value or
replacement cost whichever is greater or less than 576 square feet (24' x 24').
      (9)   The structure shall be anchored to resist flotation and
overturning.
      (10)   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers, and the like) shall be stored above the flood protection
elevation.
      (11)   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implications.
(Ord. 2011-5320, passed 5-3-2011)
§ 153.08 SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS.
   The City Council shall take into account hazards, to the extent that they
are known, in all official actions related to land management use and
development.
   (A)   (1)   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation
agreements, planned unit developments, and additions to manufactured home parks
and subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protections
standards of §§
153.06 and
153.07 of this chapter. Any proposal for such development shall include the
following data:
         (a)   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain,
where the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the
applicant shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation;
         (b)   The boundary of the floodway when applicable; and
         (c)   A signed statement by a licensed professional engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the Plat Act (ILCS Ch. 765, Act 205, § 2).
      (2)   Streets, blocks lots, parks and other public grounds shall be
located and laid out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural
streams and channels. Wherever possible the floodplains shall be included
within parks or other public grounds.
(Ord. 2011-5320, passed 5-3-2011)
§ 153.09 PUBLIC HEALTH AND OTHER STANDARDS.
   (A)   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development. In
addition to the requirements of §§
153.06 and
153.07 of this chapter the following standards apply:
      (1)   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants, or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation unless
such materials are stored in a floodproofed and anchored storage tank and
certified by a professional engineer or floodproofed building constructed
according to the requirements of §
153.07 of this chapter.
      (2)   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
      (3)   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters.
      (4)   New and replacement on-site sanitary sewer lines or waste disposal
systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during flooding. Manholes or other above ground
openings located below the flood protection elevation shall be watertight.
      (5)   Construction of new or substantially improved critical facilities
shall be located outside the limits of the floodplain. Construction of new
critical facilities shall be permissible within the floodplain if no feasible
alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated or structurally dry
floodproofed to the 500-year flood frequency elevation or three feet above the
level of the 100-year flood frequency elevation whichever is greater.
Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic
substances will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes
elevated to or above the level of the base flood elevation shall be provided to
all critical facilities.
   (B)   All other activities defined as development shall be designed so as
not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages.
(Ord. 2011-5320, passed 5-3-2011)
§ 153.10 CARRYING CAPACITY AND NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   For all projects involving channel modification, fill, or stream
maintenance (including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse
shall be maintained.
   (B)   In addition, the city shall notify adjacent communities in writing 30
days prior to the issuance of a permit for the alteration or relocation of the
watercourse.
(Ord. 2011-5320, passed 5-3-2011)
§ 153.11 VARIANCES.
   Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a specific
development proposal, the applicant may apply to the Board of Zoning Appeals
for a variance. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall review the applicant’s
request for a variance and shall submit its recommendation to the City Council.
The City Council may attach such conditions to granting of a variance as it
deems necessary to further the intent of this chapter.
   (A)   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that
all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain.
      (2)   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted.
      (3)   The relief requested is the minimum necessary.
      (4)   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety or
creation of a nuisance.
      (5)   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities, or other
public facilities.
      (6)   The applicant’s circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP.
      (7)   All other state and federal permits have been obtained.
   (B)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall notify an applicant in writing that
a variance from the requirements of the building protections standards of §
153.07 that would lessen the degree of protection to a building will:
      (1)   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25 per
$100 of insurance coverage;
      (2)   Increase the risk to life and property; and
      (3)   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks
and that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
   (C)   Historic structures. Variances to the building protection requirements
of §
153.07 of this chapter which are requested in connection with reconstruction,
repair, or alteration of a historic site or historic structure as defined in
“historic structures”, may be granted using criteria more permissive than the
requirements of §§
153.06 and
153.07 of this chapter subject to the conditions that:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure.
      (2)   The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure being
removed as a certified historic structure.
   (D)   Agriculture.
      (1)   Any variance granted for an agricultural structure shall be decided
individually based on a case by case analysis of the building’s unique
circumstances. Variances granted shall meet the following conditions as well as
those criteria and conditions set forth in this chapter.
      (2)   In order to minimize flood damages during the 100-year flood and
the threat to public health and safety, the following conditions shall be
included for any variance issued for agricultural structures that are
constructed at-grade and wet-floodproofed.
         (a)   All agricultural structures considered for a variance from the
floodplain management regulations of this chapter shall demonstrate that the
varied structure is located in wide, expansive floodplain areas and no other
alternate location outside of the special flood hazard area exists for the
agricultural structure. Residential structures or animal confinement
facilities, such as farm houses, cannot be considered agricultural structures.
         (b)   Use of the varied structures must be limited to agricultural
purposes in zone A only as identified on the community’s Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM).
         (c)   For any new or substantially damaged agricultural structures,
the exterior and interior building components and elements (i.e., foundation,
wall framing, exterior and interior finishes, flooring, and the like) below the
base flood elevation, must be built with flood-resistant materials in
accordance with §
153.07 of this chapter.
         (d)   The agricultural structures must be adequately anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structures in
accordance with §
153.07 of this chapter. All of the building’s structural components must be
capable of resisting specific flood-related forces including hydrostatic,
buoyancy, and hydrodynamic and debris impact forces.
         (e)   Any mechanical, electrical, or other utility equipment must be
located above the base flood elevation or floodproofed so that they are
contained within a watertight, floodproofed enclosure that is capable of
resisting damage during flood conditions in accordance with §
153.07 of this chapter.
         (f)   The NFIP requires that enclosure or foundation walls, subject to
the 100-year flood, contain openings that will permit the automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters in accordance with §
153.07(B) of this chapter.
         (g)   The agricultural structures must comply with the floodplain
management floodway provisions of §
153.06 of this chapter. No variances may be issued for agricultural structures
within any designated floodway.
         (h)   Wet-floodproofing construction techniques must be reviewed and
approved by the floodplain administrator and a registered professional engineer
or architect prior to the issuance of any floodplain development permit for
construction.
(Ord. 2011-5320, passed 5-3-2011)
§ 153.12 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the floodplain will be free
from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on the part of
the city or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that results
from proper reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision made
lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 2011-5320, passed 5-3-2011)
§ 153.13 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the city to
fulfill the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program including:
Ordinance 98-4968. However, this chapter does not repeal the original
resolution or ordinance adopted to achieve eligibility in the program. Nor does
this chapter repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or
deed restrictions. Where this chapter and other ordinance easements, covenants
or deed restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 2011-5320, passed 5-3-2011)
§ 153.14 SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions and sections of this chapter shall be deemed separable and
the invalidity of any portion of this chapter shall not affect the validity of
the remainder.
(Ord. 2011-5320, passed 5-3-2011)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain or failure to
comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed to be a
violation of this chapter. Upon due investigation, the Community Development
Coordinator may determine that a violation of the minimum standards of this
chapter exists. The Community Development Coordinator shall notify the owner in
writing of such violation.
   (A)   If such owner fails after ten days notice to correct the violation:
      (1)   The city shall make application to the circuit court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order as
the court deems necessary to secure compliance with the chapter.
      (2)   Any person who violates this chapter shall upon conviction thereof
be fined not less than $50 or more than $750 for each offense.
      (3)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
      (4)   The city shall record a notice of violation on the title of the
property.
   (B)   (1)   The Community Development Coordinator shall inform the owner
that any such violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages
and therefore may cause coverage by a Standard Flood Insurance Policy to be
suspended.
      (2)   The Community Development Coordinator is authorized to issue an
order requiring the suspension of the subject development. The stop-work order
shall be in writing, indicate the reason for the issuance, and shall order the
action, if necessary, to resolve the circumstances requiring the stop-work
order. The stop-work order constitutes a suspension of the permit.
      (3)   No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or
revoked until a hearing is held by the Board of Zoning Appeals. Written notice
of such hearing shall be served on the permittee and shall state:
         (a)   The grounds for the complaint, reasons for suspension or
revocation; and
         (b)   The time and place of the hearing.
      (4)   At such hearing the permittee shall be given an opportunity to
present evidence on their behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the Board
of Zoning Appeals shall determine whether the permit shall be suspended or
revoked.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 2011-5320, passed 5-3-2011)
CHAPTER 154: OIL AND GAS WELLS
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Scope
   
154.02   Definitions
   
154.03   Hardship exceptions; hearing
Permits
   
154.15   Permit required
   
154.16   Drilling permit fees
   
154.17   Application for permit; contents
   
154.18   Issuance of permit
   
154.19   Referral to City Council
   
154.20   Hearing
   
154.21   Order denying or granting permit
   
154.22   Bonds or insurance
   
154.23   Discontinuing well
   
154.24   Permit required for laying and installation of pipelines and
excavations
Conditions and Requirements of Operation
   
154.35   Number of wells permitted
   
154.36   Fire limits
   
154.37   Written statement required containing names and addresses of
contractors and subcontractors
   
154.38   Slush pits
   
154.39   Flares
   
154.40   Use and restoration of streets
   
154.41   Offsets
   
154.42   Setting of surface casing and cementing
Storage Tanks and Pumps
   
154.55   Permit required
   
154.56   Application for permit
   
154.57   Permit fee
   
154.58   Capacity of barrels
   
154.59   Installation of separators
   
154.60   Construction of dykes
   
154.61   Pumping units
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 SCOPE.
   For the purpose of the protection of the lives and persons of the citizens
of the city and of the public generally, for the protection of property from
the danger of fire, explosion, gas, public nuisances and other hazards
dangerous to public peace, health and safety, as a result of the drilling for
and production of petroleum and natural gas within the city, it is unlawful for
any person, either for himself or acting as agent, employee, or servant of any
other person, to engage in any work or to erect any structures, tanks,
machinery, pipe lines or other appurtenances, incident to the drilling for or
production of petroleum or natural gas or to operate, maintain or permit to
exist any equipment, structures or appurtenances incident to such production or
to use or maintain any property or premises in violation of this chapter.
('68 Code, § 27.01)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 154.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOCK. A platted tract of land or part or public ground, approximately
square in shape, of an area of not less than ten acres, provided, that in
unplatted tracts of land lying within the corporate limits of the city the term
BLOCK shall mean one approximately square contiguous tract of land of not less
than ten acres in area.
   WELL or WELLS. The hole or holes which are drilled or put down for the
purpose of mining for and producing petroleum and/or natural gas within the
corporate limits of the city.
('68 Code, § 27.02)
§ 154.03 HARDSHIP EXCEPTIONS; HEARING.
   The declared purpose of this chapter is to regulate and safeguard the city
and its property and all persons and their property and to protect human life
against the hazards incurred in the development of the natural resources lying
within the corporate limits of the city. To this end the Council may where
unusual and unreasonable hardship would be worked upon the public or any
property owner or other person affected by this chapter grant a hearing upon
petition to such aggrieved parties and if after hearing it is deemed reasonable
and equitable, grant such relief as will be reasonable and equitable and not
inconsistent with the primary provisions of this chapter. Such petition shall
fully set forth the alleged grievances and a hearing shall be had in the same
manner as provided in §§
154.17 through
154.21.
('68 Code, § 27.19) (Ord. 3584, passed - - )
PERMITS
§ 154.15 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drill or put down any petroleum or
gas well within the corporate limits of the city, without first having secured
a permit to do so as hereinafter provided.
('68 Code, § 27.03)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 154.16 DRILLING PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   The fee for a permit for the drilling or putting down of each well for
the purpose of producing oil and/or gas within the corporate limits of the city
for unplatted blocks shall be $500, and for blocks which are platted within the
corporate limits of the city or for any block which consists partly of platted
land and partly of unplatted land shall be $2000.
('68 Code, § 27.13) (Ord. 3585, passed - - )
   (B)   All fees received under this chapter shall be paid or turned over to
the City Treasurer, and by him deposited in the contingent fund of the city.
('68 Code, § 27.18)
§ 154.17 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; CONTENTS.
   Contents. Before any permit for the drilling or putting down of any
petroleum or gas well is issued, a written application therefor signed by the
applicant or some authorized person in his behalf shall be filed with the City
Clerk.
   (A)   The applicant shall state the block and exact lot and location thereon
where the proposed well will be drilled, and there shall be attached thereto
either certified or photostatic copies of all leases or contracts with the
owners of the property in such block which are controlled or owned by the
applicant, and in addition thereto a certificate of title or titles or
certificate from a bonded abstractor certifying the name of the last record
owner of said property and the character of instrument or conveyance upon which
the ownership rests, together with a statement showing the number of lots in
said block or tract which the applicant holds under lease or contract from such
owners.
   (B)   In addition thereto there shall be attached to said application a map
or plat showing all correct dimensions and exact location of the proposed well
or wells, together with pits, embankments, fences, and other details of the
proposed use of such property necessary or incident to drilling of the well
together with correct measurements of the location from the outside boundaries
of said block and designating streets intended to be used.
   (C)   There shall also accompany the application a statement showing the
names and last addresses known of all persons having any interest in any
property within such block or tract.
   (D)   The application with the certificates aforesaid attached thereto shall
be verified before an official authorized to administer oaths in the state.
('68 Code, § 27.05(a)) (Ord. 3604, passed - - )
§ 154.18 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   If the application, together with the exhibits attached thereto, shows that
the applicant is the owner or has under control or lease all of the property
within such block or tract, the City Council shall grant a permit therefor,
provided that the application shows that the applicant has complied with all
other requirements of the city in relation to drilling according to this
chapter.
('68 Code, § 27.05(b)) (Ord. 3604, passed - - )
§ 154.19 REFERRAL TO CITY COUNCIL.
   If it shall appear from the application that by reason of the manner of
platting or laying out the size of the lots or city blocks, or the geographical
shape or location of the property involved and upon which it is sought to drill
a well, that a full ten-acre drilling block cannot be obtained, as herein
defined, and that property contiguous thereto for the reasons herein specified
cannot be procured for the purpose of creating such block, or if such drilling
block is of irregular shape and due to the aforesaid reasons cannot be made to
comply with the requirements of a drilling block, as herein defined, and that
an undue hardship will be committed or worked upon the owners of the property
if a drilling permit be not granted for such proposed drilling block; or if
said application shows that the applicant does not have the entire block or
tract under lease but owns or controls or has under lease not less than 76% of
all the property within such block or tract, the application shall be referred
by the City Clerk to the City Council for a hearing.
('68 Code, § 27.05(c)) (Ord. 3604, passed - - )
§ 154.20 HEARING.
   (A)   The City Council shall fix the time and place of a hearing thereon and
enter the same of record and the applicant shall cause notice to be given by
registered mail to all persons who appear from the records in the County
Recorder's office to have any right, title or interest in or to the conveyances
constituting the said drilling block.
   (B)   The notice shall be given not less than five days prior to the date of
the hearing. In addition to other notices hereinbefore provided, the applicant
shall cause at least five days' notice to be given prior to the date set for a
hearing on the application by posting notices in at least five public places in
the city, two of which notices shall be posted with the block or tract
affected, and by publishing the notice once in a daily or weekly newspaper of
general circulation published in the city. All notices shall be dated and shall
contain a description of the property affected, the time, place and date of the
hearing and purpose of the applicant and hearing.
   (C)   An affidavit of the applicant or some other person showing such
mailing, posting and publishing shall be prima facie evidence of a compliance
with all the requirements thereof and the same shall be filed with the Council
prior to the time set for the hearing thereon. The Council shall conduct the
hearing upon the application for permit at such time and place. At such hearing
all persons interested may be heard. Upon such hearing all witnesses shall be
examined under oath and the applicant shall cause a transcript of the evidence
to be taken at his expense filed with the City Clerk for public use. The
Council shall keep a record of the proceedings.
('68 Code, § 27.05(d)) (Ord. 3604, passed - - )
§ 154.21 ORDER DENYING OR GRANTING PERMIT.
   Upon the conclusion of such hearing the City Council shall enter an order
denying or granting a permit as it shall deem proper under all the facts. If a
permit is granted it shall enter such order as shall be deemed equitable and
proper, together with such reasonable requirements as will protect the rights
and interests of all interested parties. Such order shall provide that the
owners of each parcel or part of said block shall receive his just and
equitable share of the royalty from the oil recovered or produced from the
block in accordance with the terms of the lease under which the well is
drilled, and in the proportion that his acreage bears to the entire block.
('68 Code, § 27.05(e)) (Ord. 3604, passed - - )
§ 154.22 BONDS OR INSURANCE.
   (A)   Required for permit. No permit for the drilling or putting down of any
petroleum or natural gas well shall be issued until the applicant shall have
filed with the City Clerk a good and sufficient bond executed by some bonding
or indemnity company authorized to do business in the state, or in lieu thereof
a policy of public liability insurance providing coverage of $100,000 for
injury to any one person, $300,000 for injuries arising from any one accident
and $50,000 property damage for the use of any person or municipality
interested, and conditioned that the applicant shall pay and discharge any
liability imposed by law or damages on account of injury to all property,
either private or public, including death, received or suffered by any person
resulting from the drilling, operation or maintenance of such well or
structure, machinery, equipment or tanks, connected therewith, and that he
shall abide by and comply with all the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Amount. The maximum total liability under the bond for loss or damage
either to person or property where the permit issued therefor is for drilling
for oil and gas within platted blocks shall be $100,000. The maximum total
liability under the bond for loss or damage either to person or property where
the permit issued therefor is for drilling upon unplatted blocks shall be
$50,000. The bonds shall be approved by the City Council and shall be made for
a period of not less than one year, or in lieu thereof said policy of insurance
previously provided for under division (A) of this section shall be approved by
the Council and shall be made for a period of not less than one year and a new
bond or policy shall be furnished at the expiration of any existing bond or
policy if the drilling of such well covered thereby is continued.
   (C)   Coverage. The bonds or policies shall extend to and cover the drilling
of all oil and gas wells for which permits have been issued to the principal
named in the bond or policy and upon the character of blocks for which the bond
or policy was given; provided, however, that not more than three wells shall be
in the process of being drilled at the same time under such bond; and provided
further that an appropriate rider executed by the principal and surety thereof,
and stating the location of any additional wells which shall be covered by the
bond or policy, shall be attached to and made part of the bond or policy; but
failure to so attach such rider shall not be deemed to release or discharge the
principal or surety from any liability accruing thereunder for any such wells
as may be in the process of being drilled under and during the effective date
of the bond or policy.
   (D)   Maintenance bond or policy. Upon the completion as a completed oil
well or gas well of any such well being drilled under the aforesaid bond or
policy as the case may be, an operation or maintenance bond or public liability
policy in the amount hereinafter stated shall be filed by the owner of the well
with some bonding or indemnity company or insurance company authorized to do
business in the state, conditioned that the principal or insured shall pay and
discharge any and all liability imposed by law or damages on account of injury
to all property, either public or private, including streets, alleys and
sidewalks, or bodily injury, or death, incurred by any person, resulting from
the operation or maintenance thereafter of such well, or mechanical equipment
or tanks connected therewith, which bond or policy shall be considered in force
and effect as long as the well continues to be operated. The amount of said
bond shall be terminated in the following manner:
      (1)   As to all wells drilled and/or operated within the corporate limits
of the city, in unplatted territory and not within 300 feet of any dwelling,
storage house, factory or other business institution, $5,000 for each well; or
the amount of $15,000 for five wells; or $25,000 for ten wells.
      (2)   The amount of said liability insurance shall be for the same
coverage as provided for in division (A) of this section.
      (3)   If such well or wells shall be located within a distance of 300
feet of any dwelling house, storage house, factory or business institution, or
within any territory laid out into lots and blocks, the bond shall be in the
amount of $10,000 for one well; $25,000 for five wells; or $50,000 for ten
wells.
      (4)   The amount of said liability insurance shall be for the same
coverage as provided for in division (A) of this section.
   (E)   Coverage indicated. In the event one bond is filed covering more than
one well, as above provided, the bond shall describe or indicate by appropriate
riders attached thereto and executed by the principal and surety the particular
wells covered thereby. The principal amount of such bond shall be the maximum
liability on each well covered by the bond. Failure to attach such rider shall
not release or discharge liability for all wells then being operated.
   (F)   Lapse. In case any bond or policy required herein shall lapse or
become void for any reason, the permit or permits issued under the terms of
this chapter shall immediately become inoperative and void until a new bond or
policy shall be provided and filed with the City Clerk or the existing bond or
policy reinstated in full force and effect. The well covered by such lapsed or
voided bond or policy shall be shut down and all operation and production
thereof shall be suspended and discontinued until the filing of such new bond
or policy or reinstatement of such existing bond or policy.
('68 Code, § 27.12) (Ord. 4245, passed - - )
§ 154.23 DISCONTINUING WELL.
   When any drilling permit expires by failure to renew the bond therefor or if
the well fails or ceases to produce, the holder of such permit shall remove all
structures and restore the surface of the premises to a normal condition within
30 days after the expiration of the permit or date of nonproduction of the
well. Upon the completion of such restoration, the drilling operator or
contractor shall notify the City Clerk in writing of the completion of such
restoration which shall be reported by the Clerk to the Council.
('68 Code, § 27.15)
§ 154.24 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR LAYING AND INSTALLATION OF PIPELINES AND
EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, either principal or agent, to
make any excavation in any part of the streets, alleys, highways, parking,
sidewalk areas or other public property for the purpose of laying and
installing, or to lay, install or maintain any pipe line, pumping rod, without
a permit from the City Council so to do.
   (B)   (1)   Application for such permit shall show the location thereof,
with particular reference to the location of all structures, pipelines, sewers
of the city, or pipe lines, telephone and electrical lines operated by any
public utility company within the city, and with reference to sidewalks and
other street and public improvements.
      (2)   Each applicant for a permit shall pay a fee for such permit based
upon the number of rods in length of any pipe line or pipe lines which shall
occupy the streets, alleys, highways, parking, sidewalk areas or other public
property at the rate of $.35 per lineal rod, and the additional sum of 15 cents
per rod for each year such pipe line is continued and maintained under such
streets, alleys or other public property and improvement of the city.
('68 Code, § 27.08) (Ord. 3584, passed - - )
CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF OPERATION
§ 154.35 NUMBER OF WELLS PERMITTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drill or put down more than one
petroleum or gas well upon any one block within the city.
('68 Code, § 27.04)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 154.36 FIRE LIMITS.
   No application shall be filed or permit issued for the drilling or putting
down of any petroleum or gas well within the fire limits of the city.
('68 Code, § 27.06)
§ 154.37 WRITTEN STATEMENT REQUIRED CONTAINING NAMES AND ADDRESSES OF
CONTRACTORS AND SUBCONTRACTORS.
   If permit is granted for the drilling of any well, before the holder thereof
shall commence any work upon any block or tract of land within the city for
which a permit has been granted, such holder shall file with the City Clerk a
written statement containing the names and addresses of the rig building
contractor, the grading contractor, the concrete contractor, and the drilling
contractor doing any part of the work incident to the drilling of said well. If
the holder of the permit performs all of the work through its various
employees, the names and addresses of the superintendents and agents in charge
thereof shall be furnished to the City Clerk. In addition thereto the holder of
such permit shall furnish to the City Clerk the name and address of the
superintendent or other person in charge of the premises upon which any such
well is drilled or may be producing oil or gas.
('68 Code, § 27.07)
§ 154.38 SLUSH PITS.
   In all cases where an oil or gas well is being drilled within the
residential or platted area of the city, the drilling operator or contractor
shall use a portable slush pit and all slush and waste shall be deposited
therein and from time to time removed therefrom to some point beyond the
corporate limits of the city or disposed of in some manner or place acceptable
to the city and under the supervision of the Superintendent of Streets where
the same will not be offensive or injurious to the inhabitants of the city.
Where it is made to appear that there is no reasonable cause for such
necessity, such requirement may be waived. Such waiver shall only be had upon
written petition to the Council setting forth the reasons for such waiver and
shall be accompanied by the written consent of all property owners and
residents within such drilling block.
('68 Code, § 27.10)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 154.39 FLARES.
   No flares shall be erected or permitted to burn within a distance of 150
feet of any house, garage, store building, warehouse or other building except
upon written permission from the Chief of the Fire Department. All such flares
shall extend at least 20 feet above the ground and shall be fitted with an
approved drain. The flares shall be drained at least once a week and the
contents burned.
('68 Code, § 27.11) (Ord. 3584, passed - - )
§ 154.40 USE AND RESTORATION OF STREETS.
   No tractors, trucks, heavy motors or drilling equipment shall be moved upon
drilling locations under permit under this chapter, or shall be used or brought
on to such location upon or over any streets or alleys other than those paved
with brick or concrete without a written permit therefor from the
Superintendent of Streets. The Superintendent of Streets may designate the
streets to be used and may when necessary for the protection of such streets
stop and prohibit the use of the same or require the drilling operator to
adequately plank and protect such streets so as to prevent unreasonable damage
thereto.
('68 Code, § 27.14)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 154.41 OFFSETS.
   In case a producing well is drilled outside the city but within 660 feet of
the corporate limits permits shall be granted to drill all necessary offset
wells within the city, provided that all other provisions and requirements of
this chapter are complied with.
('68 Code, § 27.16)
§ 154.42 SETTING OF SURFACE CASING AND CEMENTING.
   The following requirements shall be followed in setting surface casing and
cementing the same:
   (A)   Not less than 125 feet of surface casing in good condition shall be
set, following which the same shall be circulated with cement from the bottom
of the surface casing to the top with an admixture of 3% aquagel.
   (B)   If bradenhead connection is used between the oil casing and the
surface casing, a nipple shall be placed on the bradenhead, with a valve
attached, to relieve any gas pressure in the annular space between the oil
string and the surface pipe, which valve shall remain open constantly.
   (C)   In cementing the oil casing, enough cement shall be circulated to
extend 50 feet above the top of the Cypress sand formation.
   (D)   Duplicate tickets must be furnished to the designated city official by
the cementing company performing the cementing operations on any oil or gas
wells within the city limits, which tickets shall show the completion of such
cementing, together with the amount of cement and size of pipe used.
   (E)   Before such oil casing or string shall be cemented, notice shall be
given the designated city official and such work shall be performed under his
supervision or the supervision of some other person by him designated.
('68 Code, § 27.17) (Ord. 3589, passed - - )
STORAGE TANKS AND PUMPS
§ 154.55 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No storage tank to be used for the purpose of storing oil or gas produced
from any such oil or gas wells drilled under the provisions of this chapter nor
oil well pump shall be constructed or erected without first procuring a permit
therefor, as hereinafter provided.
('68 Code, § 27.09(a)) (Ord. 3589, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 154.56 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   An application shall be filed with the City Clerk for a permit to erect and
construct and maintain such oil or gas storage tanks or pumps to be used in the
operation of such oil or gas wells, which application shall describe in detail
the size and capacity of such proposed storage tanks, their location, and the
location of any pumping unit to be installed.
('68 Code, § 27.09(b)) (Ord. 3589, passed - - )
§ 154.57 PERMIT FEE.
   The fee for such permit shall be as follows: $50 for each storage tank of
210 barrels capacity or less; or $100 for each storage tank of over 210 barrels
capacity and not exceeding 500 barrels capacity.
('68 Code, § 27.09(d)) (Ord. 3589, passed - - )
§ 154.58 CAPACITY OF BARRELS.
   No storage tanks in excess of 500 barrels capacity shall be installed for
any well in the unplatted area of the city, nor in excess of 210 barrels in the
platted area of the city.
('68 Code, § 27.09(c)) (Ord. 3589, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 154.59 INSTALLATION OF SEPARATORS.
   Storage tank permits shall also include the installation of a separator.
('68 Code, § 27.09(e)) (Ord. 3589, passed - - )
§ 154.60 CONSTRUCTION OF DYKES.
   Such storage tanks shall be fully protected by the digging and construction
of dykes or retaining walls, completely surrounding such tanks and of a
sufficient capacity to retain and prevent the flowing or escaping of the total
contents of such storage tanks to the surrounding territory. The construction
of such dykes or retaining walls shall be subject to the approval of the Chief
of the Fire Department or such other official as shall be designated by the
City Council.
('68 Code, § 27.09(f)) (Ord. 3589, passed - - )
§ 154.61 PUMPING UNITS.
   Any pumping units (except jack) installed within the platted area of the
city shall be electrically operated and properly housed and closed so as to
protect the public.
('68 Code, § 27.09(g)) (Ord. 3589, passed - - )
CHAPTER 155: PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
Section
Local Improvements
   
155.01   Board of Local Improvements
   
155.02   Improvement procedures
Commercial Redevelopment Plan
   
155.10   Application procedures for commercial redevelopment bond
LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS
§ 155.01 BOARD OF LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS.
   There is hereby established the Board of Local Improvements consisting of
the Mayor and the four City Commissioners.
('68 Code, § 2.37) (Ord. 3674, passed - - )
§ 155.02 IMPROVEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Improvements. All improvements relating to streets, drainage and
sewerage (except sidewalks) to be paid wholly or in part by special assessment
or special taxation shall be under the provisions of Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 9-1-1 et
seq.
   (B)   Board to originate plans. It shall be the duty of the Board of Local
Improvements to originate all plans for local improvements in the city and to
recommend to the Council the adoption of ordinances for the construction of
said improvements.
   (C)   Engineer. The Board of Local Improvements shall employ, with the
approval of the Council, some competent civil engineer or engineers in
connection with each local improvement to be constructed in the city. Such
engineer shall be a qualified civil engineer being a graduate of some
recognized school of civil engineering, requiring at least two years of
training or shall have had four years of practical experience as a civil
engineer.
   (D)   Attorney. The Board of Local Improvements, with the consent of the
Council, may employ any competent and duly licensed attorney, resident of the
city, as attorney for the Board of Local Improvements to act and perform all
the legal duties required in connection with the construction of local
improvements, such attorney to be paid such compensation as may be provided by
ordinance.
   (E)   Maintenance bond. Any person to whom shall be awarded a contract for
the construction of any pavement, sewer or other public improvement for the
city shall be required to enter into a bond in a sum equal to 20% of the amount
of such contract, and in no event for less than $1000, with sureties to be
approved by the City Clerk, which bond shall provide that each person shall
well and faithfully perform and execute said work in all respects according to
the complete and detailed specifications and full and complete drawings,
profiles and models therefor, and according to the time, terms and conditions
of the contract, and that such person shall promptly replace, repair and make
good any and all imperfections and defects which may become apparent within two
years from the acceptance of said work by the city or the Board of Local
Improvements and which imperfections and defects are due to the negligence of
said person, or to the use of defective materials, or due in any way to a non-
compliance on the part of each person or his agents, with the ordinance, maps,
plats, plane, profiles, specifications and contract providing for said
improvement. The bond shall be secured by a responsible surety company, or two
responsible individuals who are property owners, in addition to the principal.
Such bond shall be approved by the City Council. The bond shall be in the form
prescribed by the city.
('68 Code, § 2.38)
COMMERCIAL REDEVELOPMENT PLAN
§ 155.10 APPLICATION PROCEDURES FOR COMMERCIAL REDEVELOPMENT BOND.
   (A)   Any and all requests or applications for consideration of projects
under the Commercial Redevelopment Plan shall submit an application therefor
which shall provide basic information regarding the following:
      (1)   The name of the individual or firm which is seeking consideration.
      (2)   The nature or kind of project to be considered and whether such
project is new construction, addition, alteration or what type of construction
is anticipated.
      (3)   The site on which the project is to be located together with the
owner and occupant, if any, of such project. Such description shall include a
plat and indicate the size of the lot or site.
      (4)   The architect or engineer for the project or the builder or
construction firm for the project.
      (5)   The total estimated cost of all work to be done.
      (6)   The anticipated completion date for the project.
      (7)   A complete and current financial statement for the applicant or a
tentative commitment from a bona fide financial institution or individual for
the purchase of the bond.
   (B)   Contemporaneous with the filing of application, the applicant shall
pay at the office of the City Clerk a fee in the amount of .25% of the total
bonds requested in the application. The application fee shall be retained by
the city to help defray the additional costs in connection with such bond
issue; except, the city shall rebate the entire application fee if the state,
or any agency thereof, or the United States of America, or any agency thereof,
shall take any action which has the effect of rendering the Commercial
Redevelopment bond method of financing of the proposed project not feasible.
   (C)   All memoranda of intent shall be drafted so that they are in full
force and effect for a maximum period of one year or such further time as may
be extended by agreement of the parties.
   (D)   Any projects which have been commenced but have not been completed and
for which memoranda of intent have been executed shall be required to submit
the application referred to in this section and provide the information and the
fee referred to in this section within 30 days from passage of this section.
(Ord. 80-4407, passed 8-5-1980; Am. Ord. 81-4421, passed 12-15-1981)
CHAPTER 156: PLUMBING CODE
Section
   
156.01   Short title
   
156.02   Definitions
   
156.03   Compliance with regulations required
   
156.04   State Plumbing Code adopted; revisions
   
156.05   License required
   
156.06   Administrative authority
   
156.07   Qualifications of Plumbing Inspector
   
156.08   Powers and duties of Plumbing Inspector
   
156.09   Stop order in event of violations
   
156.10   Certificate required for water and sewer service
   
156.11   Registration of plumbers
   
156.12   Plumbing permits
   
156.13   Permit fees
   
156.14   Notification to Plumbing Inspector when work ready for inspection
   
156.15   Interpretation of regulations
§ 156.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, may be cited, and is hereafter designated as
"The City of Mattoon Plumbing Code."
('68 Code, § 25.01) (Ord. 3925, passed - - )
§ 156.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PLUMBING. The practice, materials, and fixtures listed in the installation,
maintenance, extension, and alteration of all piping, fixtures, appliances, and
appurtenances in connection with any of the following: Sanitary drainage or
storm drainage facilities, the venting system and public or private water-
supply systems, within or adjacent to any building, structure, or conveyance;
also the practice and materials used in the installation, maintenance,
extension, or alteration of stormwater, liquid waste, or sewerage, and water-
supply systems of any premises to their connection with any point of public
disposal or other acceptable terminal.
   PLUMBING FIXTURES. Installed receptacles, devices, or appliances which are
supplied with water or which receive or discharge liquids or liquid-borne
waste, with or without discharge into the drainage system with which they may
be directly or indirectly connected.
   PLUMBING SYSTEM. The water-supply and distribution pipes; plumbing fixtures
and traps; soil, waste and vent pipes; building drains, including their
respective connections, devices, and appurtenances within the property lines of
the premises, and water-treating or water using equipment.
('68 Code, § 25.02) (Ord. 3925, passed - - )
§ 156.03 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to install, alter, change or repair any
plumbing, drains or sewers in any dwelling, building or premises in the city
without complying with the regulations and provisions contained in this chapter
and in the Illinois State Plumbing Code, adopted by the Illinois Department of
Public Health, Division of Sanitary Engineering, dated July 1, 1959.
('68 Code, § 25.03) (Ord. 3925, passed - - )
§ 156.04 STATE PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED; REVISIONS.
   (A)   Illinois State Plumbing Code adopted. The Illinois State Plumbing Code
promulgated by the Illinois Department of Public Health, Division of Sanitary
Engineering, dated July 1, 1959, is hereby adopted, made a part hereof and
incorporated herein by reference as if fully set forth herein; at least three
copies of said code shall be on file in the office of the City Clerk and there
kept available for public use, inspection and examination. Any provision or
regulation contained in the Illinois State Plumbing Code in conflict with or
inconsistent with any provision or regulation contained in this chapter is to
the extent of such conflict or inconsistency superseded by the provision or
regulation contained in this chapter.
   (B)   Revision. Section 12.5.1 of the Illinois State Plumbing Code shall be
inapplicable in the city, provided, however, the vent extension through the
roof shall in no instance be smaller than the vent which it terminates; and in
no instance shall it be smaller than two inches. Vent terminals shall not be
screened.
('68 Code, § 25.03) (Ord. 3925, passed - - )
§ 156.05 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of plumbing in
the city either as a plumbing contractor, employing plumber, or journeyman
plumber without first having complied with the license requirement of the
Plumbing License Law of the state.
('68 Code, § 25.04) (Ord. 3925, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 156.06 ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY.
   The administrative authority hereby designated to administer and enforce
this chapter shall be the Sewer Department of the city.
('68 Code, § 25.05) (Ord. 3925, passed - - )
§ 156.07 QUALIFICATIONS OF PLUMBING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of Plumbing Inspector of the city.
The Plumbing Inspector shall be appointed by the Commissioner of Public
Property with the advice and consent of the City Council to hold office at the
will of the Council and until his successor shall have been appointed and
qualified. No person shall be appointed Plumbing Inspector who shall not have
been, at the time of his appointment, a licensed plumber in accordance with the
Illinois Plumbing License Law.
   (B)   The Plumbing Inspector shall not engage in the plumbing business or be
interested directly or indirectly in any firm or corporation engaged in the
plumbing business during his term of office.
('68 Code, § 25.06) (Ord. 3925, passed - - )
§ 156.08 POWERS AND DUTIES OF PLUMBING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Plumbing Inspector to see to the
enforcement of all provisions of the ordinances relating to plumbing and
plumbing equipment, and to make such inspections and perform such tests as may
be necessary in the enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   The Plumbing Inspector shall:
      (1)   Sign and issue all notices, permits and certificates required by
this chapter.
      (2)   Pass upon and approve all plans and surveys required.
      (3)   Keep a record of all notices issued, applications received and
permits granted.
      (4)   Keep a record of any violations of this chapter.
      (5)   Inspect and for the purpose thereof may enter all houses and other
buildings in the course of erection and all houses undergoing alteration or
repair as often as may be necessary to insure conformances with the
requirements of this chapter.
      (6)   Compel all work on plumbing to be performed in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
      (7)   Cause to be kept a record of measurements of all sewer taps in
relation to property lines.
('68 Code, § 25.08) (Ord. 3925, passed - - )
§ 156.09 STOP ORDER IN EVENT OF VIOLATIONS.
   The Plumbing Inspector shall have the power to order work stopped on the
construction, alteration or repair of plumbing or plumbing equipment when such
work is being done in violation of any provision of this chapter. Work shall
not be resumed after the issuance of such a stop order except on written
permission of the Plumbing Inspector; provided that if the stop order is an
oral one it shall be followed by a written stop order within three hours.
('68 Code, § 25.08) (Ord. 3925, passed - - )
§ 156.10 CERTIFICATE REQUIRED FOR WATER AND SEWER SERVICE.
   No water or sewerage service shall be afforded to or tapped into any
premises where plumbing has been installed, altered or repaired without first
presenting a proper certificate from the Plumbing Inspector to the Water
Department or Sewer Department showing the installation, repair or alteration
of all plumbing therein in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
('68 Code, § 25.09) (Ord. 3925, passed - - )
§ 156.11 REGISTRATION OF PLUMBERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to hold
himself or itself out as a plumbing contractor, employing plumber, or self-
employed journeyman plumber or to engage in the business of plumbing in the
city without first causing his name, his residence, and his place of business
to be registered with the City Clerk. In addition, such person, firm or
corporation shall give a bond to the city in the sum of $5,000 conditioned upon
the full indemnity to the city against damage to the city or to persons to whom
the city may be liable by reason of failure of the person, firm or corporation
to comply with the ordinances of the city pertaining to plumbing; failure of
the person, firm or corporation to comply with all of the rules and regulations
established under the authority of any ordinances of the city pertaining to
plumbing; or negligence of the person, firm or corporation or his or its
employees in performing or protecting any plumbing work. Such bond shall be
renewed at intervals of two years, or oftener in the event of the impairment of
the surety. Such bond may be written by a competent surety company, or may be
secured by a deposit of cash or United States Government securities in the
amount of such bond. The surety or security shall be approved by the Council
and the bond shall be filed with the City Clerk.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation which employs plumbers in his or its
business who are not licensed under the Plumbing License Law of the state,
shall have their certificate of registration revoked, and no new certificate of
registration shall be issued to such person, firm or corporation for a period
of one year after revocation. Such person, firm or corporation shall be
entitled to a hearing prior to such revocation before the Commissioner of
Public Property and to a notice of such hearing given by registered mail at
least ten days prior to such hearing; such notice to be addressed to the
business address last registered by said person, firm or corporation.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall issue a certificate showing registration
hereunder in compliance with this chapter upon payment of a fee of $2.
('68 Code, § 25.10) (Ord. 3925, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 156.12 PLUMBING PERMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to install, alter or change any plumbing
in any building or structure within the corporate limits of the city without
first procuring a permit for such installation, alteration, or change from the
Community Development Office. The permit shall be issued only to a plumbing
contractor, employing plumber, or self-employed journeyman plumber, registered
and bonded under §
156.11, or such other person as specified in § 14.17.1b of the Illinois State
Plumbing Code. Applications for a permit shall be in accordance with § 14.17.2
of the Illinois State Plumbing Code. After the permit shall have been issued by
the Community Development Office it shall be unlawful for any person to change
or modify the plans or specifications unless such change or modification shall
first have been submitted to the Community Development Office and approved.
(‘68 Code, § 25.11) (Ord. 3925, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2010-5290, passed 4-6-
2010)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 156.13 PERMIT FEES.
   The Community Development Office shall collect a fee for each permit in
accordance with §
35.01(E)(1), which said fees shall be paid prior to the issuance of the permit.
The fee shall be the same in the case of alteration or change of existing
plumbing or in the case of the installation of new plumbing.
(‘68 Code, § 25.12) (Ord. 3925, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 93-4746, passed 9-21-
1993; Am. Ord. 2010-5290, passed 4-6-2010)
§ 156.14 NOTIFICATION TO PLUMBING INSPECTOR WHEN WORK READY FOR INSPECTION.
   The Plumbing Inspector shall be notified by the person doing the work when
any plumbing work is begun and when it is ready for inspection. All work shall
be left uncovered and convenient for examination until inspected and approved.
A Plumbing Inspector shall examine the work within one day after receipt of
notice that the work is ready for inspection. All plumbing must be tested in
accordance with Chapter 14 of the Illinois State Plumbing Code in the presence
of the Plumbing Inspector and all defective materials and work replaced and
corrected. Upon satisfactory completion of the work the Plumbing Inspector
shall issue a certificate of approval.
('68 Code, § 25.13) (Ord. 3925, passed - - )
§ 156.15 INTERPRETATION OF REGULATIONS.
   Wherever in the sewer or plumbing regulations it is provided that anything
must be done to the approval of or subject to the direction of the Sewer
Department or the Plumbing Inspector, this shall be construed to give such
department or officer only the discretion of determining whether the rules and
standards established by ordinance have been complied with; and no such
provision shall be construed as giving the Sewer Department or Plumbing
Inspector or any other officer discretionary powers as to what such regulations
or standards shall be, or power to require conditions not prescribed by
ordinance or to enforce ordinance provisions in an arbitrary or discriminating
manner.
('68 Code, § 25.14) (Ord. 3925, passed - - )
CHAPTER 157: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
157.01   Title
   
157.02   Intent
   
157.03   Taxpayers’ protection
   
157.04   Jurisdiction
   
157.05   Regulations in force
   
157.06   Amendments
   
157.07   Validity
   
157.08   Exemptions from regulations
   
157.09   Disclosure of beneficial interest
   
157.10   Variance
   
157.11   Definitions
Administration
   
157.20   City Council
   
157.21   City Planning Commission
   
157.22   Coles County Soil and Water Conservation District
   
157.23   Coles County Health Department
Procedure
   
157.30   Compliance
   
157.31   Preapplication phase
   
157.32   Preliminary plat review phase
   
157.33   Final plat review phase
Subdivision Design Standards and Specifications
   
157.40   General requirements
   
157.41   Conformity to natural features
Roads, Streets and Other Thoroughfares
   
157.50   Specifications
   
157.51   Curbs and gutters
   
157.52   Sidewalks and pedestrian walkways
Specific Subdivision Provisions
   
157.60   Easements
   
157.61   Blocks
   
157.62   Lot width and area
   
157.63   Required setbacks
   
157.64   Drainage
   
157.65   Monuments
   
157.66   Culverts, bridges, intersections and private entrances
   
157.67   Water
   
157.68   Sanitary sewers, septic systems and on-site disposal
   
157.69   Street signs
   
157.70   Required engineering plans and certificates
   
157.71   Release of surety
   
157.72   Inspection of improvements
 
   
157.99   Violations and penalty
   
Appendix A:    Tables and Plates
   
Appendix B:   Required Certificates
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 157.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the
“Subdivision Control Chapter for the City of Mattoon, Illinois.”
(Ord. 88-4582, passed 10-18-1988)
§ 157.02 INTENT.
   This chapter is adopted to provide for the health, safety, comfort, and
convenience of the inhabitants of the City of Mattoon, and vicinity; to thus
ensure sound, harmonious development of land to the highest possible standards
of design; and to provide a procedure for a cooperative working relationship
between the city and developer, in order to safeguard the interests and rights
of the homeowner and citizen, the subdivider, the investor, and the city.
(Ord. 88-45582, passed 10-18-1988)
§ 157.03 TAXPAYERS' PROTECTION.
   The developer shall provide at no cost in any form to the taxpayers of
local, state, or federal units of government, all public improvements required
by these regulations. The developer shall further include the previous
statement in the covenants of the plat in order to insure buyer protection at
the time of purchase. Improvements shall be provided and installed in
accordance with the standards and requirements adopted by other local, state,
and federal authorities which may have jurisdiction in the area being
subdivided. In any case, where two or more authorities have differing standards
governing the same improvement, the most restrictive standard shall apply.
(Ord. 88-4582, passed 10-18-1988)
§ 157.04 JURISDICTION.
   The following provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to any and all
subdivisions of the land within the boundaries of Mattoon, Illinois, and
outside of the corporate boundaries but within one and one-half miles of the
corporate limits.
(Ord. 88-4582, passed 10-18-1988)
§ 157.05 REGULATIONS IN FORCE.
   The regulations contained in this chapter shall take effect ten days after
being published.
(Ord. 88-4582, passed 10-18-1988)
§ 157.06 AMENDMENTS.
   The regulations contained in this chapter may not be changed or amended by
the City Council without first submitting the suggested change to the City
Planning Commission for their consideration and recommendations.
(Ord. 88-4582, passed 10-18-1988)
§ 157.07 VALIDITY.
   If any section clause, provision, or portion of this chapter shall be held
to be invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such
decision shall not affect any other section, clause, provision or portion of
this chapter.
(Ord. 88-4582, passed 10-18-1988)
§ 157.08 EXEMPTIONS FROM REGULATIONS.
   Exemptions found in Section 1(b) of the Plat Act, ILCS, Ch. 109, as amended,
are exempt from the regulations herein contained and shall include the
following:
   (A)   The division of land into parcels or tracts of five acres or more in
size which does not involve any new streets or easements of access;
   (B)   The division of lots or blocks of less than one acre in any recorded
subdivision which does not involve any new streets or easements of access;
   (C)   The sale or exchange of parcels of land between owners of adjoining
and contiguous land;
   (D)   The conveyance of parcels of land or interest therein for use as a
right-of-way for railroads or other public utility facilities and other pipe
lines which does not involve any new streets or easements of access;
   (E)   The conveyance of land owned by a railroad or other public utility
which does not involve any new streets or easements of access;
   (F)   The conveyance of land for highway or other public purposes or grants
or conveyances relating to the dedication of land for public use or instruments
relating to the vacation of land impressed with a public use;
   (G)   Conveyances made to correct descriptions in prior conveyances;
   (H)   The sale or exchange of parcels or tracts of land following the
division into no more than two parts of a particular parcel or tract of land
existing on July 17, 1959 and not involving any new streets or easements of
access;
   (I)   The sale of a single lot of less than five acres from a larger tract
when a survey is made by an Illinois Registered Land Surveyor; provided, that
this exemption shall not apply to the sale of any subsequent lots from the same
larger tract of land, as determined by the dimensions and configuration of the
larger tract on October 1, 1973, and provided also that this exemption does not
invalidate any local requirements applicable to the subdivision of land.
(Ord. 88-4582, passed 10-18-1988)
§ 157.09 DISCLOSURE OF BENEFICIAL INTEREST.
   Pursuant to Illinois State Statutes, whenever any trustee, or beneficiary or
beneficiaries of a land trust make application for a subdivision relating to
land which is the subject of such trust, any interest therein, improvements
thereto, or use thereof, such applicant shall identify his or her interest
therein. All such applications shall be verified by the applicant in his or her
capacity as trustee, or by the beneficiary as a beneficial owner of an interest
in such land trust. Failure to make such disclosure shall be reason enough to
deny a request for subdivision. Making a false statement as to the
identification or interest in such trust shall also be reason enough for the
denial of a request for subdivision and makes the person making such statement
subject to penalties provided by said state statutes.
(Ord. 88-4582, passed 10-18-1988)
§ 157.10 VARIANCE.
   (A)   Where the developer can show that a provision of these regulations
would cause unnecessary hardship and where, in the opinion of the Planning
Commission, a departure may be made without destroying the intent of such
provision, the Planning Commission may recommend a variance. In the event the
Planning Commission finds that extraordinary hardship or injustice will result
from compliance with these regulations, it may vary the terms thereof to the
extent necessary to grant relief, provided:
      (1)   That special conditions or circumstances exist which are peculiar
to the tract or tracts to be subdivided;
      (2)   That granting the variance requested will not confer on the
developer any special privilege that is denied by these regulations to other
developers; and
      (3)   The Planning Commission determines that the variance requested is:
         (a)   The least deviation from these regulations which will mitigate
the hardship;
         (b)   Not detrimental to the general public interest, health and
welfare, and is in keeping with the general intent and purpose of these
regulations; and
         (c)   Not applicable to other subdivisions or developers.
   (B)   The developer shall make requests for variations in writing, and the
requests shall accompany the submission of the preliminary plat. Requests for
approval of variations by the Planning Commission shall he considered
separately from approval of the final plat of subdivision. The granting of
variations shall be by action of the City Council.
(Ord. 88-4582, passed 10-18-1988)
§ 157.11 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules.
      (1)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future; words in
the singular number shall include the plural; and use of masculine gender shall
include the feminine gender, and vice versa in these cases.
      (2)   The word “shall” is mandatory and unconditional, not discretionary.
      (3)   The word “may” is permissive and conditional.
      (4)   Any statute or other publication referenced in these regulations
shall refer to the latest edition or amendment of such.
   (B)   General definitions.
      (1)   ALLEY. A public thoroughfare, not over 20 feet in width, which
affords only secondary means of access to abutting property.
      (2)   BLOCK. Property having frontage on one side of a street and lying
between the two nearest intersecting or intercepting streets, or nearest
intersections or intercepting street and railroad rights-of-way, waterway, or
other barrier.
      (3)   BUILDING, SETBACK LINE. The line, established by this chapter,
beyond which a building shall not extend unless varied according to procedures
in this chapter. Also called a BUILDING LINE. This may be applicable to the
front, side, and/or rear yard.
      (4)    CAPPED SEWERS. Unused pipes that are installed and ready for use
when the time comes to tap onto an available community sanitary sewer system.
      (5)    CITY.  The City of Mattoon, Illinois.
      (6)   COMMISSION. The Mattoon City Planning Commission.
      (7)   CONSTRUCTION.  The building of a home, garage or other structure,
the moving of earth, the laying of culverts or tile, and other similar man-made
improvements.
      (8)   DEVELOPER.  Any person, individual, subdivider, trust, or other
legal entity commencing proceedings under these regulations to effect a
subdivision of land hereunder for himself or herself or another.
      (9)   DEVELOPMENT.  See “Subdivision.”
      (10)   EASEMENT.  A grant, by the property owner for the use of land by
the public, a corporation, or persons, for specific purposes.
      (11)   FLAG LOT.  A tract of land not having sufficient width on a road
to create more than one lot abutting said road but having sufficient area and
depth to be divided into more than one buildable lot that will meet all other
requirements of these regulations.
      (12)    IMPROVEMENT.  Street pavement or resurfacing, curbs, gutters,
sidewalks, water lines, sewer lines, storm drains, street lights, flood control
and drainage facilities, utility lines, landscaping, and other related things
normally associated with land development.
      (13)    JURISDICTIONAL AREA.  This chapter shall be applicable to any and
all subdivisions of land within the boundaries of Mattoon, Illinois, and
outside the corporate boundaries but within one and one-half miles of the
corporate limits.
      (14)    LOT. A parcel of land occupied or to be occupied by one building
and any accessory buildings or uses authorized in connection therewith,
including such open spaces as are required by this chapter, and such open
spaces as are arranged or designed to be used in connection with such building.
It may be a single parcel separately described in a deed or plat which is filed
in the office of the County Recorder, or it may include parts of or a
combination of such parcels when adjacent to one another and used as one. In
determining the lot area and boundary lines no part thereof within the limits
of a street shall be included.
      (15)   MINOR SUBDIVISION. A minor subdivision shall be considered a
subdivision of not more than three lots which shall require no new rights-of-
way dedications, easements or access or variations from these regulations. Such
MINOR SUBDIVISION may be processed for preliminary and final plat approval
simultaneously.
      (16)   MONUMENT. An object set in the earth to mark a boundary and
conforming to State Statutory requirements.
      (17)    PERSON. A natural person, corporation, firm, partnership,
association, organization, or any other entity acting as a unit.
      (18)   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Mattoon City Planning Commission.
      (19)    PLAT. A map or chart indicating the subdivision or resubdivision
of land intended to be filed for record in compliance with these regulations
and the Illinois Revised Statutes.
      (20)    PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Includes streets, water systems, ditches,
tile, sidewalks, parks, sewage systems, drainage systems, and other items of
construction dedicated to the public.
      (21)    REVIEWING AUTHORITIES. The Mattoon Planning Commission and any
individual or agency designated by the Planning Commission or these
regulations.
      (22)   SPITE STRIP. A piece of land other than a lot legally meeting the
minimum requirements of these regulations, used to separate a public street or
road rights-of-way from adjoining property and whose primary purpose is to
preclude access to such rights-of-way.
      (23)   STREET. A public way established or dedicated by duly recorded
plat, deed, grant, governmental authority or by operation of law. (Also see
divisions (C) and (D))
      (24)    SUBDIVIDER. See “Developer.”
      (25)   SUBDIVISION. At a minimum, those expressed conditions found in the
Plat Act, ILCS Ch. 109, latest amended edition, and inclusive of any
subdivision or resubdivision of a tract, parcel, or lot of land into two or
more parts by means of mapping, platting, conveyance, change or rearrangement
of boundaries or otherwise, and shall also relate to the process of subdividing
or to the land subdivided where appropriate to the text. The use of metes and
bounds of description for the purpose of sale, transfer,  or lease with the
intent of evading these regulations, shall not be permitted. Any device or
mechanism intended to evade these regulations including but not limited to: the
sale, transfer or lease of a parcel or tract of land containing five or more
acres to another party where it is intended to sell or transfer back to the
seller any part of the parcel or tract which would thereby create a parcel or
tract of land containing less than five acres is an evasion of these
regulations and shall not be permitted.
      (26)   SURETY BOND. A bond safeguarding performance of a contract or
obligation. The specific amount of the bond shall be determined in accordance
with applicable state statutes and these regulations. Also see
§ 157.33(E) of these regulations.
      (27)   THOROUGHFARE. A right-of-way, other than an alley, dedicated or
otherwise legally established for the public use, usually affording the
principal means of access to abutting property. A thoroughfare may be
designated as a highway, parkway, boulevard, road, avenue, street, lane, drive,
or other appropriate name.
      (28)    VARIANCE. A modification of the specific requirements of this
chapter granted by the Council in accordance with the terms of this chapter for
the purpose of assuring that no property, because of special circumstances
applicable to it, shall be deprived of privileges commonly enjoyed by other
properties in the same vicinity and district. The modification may allow a
change in standards or use.
   (C)   Functional classifications of streets.
      (1)   ARTERIAL.  As defined by the Illinois Department of Transportation
and utilized in the Federal “Functional Classification System.” Standards for
arterials, when necessary, are to be determined on a case-by-case basis in
cooperation with County Superintendent of Highways and designed to follow
standards of the Illinois Department of Transportation’s Bureau of Design,
Design Manual, latest amended edition.
      (2)    COLLECTOR. Also called FEEDER. A street or road planned to
facilitate the collection of traffic from local streets, linking larger
population concentrations to cities and villages, or feeding arterial routes
while accommodating shorter trips.
      (3)   LOCAL. Connects minor population concentrations as found in
subdivisions with arterials and collectors; local roads are the minimum class
of roads or thoroughfares not considered alleys or driveways and  providing
frontage or marginal access serving localized commercial, industrial or
residential traffic.
   (D)   Other thoroughfare, road, and street terms.
      (1)   AGRICULTURAL. Roads and thoroughfares intended to provide access
primarily between farms, and farms and urban centers for the transportation of
crops to market or service to the farm; to local public services benefiting the
farm population (such as rural schools, fire district buildings); and,
agricultural businesses and farms. These roads and thoroughfares are developed
primarily for agricultural use and are not designed for general purpose,
nonagricultural commercial or industrial use nor for nonagricultural
residential use.
      (2)    CUL-DE-SAC. Also called COURT or DEAD END. A short street having
one end open to traffic and being permanently terminated by some type of
vehicle turn around.
      (3)    MARGINAL ACCESS. Also called FRONTAGE.  A local or collector road
constructed adjacent and parallel to an arterial or collector, which provides
access to abutting property and ways for traffic to reach controlled or limited
points of access on arterials or primary collectors.
      (4)   SUBDIVISION. Those thoroughfares constructed within a subdivision
and intended to primarily carry internal traffic. These thoroughfares are the
lowest class intended to serve individual residential lots. For purposes of
these regulations, subdivision thoroughfares shall, at a minimum, meet the
requirements for local roads.
(Ord. 88-4582, passed 10-18-1988)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 157.20 CITY COUNCIL.
   Sections
157.20 through
157.23 are concerned with the administration of the regulations contained
herein. The City Manager administers regulations, exercises authority and
fulfills responsibilities as required by these regulations. The city shall
maintain all necessary records, administer the subdivision regulations, be the
final authority in cases of appeal, and review the preliminary and final plat.
Specifically, with regard to the recommendations of the Planning Commission
regarding subdivision review, the role of the City Manager, or designee, shall
be to consider the proposal in regard to: the regulations and standards within
these regulations; reports of other bodies and agencies as they pertain to
design standards and specifications herein contained; all other city
regulations and ordinances, state statutes and codes and federal codes and
regulations deemed to be applicable minimum requirements in the interests of
health, safety and convenience of the public of the city and not in conflict
with the intent and purpose of these regulations.
(Ord. 88-4582, passed 10-18-1988; Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 157.21 CITY PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The City Planning Commission shall review and examine the regulations
contained in this chapter and recommend to the city such changes as may be
necessary. The Commission shall review preliminary and final plat applications
and make recommendations to the City Manager and City Council as applicable and
necessary.
(Ord. 88-4582, passed 10-18-1988; Am. Ord. 2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 157.22 COLES COUNTY SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION DISTRICT.
   The Conservation District reviews the preliminary plat; makes all natural
resource information available to the Commission, the Coles County Health
Department, and the developer/owner, and issues a written opinion concerning
the plat to the Commission not more than 30 days from the time of receipt of
the plat. Use of District reviews will be for general guidance purposes.
(Ord. 88-4582, passed 10-18-1988)
§ 157.23 COLES COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT.
   If any part of the platted land will not be served by a public sewer system,
the Coles County Health Department shall review the preliminary and final plats
of subdivision, and all related materials required by the regulations contained
in this chapter. The Health Department shall approve in writing, and within 30
days from the time of receipt of the plat, the proposed sewage disposal system
(s).
(Ord. 88-4582, passed 10-18-1988)
PROCEDURE
§ 157.30 COMPLIANCE.
   For §§
157.31 through
157.33, the developer/subdivider or his or her representative shall be
responsible for compliance including all standards, specifications,
certificates, and sureties herein contained.
   (A)   Preapplication phase. Informal, not mandatory.
   (B)   Preliminary plat review. Formal, mandatory.
   (C)   Final plat review phase. Formal, mandatory.
(Ord. 88-4582, passed 10-18-1988)
§ 157.31 PREAPPLICATION PHASE.
   If any deviation from these regulations is anticipated, or the developer
anticipates a potential problem area, this informal phase is intended to
conserve time, effort and expense by encouraging the developer to discuss the
proposed subdivision with the Community Development staff, prior to any formal
application being made.
(Ord. 88-4582, passed 10-18-1988; Am. Ord. 2010-5303, passed 6-1-2010)
§ 157.32 PRELIMINARY PLAT REVIEW PHASE.
   (A)   Filing. A person or corporation desiring approval of a plat of a
subdivision of any land lying within the jurisdiction of the city, shall submit
a letter of application therefor to the City Clerk’s office at least 30 days
prior to the date of a regular or special Commission meeting. At least three
oversized copies and 15 11 x 17 sized copies of preliminary plat documents
shall be made available by the developer for use at the above mentioned
Commission meeting. The developer shall also submit a letter with the
preliminary plat indicating all requests for variations from the requirements
and standards herein contained, whether temporary or permanent in nature. The
granting of variations shall be by action of the City Council. The applicant
will also pay a $350 non-refundable filing fee at the time of application.
   (B)   Preliminary plat document specifications and support materials. The
developer or his or her representative shall submit the following: the plat
drawn or printed upon tracing paper, tracing cloth, or a similar reproducible
medium. The plat shall be drawn at a scale of one inch equals 100 feet or at a
scale of one inch equals 50 feet. All materials shall contain information
concerning the name of the subdivision; the name, address and telephone number
of the firm and person preparing the material, and if appropriate, signature
and certification; and the date of material preparation with reference to any
changes made. There shall be one common scale for all maps and plans presented
for each subdivision, unless otherwise stated herein. The plat may be prepared,
at the developer's discretion, so as to contain items required in both the
preliminary and final plats.
NOTE: Adjacent shall mean for these specifications and at a minimum, the area
lying outside of but contiguous to the subdivision site and extending a
distance of 100 feet, or to such further distance as may be necessary.
   (C)   Preliminary plat contents.
      (1)   The proposed subdivision name, which shall not duplicate the name
of any platted subdivision previously recorded in Coles County;
      (2)   Date, bar scale, and north arrow;
      (3)   Location by distances and bearings from true north or grid north,
as established by the Illinois State Plane Coordinate System, East Zone, and
angles with reference to a corner or corners established in the United States
Public Land Survey;
      (4)   All angular and linear data along the exterior boundary of the
tract, which meets the criteria for a “second order” accuracy survey, by
Illinois Registered Land Surveyor's Standards;
      (5)   The width, course and extent of all existing and proposed on-site
and adjacent roads, streets, and thoroughfares; and, railroad rights-of-way, if
present;
      (6)   The names of all existing and proposed roads, streets, and other
thoroughfares;
      (7)   The location, dimensions and easements of all existing and proposed
public utilities (surface and subsurface) and private utilities affecting the
site or proposed for extension thereupon, including but not limited to water
lines, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, and drainage tile lines;
      (8)   Locations and dimensions for any other easements and any
limitations upon each easement;
      (9)   All existing adjacent and developer-proposed on-site tracts,
parcels, lots or blocks giving their precise dimensions where existent, and
approximate dimensions where proposed, including square footage for proposed
parcels and lots;
      (10)   The progressive numbering of all proposed tracts, parcels, lots
and blocks;
      (11)   Existing and proposed building setback lines and dimensions;
      (12)   All existing and proposed adjacent and on-site parks, playgrounds,
school grounds or other grounds to be dedicated or reserved for public, semi-
public, common, or community use;
      (13)   The locations and widths of any proposed walkways and easements,
clearly indicating any connections to present or proposed public lands or
facilities and/or private walkways and easements;
      (14)   The identification of all civil and/or political divisions within
which the proposed subdivision is wholly or partially located. And where
applicable, the location of the division's boundary lines if within or adjacent
to the site. Such divisions shall include, but are not limited to: school
districts, fire protection districts, incorporated municipalities, soil and
water conservation districts, park districts, and water districts;
      (15)   The location and direction of flow, as applicable, of natural
drainage ways, streams, rivers and lakes, and similar natural flows or
impoundments;
      (16)   The location and identification of all existing man-made features
including but not limited to: buildings, excavations, bridges, impoundments,
drainage improvements and tiles within and adjacent to the site;
      (17)   Present zoning of the site and the authority of that zoning, if
applicable;
      (18)   The name(s), address(es), and telephone number(s) of the owner(s)
and developer(s) of the subdivision or their duly authorized representative;
and
      (19)   The name(s), address(es), and telephone number(s) of the surveyor,
engineer, or planner preparing the preliminary plat.
NOTE: The final plat must be prepared by an Illinois Registered Land Surveyor.
   (D)   Supplementary information required.
      (1)   Vicinity map. A small scale map to a scale of not less than one
inch equals 2,000 feet, which may be shown on or accompany the preliminary
plat. The map shall indicate the site's relationship to boundaries, traffic
arteries, community facilities, railroads and other nonresidential land uses
for adverse influences. The map itself must include a minimum 1,000-foot radius
surrounding the site;
      (2)   Water supply and sewage disposal. Preliminary plans for water
supply and sewage disposal facilities shall be presented. Including:
         (a)   The location of the nearest public water supply and fire hydrant
with a statement from the controlling authority indicating the ability to serve
the site, as well as available capacity. Requests shall be in writing by the
developer with notice that reply be made within 14 calendar days of receipt. In
addition, if the site is to be served by private wells, a statement of the
adequacy and usability of the proposed water supply available on-site; such
statement shall include available well logs of the area.
         (b)   The location of the nearest public or private sewer system shall
be shown; information concerning the possibility of connection and the capacity
of the system will be required where necessary. If the subdivision lots are to
be served with individual wastewater systems, the plans shall be reviewed by
the Coles County Public Health Department for conformance to the Coles County
Private Sewage Disposal Ordinance, as amended, as well as other applicable
state or local ordinances.
      (3)   Drainage and stormwater management. Preliminary plans for site
drainage, surface and subsurface, and stormwater management shall be presented.
Also to be included is a statement of whether the proposed subdivision is
located in a drainage district and identifying any agreements that have been
made with the drainage district in which the subdivision is located, if any.
      (4)   Water course and impoundments. Preliminary plans for any proposed
water course changes or impoundments to be developed. Existing and proposed
impoundments shall indicate points of discharge, design capacities and
calculations, and shall indicate normal pool elevations. Water courses shall
show direction of flow. Both impoundments and water courses shall indicate
elevations of the 100-year flood.
      (5)   Soil information plan.  The plan shall contain delineation of the
subdivision by soil types utilizing the most recent soil survey techniques and
classification information system in use by the United States Department of
Agriculture, Soil and Water Conservation Service; any information known and
relating to the site’s water table elevation and, any such additional
information as may be required by the reviewing authorities, including further
soil tests conducted as to ASTM (American Society for Testing Material)
standards when indicated by soil type.
      (6)   Percolation report.  In the absence of city sanitary sewer access,
a report prepared by an Illinois Registered Professional Engineer shall be
required which shall contain a representative number of percolation tests as
selected by the County Health Department. Tests need not exceed two tests per
lot or one test per change in soil type, whichever is greater. These tests
shall be provided where on-site wastewater disposal is contemplated.
Percolation tests presented with the preliminary plat shall be witnessed by the
County Health Department. The developer or his or her engineer shall properly
notify the County Health Department in advance of testing, such notification
and requests for observation shall conform to the applicable rules and
procedures of the Department. The Coles County Health Department after
witnessing the percolation tests shall sign the results indicating that the
percolation tests were conducted as to proper standards and procedures. The
location of each test hole shall be plotted and numbered on a map of the same
scale as the preliminary plat, and a typewritten text of the results are to
accompany the plan. A minimum of one copy of all such information shall be
provided by the project engineer for review and comment by the Coles County
Health Department.
      (7)   Topographic and profile studies.  There shall be submitted
simultaneously with the plat a study which shows topographically and by profile
the elevation of the land prior to the commencement of any change in elevations
as part of any phase of subdividing as well as a study which shows
topographically and by profile any changes contemplated from such land when
change is contemplated. Topography of the site shall be identified with contour
lines at one-foot (one meter if the plat is metric) vertical intervals on
grades of less than 5% and with five-foot (two meters if the plat is metric)
contours elsewhere. Contours and elevations shall be based on sea level datum,
USGS standards, where possible. Further, the topographical studies shall be
prepared in such a manner as will permit the studies to be used as overlays to
the subdivision plat. The studies shall have on their face a certification of
any Illinois Registered Professional Engineer and the owner of the land or his
or her duly authorized representative confirming the topographic and drainage
certificate in these regulations.
      (8)   Road and thoroughfare design plan.  The preliminary plan shall
contain information as to right-of-way widths, pavement design, standards and
specifications, cross sections and profile drawings of roads, streets,
thoroughfares and other public ways, all conforming to the design requirements
herein contained, including standard detail and culvert sizes for each
entrance.
      (9)   Special studies.  Where required by site conditions or these
regulations, such other special studies as may be necessary and which may
include but need not be limited to preliminary erosion control plans and
specifications; landscaping plans and specifications; and, fill plan with
location, depth and fill type; and hazardous waste sites and disposal sites,
shall be submitted.
      (10)   Variance narrative.  If a variation or variations are to be
requested from the standards herein contained, a narrative for each variation
the developer is requesting shall accompany all other documents.
      (11)   Covenants, restrictions, home owner's information.  There shall be
submitted with the plat one copy of the preliminary covenants, deed
restrictions, and/or home owner's association charter and by-laws, if a home
owner's association is intended. NOTE: Within the covenants, statements shall
be included, as applicable, which identify subsequent lot owners as responsible
for the placement of driveway culverts in accordance with approved engineering
plans. Additional statements shall also be included which identify subsequent
lot owners as responsible for contacting the Coles County Health Department for
review and approval of individual (nonmunicipal type) septic systems and well
locations, prior to construction of any permanent improvements or structures
upon the individual lot. All restrictions are to be reviewed as part of the
plat review process and must be recorded, as approved, with the approved plat.
   (E)   Reviewing agencies. The developer or his or her representative shall
be responsible for sending the preliminary plat document and support materials
to the following agencies at the time of making formal application:
      (1)   Coles County Health Department, if applicable;
      (2)   Illinois Department of Transportation, if applicable;
      (3)   Applicable fire protection district;
      (4)   Township Road Commissioner, if applicable;
      (5)   General Manager of Mattoon Water Department;
      (6)   Superintendent of Mattoon Sewage Department;
      (7)   Coles County Highway Superintendent, if applicable; and
      (8)   Coles County Soil and Water Conservation District, if applicable.
   (F)   Approval. After an application for approval of a plat of a subdivision
with three copies of all maps and data, has been filed, the Commission shall
review the application and shall approve the plat proposed in the application,
subject to its receipt of an acceptable final plat, as described in
§ 157.33, or disapprove the plat, setting forth its reasons in its own records
and providing the applicant with a copy. An approval shall be effective for a
period of 12 months, unless, upon request of the applicant, the Commission
grants an extension. If the final plat is not received by the Commission within
the period of time specified, all previous actions by the Commission with
respect to the plat shall be deemed to be null and void.
   (G)   Appeal. Any party aggrieved by a decision of the Commission may
within15 days thereafter, appeal therefrom to the City Council and he or she
shall file with the City Council a written notice of appeal specifying the
decision from which such appeal is taken. Procedure for appeal shall be
provided by the City Council.
(Ord. 88-4582, passed 10-18-1988; Am. Ord. 2010-5303, passed 6-1-2010)
§ 157.33 FINAL PLAT REVIEW PHASE.
   (A)   Final plat document specifications and support materials. The
developer or his or her representative shall request the Community Development
and Planning Director at least 30 days before a regular or special Commission
meeting, to place final plat review of the proposed subdivision on the Planning
Commission agenda. Three oversized and 15 11x17 sized copies of final plat
documents shall be provided at application for use at the Commission meeting.
The applicant will also submit a $250 non-refundable filing fee at the time of
application. The final plat shall meet the following specifications: the final
plat shall be prepared by an Illinois Registered Land Surveyor and drawn in
India ink on tracing cloth or reproducible mylar at the same scale as the
preliminary plat. When more than one sheet is used for any plat, they shall be
numbered consecutively and each sheet shall contain a notation showing the
whole number of sheets in the plat and its relation to other sheets.
   (B)   Final plat contents.
      (1)   Name of subdivision;
      (2)   Date, bar scale, and north arrow;
      (3)   Locations by distances and bearings from true north or grid north,
as established by the Illinois State Plane Coordinate System, East Zone, and
angles with reference to a corner or corners established in the United States
Public Land Survey;
      (4)   All angular and linear data along the exterior boundary of the
tract, which meets the criteria for a “second order” accuracy survey, by
Illinois Registered Land Surveyor’s standards;
      (5)   The width, course, and extent of all existing and recorded roads,
streets, thoroughfares and other rights-of-way intersecting the boundaries of
the subdivision with accurate dimensions in feet and decimal parts of feet (or
metric equivalents if utilized in the preliminary plat) and accurate angles to
streets, thoroughfares, alleys, and property lines;
      (6)   The width, course and extent of all proposed roads, streets,
thoroughfares and other rights-of-way with accurate dimensions in feet and
decimal parts of feet (or metric equivalents if utilized in the preliminary
plat) and accurate angles for all curves included in the plat;
      (7)   Complete curve notes for all curves included in the plat;
      (8)   Location, type and size of all monuments and lot markers;
      (9)   The names of all existing and proposed roads, streets, and other
thoroughfares;
      (10)   The location and dimensions for all easements and any limitations
thereupon;
      (11)   Accurate location of all existing abutting tracts, parcels, lots,
or blocks;
      (12)   All tracts, parcels, lots and blocks contained within the
subdivision shall be precisely dimensioned including any property to be
dedicated or reserved for public, semipublic, common, or community use;
      (13)   All tracts, parcels, lots and blocks contained within the
subdivision shall be consecutively numbered;
      (14)   All setback lines required by these regulations or fixed within
approved protective covenants shall be shown and dimensioned upon the plat;
      (15)   The centerlines of streams, rivers, or other similar flows; the
normal pool elevation of any lake or impoundment; and, an elevation line
indicating the elevation of the 100-year flood, if applicable;
      (16)   The name(s), address(es), and signature(s) of the owner(s) and
developer(s) of the subdivision or their duly authorized representatives;
      (17)   The name, address, registration number and seal, and signature of
the Illinois Registered Land Surveyor preparing the final plat;
      (18)   Certificates required by these regulations to be included upon the
final plat; and
      (19)   A statement of maintenance responsibility for any public
improvements.
   (C)   Supplementary information required.
      (1)   Final water and sewage disposal engineering plans;
      (2)   Final drainage and stormwater management engineering plans;
      (3)   Final water course and impoundment engineering plans. Complete
plans shall be required for improvements, minimally, where impoundments or
water courses affect the subdivision, elevations shall be included for the 100-
year flood;
      (4)   Final topographic and profile studies, certified by the engineer
and the owner for the entire site, where topographical change is contemplated;
      (5)   Final road and thoroughfare engineering design plans, profiles and
cross-sections;
      (6)   Special studies and engineering plans in final form as required in
preliminary plat presentation or as required to provide supporting information
for final plat approval;
      (7)   Final copies of all covenants, restrictions and home owner’s
association charters and by-laws as intended to be filed simultaneously with
the final plat of subdivision; and
      (8)   Applicable certificates as required by these regulations for final
plat approval.
   (D)   Reviewing agencies. At the time of making final plat application to
the Planning Commission, the developer shall forward copies of the final plat
to all reviewing agencies receiving copies of the preliminary plat. Within 20
calendar days after receipt, interested review agencies shall prepare written
reports which shall be available for use and review by the Planning Commission.
   (E)   Guarantee of performance. Prior to the final plat being approved by
the City Council, a surety bond shall be posted, as follows:
      (1)   The improvements shall be completed within two years from approval
of the final plat. Developer shall be responsible to maintain all such
improvements for one year following acceptance by the City Council. To ensure
the satisfactory completion of the required improvements and to ensure the
maintenance of such improvements for one year following acceptance by the City
Council, the developer shall:
         (a)   Deposit with the City Manager, cash in an amount equal to 120%
of the cost of construction estimate certified by the City Engineer; or
         (b)   Deposit with the City Manager a duly executed irrevocable letter
of credit in the form as set forth in Appendix C at the end of this chapter,
from a financial institution approved by the city and authorized to do business
in the State of Illinois. The letter of credit shall name the city as
beneficiary, shall be in effect for at least one year from its issuance date,
and shall remain in effect thereafter until the city is given 90 days’ notice
of an expiration date. The amount of the irrevocable letter of credit shall be
in an amount equal to 120% of the cost of construction estimate certified by
the City Engineer. The letter of credit shall ensure the satisfactory
completion of the improvements and their maintenance for one year following
acceptance by the city.
      (2)   During construction of the improvements, the letter of credit or
the developer’s cash deposit (herein collectively “developer’s security”) may
be periodically reduced upon approval by the City Council. However, in no
event, shall be developer’s security be less than 120% of the estimated cost of
the improvements not yet completed as determined by the City Engineer plus a
10% retainage of the total cost for maintenance of the improvements.
   (F)   Final plat approval.
      (1)   Upon a finding by the Commission that the final plat submitted is
in accordance with the requirements of this chapter, the Chairman and Secretary
shall so certify by placing their signatures upon the plat, and shall recommend
it to City Council for review and final approval.
      (2)   Following final approval by the City Council, the final plat may be
legally recorded in compliance with the laws of the State of Illinois. Such
final approval shall be null and void if the said plat is not recorded within
90 days after the approval, unless application for an extension of time to so
record is made in writing during said 90-day period to the City Council and by
it granted.
(Ord. 88-4582, passed 10-18-1988; Am. Ord. 2010-5303, passed 6-1-2010; Am. Ord.
2025-5492, passed 5-6-2025)
SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS
§ 157.40 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Every subdivision plat shall be prepared in conformance with:
   (A)   The Statutes of the State of Illinois;
   (B)   The City of Mattoon's Subdivision Regulations;
   (C)   All applicable codes and ordinances as adopted by the City of Mattoon;
   (D)   All applicable federal codes and regulations; and
   (E)   Modern and best available planning and design practices.
(Ord. 88-4582, passed 10-18-1988)
§ 157.41 CONFORMITY TO NATURAL FEATURES.
   All subdivision and all areas contained therein shall be planned to take
advantage of the natural topography of the land, to reduce the overall amount
of grading and disruption of surrounding drainage. The City Council reserves
the authority to deny or require modification of any subdivision or part
thereof which because of its natural characteristics or positions, cannot be
developed to provide an environmentally sound location. Some conditions which
may make land unsuitable for subdivision or development are as follows:
   (A)   Proposed development in flood hazard areas shall be governed by these
regulations, in addition to Ordinance No. 87-4532, “An Ordinance Regulating
Development in Special Flood Hazard Areas;”
   (B)   Land areas with high permanent water tables, swamp, highly organic
soils subject to overflows, soils subject to extreme erosion, and soils which
in other ways present hazards to public and private construction;
   (C)   Subdivision planned for development with septic systems which contain
areas with soils which show a high seasonal water table, slow or excessive
permeability, or soils subject to excessive frost action;
   (D)   Lands lying on a general overall slope in excess of 50% shall be
excluded from development and may be placed in a conservation easement.
Nonpublic systems for sewage and waste disposal intended to be located on lands
lying on more than 12% slope shall require special engineering and shall
require approval of a system for each such lot prior to approval of the
subdivision. Public or private improvements on lands containing more than 12%
slope will be considered for approval provided that the developer's evidence
conclusively indicates no damage will occur to the environment; the approval of
the subdivision will not create or intensify negative conditions relating to
public health, safety or welfare; and, there will be no increase in replacement
or maintenance costs of public facilities when compared to an area of lesser
slope. Meeting these conditions, the City Council may approve the subdivision;
   (E)   Lack of adequate and readily available water supply for the domestic
and fire protection needs of the inhabitants of the subdivision.
(Ord. 88-4582, passed 10-18-1988)
ROADS, STREETS AND OTHER THOROUGHFARES
§ 157.50 SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The thoroughfare and street layout, and alley layout where permitted,
shall provide access to all lots and parcels of land within the subdivision.
When two roads or streets intersect the same street (T-intersection), offsets
less than 125 feet shall not be permitted.
   (B)   Alleys shall not be permitted in those parts of the plat proposed for
single-family and two-family residential use. Service roadways may be required
in commercial and industrial developments, except where other provisions for
suitable access and off-street loading and unloading is assured. No dead-end
alleys shall be permitted.
   (C)   Pavement construction standards for service roadways and alleys where
permitted, shall conform to the “Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction,” latest amended edition, adopted by the Illinois Department of
Transportation.
   (D)   Half-streets are prohibited except when a half-street has been
previously platted abutting the tract boundary line, the remaining half-street
shall be platted and improved within the tract. In cases where the platting of
a half-street is approved, it shall not be constructed or used for access to
any lot until such time as the adjoining half-street is platted, approved, and
the entire street is constructed.
   (E)   Rights-of-way widths: see
Appendix A, Table 1.
   (F)   Partial rights-of-way widths: in those instances in which the owner or
owners of a new subdivision own land on only one side of an existing road or
street and the rights-of-way is narrower than that required by these
regulations, the owner shall dedicate additional rights-of-way lying between
the center line of the existing rights-of-way and the outside edge of the
additional rights-of-way at least equal to one-half of the required rights-of-
way width.
   (G)   The angle of intersection between local roads and streets and
collector and arterial roads shall not vary by more than ten degrees from the
right angle. All other local roads and streets shall intersect each other as
near to a right angle as possible and in no case shall an angle of less than 70
degrees be permitted.
   (H)   Intersections of three or more roads or streets at any one point shall
be prohibited.
   (I)   Where parkways or special types of roads or streets are involved, the
reviewing authorities may apply special standards to be followed in their
design.
   (J)   Horizontal visibility on curved streets and vertical visibility on all
roads and streets shall be maintained along the centerline. See
Appendix A, Table 1.
   (K)   Curvature measured along the centerline shall have a minimum radius.
See
Appendix A, Table 1.
   (L)   Maximum grades for roads, streets, and thoroughfares are herein
established. See
Appendix A, Table 1.
   (M)   Whenever the proposed subdivision contains or is adjacent to a
railroad rights-of-way or a highway designated as a limited access highway by
the appropriate highway authorities, provisions shall be made for a parallel
thoroughfare.
   (N)   Roads, streets, alleys where permitted, and other thoroughfares shall
be designed in consideration to their relation to existing and planned roads,
streets, thoroughfares; to reasonable circulation of traffic; to topographical
conditions; to runoff conditions; to extraordinary future public maintenance
and replacement costs; and, in their appropriate relation to the proposed uses
of the land to be served by such roads, streets, and thoroughfares.
   (O)   Stormwater systems, roads, streets, alleys where permitted, and other
thoroughfares shall have complete plans, profiles, and cross sections, provided
by the subdivider and prepared by an Illinois Registered Professional Engineer.
   (P)   Roads, streets, alleys where permitted, and other thoroughfares shall
be graded, surfaced, and improved to the dimensions as approved and work shall
be performed in the manner prescribed in “Standard Specifications for Road and
Bridge Construction,” latest amended edition, adopted by the Department of
Transportation of the State of Illinois.
   (Q)   Minimum road surface widths are hereby established by these
regulations. See
Appendix A, Table 1. Where a subdivision is being platted upon an existing
road, such road must be improved by the developer to meet the minimum standards
established for the classification of that road and herein contained. Where use
of an existing road or thoroughfare is to be shared between subdivision use and
any general public use, required improvements above the minimum standards will
be considered on a cost-sharing basis between the developer and the road or
thoroughfare authority.
   (R)   All roads, streets, alleys where permitted, and other thoroughfares in
any subdivision shall have a drainage plan conforming to all state, county,
local, and federal laws and regulations applicable and shall represent best
modern engineering practices.
   (S)   The diameter of the paved surface of a permanent turnaround shall not
be less than 120 feet.
   (T)   Spite or reserve strips controlling access to public roads, streets,
rights-of-way, actual or proposed, shall be prohibited.
   (U)   Dead-end or stub-end streets are prohibited. A road or street
permanently ending in a cul-de-sac shall not be considered “dead-end” for
purposes of these regulations.
   (V)   All streets, roads, and other thoroughfares providing primary means of
access to property shall be named. Names of streets, roads, and thoroughfares
in a proposed plat shall be chosen to avoid confusion and duplication with
existing names, especially with such names located within the jurisdiction
supplying fire protection to the site. The developer shall be responsible for
the purchase and erection of road and street name signs resulting from the
development and shall construct and locate such signs according to the
direction of the applicable City or Township Road Commissioner.
   (W)   Traffic control and warning devices whose need is created by the
subdivision shall be purchased and erected by the developer.
   (X)   Maximum length of permanent cul-de-sac streets shall be 600 feet
measured from the centerline of the intersection of the street to the center of
the turning circle. Each cul-de-sac shall be provided at the closed end with a
turn around having a minimum diameter of 120 feet, and a minimum street rights-
of-way line diameter of 120 feet. No cul-de-sac may intersect with another cul-
de-sac.
(Ord. 88-4582, passed 10-18-1988)
§ 157.51 CURBS AND GUTTERS.
   (A)   Whenever a proposed subdivision lies adjacent to or between other
subdivisions which have been provided with curbs and gutters, the subdivider
shall install curbs and gutters on each side of the street or road surface.
   (B)   Subdivisions having a lot area of less than 10,000 square feet or
whose average lot width is less than 100 feet at the building setback line, or
when the authority duly designated for the acceptance of the roadway requires
for reasons of drainage or public safety, shall have curbs and gutters.
Determination of need shall be based on pavement drainage, access control, and
highway appurtenances design standards of the Illinois Department of
Transportation's Bureau of Design, Design Manual, latest amended edition.
   (C)   Gutters and combination gutters shall be Portland Cement concrete of
not less than 24 inches in overall width and not less than six inches thick, as
shown on Plate 1 in Appendix A. The curbs and gutters shall conform to one of
the construction types shown in Standard Specifications Number 1790F, as
amended, of the Illinois Department of Transportation or as shown on Plate 1,
and herein contained in Appendix A, and shall be constructed according to the
following specifications:
      (1)   The base for the curbs and gutters shall be well-compacted on the
existing base or grade;
      (2)   The minimum specifications shall be as shown for the types of cross
sections in the standard specifications; and
      (3)   All concrete used in the curbs and gutters shall meet or exceed the
specifications of the Illinois Department of Transportation.
   (D)   Integral or monolithic curbs of the same dimensions as shown in the
standard specifications or on Plate 1 in
Appendix A, may be constructed with concrete pavement, provided the curb widths
meet the requirements shown on Plate 1 in
Appendix A.
   (E)   The minimum grade of any road or street gutter or drainage swale shall
not be less than .3% and where open ditches or swales are permitted shall be
designed in conformance with
§ 157.64 of these regulations.
(Ord. 55-4582, passed 10-18-1988)
§ 157.52 SIDEWALKS AND PEDESTRIAN WALKWAYS.
   (A)   Whenever a proposed subdivision lies adjacent to or between other
subdivisions which have been provided with sidewalks, the subdivider shall
install sidewalks on each side of the street.
   (B)   Subdivisions having an average lot area of less than 10,000 square
feet or an average lot width at the building setback line of 100 feet or less
shall have sidewalks installed on both sides of the street or road.
Subdivisions with lots in excess of 10,000 square feet or wider than 100 feet
at the building setback line may be required to install sidewalks where it is
deemed necessary to provide for the safety of pedestrians.
   (C)   When sidewalks are required, they shall be constructed of Portland
Cement concrete, at least four inches thick and four feet wide and located
within the street rights-of-way, one-foot from the street property line.
   (D)   Pedestrian walkway easements, not less than ten feet in width may be
required through the center of blocks more than 1,200 feet in length, where
deemed necessary for improved circulation or access to schools, playgrounds, or
other community facilities. They shall be surfaced with a Portland Cement
concrete walk not less than five feet in width and meeting all other
requirements of public sidewalks.
   (E)   Sidewalks and walkways shall be of a continuing common surface, not
interrupted by abrupt changes in level. Joints shall not exceed one-half inch
in width and shall be flush with adjoining surfaces. The cross slope or
crowning shall be between 1:50 and 1:100, and where vehicular driveways
intersect walks, design priority shall be given to the pedestrian and not the
vehicle.
   (F)   Sidewalks and walkways with gradients steeper than 1:20 shall not be
permitted without the addition of features providing safeguards against
slipping and falling hazards.
   (G)   Whenever walks and sidewalks intersect with other walks an sidewalks,
parking lots, driveways, roads, streets, the surface shall blend to a common
level to allow smooth passage. Specific ramp criteria as indicated in
“Accessibility Standards Illustrated,” as amended, and as developed by the
Capital Development Board of Illinois, shall and are hereby incorporated into
these regulations.
(Ord. 88-4582, passed 10-18-1988)
SPECIFIC SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
§ 157.60 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Easements shall be provided for any overhead or underground utilities
including but not limited to sanitary sewer, storm sewer, water, gas,
telephone, electricity, and cable television. Such easements shall have a
minimum width of 12 feet. Where it is intended that both overhead and
underground utilities shall share the same easement, additional width
sufficient to avoid conflict shall be provided. No surface drainage easement
shall be permitted to be contained in an easement intended for underground
utilities where drainage creates problems of seepage or coverage of the
underground utilities. To the extent possible, easements shall be established
to provide continuity of alignment through the subdivision.
   (B)   Land subject to a public or private easement shall be restricted to
prohibit within such easement structures, plantings or other materials from
being placed or permitted to remain which may damage or interfere with the
installation or maintenance of utilities; which change the direction of flow or
drainage channels in the easement; or, which may obstruct or retain the flow of
water through drainage channels in the easement.
   (C)   Conservation easements may be required to protect natural areas of
excessive slope or areas subject to flooding in order to prevent erosion,
changes of stream quality or flooding characteristics.
   (D)   Drainage easements may be required as specified by
§ 157.64.
   (E)   All utilities providing service within a subdivision as well as
services providing connections between transmission lines or pipes and
individual structure services shall be placed underground, wherever possible,
and within easements.
   (F)   Any public or private utilities or drainage systems transversing any
part of a proposed subdivision and not heretofore possessing a recorded
easement shall have an easement indicated upon the plat and meeting the minimum
criteria of this section.
(Ord. 88-4582, passed 10-18-1988)
§ 157.61 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Blocks shall not exceed 1,000 feet in length, unless otherwise
approved.
   (B)   Blocks or portions thereof intended for commercial or industrial use
shall be designed as such, and the plan shall show adequate off-street areas to
provide for parking, loading facilities, and other such facilities.
(Ord. 88-4582, passed 10-18-1988)
§ 157.62 LOT WIDTH AND AREA.
   (A)   (1)   Within the city, the width and area of lots for the district in
which the subdivision is located shall be not less than as provided in the
Mattoon Zoning Ordinance.
      (2)   The depth-to-width ratio of usable area of a lot shall be at a
minimum of three to one.
   (B)   Outside of the city and within one and one-half miles of the city
limits, the following shall be required:
      (1)   In subdivisions provided with both an approved community water
supply system and an approved community sanitary sewer and sewage treatment
system at the time of final plat approval, lot width and area for the district
in which the subdivision is located shall be not less than as provided in the
Mattoon Zoning Ordinance.
      (2)   In subdivisions not served by an approved community sanitary sewer
and sewage treatment system at the time of final plat approval, and whether or
not the lot is served by an approved community water supply system, lot width
and area shall be a minimum of:
         (a)   Eighty feet wide at the setback line and not less than 20,000
square feet in area for single- and two- family residences;
         (b)   One hundred feet wide at the setback line for the first three
units and five feet additional in width for each additional unit and not less
than 8,000 square feet in area per dwelling unit for dwelling units containing
three or more units;
         (c)   For commercial or industrial uses: 200 feet wide at the setback
line and not less than 40,000 square feet in area;
         (d)   Or, of sufficient size and capabilities to meet the
recommendations of the Illinois Department of Health and the Coles County
Health Department to be able to adequately accommodate both a primary and
secondary treatment site and a potable water supply. However, in no case shall
a lot governed by division (A) have setback and width requirements less than
those standards therein contained for single- and two-family residences.
   (C)   All corner lots shall contain the width necessary to conform to the
required setbacks along both roads or streets.
   (D)   All lots shall abut on a publicly dedicated and accepted all-weather
road or street meeting the minimum for the classification and requirements
herein contained.
   (E)   Side lot lines shall be at right angles or radial to curved streets
and roads.
   (F)   Trees and shrubs shall be planted as to form a tight screen along the
rear lot line of any lot in a subdivision which backs upon an arterial road,
limited access highway, collector road, commercial or industrial area, or
railroad.
   (G)   Such lots shall in no case be less than 75 feet in depth.
      (1)   Double frontage lots should not be platted, except that where
desired along arterial, limited access highways or streets, lots may face on an
interior street and back on such thoroughfares. In that event a planting strip
for a screen at least 20 feet in width shall be provided along the back of the
lot.
      (2)   In all other cases where double frontage lots are permitted,
vehicular access shall be permitted to only one thoroughfare, and that
thoroughfare being of the lower classification. Restrictions as to access shall
be indicated upon the face of the plat.
   (H)   The total land area within the boundary of a plat shall be an official
part of the plat and accounted for as either lots, tracts, easements, dedicated
or reserved public areas, dedicated rights-of-way, or common area.
(Ord. 88-4582, passed 10-18-1988; Am. Ord. 96-4850, passed 5-21-1996)
§ 157.63 REQUIRED SETBACKS.
   Required setbacks shall be measured from the rights-of-way line of the road,
street or other thoroughfare to the front foundation. Minimum lot widths shall
be calculated at the minimum setback requirement. In cases where the actual
foundation is located at a point further than the required setback, the lot
width minimum shall be applicable to both the required setback as well as the
actual foundation setback, and shall be as follows:
   (A)   Within the city, the minimum distance required by the City Zoning
Ordinance.
   (B)   Outside of the city, and within a radius of one and one-half miles of
the city limits, a minimum distance required by the City Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 88-4582, passed 10-18-1988)
§ 157.64 DRAINAGE.
   (A)   All subdivisions shall have an engineer designed and Commission-
approved drainage system plan which shall include full details of all surface
and/or subsurface improvements. Design of the drainage system plan and
stormwater management facilities shall be in accordance with current and best
engineering practices. The standards for the design shall be adequate for the
soils within the site as well as meet applicable local, state, and federal
requirements in existence at the time of subdivision approval.
   (B)   Proposed final drainage plan for the subdivision, which shall include
symbolic representation of direction of flow of surface runoff along all
property lines. The plan shall be drawn to the scale of one inch equals 100
feet. The subdivision drainage plan shall include computations indicating all
flows currently entering the subdivision, the current runoff from the
subdivision area and anticipated runoff when fully developed. Computations
shall be made for both ten-year and 100-year flows. Drainage facilities shall
be provided to accept and convey existing flows. All on-street drainage shall
be captured in inlets or catch basins designed in accordance with the standard
practices of the Illinois Department of Transportation of Local Roads and
Streets and shall be conveyed by storm sewer capable of carrying the ten-year
storm. Easements forbidding permanent structure shall adequately provide for
the conveyance of the 100- year storm wherever it may occur within the
subdivision. Methods of conveyance may be by combination of storm sewer and
open drainageway for the 100-year storm.
   (C)   Where the proposed construction lies within a subdivision which has an
approved final drainage plan, all grading on the property shall be completed in
accordance with that plan. A drainage plan shall be submitted for any
development requiring a building permit, or construction of a parking lot or
other surfaced area exceeding 1,000 square feet, except one- and two-family
dwellings. Such plans shall include computations indicating all flows currently
entering the lot on which the development is proposed, the current runoff if
fully developed. Computations shall be made for both ten-year and 100-year
flows. Drainage facilities shall be provided to accept and convey existing
flows. Easements forbidding permanent structures shall adequately provide for
the conveyance of the 100-year storm wherever it may occur within the
development site. No owner, developer, or contractor shall initiate building or
parking lot construction prior to receipt and approval of such plans by the
city Building Inspection Department.
   (D)   Whenever agricultural tiles are located within a subdivision which
drains an area outside of the subdivision, the developer shall dedicate an
easement not less than ten feet in width along each side of the agricultural
drainage tile for purposes of maintenance, improvements or replacement of the
tile. Tiles may be relocated but shall be placed in easements or contained
within public rights-of-way. The developer shall be responsible for relocating
all agricultural field tile in the subdivision that services any area located
outside the subdivision. New tile must replace all disturbed agricultural tile.
Relocated tile shall retain the design flow of the original tile. Agricultural
drainage tiles which drain an area outside of the subdivision shall remain a
separate system and not incorporated into the subdivision surface and/or
subsurface system, except that a connection may be permitted where the flow
entering the agricultural tile system is not increased beyond the flow of the
site in its present natural undeveloped state. There shall be no connection
between a septic system, storm sewer, road drainage system, or sink to any
agricultural field tile unless approved by the Coles County Health Department.
The Planning Commission may require the subdivider to take those actions
necessary for the purposes of discovery of the agricultural drainage tile.
Agricultural drainage tiles shall, where possible, be aligned in easements
located along property lines. Tiles crossing potential building pads and septic
system locations shall be relocated or the lot designed to avoid such potential
conflict.
   (E)   Design flows for roadside ditches shall conform to the requirements of
the Illinois Department of Transportation’s Bureau of Design, Design Manual,
latest amended edition; however, at a minimum, such ditches shall be designed
to accommodate the maximum discharge from a storm of 20-year frequency.
Stormwater sewers which serve as main or terminal collectors shall be of
sufficient design to accommodate a maximum discharge from a storm of ten-year
frequency. Those storm sewers which serve as laterals shall be of sufficient
design to accommodate a maximum discharge from a storm of five-year frequency.
   (F)   The filling, alteration, widening or any other restriction or
alteration of a natural stream and flood basin shall be permitted only as shown
upon the final approved engineering drawings. Where erosion occurs along stream
side slopes, whether caused by alteration or natural occurrence, suitable
erosion controls shall be instituted by the developer. All disturbed areas will
be seeded, fertilized, and mulched to prevent soil loss in excess of tolerable
soil loss limits as defined by the U.S. Soil Conservation Service. Temporary
erosion control measures will be used during the time of development to control
excess soil erosion caused by development activities. Permanent measures will
be installed as well where needed. Where such occurrences exist on stream
slopes exceeding 12%, said slopes shall be contained and dedicated in a natural
easement.
   (G)   Where roadway ditches or swales are permitted, such ditches or swales
shall be completely included within the road rights-of-way. Where ditch or
swale integrity requires additional protection, additional easements may be
required either permanently or during construction. Unless lesser standards are
approved due to special circumstances, drainage shall be improved as follows:
      (1)   Slopes: both front slopes and back slopes shall not exceed a four
to one ratio slope; and
      (2)   Grades: with grades to 4%, ditches may have sod bottoms and banks;
where ditch grades of 4% to 8% occur, gradient control structures shall be used
to maintain the ditch slope at 4% or less; with greater than 8% grades, ditches
or swales shall have riprap or be paved.
   (H)   Where crossroad culverts occur, the rights-of-way shall be sufficient
to include any headwall or similar structure.
   (I)   Floodplain data used in all design work shall be as per Ordinance No.
87-4532, “An Ordinance Regulating Development in Special Flood Hazard Areas.”
(Ord. 88-4582, passed 10-18-1988; Am. Ord. 96- 4850, passed 5-21-1996; Am. Ord.
2011-5341, passed 12-20-2011)
§ 157.65 MONUMENTS.
   (A)   Permanent monument: a permanent monument shall consist of a ferrous
metal pin, one-half inch in diameter, 36 inches long, set in a concrete post
four inches in diameter and 24 inches long.
   (B)   Corner pin: a corner pin shall consist of a ferrous metal pin, one-
half inch in diameter and 24 inches long.
   (C)   All subdivisions shall contain a minimum of two permanent monuments
plus additional monuments as may be
required. Such monuments shall be located at points of curvature and points of
tangency.
(Ord. 88-4582, passed 10-18-1988)
§ 157.66 CULVERTS, BRIDGES, INTERSECTIONS AND PRIVATE ENTRANCES.
   (A)   Entrance culverts shall be constructed by the developer or subsequent
owner at the same time of construction upon the lot and shall be as shown upon
the final approved engineering plans and laid to the flow line of the existing
ditch. At no time shall such culvert pipe be less than 12 inches in diameter
nor less than 24 feet in length for private drives or 15 inches in diameter and
32 feet in length for crossroads. Larger culvert pipe may be required if
necessary for adequate drainage. The standards and requirements shall be
included in the covenants.
   (B)   Entrance driveways shall be constructed upon the lots as shown in the
approved street design plans or in such a manner as to not interfere with or
measurably alter the approved drainage, create traffic hazards, or interfere
with public improvement plans.
   (C)   All entrance driveways shall be flared with minimum radius dimensions
as follows: residential land uses: ten-foot radius; commercial land uses: 15-
foot radius; and industrial land uses: 25-foot radius minimums.
   (D)   Where lots are subdivided upon an existing thoroughfare and driveway
entrances arc to have access upon such thoroughfare, engineering plans shall be
presented which shall conform to
§ 157.64(G) and the developer or person initiating driveway construction shall
be responsible for conformance to the approved plans. Responsibility and
conformance concerning this requirement shall be noted within the covenants.
   (E)   Permits shall be required of all persons, developers, commercial,
industrial, or residential interests seeking the connection of a road, street,
alley, driveway, or other means of vehicular access to any public road or
thoroughfare located within the jurisdiction of this chapter. The authority
having maintenance responsibility over the public road or thoroughfare shall be
the authority responsible for the issuance of such a permit.
(Ord. 88-4582, passed 10-18-1988)
§ 157.67 WATER.
   (A)   (1)   The developer shall provide the subdivision with a complete and
state-approved water main supply system, which shall be connected to an
existing state-approved municipal or community water supply, except that when
such municipal or community water supply is not available, the developer shall
provide one of the following:
         (a)   A water supply system which will serve the whole development, in
accordance with the minimum requirements of the state of Illinois; or
         (b)   An individual water supply system on each lot in the
subdivision, in accordance with the minimum requirements and recommendations of
the State of Illinois and any local ordinances. Private restrictions are to be
filed with the final plat and incorporated in each deed so that as soon as a
public water supply system is available, connections to the system shall be
made at the property owner's expense within one year, and owners shall bear
their full, proportionate share of the cost of the public water main as
determined by agreement, special assessment proceedings, or other means
authorized by law or regulations established by the public water supply system.
A water system shall be deemed available when a city water line of adequate
size is within 100 feet of the subdivision, and capacity is available in the
existing water system;
         (c)   If the subdivider installs a water main supply system which is
connected with the city water supply system in a subdivision located outside of
the city, the subdivider shall require, as a condition of the sale of each lot
or parcel in the subdivision, that the owners of such lot or parcel shall not
object or remonstrate in any manner any future action of the city with respect
to the annexation of such lot or parcel to the city.
      (2)   The plans and specifications for the installation of a water supply
system and a statement of responsibility for maintaining the same shall be
provided by the developer and approved by the State of Illinois. Upon
completion of the water supply installation, the plans for the system “as-
built” shall be filed with the Coles County Health Department, and with the
city.
   (B)   Additionally, “restrictive covenants” shall be drafted subject to the
approval of the city pursuant to Appendix B, Exhibit 2. If connected or
proposed to be connected to the city water supply system, then a restrictive
covenant substantially similar to the following shall be included: When and if
this subdivision becomes contiguous to the city limits of the City of Mattoon,
all record owners of lots in this (name of subdivision) subdivision shall sign
a petition to annex all of the subdivision to the City of Mattoon, Coles
County, Illinois, within ten days after being requested by the city to sign
said petition. This covenant shall run with the land forever and is not limited
to a term of years.
   (C)   The restrictive covenants shall also provide as follows: In the event
that the City of Mattoon, Coles County, Illinois, shall be required to
construct, extend, or make substantial improvements to a water supply system
for this subdivision, the total cost shall be divided by the total number of
lots in this subdivision and allocated to the record owners of each lot. If the
total sum due is not paid when due by a record owner or owners of a lot in this
subdivision, then the City of Mattoon, Coles County, Illinois, may exercise any
remedy for the collection of said obligation available under the law of the
State of Illinois. Further, the record owner and owners of each lot hereby
stipulate and agree that the City of Mattoon Water Department may add to the
regular monthly water bill a sum as determined by the City Council until such
time as the unpaid obligation under this covenant has been fully paid, and
hereby stipulates and agrees to an additional sum per month, as determined by
the City Council, as a finance charge for the privilege of not paying the
obligation when due. The due date of the sum shall be determined by ordinance,
but not earlier than 30 days following substantial completion of the work.
(Ord. 88-4582, passed 10-18-1988)
§ 157.68 SANITARY SEWERS, SEPTIC SYSTEMS AND ON-SITE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   No plat of any new subdivision shall be approved by the Commission
unless the same provides for and assures the construction by the developer of a
sanitary sewer system adequate to serve the needs of the entire subdivision
when the same is fully developed. The sanitary sewer system shall be connected
to a state-approved sewage disposal system. In no case shall effluent be
allowed to flow into ditches or swales, highways or otherwise. The requirement
for a sanitary sewer system is subject to exceptions below.
   (B)   If the subdivision is farther than 200 feet from the nearest sanitary
sewer, each developed lot shall be of adequate size to accommodate individual
sanitary sewage disposal. Such disposal shall be in accordance with the rules
and regulations established by the Illinois Department of Health, the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency, and the Coles County Health Department, and
based upon soil limitations. However, if there is disagreement between
standards, the more restrictive standard shall apply.
   (C)   Private restrictions shall be filed with the final plat and
incorporated in each deed requiring that as soon as public sewers are
available, connections to the public sewer shall be made within one year at the
property owner's expense, and owners shall bear their fair and proportionate
share of the cost of the public sewer as determined by agreement, special
assessment proceedings, or other means authorized to finance construction of
sewer systems.
   (D)   The plans for the installation of a sanitary sewer system and a
statement of responsibility for maintaining the same shall be provided by the
developer and approved by the State of Illinois, and the Commission. Such
approval shall also be required when the sewer system connects directly to an
interceptor constructed and maintained by such sanitary district or community.
Upon the completion of the sanitary sewer installation, the plans for such
system “as-built” shall be filed with the Coles County Health Department and
city, and shall be accompanied by an Illinois Registered Professional
Engineer’s certificate which states that the system has been constructed in
accordance with the plans and specifications as set forth herein. In no case
shall sanitary sewers be allowed to connect to any other system providing for
agricultural or similar land drainage or storm sewer disposal.
   (E)   If the subdivider installs a sanitary sewer system which is connected
with the city sewer system in a subdivision located outside of the city, the
subdivider shall require as a condition of the sale of each lot or parcel in
the subdivision, that the owners of such lot or parcel shall not object or
remonstrate in any manner any future action of the city with respect to the
annexation of such lot or parcel to the city.
   (F)   Additionally “restrictive covenants” shall be drafted subject to the
approval of the city pursuant to Appendix B, Exhibit 2. If connected or
proposed to be connected to the city sewer system, then a restrictive covenant
substantially similar to the following shall be included: When and if this
subdivision becomes contiguous to the city limits of the city of Mattoon, all
record owners of lots in this (name of subdivision) subdivision shall sign a
petition to annex all of the subdivision to the City of Mattoon, Coles County,
Illinois, within ten days after being requested by the city to sign said
petition. This covenant shall run with the land forever and is not limited to a
term of years.
   (G)   The restrictive covenants shall also provide as follows: In the event
that the City of Mattoon, Coles County, Illinois, shall be required to
construct, extend, or make substantial improvements to a sanitary sewer system
for this subdivision, the total cost shall be divided by the total number of
lots in this subdivision and allocated to the record owner or owners of each
lot. If the total sum due is not paid when due by a record owner or owners of a
lot in this subdivision, then the City of Mattoon, Coles County, Illinois, may
exercise any remedy for the collection of said obligation available under the
law of the State of Illinois. Further, the record owner and owners of each lot
hereby stipulate and agree that the City of Mattoon Sewer Department may add to
the regular monthly sewer bill a sum, as determined by the City Council, until
such time as the unpaid obligation under this covenant has been fully paid, and
hereby stipulates and agrees to an additional sum per month, as determined by
the City Council, as a finance charge for the privilege of not paying the
obligation when due. The due date of the sum shall be determined by ordinance,
but not earlier than 30 days following substantial completion of the work.
(Ord. 88-4582, passed 10-18-1988)
§ 157.69 STREET SIGNS.
   The developer shall provide and install street signs at each street
intersection within the subdivision as well as intersections of the
subdivision's streets with existing thoroughfares. Intersection numbers shall
be posted and shall be in conformity to the city's existing sign system.
(Ord. 88-4582, passed 10-18-1988)
§ 157.70 REQUIRED ENGINEERING PLANS AND CERTIFICATES.
   (A)   In addition to the required engineering drawings, the developer shall
submit to the reviewing authorities additional exhibits illustrating the type
and location of additional improvements as required by these regulations.
   (B)   The engineering drawings as required by these regulations shall be
prepared by an Illinois Registered Professional Engineer, and bearing his or
her name, address, telephone number, seal, registration number, and signature.
   (C)   The developer shall obtain written approval of the engineering
drawings from the reviewing authorities before required physical improvements
are installed in the subdivision.
   (D)   If the developer wishes to modify the size, type, quantity, quality,
and/or location of any or all of the required physical improvements during
construction of the subdivision, he or she shall first obtain approval of the
modifications from the reviewing authorities before proceeding with the
installation of the modified improvements. In those cases involving departure
from engineering plans and specifications approved by the City Council, the
City Council shall have sole power to allow for any engineering related
changes, provided such changes conform to the intent and purpose of these
regulations.
(Ord. 88-4582, passed 10-18-1988)
§ 157.71 RELEASE OF SURETY.
   (A)   Upon completion of the bonded improvements, one copy of the “as-built”
plans, profiles, cross sections, and any special provisions shall be filed with
the city accompanied by an Illinois Registered Professional Engineer’s
certificate which states that the improvements have been constructed in
accordance with the plans and specifications as set forth herein.
   (B)   Any surety bond so given to guarantee the construction of all such
improvements may be released by the City Attorney only after receiving a
written statement from the City Council that all improvements have been
constructed and that the certificates required in these regulations have been
submitted. No portion of the surety bond may be released until after all work
is so completed.
   (C)   No building shall be occupied or an occupancy permit issued until the
surety bond for all improvements has been released.
(Ord. 88-4582, passed 10-18-1988; Am. Ord. 96-4850, passed 5-21-1996)
§ 157.72 INSPECTION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Before beginning the construction of any improvements, the subdivider
shall receive from a Consulting Engineer, as may be engaged by the City Council
on a case-by-case basis, a list of inspections required and shall comply with
all rules, regulations, and instructions pertaining to such required
inspections. The number and time of said inspections shall be determined by the
Consulting Engineer after he or she has had an opportunity to study the size
and complexity of the proposed subdivision, plat, or map. Regardless of the
contracts, agreements, or inspections performed, responsibility for the
supervision and inspection of the construction and installation of all
improvements in accordance with these regulations shall rest with the
developer.
   (B)   When authorized road, street, and drainage improvements have been
constructed or installed and have passed the required inspections and the road
authority having maintenance jurisdiction has previously indicated an intent to
accept the same upon satisfactory completion, the streets, roads, and drainage
improvements so intended shall be tendered by the developer to the applicable
road authority for acceptance. The power to include or not to include non-
municipal roads for public dedication shall be that of the township road
commissioner, as applicable under state statutes. This power is not negated nor
standards acceptable which are less restrictive than those herein contained,
simply by City Council action approving such a plat or subdivision. All
responsibility for streets and roads not so accepted for public dedication by
the proper authorities remain the responsibility of the developer and his
successors.
   (C)   The City Council may establish fees for the providing of inspections
by the Consulting Engineer.
(Ord. 88-4582, passed 10-18-1988)
§ 157.99 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTY.
   (A)   The following violations shall carry a penalty of $1 to $500 dollars
per day per offense:
      (1)   Recording of any plat or document portending subdivision, or a
portion thereof not in conformity with these regulations;
      (2)   The sale, offering for sale, or other transfer of ownership of any
or all lots, without prior recording of any approved subdivision, as set forth
in these regulations; and
      (3)   Construction in a recorded subdivision which is not in conformance
with the recorded plat and approved engineering plans and specifications.
   (B)   For purposes of this section a similar violation occurring on more
than one lot or affecting more than one lot shall be deemed to be a separate
offense for each such violation on each such lot.
(Ord. 88-4582, passed 10-18-1988)
APPENDIX A: TABLES AND PLATES
Table/Plate
   
Table 1   Design characteristics for streets
   
Plate 1   Curb and gutter standards
   
Plate 2   Rigid pavement design
   
Plate 3   Rainfall frequencies for Coles County, Illinois
TABLE 1
DESIGN CHARACTERISTICS FOR STREETS
Surface Characteristics (1)
Pavement Type and Materials Used  Minimum Thickness
(2)
                                  Arterial Collector Local/Subdivision Alley*
DESIGN CHARACTERISTICS FOR STREETS
Surface Characteristics (1)
Pavement Type and Materials Used (2)     Minimum Thickness
                                         Arterial Collector Local/      Alley*
                                                            Subdivision
1.   Portland Cement Concrete(uniform (1)      7"        6"          6"
thickness)
2.   Soil-Cement Base                 (1)      7"        6"          6"
   Bituminous Mat. Surface                     2"        2"          2"
   (not mix)
3.   Flexible Base (gravel or crushed (1)      8"        8"          8"
stone)
   Bituminous Surface Treatment       Subclass A3 or equivalent
4.   Bituminous Aggregate             (1)      7"        7"          -
   Mixture (BAM) Base
Bituminous Concrete                               1.5"      1.5"        -
Class 1
5.   Flexible Base (gravel or crushed (1)      8"        8"          -
stone)
   Bituminous Concrete Class          1        2"        2"          -
* Where permitted
** As per requirements of the Mattoon Zoning Ordinance
 
Distances, Grades & Dimensions
 Arterial Collector Local/Subdivision Alley
Distances, Grades & Dimensions
                                    Arterial Collector Local/Subdivision Alley
1.   Right-of-way (minimum)      80'      60'       60'               20'
2.   Horizontal and Vertical (3) 500'     350'      200'              -
Visibility
3.   Minimum Radius (on curves)  1200'    300'      250'              -
4.   Maximum Grades              5 (4)    6 (5)     8 (5)             -
5.   Minimum Setbacks            **       **        **                **
6.   Pavement Width              (7)      (7)       (7)               -
7.   Curb & Gutter Requirement   (8)      (3)       (3)               -
* Where permitted
** As per requirements of the Mattoon Zoning Ordinance
 
NOTATIONS REFERENCED FROM TABLE ONE
   (1)   Pavement design shall conform to the design standards established by
the Design Manual, as amended, of the Illinois Department of Transportation,
Bureau of Design; except, that standards shown in Table 1 represent absolute
minimums.
   (2)   All definitions and descriptions of paving materials shall conform to
Illinois Department of Transportation’s specifications.
   (3)   As measured along the road pavement.
   (4)   The gradient within 100 feet of a street or road intersection shall
not exceed 2%.
   (5)   The gradient within 100 feet of a street or road intersection shall
not exceed 3%.
   (6)   As measured from the road rights-of-way to the building setback line.
   (7)   For two lane undivided pavements, minimum pavement driving surfaces
(pavement edge to pavement edge) shall be not less than 24 feet in width,
except that: when lot width averages as measured at the building setback line
is less than 100 feet in width or the average lot area is 10,000 square feet or
less, the pavement shall not be less than 36 feet in width (pavement edge to
pavement edge); further provided, that when lot width averages at the building
setback line are equal to or greater than 100 feet but less than 150 feet and
the lot area is greater than 10,000 square feet but less than 15,000 square
feet, the pavement width shall be not less than 26 feet in width (pavement edge
to pavement edge).
   (8)   Curbs and gutters shall be required as specified in §
157.51.
PLATE 1
CURB AND GUTTER STANDARDS
   Note: to obtain a copy, please call the City Clerk's office
PLATE 2
RIGID PAVEMENT DESIGN
   Note: to obtain a copy, please call the City Clerk's office
PLATE 3
RAINFALL FREQUENCIES FOR COLES COUNTY, ILLINOIS
Return Period (Years) Depth (Inches) for Given Storm Period (Minutes)
                      5 10 15 30 60
Return Period (Years) Depth (Inches) for Given Storm Period (Minutes)
                      5   10  15  30  60
1                     0.3 0.5 0.6 0.8 1.1
2                     0.4 0.6 0.9 1.1 1.4
5                     0.5 0.7 1.0 1.3 1.8
10                    0.6 0.9 1.1 1.5 2.0
25                    0.7 1.1 1.4 1.9 2.5
50                    0.8 1.3 1.6 2.3 3.1
100                   0.9 1.5 1.9 2.7 3.6
 
Return Period (years) Depth (Inches) for Given Storm Period (Hours)
                      2 3 6 12 18 24
Return Period (years) Depth (Inches) for Given Storm Period (Hours)
                      2   3   6   12  18  24
1                     1.3 1.5 1.7 2.0 2.2 2.3
2                     1.7 1.9 2.3 2.6 2.8 3.1
5                     2.0 2.3 2.7 3.3 3.6 3.9
10                    2.3 2.6 3.1 3.7 4.1 4.5
25                    2.9 3.3 4.0 4.8 5.3 5.8
50                    3.7 4.1 4.9 5.8 6.4 7.0
100                   4.4 4.9 5.9 7.0 7.8 8.4
 
Return Period (Years) Depth (Inches) for Given Storm Period (Days)
                      2 3 5 10
Return Period (Years) Depth (Inches) for Given Storm Period (Days)
                      2   3    5    10
1                     2.6 2.8  3.3  3.9
2                     3.4 3.7  4.2  5.0
5                     4.2 4.6  5.5  6.6
10                    4.9 5.5  6.4  7.8
25                    6.3 7.0  8.0  9.8
50                    7.5 8.4  9.5  11.7
100                   9.1 10.0 11.5 13.9
 
Information Prepared by:   Illinois Institute of Natural Resources
            State Water Survey Division
            Atmospheric Sciences Division
(Ord. 88-4582, passed 10-18-1988)
APPENDIX B: REQUIRED CERTIFICATES
Exhibits
   
1.   Certificate for final plat
   
2.   Deed of dedication
   
3.   Topographic and drainage certificate
   
4.   Surveyor’s certificate
   
5.   As-built engineers certificate
   
6.   Surveyor’s signature and registration number
   
7.   Acceptance of streets and roads
   The following certificates are to be used as a guide to indicate that the
developer or his representative is in agreement with the intent of these
regulations. Substitutions of alternative wording may be used where the intent
is not changed.
EXHIBIT 1: CERTIFICATE FOR FINAL PLAT
   This certificate shall be signed by the Mayor, City Clerk, Chairman of the
Planning Commission and Secretary of the Planning Commission following an
affirmative vote by the City Council to accept the final plat of subdivision.
This certificate shall be incorporated upon the face of the final plat as
approved:
   CERTIFICATE OF FINAL APPROVAL
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
COUNTY OF COLES   )SS
CITY OF MATTOON   )
   WE,                                                                    ,
MAYOR OF THE CITY OF MATTOON, COUNTY OF COLES AND STATE OF ILLINOIS AND
                                                         , CITY CLERK OF THE
CITY OF MATTOON AFORESAID, DO HEREBY CERTIFY THAT THE ATTACHED PLAT WAS
SUBMITTED TO THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF MATTOON AFORESAID, AND THAT BY
SPECIAL ORDINANCE NO.                                ADOPTED BY THE CITY
COUNCIL AT A REGULAR MEETING HELD                       , 19        A.D. SAID
PLAT WAS APPROVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL.
DATED THIS                            DAY OF                            , 19
        A.D.
                                                                  
   MAYOR OF THE CITY OF MATTOON,
   COUNTY OF COLES, STATE OF
   ILLINOIS
ATTEST:
                                                                      
CITY CLERK OF THE CITY OF MATTOON,
COUNTY OF COLES, STATE OF ILLINOIS
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
COUNTY OF COLES   ) SS
CITY OF MATTOON   )
WE,
                                                                               ,
CHAIRMAN OF THE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF MATTOON, COLES COUNTY,
ILLINOIS AND                                                   , SECRETARY OF
THE AFORESAID CITY PLANNING COMMISSION, DO HEREBY CERTIFY THAT THE ATTACHED
PLAT OF                                                     WAS SUBMITTED TO
THE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION AT A MEETING HELD                          , 19
           A.D. ATTENDED BY A QUORUM OF SAID CITY PLANNING COMMISSION AND THAT
UNDER AUTHORITY PROVIDED BY ILLINOIS REVISED STATUTES AND ORDINANCES ADOPTED BY
THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF MATTOON, THE SAID CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
APPROVED SAID PLAT BY A VOTE OF A MAJORITY AND INSTRUCTED US TO EXECUTE THIS
CERTIFICATE AS EVIDENCE OF SAID PROCEEDINGS.
GIVEN UNDER OUR HANDS THIS                   DAY OF, 19            A.D.
                                                         
   CHAIRMAN OF THE MATTOON
         PLANNING COMMISSION
         CITY OF MATTOON, COUNTY
         OF COLES, STATE OF
         ILLINOIS
ATTEST:
                                                               
SECRETARY OF THE MATTOON PLANNING COMMISSION
CITY OF MATTOON, COUNTY OF COLES, STATE OF ILLINOIS
EXHIBIT 2: DEED OF DEDICATION
   This certificate shall set forth covenants and dedicate identified easements
for public and semi-public use. It shall be a part of the final plat and so
recorded:
   DEED OF DEDICATION
   “We the undersigned                                        owners of the
real estate shown and described herein, do hereby certify that we have laid
off, platted, and subdivided, and hereby lay off, plat, and subdivide said real
estate in accordance with the subdivided plat.
   This subdivision shall be known and designated as
                                           . All streets and alleys shown and
not heretofore dedicated, are hereby dedicated to the public.
   Front and side yard building setback lines are hereby established as shown
on this plat, between which lines and the property lines of the street, there
shall be erected or maintained no building or structure.
   There are strips of ground as shown on this plat and marked “Easement”
reserved for the use of public utilities for the installation of water and
sewer mains, surface drainage, poles, ducts, lines and wires, subject at all
times to the proper authorities and to the easement herein reserved. No
buildings or other structures are to be erected or maintained upon said strips
of land, but owners of lots in this subdivision shall take their titles subject
to the rights of the public utilities or entities holding vested rights.
   (Additional dedications and protective covenants, or private restrictions,
would be inserted here upon the subdivider's initiative, requirements contained
in these regulations, the recommendation of the Commission, or at the request
of the City Council; important provisions are those specifying an agreement,
when the property is located outside of the City and served by the City water
system or the City sewer system, not to oppose or remonstrate in any manner
against the annexation of the property by the City; the use to be made of the
property and, construction and design restrictions.)
   The foregoing covenants, (or restrictions), are to run with the land and
shall be binding on all parties and all persons claiming under them until
January 1, 20      , (a twenty-five year period is suggested), at which time
said covenants, (or restrictions), shall be automatically extended for
successive periods of ten (10) years unless by vote of a majority of the then
owners of the building sites covered by these covenants,(or restrictions), and
where affecting special rights assigned to public protection, by approval of a
majority vote of the City Council. Invalidation of any one of the foregoing
covenants, (or restrictions), by judgement or court order shall in no way
affect any of the other covenants (or restrictions), which shall remain in full
force and effect.
   The right to enforce these provisions by injunction, together with the right
to cause the removal, by due process of law, of any structure or part thereof
erected or maintained in violation hereof, is hereby dedicated to the public,
and reserved to the several owners of the several lots in this subdivision and
to their heirs, successors, and assigns, as well as to any entity having
interest in said included easements.
   Witness our Hands and Seals this                                day of
           , 19         .
   State of Illinois      )
               )SS
   County of Coles   )
   Before me the undersigned Notary Public, in and for the County and State,
personally appeared                            ,                          ,
                                    , and each separately and severally
acknowledge the execution of the foregoing instrument as his or her voluntary
act and deed, for the purposes therein expressed. Witness my Hand and Notarial
Seal this                         day of                19               .
                                                                             
                     Notary Public
EXHIBIT 3: TOPOGRAPHIC AND DRAINAGE CERTIFICATE
   An Illinois Registered Professional Engineer and the owner(s) of the
subdivision shall submit this signed certificate to certify that the drainage
of surface waters will not be changed, or if changed, will not harm adjacent
properties. It shall be a part of the final plat and so recorded.
   TOPOGRAPHIC AND DRAINAGE STATEMENT
   We the undersigned, respectively a registered professional engineer and the
owner(s) of the land subdivided hereby, or the duly authorized attorney
representing such owner, do hereby state that to the best of our knowledge and
belief the drainage of surface waters will not be changed by the construction
of such subdivision, or that if surface water drainage is changed, adequate
provision has been made for the collection and diversion of surface waters into
public areas or drains which the subdivider has the right to use, and such
surface water practices will be planned for in accordance with generally
accepted engineering practices so as to reduce the likelihood of damage to
adjoining property because of the construction of the subdivision.
                                                                                                   
Engineer's signature and                     Date
registration number
                                                                                                 
Owner's signature and                     Date
address
EXHIBIT 4: SURVEYOR'S CERTIFICATE
   This certificate shall be signed by the surveyor and attached to the final
plat to indicate the survey is correct and that the plat is or is not within
500 feet of any tributary draining 640 acres or more.
   SURVEYOR'S CERTIFICATE
   I                                               , hereby certify that I am a
Registered Land Surveyor, licensed in compliance with the laws of the State of
Illinois, that this plat correctly represents a survey completed by me on the
                         day of                       , 19    , that all
monuments shown thereon actually exist, that the location, size, type and
material of said monuments are accurately shown and that (part/all/or, no part)
of this plat or subdivision is situated within 500 feet of any surface drain or
watercourse serving a tributary area of 640 acres or more.
                                                                     
Surveyor's signature and registration number
EXHIBIT 5: AS-BUILT ENGINEERS CERTIFICATE
   This certificate shall be signed by the developer's engineer to certify that
all improvements have been built in accordance with the final plat and approved
engineering drawings and specifications.
   AS BUILT ENGINEER'S CERTIFICATE
   I                                                   , Registered Engineer in
the State of Illinois, do hereby certify that I have made an inspection of the
subdivision improvements construction in                           . I further
certify that all improvements have been made in accordance with the approved
plan and that said improvements are as shown on the attached “as-built” plan.
   Dated this                         day of                         ,
19        .
                                                                   
   Surveyor’s signature and registration number
EXHIBIT 6: SURVEYOR'S SIGNATURE AND REGISTRATION NUMBER
   This certificate shall certify that the permanent monuments and lot pins are
in place before the streets are accepted. It shall be filed with the as-built
plans.
   SURVEYOR'S MONUMENT AND PIN CERTIFICATE
   I                                              , of
                                 , Illinois do hereby certify that I am a Land
Surveyor duly licensed under the laws of the State of Illinois and that I have
reset all permanent monuments destroyed in construction work and have set all
pins at lot corners of (name of subdivision) and that said permanent monument
and lot pins are in place as of this date.
Dated this                       day of                        19      .
                                                                        
Surveyor's signature and registration number
EXHIBIT 7: ACCEPTANCE OF STREETS AND ROADS
   This certificate shall be signed by the road authority who accepts the
streets and roads, as applicable under Illinois State Statutes. It will be
submitted after the final plat, “as-built” engineer's certificate accompanied
by the “as-built” plans, and surveyor’s monument and pin certificate have been
received and upon completion, inspection and approval by said authorized
jurisdiction.
   ACCEPTANCE OF STREETS AND ROADS
   The (City of Mattoon or Township Road Commissioner of Township) hereby
agrees to accept the streets and roads in (name of subdivision) located in
Section                 , Township                   North, Range
                  (East or West) of the                      Principal Median,
said subdivision consisting of approximately              miles of streets and
roads.
   The (City or Township, as applicable) will maintain the streets and roads,
including snow removal from the traveled way, surface drainage of the streets
and roads as it exists at the time of acceptance, existing culverts and
surfacing of the streets and roads constructed according to approved plans and
specifications.
Dated this                   day of,                       ,19       .
                                                                                  
Signature (of Township Road Commissioner, if applicable)
Dated this                        day of                               ,
19          .
                                                            
Signature of City Clerk or Township Clerk
(Ord. 88-4582, passed 10-18-1988)
Appendix C; Irrevocable Letter of Credit
   ___________________, 20___
City of Mattoon      Expiration Date _______
208 N. 19th St.
Mattoon, IL 61938
   Number:__________________
   Amount:                              
Gentlemen:
We hereby establish our Irrevocable Letter of Credit in your favor for the
amount of ______________________________ (name and address)( the "Developer"),
in the aggregate amount of $______________________________________________
Available by your draft drawn at sight and marked “Draw under (identify letter
of credit), dated ______________________” and accompanied by a statement signed
by the City of Mattoon City Administrator indicating one of the following:
1.   Some portion of the public improvements required by City ordinance,
Annexation Agreement or other agreement or mandate, as described in the
approved plans and specifications for the project known as
________________________ have not been completed in accordance with said
ordinances, agreements, plans or specifications; or
2.   An amount is due and unpaid for work completed on said project; or
3.   That the Developer has not completed the required improvements and has
failed to renew this Letter of Credit as of sixty (60) days prior to its
expiration.
The improvements in the above described project shall be completed before sixty
(60) days prior to expiration date. If the required improvements have not been
completed, approved by the City Engineer and accepted by the City prior to that
date, then the City is hereby granted authority to draw upon this Irrevocable
Letter of Credit for the purpose of completing said improvements or making
payments in accordance with the provisions set forth above, or to extend the
Letter of Credit for a period up to one (1) year by written demand. Partial and
several draws will be accepted. Any draft may draw up to the entire remaining
balance hereunder. The principal amount of this Irrevocable Letter of Credit
shall not be reduced for any subdivision improvements installed unless such
reduction is approved by the City Administrator. The City may submit its site
drafts as hereinabove provided without the consent of the Developer or any
other party. Said drafts may be submitted for payment on or after sixty (60)
days prior to expiration and shall be honored in accordance with the terms and
provisions herein contained.
This Letter of Credit is irrevocable and shall be utilized to secure the
installation and completion of all improvements required under the Subdivision
and other germane ordinances of the City of Mattoon through and including the
applicable one (1) year maintenance period after the substantial completion of
the improvements, and until the improvements have been finally approved by the
City Engineer and accepted by the City Council. This Irrevocable Letter of
Credit shall not operate as a limitation upon the obligation of the Developer
to install all improvements required by the City of Mattoon.
This Irrevocable Letter of Credit is subject to the “Uniform Customs and
Practice Documentary Credits” (1993 revisions), the International Chamber of
Commerce Publication #500 as hereinabove modified.
Sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of this Irrevocable Letter of Credit,
we shall notify the corporate authorities of the City, by registered letter,
return receipt requested, of the impending expiration date. This commitment
shall not terminate without such notice. In the event the sixty (60) day notice
is not sent on a timely basis, this commitment shall remain in effect until the
60th day after the receipt by the City of the late-filed notice.
                                    Very Truly Yours,
                                    ________________________________________________
                                    BANK
                                    BY:
_____________________________________________
                                    TITLE:
__________________________________________
(Ord. 2010-5303, passed 6-1-2010)
CHAPTER 158: TRAILER COACH PARKS
Section
General Provisions
   
158.01   Definitions
   
158.02   Exceptions; city owned parks
Licenses and Permits
   
158.15   License and permit required
   
158.16   Application
   
158.17   Issuance
   
158.18   Inspection
   
158.19   Annual license fees
   
158.20   Building permits
   
158.21   Transfer of license
   
158.22   Change in facilities
   
158.23   Revocation of license
Minimum Standards
   
158.35   Application of provisions
   
158.36   Responsible supervision
   
158.37   Location and space; frontage consents
   
158.38   Water supply
   
158.39   Lavatory facilities
   
158.40   Disposal of sewage and other water- carried wastes
   
158.41   Garbage and rubbish storage and disposal
   
158.42   Central cooking and eating facilities
   
158.43   Electrical outlets
   
158.44   Fire protection
   
158.45   Compliance with other codes
Conditions of Operation
   
158.55   Registry
   
158.56   Streets and driveways
   
158.57   Responsibility for maintenance of park appliances
   
158.58   Report of children in park
   
158.59   School district access
   
158.60   Part time operation
   
158.61   Parking trailers
Administration and Enforcement
   
158.75   Enforcement official
   
158.76   Records to be kept by City Clerk
   
158.77   Hearings; judicial review
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 158.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPENDENT TRAILER COACH or DEPENDENT MOBILE HOME. A trailer coach which does
not have toilet and bath or shower facilities.
   INDEPENDENT TRAILER COACH or INDEPENDENT MOBILE HOME. A trailer coach with
self-contained toilet and bath or shower facilities.
   TRAILER COACH or MOBILE HOME. Any vehicle or similar portable structure used
or so constructed as to permit its being used as a conveyance upon the public
streets or highways and designed to permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling
place for one or more persons.
   TRAILER COACH PARK or PARK. An area of land upon which one or more occupied
trailer coaches are harbored either free of charge or for revenue purposes, and
shall include any building, structure, tent, vehicle, or enclosure used or
intended for use as a part of the equipment of such trailer coach park.
   TRAILER COACH SPACE or TRAILER COACH SITE. Any portion of a trailer coach
park designed for the use or occupancy of one trailer coach.
('68 Code, § 16.01) (Ord. 3758, passed - - )
§ 158.02 EXCEPTIONS; CITY OWNED PARKS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to include the state parks of
Illinois and the term TRAILER COACH PARK shall not be construed to include
buildings, tents, or other structures maintained by any individual or company
on their own premises and used exclusively to house their own farm labor, or
any military establishment of the United States or of this state wherein a
trailer coach or coaches may be located or harbored, or the area of premises on
any farm upon which are harbored trailer coaches occupied by persons employed
upon such farm for not more than 90 days in any calendar year in the
production, harvesting or processing of agricultural or horticultural products
produced on such farm. However, any trailer coach park owned or operated by the
city shall meet sanitary and safety provisions of this chapter, shall be
inspected as herein provided, and shall keep a register and make all reports as
herein required of a licensee.
('68 Code, § 16.12) (Ord. 3758, passed - - )
LICENSES AND PERMITS
§ 158.15 LICENSE AND PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall establish, maintain or operate a trailer coach park without
a license therefor from the City Clerk. Such license shall be issued for one
year and shall expire at midnight on October 31 of the year next following the
issuance thereof, and the license shall be renewed from year to year upon
payment of the annual license fee herein provided. No person shall construct a
trailer coach park without first obtaining a permit to do so. All permits to
construct, all licenses to operate, and all permits to make alterations therein
shall be prominently displayed in the office of trailer coach parks.
('68 Code, § 16.02(a)) (Ord. 3758, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 158.16 APPLICATION.
   (A)   An applicant for a permit to construct or an original license to
operate a trailer coach park shall file with the City Clerk a written
application setting forth:
      (1)   The full name and address of the applicant or applicants, or names
and addresses of the partners, if the applicant is a partnership, or the names
and addresses of the officers, if the applicant is a corporation, and the
present or last occupation of the applicant at the time of the filing of the
application.
      (2)   The location and legal description of the tract of land upon which
it is proposed to operate and maintain a trailer coach park.
      (3)   The proposed and existing facilities in the trailer coach park for
water supply, sewage, garbage and waste disposal, fire protection, and for a
sanitary community building which will include a description of toilets,
urinals, sinks, wash basins, slop sinks, showers, drains and laundry
facilities, the proposed alterations therein and the maintenance thereof.
      (4)   The proposed method of lighting the structures and land upon which
the trailer coach park is to be located.
      (5)   The calendar months of the year which applicant will operate the
trailer coach park.
      (6)   The plot plans of the trailer coach park, building plans and
specifications for existing buildings and facilities, and the plans and
specifications for new buildings and facilities, and/or the proposed
alterations in existing facilities, all as may be required by the Building
Inspector and the City Health Officer, under the provisions of this chapter.
      (7)   A statement of the fire-fighting facilities, public or private,
which are available to the trailer coach park.
   (B)   An affidavit of the applicant as to the truth of the matters contained
in the application shall be attached thereto. Where a permit to construct as
well as an original license to operate is sought by the applicant, request
therefor shall be made in the same application.
('68 Code, § 16.02(b)) (Ord. 3758, passed - - )
§ 158.17 ISSUANCE.
   Upon receipt of an application for a permit to construct a trailer coach
park or an application for a license to operate and maintain the same, the City
Clerk shall, if the park is, or the proposed park will be, in conformity with
this chapter and the building code of the city and the rules and regulations
adopted by the City Health Officer pursuant thereto, issue a permit to
construct or an original license, as the case may be. If the application for a
permit to construct or a license is declined, the City Clerk shall give the
reasons therefor in writing to the applicant; and if the objections can be
corrected, the applicant may amend his application and re-submit it for
approval.
('68 Code, § 16.02(c)) (Ord. 3758, passed - - )
§ 158.18 INSPECTION.
   If a permit to construct a trailer coach park has been issued, the applicant
upon completion thereof shall notify the City Health Officer, who shall then
inspect the trailer coach park, and if the same has been completed in
accordance with the accepted application, the City Clerk shall issue a license.
('68 Code, § 16.02(d)) (Ord. 3758, passed - - )
§ 158.19 ANNUAL LICENSE FEES.
   The annual license fees for operating trailer coach parks are as follows:
   (A)   Parks with not more than five units, $15.
   (B)   Parks with six units but not more than 10 units, $25.
   (C)   Parks with 11 units but not more than 25 units, $35.
   (D)   Parks in excess of 25 units, $50.
('68 Code, § 16.16) (Ord. 3758, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 4236, passed - - )
§ 158.20 BUILDING PERMITS.
   A permit issued under this subchapter does not relieve the applicant from
securing building permits from the Building Inspector.
('68 Code, § 16.02(f)) (Ord. 3758, passed - - )
§ 158.21 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   All licenses issued under this chapter shall be nontransferable without the
written consent of the licensor, however, the City Clerk may not withhold such
consent where the provisions of this chapter have been met.
('68 Code, § 16.02(g)) (Ord. 3758, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 158.22 CHANGE IN FACILITIES.
   No change in any sanitary facilities, methods of water supply, sewer,
drainage, garbage or waste disposal, and no change in plot plan shall be made
without first making a written application to the City Health Officer and
receiving a written permit therefrom. Such application shall be made in the way
and manner hereinbefore set forth; such change or changes shall comply with
such safety and sanitary code, codes, and the rules and regulations as are
applicable thereto, and with the provisions of this chapter.
('68 Code, § 16.02(e)) (Ord. 3758, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 158.23 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any license granted under this chapter shall be subject to revocation or
suspension by the City Health Officer. However, the Health Officer shall first
serve or cause to be served upon the licensee a written notice in which shall
be specified the way or ways in which such licensee has failed to comply with
this chapter, or any rules or regulations promulgated by the Health Officer
pertaining thereto. The notice shall require the licensee to remove or abate
such nuisance, insanitary or objectionable condition, specified in such notice
within five days or within a longer period of time as may be allowed by the
Health Officer. If the licensee fails to comply with the terms and conditions
of the notice, within the time specified or such extended period of time, the
Health Officer may revoke or suspend such license.
('68 Code, § 16.03) (Ord. 3758, passed - - )
MINIMUM STANDARDS
§ 158.35 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   Each trailer coach park licensed or to be constructed under the provisions
of this chapter shall provide for the following, in the manner hereinafter
specified in this subchapter.
('68 Code, § 16.05)
§ 158.36 RESPONSIBLE SUPERVISION.
   Every trailer coach park shall be in charge of a responsible attendant or
caretaker at all times, whose duty it shall be to maintain the park, its
facilities and equipment in a clean, orderly and sanitary condition, and be
answerable, with the licensee, for any violation of the provisions of this
chapter.
('68 Code, § 16.05(a))
§ 158.37 LOCATION AND SPACE; FRONTAGE CONSENTS.
   (A)   No trailer coach park consisting of more than one unit shall be
established in any city block which is 50% or more devoted or used for
residential dwelling, except and unless the written consent therefor be
obtained from the owners of at least 75% of the property in the block in which
the park is located and fronting on the street adjacent thereto, and 75% of the
property owners whose property front on the street adjacent to the trailer
coach park but across the street therefrom. If the trailer coach park is to be
located on a corner of a block, then the consent of 75% of the owners of
property on both sides of the streets adjacent to the proposed trailer coach
park shall be obtained; providing that nothing herein shall be construed as
permitting the establishment or location of such park in any building zones
where such trailer coach parks are forbidden.
('68 Code, § 16.04)
(Ord. 3758, passed - - )
   (B)   Location and space.
      (1)   No trailer coach park shall be so located that the drainage of the
park area will endanger any water supply. All such parks shall be well drained
and shall be located in areas free from ponds, swamps and similar places in
which mosquitoes may breed. No waste water from trailer coaches shall be
deposited on the surface of the ground.
      (2)   Each trailer coach shall be allotted a site of not less than 2,100
square feet. No trailer coach shall be parked closer than five feet to the side
lot lines of a trailer coach park or closer than ten feet to a public street,
alley or building. Each individual trailer site shall abut or face on a
driveway or roadway of not less than 24 feet in width, which driveway or
roadway shall have unobstructed access to a public highway or alley. There
shall be an open space of at least ten feet adjacent to the sides of every
trailer coach and at least five feet adjacent to the ends of every trailer
coach. Except that the City Health Officer may, upon application of a trailer
coach park operator, waive such requirements if such waiver does not affect the
sanitation requirements, or create or permit to continue any hazard to the
health and welfare of the community and to the occupants of the park. All
streets and driveways in trailer coach parks constructed after January, 1968,
shall have a minimum width of 24 feet.
('68 Code, § 16.05(b)) (Ord. 3758, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 3763, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 158.38 WATER SUPPLY.
   An adequate supply of water of safe, sanitary quality, approved by the City
Health Officer shall be furnished at each trailer park. Where water from other
sources than that supplied by the city is proposed to be used, the source of
such supply shall first be approved by the Health Officer. At least one cold
water supply outlet shall be provided within 300 feet of every dependent
trailer site. Each independent trailer site shall be provided with a cold water
tap at least four inches above the ground.
('68 Code, § 16.05(c)) (Ord. 3758, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 158.39 LAVATORY FACILITIES.
   (A)   Adequate toilet, lavatory and bathing facilities for occupants of
dependent trailer coaches shall be provided in a community service building or
buildings. Such building or buildings shall be conveniently located, well
constructed, having good natural and artificial lighting, adequate ventilation
and floors of concrete or similar impervious materials. Concrete curbings,
extending at least six inches above the floor shall be provided and the floor
sloped to adequate drains. Walls and partitions shall be constructed of
impervious material where subject to splash. Such building shall be maintained
at a temperature of at least 68° F. during the period from October 1 to May 1.
   (B)   The community service building shall be provided with toilet rooms for
each sex, plainly marked by appropriate signs, in which shall be installed
water closets and lavatories adequate in number to serve the reasonable needs
of occupants of dependent trailer coaches. Each water closet shall be placed in
a separate compartment, properly separated from other water closets and shall
be not less than three feet wide and shall be enclosed with proper partition.
The community service building shall also be provided with tub or shower bath
compartments, for both sexes, adequate in number to accommodate the reasonable
needs of occupants of dependent trailer coaches. In combination with each bath
or shower stall, there shall be provided an individual dressing compartment not
less than 2½ feet by three feet in plan so arranged as to insure privacy. The
floor of such compartment shall be waterproof and elevated three inches above
the floor of the shower compartment from dressing room. Mats, grids and
walkways made of wood, cloth or other absorbent materials will not be approved
for use in bath sections of community service buildings.
   (C)   A laundry room or building constructed as speci fied in this section
shall be provided containing laundry trays to accommodate the patrons of the
trailer coach park. No laundry trays shall be located in toilets or bathrooms.
   (D)   An adequate water supply shall be provided at all times for the
operation of all water closets in service buildings, and an adequate supply of
hot and cold water shall be provided at all times in the service buildings for
all bathing, washing, cleansing and laundry facilities.
   (E)   The Health Officer shall, by reasonable rules and regulations, specify
the number of water closets, lavatories, and baths or showers required for
service of dependent trailer coach sites and the number of laundry facilities
required for all trailer coach sites.
('68 Code, § 16.05(d)) (Ord. 3758, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 158.40 DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE AND OTHER WATER-CARRIED WASTES.
   (A)   All sewage and other water carried wastes shall be disposed of into a
municipal sewerage system whenever available. In trailer coach parks in which
such connections are not available, disposal shall be into a private system
which includes a sanitary means of disposal, the operation of which creates
neither a nuisance nor a menace to health.
   (B)   When a water carriage system of sewage is used, each trailer coach
site shall be provided with a sewer connection for the combined liquid waste
outlet or outlets of each trailer coach, and trapped below the frost line. It
shall be the duty of the owner or operator of the trailer coach park to provide
an approved type of water and odor tight connection from the trailer water
drainage to the sewer connection, and it shall be the duty of said owner or
operator to make such connection and keep all occupied trailer coaches
connected to the sewer while located in a trailer coach park. Sewer connections
in unoccupied trailer coach sites shall be so closed that they will emit no
odors or cause a breeding place for flies. No water or waste shall be allowed
to fall on the ground from a trailer coach.
('68 Code, § 16.05(e)) (Ord. 3758, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 158.41 GARBAGE AND RUBBISH STORAGE AND DISPOSAL.
   (A)   A sufficient number of adequate flyproof and watertight containers
shall be supplied for the storage of garbage except where an adequate
incinerator is provided.
   (B)   Garbage containers shall be emptied at least every three days and
shall not be filled to overflowing, or allowed to become foul smelling, or a
breeding place for flies.
   (C)   Garbage and rubbish shall be disposed of in a manner which creates
neither a nuisance nor a menace to health and which is approved by the Health
Officer.
   (D)   Adequate insect and rodent control measures shall be employed. All
buildings shall be fly and rodent proof and rodent harborages shall not be
permitted to exist in the park.
('68 Code, § 16.05(f)) (Ord. 3758, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 158.42 CENTRAL COOKING AND EATING FACILITIES.
   When community kitchens and dining rooms are provided, such facilities and
equipment as are supplied must be maintained in a sanitary condition and kept
in good repair.
('68 Code, § 16.05(g)) (Ord. 3758, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 158.43 ELECTRICAL OUTLETS.
   Electrical outlets for each individual trailer site shall be provided and
the installation shall be in compliance with all state and local electrical
codes and ordinances. No connected electric extension cord shall lie on the
ground or be suspended less than seven feet from the ground above sidewalks or
pathways.
('68 Code, § 16.05(h)) (Ord. 3758, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 158.44 FIRE PROTECTION.
   (A)   Fire extinguishers of a type approved by the Chief of the Fire
Department for use at trailer coach parks shall be placed at locations within
200 feet of each individual trailer site. Each fire extinguisher shall be
periodically examined and kept at all times in a condition for use.
   (B)   Temporary porches, canvas-roofed canopies and skirts shall be
permitted for trailer coaches, and auxiliary rooms may also be authorized by
regulation of the Building Inspector, if constructed of fire resistant
materials of such specifications as shall be required by the city building code
and the regulations of the Building Inspector.
('68 Code, § 16.05(i)) (Ord. 3758, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 158.45 COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER CODES.
   All buildings constructed or altered, all plumbing, and all electrical and
heating installations shall be in accordance with existing building, plumbing,
electrical and heating installation codes and to the rules and regulations
promulgated under each of said codes.
CONDITIONS OF OPERATION
§ 158.55 REGISTRY.
   Each trailer coach park shall be provided with a custodian's office where
each trailer coach entering such trailer coach park shall be assigned to a lot
location, given a copy of the trailer coach park rules, and registered
according to the prescribed form.
   (A)   The registration shall include the name and address of every occupant
of the trailer coach; the license number of all units; the state issuing such
licenses; and a statement indicating the exact location at which such trailer
coach was last parked, including the state, city, town or village where such
parking occurred.
   (B)   The licensee shall keep a registry of all children of school age
occupying trailer coaches in the trailer coach park.
   (C)   The above mentioned register shall be signed by an occupant of the
trailer coach. Any person furnishing misinformation for the purposes of
registration shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and punishable under the
terms of this code for such offense. The registration records shall be neatly
and securely maintained, and no registration records shall be destroyed until
six years have elapsed following the date of registration. The register shall
be available at all times for inspection by law enforcement officers.
('68 Code, § 16.10) (Ord. 3758, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 158.56 STREETS AND DRIVEWAYS.
   All streets and driveways in every trailer coach park must be maintained in
a passable and reasonably dustproof condition at all times, and all streets and
driveways in every trailer coach park established after January 1, 1954 shall
have a minimum width of 20 feet for streets or driveways.
('68 Code, § 16.08) (Ord. 3758, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 158.57 RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE OF PARK APPLIANCES.
   The management of every trailer coach park shall assume full responsibility
for maintaining in good repair and condition all sanitary and safety appliances
on the park, and shall promptly bring such action as is necessary to prosecute
or erect from the park any person who wilfully or maliciously damages such
appliances, or any person who fails to comply with the regulations of this
chapter.
('68 Code, § 16.09) (Ord. 3758, passed - - )
§ 158.58 REPORT OF CHILDREN IN PARK.
   It shall be the duty of each trailer coach park licensee of the first days
of February and September of each year to file with the school board or boards
of the school district or districts wherein the trailer coach park is located,
a report giving the names and ages of all children of school age living in the
trailer coach park.
('68 Code, § 16.07) (Ord. 3758, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 158.59 SCHOOL DISTRICT ACCESS.
   The governing body of the school district in which such trailer coach park
is located, by and through its officers, attendance officers and proper
employees, may inspect and visit a trailer coach park for the purposes of
examining the register with reference to children of school age for the purpose
of enforcing attendance of school children housed in the trailer coach park.
When a trailer coach park is located in two or more school districts, the
school district boards of the districts, acting jointly, may proceed under the
provisions of this section.
('68 Code, § 16.11) (Ord. 3758, passed - - )
§ 158.60 PART TIME OPERATION.
   If any applicant for a trailer coach park license desires to operate such
trailer coach park only during the months from May 1 to October 31, he shall
pay only one-half the below mentioned annual license fee; and, if in the
opinion of the City Health Officer the sanitary and facility requirements
herein contained are too rigid for the trailer coach parks operating only
between May 1 and October 31, he may modify such requirements as circumstances
may permit and require.
('68 Code, § 16.14) (Ord. 3758, passed - - )
§ 158.61 PARKING TRAILERS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, TRAILER shall mean any vehicle or
structure so designed and constructed that it will permit occupancy thereof as
sleeping or living quarters for one or more persons, or the conduct of any
business, profession, occupation or trade, and so designed that it is or may be
mounted on wheels, propelled or drawn by its own or another motive power.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a trailer on any lot,
block or tract of land, or any portion thereof, within the city except in any
licensed trailer coach park within the city.
   (C)   Trailers used for offices, or tool storage in connection with a
construction project may be parked on the construction site during the course
of construction.
('68 Code, § 11.08) (Ord. 4068, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 10.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 158.75 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   The City Health Officer shall enforce the provisions of the chapter and the
rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto affecting health, sanitation,
water supply, sewage, garbage and waste disposal and he shall personally
inspect, at least once each year, each trailer coach park and all the
accommodations and facilities therewith. He may enter upon the premises of
trailer coach parks at any time for the purposes herein set forth. The Health
Officer may issue rules and regulations to carry out the provisions of this
chapter.
('68 Code, § 16.13) (Ord. 3758, passed - - )
§ 158.76 RECORDS TO BE KEPT BY CITY CLERK.
   (A)   When the City Clerk has approved an application for a permit to
construct or make alterations upon a trailer coach park to the appurtenances
thereto or a license to operate and maintain the same, in accordance with the
rules and regulations contained herein, he shall retain the original and keep a
file thereof, and one copy shall be returned to the applicant or his agent.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall draft and supply all forms and blanks and specify
the number and detail necessary to obtain permits to construct or make
alterations upon trailer coach parks; and for a license to operate and maintain
such a park according to this chapter.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall keep a record of all trailer coach parks, which
record shall show the names and addresses of all trailer coach parks, names and
addresses of the licensees, number of trailer coach lots in each park, source
of water supply, system of sewage and garbage disposal and any other
information deemed essential by him.
   (D)   The City Clerk shall supply licensees of all trailer coach parks with
all health rules and regulations pertaining thereto, which shall be kept posted
by the management in a protected, conspicuous place within the trailer coach
park.
('68 Code, § 16.06) (Ord. 3758, passed - - )
§ 158.77 HEARINGS; JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   (A)   Any person refused a permit to construct or alter a trailer coach park
or a license, or whose license is suspended or revoked shall have the right to
a hearing before the City Health Officer, who shall have full power to conduct
such hearing, issue subpoenas, administer oath and affirmations and all other
powers necessary to such hearing.
   (B)   ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq. and the rules adopted pursuant
thereto, shall apply to and govern all proceedings for judicial review of final
administrative decisions of the Health Officer. The term "administrative
decision" is defined as in ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 3-101.
('68 Code, § 16.15) (Ord. 3758, passed - - )
CHAPTER 159: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
159.01   Title
   
159.02   Intent and purpose
   
159.03   Rules
   
159.04   Definitions
   
159.05   General review procedures, amendments and changes
   
159.06   Interpretation, purpose and conflict
District Regulations
   
159.20   Districts and zone map
   
159.21   Use of buildings and premises
   
159.22   RS Suburban District
   
159.23   RI Single-Family Residence District
   
159.24   R1C Single-Family Residence Compact Home District
   
159.25   R2 Two-Family Residence District
   
159.26   R3 Multiple-Family Residence District
   
159.27   C1 Neighborhood Commercial District
   
159.28   C2 Accommodation Commercial District
   
159.29   C3 Service Commercial District
   
159.30   C4 General Commercial District
   
159.31   C5 Shopping Center District
   
159.32   I Industrial District
   
159.33   Table 1 Parking Standards
Special Uses and Other General Regulations
   
159.45   Special uses
   
159.46   Table 2 Special Uses, Districts and Parking Requirements
   
159.47   Minimum regulations for off-street parking
   
159.48   Height regulations
   
159.49   Yards
   
159.50   Intensity of use
   
159.51   Vision clearance on corner lots
   
159.52   Planned unit development
   
159.53   Loading and unloading regulations
   
159.54   Accessory dwelling unit standards
   
159.55   Short-term rental standards
C/D Corridor Development District
   
159.56   Purpose
   
159.57   District boundaries
   
159.58   Use controls
   
159.59   Lot controls
   
159.60   General requirements and restrictions
   
159.61   Approval process
Administration and Enforcement
   
159.65   Planning Commission
   
159.66   Plats
   
159.67   Occupancy and compliance permits
   
159.68   Boundaries of districts
   
159.69   Amendments and changes
   
159.70   Violations
 
   
159.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 159.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Zoning Ordinance of the
City of Mattoon, Ordinance Number 2015-5377.
(Ord. 2015-5377, passed 5-5-2015)
§ 159.02 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter is adopted for the following purposes:
      (1)   Promoting the public health, safety, comfort, morals, convenience
and general welfare;
      (2)   Securing adequate natural light, pure air, and safety from fire and
other dangers;
      (3)   Conserving the taxable value of land and buildings;
      (4)   Providing for the orderly and functional arrangement of land and
buildings;
      (5)   Establishing standards for the orderly development or redevelopment
of neighborhoods, communities and regions, or parts thereof;
      (6)   Securing, for the public, adequate locations for housing,
employment, shopping, education, and recreation;
      (7)   Facilitating the adequate provision of transportation, water,
sewer, schools, parks and other public requirements;
      (8)   Lessening or avoiding the hazards to persons and damage to property
resulting from the accumulation or runoff of storm or flood waters;
      (9)   Lessening or avoiding congestion in the public streets and
highways;
      (10)   Preserving and enhancing aesthetic values throughout the city.
   (B)   To these ends, this chapter is intended to establish and accomplish
certain standards and objectives to assure the orderly growth in the developed
and undeveloped areas of Mattoon, including residential, business, commercial,
industrial, agricultural, and complementary developments by providing that:
      (1)   Existing residential areas designated for expansion of residential
development be suitably located in relationship to business, commercial and
industrial areas, and be protected against intrusion which will interfere with
decent living conditions;
      (2)   Existing business and commercial areas be protected against the
encroachment of inconsistent uses (i.e., that commercial areas be used for the
proper development of the necessary businesses and commercial establishments),
and that adequate space be provided for off-street parking of vehicles of
customers using the business and commercial areas;
      (3)   Existing industrial areas be given adequate protection; additional
land be designated and regulated for future manufacturing development so that
present industry may expand, and that a wide range of sites for new industry be
provided, having access to transportation facilities and other features,
enabling industry in the city to compete successfully with industry elsewhere
in the world and without undue costs to the community;
      (4)   Careful consideration be given to the use of prime farmland for
urban type residential and business development, taking into account all
factors that may lead to unnecessary use of such land when satisfactory
alternatives are readily available. For the purpose of this chapter, the
definition of “prime farmland” shall be used as defined by the U.S. Department
of Agriculture. Which is land that has the best combination of physical and
chemical characteristics for producing food, feed, forage, fiber, and oilseed
crops and is available for these uses. As The U.S. Department of Agriculture
revises and updates its definition of prime farmland, their most current and
up-to-date definition shall also apply to this chapter.
      (5)   Land, woodland, rivers, streams and underground deposits of mineral
resources be given adequate protection so that these natural resources will be
preserved for future use;
      (6)   Where possible, the uses of land and buildings should be related to
the existing and planned land uses in agreement with the needs and plans of the
community;
      (7)   The uses of land and structures within the community be so related
as to provide effectiveness and economy in government.
(Ord. 2015-5377, passed 5-5-2015)
§ 159.03 RULES.
   In the construction of this chapter, the rules and definitions contained in
this section shall be observed and applied, except when the context clearly
indicates otherwise.
   (A)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future; words in the
singular number shall include the plural and the plural the singular, where the
context requires.
   (B)   The word “shall” is mandatory and not discretionary.
   (C)   The word “may” is permissive.
   (D)   The word “lot” shall include the words “piece,” “parcel,” and “tract;”
and the phrase “used for” shall include the phrases “arranged for,” “designed
for,” “intended for,” “maintained for” and “occupied for.”
   (E)   All measured distances shall be to the nearest integral foot; if a
fraction is one-half foot or less the integral foot next below shall be taken.
   (F)   Any words not defined as follows shall be construed in their general
accepted meanings as defined in the most recent publication of Webster’s
Dictionary and Black’s Law Dictionary.
   (G)   The words and terms set forth herein under “Definitions” (§
159.04) wherever they occur in this chapter, shall be interpreted as herein
defined.
(Ord. 2015-5377, passed 5-5-2015)
§ 159.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT. An action to give up one’s rights or interests in property.
   ABUTS, ABUTTING. To have a common property line or district line.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING/STRUCTURE AND/OR USE. An “accessory building” is one
which:
      (1)   Is subordinate to the ground floor area of and serves a principal
building or principal use*;
      (2)   Is subordinate in extent or purpose to the principal building or
principal use served:
      (3)   Contributes to the comfort, convenience, or necessity of occupants
of the principal building or principal use served;
      (4)   Some examples of ACCESSORY BUILDING/STRUCTURES AND/OR USE for
residential districts are divisions (a) through (i) below; and for non-
residential districts, divisions (f) through (k):
         (a)   A children’s playhouse, garden house and private greenhouse;
         (b)   A garage, shed or building for domestic storage;
         (c)   A non-paying guest house or rooms for guests within an
“accessory building” provided such facilities are used for the occasional
housing of guests of the occupant of the principal building and not for
permanent occupancy by others as housekeeping units;
         (d)   Servant’s quarters comprising part of an accessory garage and
solely for occupancy by a servant or household employee (and his or her family)
of the occupant of the principal dwelling;
         (e)   Carports, above-ground decks, exterior stairways, and fences;
         (f)   Off-street motor car parking areas, and loading and unloading
facilities;
         (g)   Portable sheds/buildings not to exceed 200 square feet in size;
         (h)   Public utilities: telephone, electric, gas, water and sewer
lines, their supports and incidental equipment;
         (i)   Storage of merchandise normally carried in stock on the same lot
with any retail service or business use, unless such storage is excluded by the
district regulations;
         (j)   Storage of goods used in or produced by manufacturing activities
on the same lot or parcel of ground with such activities, unless such storage
is excluded by the district regulations;
         (k)   Signs as permitted and regulated in each district incorporated
in this chapter.
   * 125% of the ground floor area may be calculated on structures with two or
more habitable levels above grade.
   ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (ADU). A smaller, secondary independent dwelling
located on the same zoning lot as a principal residential building. ADUs are
independently habitable and provide the basic requirements of shelter, heating,
cooking, and sanitation, and may be internal, attached or detached so long as
they adhere to current code.
   ALLEY. A public thoroughfare, not over 20 feet in width, which affords only
secondary means of access to abutting property.
   APARTMENT. See DWELLING-MULTIPLE.
   BASEMENT. A story, wholly or partly underground.
   BED AND BREAKFAST (B AND B)/TOURIST HOME. See TOURIST HOME/BED AND BREAKFAST
(B AND B).
   BLOCK. Property having frontage on one side of a street and lying between
the two nearest intersecting or intercepting streets, or nearest intersecting
or intercepting street and railroad right-of-way, waterway, or other barrier.
   BLOCK, RESIDENTIAL. A block in which business or industrial uses are not
permitted.
   BOARD OF APPEALS, ZONING. See ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS. The City of Mattoon
Zoning Board of Appeals is established by this ordinance, and referred to
herein as the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building not open to transients, where lodging and/or
meals are provided for three or more, but not over 30 persons regularly; a
lodging house.
   BUILDING. A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, for the
shelter, support, enclosure or protection of persons, animals, chattels or
property. When separated by party walls, as defined by the currently adopted
city building code, without opening through such walls, each portion of such a
building shall be considered a separate structure.
   BUILDING AREA. The maximum horizontal projected area of the principal and
accessory building, excluding open steps or terraces; unenclosed porches not
exceeding one story in height, or architectural appurtenances projecting not
more than two feet.
   BUILDING, DETACHED. A building having no structural connection with another
building on the same lot.
   BUILDING, FRONTLINE OF. The line of the face of the building nearest the
front lot line.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance measured from the sidewalk level,
or its equivalent established grade, opposite the middle of the front of the
building to the highest point of the building for flat roofs; to the deck line
for mansard roofs; and to the mean height level (between eaves the ridges) for
gable and hip roofs. Where a building is located on a terrace, the height may
be measured from the average ground level of the terrace at the front of the
building. The height of accessory buildings shall be measured from the floor
level, which shall not be raised more than six inches above the normal grade of
the lot.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR/BUILDING OFFICIAL. The officer charged with the
administration and enforcement of this chapter.
   BUILDING LINE. The line nearest the front of and across a lot establishing
the minimum open space to be provided between the front line of a building or
structure and the street right-of-way line.
   BUILDING PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the main or principal
use of the lot on which the building is situated. Where a substantial part of
an accessory building is attached to the main building in a substantial manner,
as by a roof, such accessory building shall be counted as a part of the
principal building.
   BUSINESS. The word “business” or the word “commercial” means the engaging in
the purchase, sale, barter, or exchange of goods, wares, merchandise or
services; and the maintenance or operation of offices, recreational or
amusement enterprises for profit. This definition shall include rummage sale,
as defined herein.
   CEMETERY. Land used for the burial of the dead and dedicated for cemetery
purposes, including columbaria, crematories, mausoleums and mortuaries, when
operated in conjunction with and within the boundary of such cemetery.
   CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY AND USE. Certificates required on all buildings
stating that the occupancy and use of land or a building or structure referred
to therein complies with the provisions of this chapter.
   CLINIC OR MEDICAL-HEALTH CENTER. An establishment where patients are
admitted for special study and treatment by two or more licensed physicians and
their professional associates, practicing medicine together.
   CODE OFFICIAL. Official in charge of the Building Inspection Department.
   COMMERCIAL. Same as BUSINESS.
   COMMISSION. The City Planning Commission.
   COMPACT HOME. An independent residential structure no smaller than 500
square-feet, which is to be placed on a permanent and immovable foundation and
adhere to all regular property maintenance and adopted codes established by the
City of Mattoon. All parcels not zoned RC granted this designation as a special
use shall maintain their current zoning district lot requirements pertaining to
lot size and setbacks and shall conditionally conform to the character of the
community; The Planning and Zoning Commission shall require that any special
use for a COMPACT HOME shall be recorded with the deed for the property and
shall run with the land. Within an RC Zoned District, this type of residential
development is allowed by right without a special use or added conditions, so
long as it is the principal building on the parcel. Any residential structure
seeking classification under this definition shall not be readily available for
purchase as a fully constructed accessory structure at a major retailer.
   COTERMINOUS. Having the same or coincident boundaries; not across a street
or alley.
   COUNCIL. City Council is composed of the Mayor and four Commissioners.
   DAY CARE CENTER. A child care facility, whether located in a family home or
otherwise, which regularly provides day care for less than 24 hours per day for
more than eight children with more than eight children being present at any one
time.
   DAYCARE HOME. See DAY CARE CENTER.
   DISTRICT. A section of the city for which uniform regulations governing the
height, area, size and use of buildings and premises within the section are
established. (Also see ZONING DISTRICTS.)
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof, used primarily as a place of abode
for one or more persons, but not including hotels, lodging or boarding houses
or tourist homes.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE. A building, or portion thereof, used or designed as a
residence for three or more families living independently of each other, and
doing their own cooking in the building, including apartment hotels and group
houses.
   DWELLING, SINGLE FAMILY. A detached building designed for or occupied by one
family exclusively.
   DWELLING, TWO FAMILY. A detached building designed for or occupied by two
families living independently of each other.
   DWELLING UNIT. A dwelling or a portion of a dwelling, or of an apartment
hotel used by one family for cooking, living or sleeping purposes.
   FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a premises and living as a single
housekeeping unit, as distinguished from a group occupying a hotel, lodging
house or club.
   FRONTAGE. All the property fronting on one side of a street between the
nearest intersecting streets or between a street and a right-of-way, waterway,
or other similar barrier.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building designed to house motor vehicles of
the occupants of the principal building. A garage designed to house two motor
vehicles of each family housed in an apartment shall be classed as a PRIVATE
GARAGE.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any building or premises except a private garage used for
storage or care of motor vehicles or where such vehicles are equipped for
operation, repair, or kept for remuneration, hire or sale.
   GROUND FLOOR AREA. The square foot area of a residential building within its
largest outside dimensions computed on a horizontal place at the ground floor
level, exclusive of open porches, breezeways, terraces, garages, exterior and
interior stairways.
   GROUP HOUSE/TOWNHOUSE. A group of dwellings constructed in a row, with the
dwelling units separated by vertical party walls without openings.
   GUEST. An individual who pays to reside at a short-term rental.
   HALF-STORY. That portion of a building under a sloping, gable, hip or
gambrel roof, the wall plates of which on at least two opposite exterior walls
are not more than three feet above the floor level of such story.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any occupation carried on by a member of the family
residing on the premises, in connection with non-electric signage not more than
four square feet in area, that will indicate from the exterior that the
building is being used in part for any other purpose than that of a dwelling;
there is kept no stock in trade, no commodity is sold on the premises; no
person is employed other than a member of the family residing on the premises;
and no mechanical equipment is used except such as is permissible for domestic,
household, or office purposes. Off street parking is available for all vehicles
relating to the resident and occupation uses. A permit may be issued if the
above requirements are met and approved by the Building/Code and City Council.
   HOTEL/MOTEL. A building or group of buildings in which lodging is provided
and offered to the public for compensation and which is open to transient
guests, in contradistinction to a boarding house or tourist home bed and
breakfast.
   INDUSTRIAL PARK. A tract of land containing not less than the area specified
for this purpose in this chapter, which is designed to accommodate two or more
industrial uses in accordance with a plan of development which presents a
unified and organized arrangement of building areas, service facilities and
related improvements, such as open spaced and planting areas, all of which have
a functional relationship to the proposed use and will be in harmony with the
use of land immediately adjacent to the tract.
   INDUSTRIAL USE. See MANUFACTURING.
   KENNEL. Any lot or premises on which four or more dogs, or small animals, at
least four months of age, are kept.
   LOADING AND UNLOADING BERTHS. The off- street area required for the receipt
car distribution by vehicles of material or merchandise which in this chapter
is held to be a 12-foot by 65-foot loading space with a 14-foot height
clearance.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or to be occupied by one building and any
accessory buildings or uses authorized in connection therewith, including such
open spaces as are required by this chapter, and such open spaces as are
arranged or designed to be used in connection with such building. It may be a
single parcel separately described in a deed or plat which is filed in the
office of the County Recorder, or it may include parts of or a combination of
such parcels when adjacent to one another and used as one. In determining the
lot area and boundary lines no part thereof within the limits of a street shall
be included.
   LOT AREA. The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the front side and rear
lines of a lot.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the intersection of two streets. Front yard
setbacks shall apply to both fronts.
   LOT COVERAGE. The percentage of the lot area covered by the building area.
   LOT DEPTH. The average horizontal distance between the front lot line and
the rear lot line of a lot measured within the lot boundaries.
   LOT DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot having a pair of opposite lot lines along two
more or less parallel streets, and which is not a corner lot. Both street lines
shall be deemed front lot lines.
   LOT, GROUND LEVEL. The elevation above sea level obtained by averaging the
highest and lowest points on the lot or building area.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot or a through lot.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. A line separating the lot from a street.
   LOT LINE, REAR. A lot line which is opposite and most distant from the front
lot line, and, in the case of an irregular or triangular-shaped lot, a line ten
feet in length within the lot, parallel to and at the maximum distance from the
front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot boundary line not a front line or a rear line.
   LOT OF RECORD. An area of land designated as a lot on a plat of subdivision
recorded or registered, pursuant to a statute.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot having frontage on two streets at opposite ends of the
lot.
   LOT WIDTH. The dimension of a lot, measured between side lot lines on the
building line.
   MANUFACTURE. The making of anything by any agency or process.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING. A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body
feet or more in length, or when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet,
and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling
with a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and
includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems
contained therein.
   MANUFACTURING ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment, the principal use of which is
manufacturing, fabricating, processing, assembly, repairing, storing, cleaning,
servicing, or testing of materials, goods, or products.
   MOBILE HOME. A mobile unit designed and constructed for dwelling purposes
which contains cooking, sanitary and electrical facilities and has a gross
floor area of 220 square feet or more.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A lot, parcel or tract of land developed with facilities
for accommodating two or more mobile homes, only by non-transient dwellers
remaining continuously for more than one month, whether or not a charge is
made. It shall not include a sales lot in which unoccupied mobile homes or
other trailers are parked for the purpose of inspection or sale, except mobile
homes located in a mobile home park offered for sale by the owner or his or her
representative.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A building or premises that does not conform in its use
or otherwise with all of the regulations applicable to the district in which
such building or premises is located.
   NON-COTERMINOUS ADDITIONAL PARKING. An expansion of pre-existing parking
facilities not required for the initial placement or development of the
principal building. This shall not include garages or other similar accessory
structures associated with residential uses.
   NURSERY SCHOOL. See DAY CARE CENTER.
   PARKING SPACE (OFF-STREET. ONE). A space other than a street driveway
entrance, or alley designed for use or used for the temporary parking of a
motor vehicle, and being not less that nine feet wide and 20 feet long
exclusive of passageways. Parking areas shall be paved with a hard surface.
   PERMIT.
      (1)   BUILDING. A permit issued before construction or remodeling.
      (2)   CUT. A permit issued prior to and allowing for the cutting of any
alley, boulevard, curb, or street.
      (3)   DEMOLITION. A permit issued prior to demolition of a structure.
      (4)   ELECTRICAL. A permit issued prior to the installation, replacement,
and/or extension of any structure’s electrical system or part thereof.
      (5)   HEATING AND AIR CONDITIONING. A permit issued prior to the
installation, replacement, and/or extension of any structure’s heating and/or
air conditioning system.
      (6)   MOVING. A permit issued prior to the moving of any structure.
      (7)   OCCUPANCY AND USE CERTIFICATE. A permit issued to the person,
agency, or company which wishes to move into an already existing structure
after the structure has been checked to insure conformance with all local and
state regulations.
      (8)   PLUMBING. A permit issued prior to any plumbing work done in a
structure.
      (9)   SEWER. A permit issued prior to tapping into the city sewer line.
      (10)   SIGN. A permit issued to allow any outdoor permanent sign.
      (11)   SITE WORK. A permit issued to allow site improvements in
commercial and industrial districts.
      (12)   WATER. A water connection permit issued after the Water Board is
satisfied that all city and state ordinances and statutes have been met.
   PERSON. A corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization, or any
group acting as a unit, as well as a natural person.
   PLACE. An open unoccupied space other than a street or alley, permanently
reserved for use as the principal means of access to abutting property.
   PRESCHOOL. See DAY CARE CENTER.
   PRIVATE SCHOOL. Private preprimary, primary, grade, high, or preparatory
school or academy.
   PROFESSIONAL OFFICE. Shall include the offices of doctors or practitioners,
ministers, architects, engineers, landscape architects, lawyers, artists,
musicians, and other professional occupations.
   PROPERTY MANAGER. An individual who is responsible for managing a rental
property. May additionally include designees. The PROPERTY MANAGER of a short-
term rental shall reside within 40 miles of the corporate boundary of the City
of Mattoon. A PROPERTY MANAGER may also be a STR property owner.
   RUMMAGE SALE. The activity of purchasing, selling, bartering, or exchanging
of used goods, wares or merchandise in RS, RI, R2, or R3 districts and which
activity is:
      (1)   Conducted at any address for not more than four continuous days;
and
      (2)   Not resumed or repeated until after such initial period without at
least 60 days of the absence of any such activity.
   SALVAGE YARD INCLUDING AUTOMOBILE WRECKING. A lot or a part thereof used for
the storage, keeping, dismantling, abandonment or sale of junk, scrap metal,
scrap vehicles or scrap machinery or parts thereof.
   SERVICE STATION. Any building, structure, premises, enclosure or other place
used for the dispensing, sale or offering for sale at retail of automobile
fuels or oils. When the dispensing, sale or offering for sale is incidental to
the conduct of a public garage, the premises shall be classified as a public
garage.
   SIGN. Any board, device or structure or part thereof used for advertising,
display or publicity purposes. Signs placed or erected by governmental agencies
for the purposes of showing street names or traffic directions or regulations
for other governmental purposes shall not be included herein.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL (STR). A rental of a residential unit for a short period
of time not to exceed 30 days, which collects hotel/motel taxes as part of its
operation and employs a property manager. Requires a special use permit in all
zoning districts, not permitted in industrial districts.
   SPECIAL USE. A use permitted in a district pursuant to, and in compliance
with, procedures specified within this chapter. A special use permit is non-
transferable.
   STORY. That portion of a building, included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor next above it. If there is no floor above it, then
the space between such floor and the ceiling next above it is the story.
   STR PROPERTY OWNER. An individual, business partnership, LLC, or other
similar legal entity, that is the legal owner of a short-term rental. A STR
PROPERTY OWNER shall appoint a property manager for day-to-day operations of
the STR.
   STREET. A public way established or dedicated by duly recorded plat, deed,
grant, governmental authority or by operation of law.
   STREET LINE. The street line is the dividing line between the street right-
of-way and the lot, otherwise designated as the property line.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires more
or less permanent location on the ground, or which is attached to something
permanently located on the ground.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders.
   TERRACE. A natural or artificial earthen embankment between a building and
its street front. The height of a terrace shall be the difference in elevation
between the average sidewalk level, or its equivalent established grade
opposite the middle of the front of the building, and the average elevation of
the terrace at the front building wall.
   TOURIST HOME/BED AND BREAKFAST (B AND B). A residence in which lodging for
not more than five transient guests is provided, which has not required
structural alterations, and in which the residential use has not been
discontinued.
   TOWNHOUSE/GROUP HOUSE. A group of dwellings constructed in a row, with the
dwelling units separated by vertical party walls without openings and under one
ownership.
   TRADE OR BUSINESS SCHOOL. Secretarial or business school or college when not
publicly owned or not owned or conducted by or under the sponsorship of a
religious, charitable or non-profit organization; or a school conducted as a
commercial enterprise for teaching instrumental music, dancing, barbering or
hair dressing, drafting or for teaching industrial or technical arts.
   UNIT DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A planned area for a self-contained residential or
shopping center development, the design and layout of which is subject to the
requirement standards of this chapter. (See Planned Unit Development Code).
   USE. The employment or occupation of a building, structure, parking area, or
premises for a person’s service, benefit or enjoyment.
   USE, OPEN. The use of a lot without a building or including a building
incidental to the open use with a ground floor area equal to 5% or less of the
area of the lot (i.e., outdoor, automobile sales).
   VARIANCE. A modification of the specific requirements of this chapter
granted by the Council in accordance with the terms of this chapter for the
purpose of assuring that no property, because of special circumstances
applicable to it, shall be deprived of the privileges commonly enjoyed by other
properties in the same vicinity  and district. The modification may allow a
change in standards or use. The petitioner shall also comply with all
provisions of this chapter and any variance recommended pursuant to this
chapter is not intended to excuse compliance with this chapter.
   VEHICLE PARKING LOT. A paved open area, other than a street or alley,
designed for use or used for the temporary parking of more than four motor
vehicles when available for public use, whether free or for compensation, or as
an accommodation for clients or customers.
   YARD. A space on the same lot with a main building, open, unoccupied and
unobstructed by structures, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   YARD, FRONT. An open, unoccupied space between the front line of the
building and front street line. The front line of the building shall be the
line of the main wall nearest to and facing on the street, including sun
parlors and enclosed porches and excluding only steps below the first floor
level and entranceways, open unroofed porches and terraces, and fences and
walls not more than four feet in height.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot between the
rear of the main building and the rear lot line unoccupied other than by
accessory buildings, the depth of which is the least distance between the rear
lot line and the rear of such main building.
   YARD, SIDE. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a building
between the side line of the building and the side line of the lot and
extending from the front to the rear of the principal building.
   YARD SIDE ADJOINING A STREET. A yard which is bounded by the front lot line,
side yard adjoining a street line and rear lot line.
   ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS. The City of Mattoon Zoning Board of Appeals
established by this chapter, and referred to herein as the Zoning Board of
Appeals.
   ZONING DISTRICTS. The districts into which the incorporated and
unincorporated area of Mattoon has been divided for zoning regulations and
requirements as set forth on the zoning district map or maps.
   ZONING MAP. The map or maps incorporated into this chapter as part thereof,
designating zoning districts.
   ZONING OFFICIAL. Official in charge of enforcing zoning regulations.
(Ord. 2015-5377, passed 5-5-2015; Am. Ord. 2024-5474, passed 2-20-2024; Am.
Ord. 2024-5475, passed 2-20-2024; Am. Ord. 2024-5476, passed 2-20-2024; Am.
Ord. 2024-5478, passed 3-19-2024; Am. Ord. 2025-5488, passed 3-18-2025)
§ 159.05 GENERAL REVIEW PROCEDURES, AMENDMENTS AND CHANGES.
   (A)   The general review procedures are intended to establish guidelines for
the review and action of the several boards and committees which have
responsibilities relative to land use, development, and growth in the city
zoning area. Each board, commission, individual or other agency or person
involved with zoning modification shall abide by the regulations established
herein. Each board, commission, individual or other agency or person may
establish its own rules or procedures, which are not inconsistent herewith.
   (B)   At the time application is made to zone, rezone, alter or vary the use
of property under the provisions of this chapter, the applicant therefore shall
pay to the Clerk of this city the sums in accordance with §
35.01(E)(4).
   (C)   The petitioner, for zoning change, special use permit, and variance
shall present his petition to the City Clerk and shall publish an notice of
public hearing in the local newspaper not more than 30 days nor less than 15
days before the meeting of the Zoning Board of Appeals at which the petition is
to be heard. The Public notice shall state:
      (1)   Purpose of the public hearing;
      (2)   Name of the petitioner;
      (3)   Address of the property named in the petition (both legal
description and street address);
      (4)   The date, time, and place of the Zoning Board of Appeals meeting at
which the public hearing will be held; and
      (5)   The place where the proposed amendment, supplement or change, or
applicable maps will be accessible for examination by interested parties.
   (D)   The City Clerk shall notify and forward the pertinent information to
the following agencies and individuals: The Coles County Soil and Water
Conservation District, applicable Drainage District(s), the Mattoon Water
Board, the Superintendent of the Mattoon Sewerage Department, the Building/
Code, the Chairperson of the Mattoon Planning Commission, and the Mattoon
Zoning Board of Appeals. Included with each notification shall be a copy of the
review checklist, on which the City Clerk has noted the dates of receiving the
petition and of forwarding the information on. The City Clerk shall request
each agency notified to note on the checklist the date of receiving the
information, and to return the checklist with their review comments.
   (E)   The Coles County Soil and Water Conservation District shall have a
maximum of 15 days from the date of notification to present a review to the
Mattoon Planning Commission.
   (F)   The Drainage District shall have a maximum of 15 days from the date of
notification to present a review to the Mattoon Planning Commission.
   (G)   The Mattoon Water Board shall have a maximum of 15 days from the date
of notification to present a review to the Mattoon Planning Commission.
   (H)   The Superintendent of the Mattoon Sewerage Department shall have a
maximum of 15 days from the date of notification to present a review to the
Mattoon Planning Commission.
   (I)   The Mattoon Building shall have a maximum of 15 days from the date of
notification to present a review to the Mattoon Planning Commission.
   (J)   The Chairperson of the Mattoon Planning Commission shall have a
maximum of 15 days from the date of notification to present a review to the
Mattoon Planning Commission.
   (K)   There shall be erected on the property named in the petition, a sign
or signs which during daylight hours are visible from each road which borders
the petitioned area. A maximum of four signs may be placed. The signs must be
placed on the property within five days after the date of notice of the public
hearing. The erection of the signs, in the manner prescribed herein, shall be
the responsibility of the petitioner, unless otherwise designated by the Zoning
Board of Appeals. The signs shall read as follows:
      A petition to modify the zoning use of this area has been submitted. For
information, contact the City Clerk at 235-5654.
   (L)   The Mattoon Zoning Board of Appeals shall hold a public hearing within
30 days following the publication of notice in the newspaper. The petitioner
may be represented by counsel and shall provide a stenographer who shall record
all testimony at such hearing. Information and facts may be presented by the
petitioner as he or she deems fit and a transcript of the public hearing shall
be forwarded to the Mattoon Zoning Board of Appeals and the Mattoon Planning
Commission. A sketch of the site including proposed buildings, setbacks,
parking, adjacent streets, etc., shall be provided by the petitioner. Other
information may be required by the Mattoon Zoning Board of Appeals. The report
of this public hearing shall be forwarded to the Mattoon Planning Commission.
   (M)   The Mattoon Planning Commission shall consider a particular petition
no sooner than 15 days after the petition has been presented to the City Clerk.
The Mattoon Planning Commission shall consider the petition, the reviews and
recommendations from the several review agencies and shall forward its review,
including an updated review checklist, to the Mattoon Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (N)   The Mattoon Zoning Board of Appeals shall consider the advice of the
Mattoon Planning Commission, listen to the petitioner, hear any public
statements, and consider its own counsel. The Mattoon Zoning Board of Appeals
shall forward its findings to the Mattoon City Council.
   (O)   The petitioner shall contact the City Clerk in order to place the
petition on the agenda.
   (P)   The petitioner or his or her attorney shall have six months from the
first public hearing to obtain a final decision; if no final action has been
determined then the petition is denied.
   (Q)   The developer shall have two years from the date of final approval to
begin construction of the proposed area. The developer shall obtain the
necessary building, electrical, heating and air conditioning, occupancy,
plumbing, use, and sewer and water connection permits as required.
   (R)   A petition for annexation shall follow the procedures set forth in
ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 7-1-1 et seq. All such petitions shall be submitted to
the Planning Commission for fact finding prior to consideration by the City
Council. The petitioner shall provide all notices to fire protection districts,
library districts, township authorities, and any person or entity as may be
required.
   (S)   Copies of all petitions filed with the City Clerk for consideration by
the Zoning Board of Appeals, Planning Commission or City Council or other city
shall be served upon the City Clerk, City Hall (208 N. 19th Street, Mattoon,
Illinois, 61938), in addition to all other persons required to have service or
notice.
   (T)   All ordinances, notices, and other documents shall be prepared by or
on behalf of the petitioner or applicant. Copies shall be served upon the City
Clerk and City Attorney at the above address for review at least five days
prior to consideration by any other city employee, agent, committee,
commission, board or council.
   (U)   All zoning changes, special use permits, variances, and annexations
shall be finally determined and either granted or denied by the City Council.
(Ord. 2015-5377, passed 5-5-2015)
§ 159.06 INTERPRETATION, PURPOSE AND CONFLICT.
   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they shall be
held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health,
safety, convenience, comfort, morals, prosperity and general welfare. It is not
intended by this chapter to interfere with or abrogate or annul any ordinances,
rules, regulations, or permits previously adopted or issued, and not in
conflict with any of the provisions of this chapter, or which shall be adopted
or issued, pursuant to law, relating to the use of buildings or premises; nor
is it intended by this chapter to interfere with or abrogate or annul any
easements, covenants or other agreements between parties, provided, however,
that where this chapter imposes a greater restriction upon the use of buildings
or premises or upon the height of buildings or requires larger open spaces than
are required or imposed by such ordinances, rules, regulations or permits, or
by such easements, covenants or agreements, the provisions of this chapter
shall control.
(Ord. 2015-5377, passed 5-5-2015)
DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 159.20 DISTRICTS AND ZONE MAP.
   (A)   The city is hereby divided into eleven districts in order to carry out
the purposes stated in §
159.02. These districts shall be known as:
   RS Suburban District
   R1 Single-Family Residence District
   R1C Single-Family Residence Compact Home District
   R2 Two-Family Residence District
   R3 Multiple-Family Residence District
   C1 Neighborhood Commercial District
   C2 Accommodation Commercial District
   C3 Service Commercial District
   C4 General Commercial District
   C5 Shopping Center District
   I Industrial District
   (B)   The current zone map, which accompanies and is hereby declared to be a
part of this chapter, shows the boundaries of the above districts. Notations,
references, indications and other matters shown on the zone map are as much a
part of this chapter as if they were fully described in the text of this
chapter. In determining the boundaries of districts and establishing the
regulations applicable to each district, due and careful consideration has been
given to existing conditions, the character of buildings erected in each
district, the most desirable use for which the land in each district may be
adapted, and the conservation of property values throughout the city.
   (C)   Territory which may hereafter be annexed to the city shall immediately
be zoned and shown in the zone map.
   (D)   The rules and regulations contained in this chapter shall apply as
herein provided:
      (1)   No building shall be erected or altered, nor shall any building or
premises be used for any purpose other than is permitted in the district in
which such building or premises is located.
      (2)   No building shall be erected or altered to exceed in height the
limit herein established for the district in which such building is located.
      (3)   No building shall be erected, nor shall any existing building be
altered, enlarged or rebuilt, nor shall any open spaces be encroached upon or
reduced in any manner, except in conformity with the area and yard regulations
hereby established for the district in which such building is located.
      (4)   Every building hereafter erected shall be located on a lot, which
fronts on a street, and in no case shall more than one building and its
customary accessory buildings be erected on any lot.
      (5)   No building shall be erected, nor shall any existing building be
altered or rebuilt to provide less ground floor area in residential structures
than is required by this chapter.
      (6)   Every building hereafter erected or altered shall provide paved
off-street parking space for motor vehicles and loading and unloading berths as
specified hereinafter for the use to which such building is to be devoted.
   (E)   Whenever any street, alley, or public way or railroad right-of-way is
vacated by proper authority, the districts adjoining each side of such street,
alley or public way or railroad right-of-way shall be automatically extended to
the center of such vacation and all area included in the vacation shall then
and thenceforth be subject to all appropriate regulations of the extended
districts.
(Ord. 2015-5377, passed 5-5-2015; Am. Ord. 2023-5462, passed 3-21-2023; Am.
Ord. 2024-5474, passed 2-20-2024)
§ 159.21 USE OF BUILDINGS AND PREMISES.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of this chapter to establish the
general types of uses appropriate to and permitted in each district but not to
designate every specific use by name. The Zoning Board of Appeals, hereinafter
established by this chapter, with the consideration and advise of the Planning
Commission, is hereby authorized to determine if a use, not specifically named
herein, falls within the letter and the spirit of the use regulations of the
district in which it is desired to locate such use. No buildings or premises
shall be used, and no building shall be erected or altered, which is arranged,
intended or designed to be used, for other than a use permitted in the district
in which such building or premises is located, unless otherwise provided
herein, in accordance with the following regulations in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2015-5377, passed 5-5-2015)
§ 159.22 RS SUBURBAN DISTRICT.
   (A)   Single-family dwellings.
   (B)   Accessory building, including only domestic storage sheds, and a
private garage, provided that any detached accessory building shall be located
in the rear yard, as defined in the chapter, and no closer to the side street
line of a corner lot than the front yard line of the adjacent lot fronting on
the side street.
   (C)   Special uses as may be permitted in §
159.45 of this chapter.
   (D)   No business is permitted, except as specifically provided herein.
   (E)   Land designated as RS when annexed to the city shall be designated as
RI.
(Ord. 2015-5377, passed 5-5-2015)
§ 159.23 RI SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Single-family dwelling.
   (B)   Accessory building, including only domestic storage sheds, and a
private garage, provided that any detached accessory building shall be located
in the rear yard, as defined in the chapter, and no closer to the side street
line of a corner lot than the front yard line of the adjacent lot fronting on
the side street.
   (C)   Special uses as may be permitted in §
159.45 of this chapter.
   (D)   Accessory building, including storage sheds and garages located within
the setback standards of this chapter.
   (E)   No business is permitted, except as specifically provided herein.
(Ord. 2015-5377, passed 5-5-2015)
§ 159.24 R1C SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE COMPACT HOME DISTRICT.
   (A)   Single-family dwelling.
   (B)   Accessory building, including only domestic storage sheds, and a
private garage, provided that any detached accessory building shall be located
in the rear yard, as defined in the chapter, and no closer to the side street
line of a corner lot than the front yard line of the adjacent lot fronting on
the side street.
   (C)   (1)   Special uses may be permitted in §
159.45 of this chapter.
      (2)   Properties zoned R1C may be granted the same special uses afforded
to R1 Single-Family Residence Districts.
   (D)   Accessory building, including storage sheds and garages located within
the setback standards of this chapter.
   (E)   No business is permitted, except as specifically provided herein.
   (F)   The principal building shall be placed on a continuous and permanent
foundation.
   (G)   This Zoning District shall not be construed to include mobile homes or
trailers.
(Ord. 2024-5474, passed 2-20-2024)
§ 159.25 R2 TWO-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Any use permitted in the RI Single-Family Residence District.
   (B)   Two-family dwelling.
   (C)   Zero lot-line dwelling.
   (D)   Accessory building, including storage sheds and garages located within
the setback standards of this chapter; however, an accessory structure is
prohibited in the front yard or yards.
   (E)   One accessory dwelling unit.
   (F)   Special uses as may be permitted in §
159.45 of this chapter.
   (G)   No business is permitted, except as specifically provided herein.
(Ord. 2015-5377, passed 5-5-2015; Am. Ord. 2024-5478, passed 3-19-2024)
§ 159.26 R3 MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Any use permitted in the R2 Two-Family Residence District.
   (B)   Multiple-family dwelling.
   (C)   Group House/Townhouse.
   (D)   Accessory building, including storage sheds and garages located within
the setback standards of this chapter.
   (E)   One accessory dwelling unit.
   (F)   Special uses as may be permitted by §
159.45 of this chapter.
   (G)   No business is permitted, except as specifically provided herein.
   (H)   No outside storage permitted.
(Ord. 2015-5377, passed 5-5-2015; Am. Ord. 2024-5478, passed 3-19-2024)
§ 159.27 C1 NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Any use permitted in the R3 Multiple-Family Residence District except
zero lot-line dwellings.
   (B)   Uses with associated parking identifiers in Table 1 - §
159.33.
      (1)   Bakery products (sales only) - retail   9 & 26   
      (2)   Barbershop   10 & 26
      (3)   Beauty shop   10 & 26
      (4)   Cameras, studios, and photographic supplies - retail    9 & 26
      (5)   Reserved.
      (6)   Candy, nuts, and confectionary - retail   9 & 26   
      (7)   Cigars and cigarettes - retail   9 & 26
      (8)   Clothing and related accessories - retail   9 & 26   
      (9)   Used or second-hand clothing or accessories - retail   9 & 26
      (10)   Custom tailoring   10 & 26
      (11)   Dairy products - retail   9 & 26   
      (12)   Dentist office   10 & 26
      (13)   Drugs and sundries - retail   9 & 26
      (14)   Eggs and poultry retail   9 & 26
      (15)   Fish and seafoods retail   9 & 26
      (16)   Fruits and vegetables - retail   9 & 26
      (17)   Groceries (with or without meats) retail   9 & 26   
      (18)   Newspapers, magazines, or books retail   9 & 26   
      (19)   Optical goods retail   10 & 26
      (20)   Pet grooming no overnight   10 & 26
      (21)   Physician office   10 & 26
      (22)   Shoe repair shop   9 & 26
      (23)   Stationery - retail   9 & 26
      (24)   Watch, clock, and jewelry repairing   9 & 26
      (25)   Any professional office (with one professional)   11 & 26
   (C)   Accessory building or use customarily incidental to the above uses.
Any building used primarily for any of the above purposes may not have more
than 40% of its floor area devoted to industrial or storage purposes incidental
to such primary use, and provided that not more than five persons are employed
at any one shift in connection with such incidental use.
   (D)   Any of the above-named uses are allowed provided the following
conditions are met:
      (1)   No outside storage;
      (2)   A maximum of 1,500 square feet of total floor area; or
      (3)   No total floor area size limitation shall apply where a block or
contiguous area of 1,500 square feet is 50% or more commercial use at the date
of passage of this chapter.
   (E)   Special uses as may be permitted by §
159.45 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-5377, passed 5-5-2015)
§ 159.28 C2 ACCOMMODATION COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Any use permitted in CI Neighborhood Commercial District.
   (B)   Uses with associated Parking Identifiers See Table 1 - §
159.33.
      (1)   Accounting, auditing, or bookkeeping office   13 & 26
      (2)   Advertising services (office only)   13 & 26
      (3)   Antiques - retail    10 & 26
      (4)   Automobiles and other motor vehicle sales (if entirely
indoors)   16 & 26
      (5)   Automotive parts and equipment sales (if entirely indoors)   10 &
26
      (6)   Automobile parking garage (under roof)   26 & 50
      (7)   Banking services   13 & 26
      (8)   Beverage sales (alcoholic)   10 & 26
      (9)   Bicycle sales and repair   10 & 26
      (10)   Billiard and game rooms   9 & 26
      (11)   Blueprinting and photocopying    13 & 26
      (12)   Bowling alley   37 & 26
      (13)   Business offices   13 & 26
      (14)   Business management and consulting services   13 & 26
      (15)   China, glassware, or metalware - retail (no outdoor storage)   10
& 26
      (16)   Consumer and mercantile credit reporting services   13 & 26
      (17)   Credit services   13 & 26
      (18)   Dental clinic   11 & 26
      (19)   Dentists and physicians (multi-professional offices)    11 & 26
      (20)   Detective, protective, or investigative services   13 & 26
      (21)   Direct mail advertising services   13 & 26
      (22)   Draperies, curtains and upholstery retail   10 & 26
      (23)   Educational or scientific research (under roof)   13 & 26
      (24)   Civic, social and fraternal organizations   33 & 26
      (25)   Electric appliance repair (except radio and television) and
sales   10 & 26
      (26)   Employment services (agency)    13 & 26
      (27)   Engineer/Architect’s office   101 & 26
      (28)   Florists - retail   16 & 26
      (29)   Footwear - retail    10 & 26
      (30)   Furriers and fur apparel - retail   11 & 26
      (31)   Funeral home   36 & 26
      (32)   Furniture or home furnishings - retail   10 & 26
      (33)   Gasoline service station (only if there are no accessory open uses
on the premises)   11 & 26
      (34)   Gifts, novelties, and souvenirs sales - retail   10 & 26
      (35)   Gymnasiums or athletic clubs    33 & 26
      (36)   Holding and investment services offices   13 & 26
      (37)   Hospital   31 & 26
      (38)   Hotel   29 & 26
      (39)   Insurance agent or broker offices   13 & 26
      (40)   Labor unions (and halls)   33 & 26
      (41)   Laundering and dry-cleaning establishment   47 & 26
      (42)   Law offices   13 & 26
      (43)   Limited price variety store - retail   10 & 26
      (44)   Mail order houses - retail   13 & 26
      (45)   Management service   13 & 26
      (46)   Meats and meat products - retail   10 & 26
      (47)   Medical clinic (out-patient services only)   11 & 26
      (48)   Medical laboratory    13 & 26
      (49)   Motel   29 & 26
      (50)   Motion picture distribution and services   13 & 26
      (51)   Municipal and governmental buildings    13 & 26
      (52)   News syndicate services    13 & 26
      (53)   Offices, general   34 & 26
      (54)   Offset press   13 & 26
      (55)   Photofinishing   10 & 26
      (56)   Prepared foods (delicatessen/catering) - retail    8 & 26
      (57)   Prepared yard goods - retail    10 & 26
      (58)   Real estate agent, operator or broker   13 & 26
      (59)   Real estate operative buildings (business office)   13 & 26
      (60)   Real estate subdividing or developing services (office)     13 &
26
      (61)   Recreation center (indoors)   9 & 26
      (62)   Reducing salon    11 & 26
      (63)   Restaurant   5 & 26
      (64)   Restaurant (drive-in)   1 & 26
      (65)   Restaurant, self-service (cafeteria)   3 & 26
      (66)   Second-hand merchandise (general) - retail   10 & 26
      (67)   Security brokers or dealers   13 & 26
      (68)   Security and commodity exchanges   13 & 26
      (69)   Shoe repair or shoe shining   10 & 26
      (70)   Sporting goods - retail   10 & 26
      (71)   Stenographic services   13 & 26
      (72)   Title abstracting services   13 & 26
      (73)   Trading stamp redemption store - retail   10 & 26
      (74)   Travel service   13 & 26
      (75)   Welfare and charitable services   12 & 26
   (C)   Accessory building or use customarily incidental to the above uses.
Any building used primarily for any of the above purposes may not have more
than 40% of its floor area devoted to industrial or storage purposes incidental
to such primary use, and provided that not more than five persons are employed
at any one time or on any one shift in connection with such incidental use.
   (D)   Any of the above-named uses are allowed provided there is no outside
storage.
   (E)   Any C1 or higher uses not named in C2 shall have the parking standards
as established in Cl.
   (F)   Special uses as may be permitted by §
159.45 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-5377, passed 5-5-2015)
§ 159.29 C3 SERVICE COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Any use permitted in the C3 Accommodation Commercial District.
   (B)   Uses with associated Parking Identifiers See Table 1 - §
159.33.
      (1)   Advertising services (including outdoor)   23 & 26 & 34
      (2)   Amphitheater   24 & 26
      (3)   Automobile and other motor vehicle sales   22 & 34
      (4)   Automotive parts and equipment sales    11 & 26
      (5)   Bicycles   26
      (6)   Bus passenger terminal   12 & 26
      (7)   Custodial service   34 & 36
      (8)   Department store   12 & 26
      (9)   Equipment rental and leasing    12 & 26
      (10)   Electrical service supply and sales - general   12 & 26
      (11)   Exterminating service   12 & 26
      (12)   Farm and garden supplies   14 & 26
      (13)   Floor coverings    12 & 26
      (14)   Furniture or repair of home furnishings   12 & 26
      (15)   Gasoline service station (if there are open uses on the
premises)   7 & 26
      (16)   Golf driving range   26 & 36
      (17)   Hardware - retail   12 & 26
      (18)   Heating and plumbing equipment - retail   13 & 26
      (19)   Household appliances -retail   12 & 26
      (20)   Ice skating   5 & 26
      (21)   Marine craft and accessories - retail   22 & 26
      (22)   Marine craft rental and leasing    22 & 26
      (23)   Mental hospital and other rehabilitation institutions   26 & 30
      (24)   Miniature golf   26 & 36 & 37
      (25)   Mini-storage
      (26)   Motion picture theater (indoor)   24 & 26
      (27)   Motion picture theater (outdoor)   26 & 49
      (28)   Motor vehicle painting or upholstering   14 & 26
      (29)   Motor vehicle rental and leasing    14 & 26
      (30)   Motor vehicle repair   10 & 26
      (31)   Motor vehicle washing    10 & 26
      (32)   Musical- instruments and supplies - retail   12 & 26
      (33)   Night club, tavern, or lounge    3 & 26
      (34)   Optical goods   12 & 26
      (35)   Paint, glass and wallpaper- retail   12 & 26
      (36)   Painting, paper hanging, and other decorating   12 & 26
      (37)   Penny arcade and game room    5 & 26
      (38)   Plumbing, heating, and air-conditioning repair services   14 & 26
      (39)   Prisons, jails, reform schools, and other correctional
institutions   10 & 26
      (40)   Radio broadcasting station (without towers)   21 & 26
      (41)   Roller skating   5 & 26
      (42)   Television broadcasting station (without towers)   21 & 26
      (43)   Radio and television (sales and services)   12 & 26
      (44)   Tennis club   36
      (45)   Tennis court   36
      (46)   Veterinary hospital (with no outside kennels)   14 & 26
      (47)   Video gambling
      (48)   Winery & microbrewery
   (C)   Accessory building or use customarily incidental to the above uses.
Any building used primarily for any of the above purposes may not have more
than 40% of its floor area devoted to industrial or storage purposes incidental
to such primary use, and provided that not more than five persons are employed
at any one time or on any one shift in connection with such incidental use.
   (D)   No outside storage except vehicles, boats, rental equipment, farm and
garden supplies.
   (E)   Special uses as may be permitted by §
159.45 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-5377, passed 5-5-2015)
§ 159.30 C4 GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Any use permitted in the C3 and Service Commercial District.
   (B)   Uses with associated Parking Identifiers See Table 1 - §
159.33.
      (1)   Aircraft rental and leasing service   26 & 34 - 49
      (2)   Aircraft storage and equipment maintenance   26 & 34 - 49
      (3)   Air-conditioning, refrigeration equipment and supplies
wholesale   26 & 34 - 49
      (4)   Airport and flying field terminals (freight and passenger)   26 &
34 - 49
      (5)   Bakeries (production and sale)   26 & 34 - 49
      (6)   Beer, wine, and distilled alcoholic beverages wholesale   26 & 34 -
49
      (7)   Blacksmith shop   26 & 34 - 49
      (8)   Books and other printed materials - wholesale   26 & 34 - 49
      (9)   Building construction general contracting services   26 & 34 - 49
      (10)   Building materials retail and wholesale   26 & 34 - 49
      (11)   Bus garaging and equipment maintenance   26 & 34 - 49
      (12)   Cameras and photographic supplies - wholesale   26 & 34 - 49
      (13)   Carpentering and wood flooring   26 & 34 - 49
      (14)   Carting, express, hauling, or storage yard   26 & 34 - 49
      (15)   Cigars and cigarettes wholesale   26 & 34 - 49
      (16)   Clothing and related accessories - wholesale   26 & 34 - 49
      (17)   Commercial and industrial machinery, equipment and supplies -
wholesale   26 & 34 - 49
      (18)   Concrete/cement contracting services, portable concrete plant   26
& 34 - 49
      (19)   Confectionary - wholesale   26 & 34 - 49
      (20)   Dairy products - wholesale   26 & 34 - 49
      (21)   Distillery, with or without wholesale sales
      (22)   Drugs and sundries wholesale   26 & 34 - 49
      (23)   Drugs, chemicals, and allied products - wholesale   26 & 34 - 49
      (24)   Electrical apparatus and equipment, wiring supplies and
construction equipment wholesale   26 & 34 - 49
      (25)   Electrical appliances, televisions, and radios wholesale   26 & 34
- 49
      (26)   Electronic parts and equipment - wholesale   26 & 34 - 49
      (27)   Farm machinery and equipment - wholesale   26 & 34 - 49
      (28)   Farm equipment - retail   26 & 34 - 49
      (29)   Farm products warehousing and storage (except stockyards)   26 &
34 - 49
      (30)   Fish and seafoods wholesale   26 & 34 - 49
      (31)   Furniture and home furnishings - wholesale   26 & 34 - 49
      (32)   Fruits and vegetables wholesale   26 & 34 - 49
      (33)   Fur repair, storage, and cleaning services   26 & 34 - 49
      (34)   Food lockers (with or without food preparation) facilities   26 &
34 - 49
      (35)   Footwear - wholesale   26 & 34 - 49
      (36)   Freight forwarding services   26 & 34 - 49
      (37)   General warehousing and storage   26 & 34 - 49
      (38)   Groceries wholesale   26 & 34 - 49
      (39)   Hardware wholesale   26 & 34 - 49
      (40)   Hay, grain and feeds   26 & 34 - 49
      (41)   Household goods warehousing and storage   26 & 34 - 49
      (42)   Jewelry - wholesale   26 & 34 - 49
      (43)   Laundering, dry-cleaning, or dyeing services   10-26 & 34
      (44)   Linen supply and industrial laundry services   26 & 34 - 49
      (45)   Lumber yards - retail    12-26 & 34
      (46)   Lumber and construction materials storage yard wholesale   26 & 34
- 49
      (47)   Machinery, equipment and supplies - wholesale   26 & 34 - 49
      (48)   Masonry, stonework, tile settings, and plastering services   26 &
34 - 49
      (49)   Meat and meat products wholesale (no slaughtering)   26 & 34 - 49
      (50)   Metals and minerals (except petroleum products and scrap) -
wholesale   26 & 34 - 49
      (51)   Milk distribution station   26 & 34
      (52)   Military bases, reservations, or administrative offices   26 & 34
      (53)   Military communications centers   26 & 34
      (54)   Military storage or transportation centers   26 & 34
      (55)   Military training bases   26 & 34
      (56)   Motor freight garaging and equipment maintenance   26 & 34
      (57)   Motor freight terminals   26 & 34
      (58)   Newspapers and magazines wholesale   26 & 34
      (59)   Packing and crating services   26 & 34-49
      (60)   Paper and paper products wholesale   26 & 34
      (61)   Plumbing and heating equipment and supplies wholesale   12-26 & 34
      (62)   Poultry and poultry products wholesale   26 & 34-49
      (63)   Prepared yard goods wholesale   26 & 34-49
      (64)   Printing establishments   12-26 & 34
      (65)   Printing establishments (typecasting)   12-26 & 34
      (66)   Professional equipment and supplies - wholesale   26 & 34-49
      (67)   Radio, Television Towers   N/A
      (68)   Railroad equipment and maintenance   26 & 34
      (69)   Railroad terminals (freight)   26 & 34
      (70)   Railroad terminals (passenger)    12-26 & 34
      (71)   Refrigerated warehousing   26 & 34
      (72)   Roofing and sheet metal services   26 & 34-49
      (73)   Sporting goods - wholesale   12-26 & 34
      (74)   Tobacco and tobacco products (warehousing)   26 & 34-49
      (75)   Transportation equipment and supplies   26 & 34
      (76)   Veterinary hospital or clinic for larger domestic or farm animals
or boarding kennels or any other form of overnight boarding   14 & 26
      (77)   Water well drilling services   26 & 34
      (78)   Warehouses, bulk storage, commercial, and light industrial
operations, normally using only light machinery, and which are carried on
entirely within enclosed roofed buildings, the use conform to the following
performance standards   22 & 26 & 34
         (a)   Smoke. Refer to Environmental Protection Act, Subpart B: Visual
Emissions, § 212.123.
         (b)   Fly ash. Refer to Environmental Protection Act, Subpart E:
Particulate Matter Emissions from Fuel Combustion Emission Sources, § 212.202.
         (c)   Dust. No dust of any kind produced by the industrial operations
shall be permitted to escape beyond the confines of the building in which it is
produced.
         (d)   Odor. No noxious odor of any kind shall be permitted to extend
beyond the lot lines.
         (e)   Gases and fumes. No gases or fumes, toxic to persons or
injurious to property shall be permitted to escape beyond the building in which
they occur.
         (f)   Glare. No glare shall be seen from any street or any residential
area.
         (g)   Vibration. No intense earth shaking vibration shall be created
or maintained by any industry beyond the boundary lines of the tract on which
it is located.
         (h)   Noise and sound. A maximum of 70 decibels at the property line
is permitted. Noise is required to be muffled so as not to become objectionable
due to intermittence, beat frequency or shrillness. Sound may equal but not
exceed street traffic noise in the vicinity during a normal day shift period.
   (C)   Special uses as may be permitted by §
159.45 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-5377, passed 5-5-2015)
§ 159.31 C5 SHOPPING CENTER DISTRICT.
   Any use permitted in C1, C2, and C3 Commercial Districts and conforming to
the performance standards set forth in Planned Unit Development Code.
(Ord. 2015-5377, passed 5-5-2015; Am. Ord. 2024-5476, passed 2-20-2024)
§ 159.32 I INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Any use permitted in the C4 Commercial District, except dwellings.
   (B)   Bottling works, with or without wholesale sales.
   (C)   Carting, express, hauling.
   (D)   Composting plant.
   (E)   Garbage grinding station.
   (F)   Hides, skins, and raw furs storage and processing.
   (G)   Petroleum bulk stations and terminals wholesale and refining.
   (H)   Prepared foods (packing or canning) wholesale.
   (I)   Refuse incineration (commercial).
   (J)   Any other industrial use which requires both buildings and open area
for manufacturing, fabricating, processing, extraction, heavy repairing,
dismantling, storage of disposal or equipment, raw materials manufactured
products or wastes, and provided the use conforms to the following performance
standards:
      (1)   Smoke. Refer to Environmental Protection Act, Subpart B: Visual
Emissions, § 212.123.
      (2)   Fly ash. Refer to Environmental Protection Act, Subpart E:
Particulate Matter Emissions from Fuel Combustion Emission Sources, § 212.202.
      (3)   Dust. No dust of any kind produced by the industrial operations
shall be permitted to escape beyond the limits of the property being used.
      (4)   Odor. No noxious odor of any kind shall be permitted to extend
beyond the lot lines.
      (5)   Gases and fumes. No gases or fumes toxic to persons or injurious to
property shall be permitted to escape beyond the building in which they occur.
      (6)   Glare. No glare shall be seen from any street or any residential
area.
      (7)   Vibration. No intense earth-shaking vibration shall be created or
maintained by any industry beyond the boundary lines of the tract on which it
is located.
      (8)   Noise and sound. A maximum of 70 decibels at the property line is
permitted. Noise is required to be muffled so as not to become objectionable
due to intermittence, beat frequency or shrillness. Sound may equal but not
exceed street traffic noise in the vicinity during a normal day shift work
period.
      (9)   Special uses as may be permitted by § 159.45 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-5377, passed 5-5-2015)
§ 159.33 TABLE 1 PARKING STANDARDS.
Identifiers Standards
Identifiers Standards
1           35 square feet of total floor area requires 1 parking space
2           50 “ ” “ ” “ ” “ ” “ ”
3           70 “ ” “ ” “ ” “ ” “ ”
4           75 “ ” “ ” “ ” “ ” “ ”
5           100 “ ” “ ” “ ” “ ” “ ”
6           125 “ ” “ ” “ ” “ ” “ ”
7           150 “ ” “ ” “ ” “ ” “ ”
8           200 “ ” “ ” “ ” “ ” “ ”
9           250 “ ” “ ” “ ” “ ” “ ”
10          300 “ ” “ ” “ ” “ ” “ ”
11          350 “ ” “ ” “ ” “ ” “ ”
12          400 “ ” “ ” “ ” “ ” “ ”
13          450 “ ” “ ” “ ” “ ” “ ”
14          500 “ ” “ ” “ ” “ ” “ ”
15          550 “ ” “ ” “ ” “ ” “ ”
16          600 “ ” “ ” “ ” “ ” “ ”
17          700 “ ” “ ” “ ” “ ” “ ”
18          750 “ ” “ ” “ ” “ ” “ ”
19          800 “ ” “ ” “ ” “ ” “ ”
20          900 “ ” “ ” “ ” “ ” “ ”
21          1000 “ ” “ ” “ ” “ ” “ ”
22          2000 “ ” “ ” “ ” “ ” “ ”
23          1 per 2 picnic tables
24          1 per 4 seats
25          .5 per employee, when the largest number is present
26          1 per employee, when the largest number is present
27          2 per employee, when the largest number is present
28          1 per parking space
29          1 per unit
30          1 per bed
31          1 per 2 beds
32          1 per employee on the largest shift
33          1 per 3 employees
34          1 per business vehicle
35          1 per camping station
36          a number which equals 30% of capacity
37          2 per lane
38          1.5 per rooming unit
39          1 per each 3 students
40          1 per each 6 students
41          1 per each 8 seats in auditorium
42          2 per each 3 employees
43          2 per mobile home
44          1 per each 300 sq. ft. of total floor area over 100
            sq. ft. + 1 per each vehicle maintained
45          1 per each 10 students
46          1 per each 2 employees
47          1 per each 2 machines
48          1 per each 2000 sq. ft. of total property
49          1 per customer vehicle
50          As may be specified by Mattoon Board of Zoning Appeals
51          1 per each resident member
 
(Ord. 2015-5377, passed 5-5-2015)
SPECIAL USES AND OTHER GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 159.45 SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Definition. A SPECIAL USE is one which may be allowed in a particular
districts provided that certain special conditions or requirements are met. No
special use shall be allowed until such times as the City Council has favorably
acted upon a petition for such special use, in accordance with the following
procedure.
   (B)   Procedure. All petitions for a special use shall follow the procedures
specified in §
159.05 of this chapter.
   (C)   Requirements.
      (1)   The maximum building height for special uses shall be as specified
in §
159.48 for the particular district in which the special use is proposed.
      (2)   The amount of off-street parking for special uses shall meet the
minimum standards of §
159.47, for the district in which the special use is proposed, except where a
more stringent standard is indicated in Table 2 (§
159.46).
      (3)   Provisions and exceptions for special uses.
         (a)   The maximum height requirements as stated in §
159.48 may be increased if buildings are set back from front and rear property
lines, one foot for each two feet of additional height above the maximum
requirement.
         (b)   In all districts, spires, church steeples, chimneys, cooling
towers, elevator bulkheads, fire towers,
scenery, lofts, and essential mechanical appurtenances may be erected to any
height not prohibited by other laws or chapters.
         (c)   A church or temple requiring parking area at times when nearby
uses do not need their parking facilities, may by agreement approved by the
Board, utilize such facilities in lieu of providing their own parking
facilities. The special use shall be applicable to additional parking lots not
currently in existence intended to be established to satisfy the purposes of
this division (C)(3)(c).
         (d)   Open parking areas shall be paved with a hard surface.
         (e)   Appropriate plantings, buffer areas, fences, lighting controls
and other aesthetic conditions may be required as a condition to the granting
of a special use.
   (D)   Restrictions and requirement standards for sexually oriented
businesses.
      (1)   Must conform to
Chapter 118.
      (2)   Cannot be located within 1,000 feet of any existing school; church
or other religious facility or institution; mortuary or undertaking
establishment; home for the aged or indigent persons; public housing property;
veterans or their spouses or children; establishments that sell dispense or
deliver alcoholic beverages; township, municipal or other governmental unit;
park; recreation facility; institution of higher education; cemetery; area
dedicated for public assemblies; teen or youth center; airport; or a residence.
      (3)   Cannot be located within 1,000 feet of another establishment
already operating a business defined herein.
      (4)   For the purposes of this chapter, measurements shall be made in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the
property line of the lot or parcel containing the adult use to the property
line of uses in divisions (D)(2) or (3) of this section.
   (E)   Requirement standards for industrial parks. Industrial parks, which
may include all permitted light industrial uses.
      (1)   The tract of land involved shall be of an area of not less than ten
acres;
      (2)   The owner or owners of such tract of land shall have:
         (a)   Prepared a plat for a subdivision of the entire tract;
         (b)   Prepared a development plan for such entire tract;
         (c)   Obtained Commission approval of both the plat for the
subdivision and the development plan according to the requirements of the
Subdivision Control chapter, City of Mattoon, and this chapter.
      (3)   There shall be one principal entrance to the industrial park from
any major thoroughfare (fronted highway) bordering the tract, which shall be
designed so that traffic at its intersection with the frontal highway may be
controlled and so that there will be adequate storage space for traffic
destined to enter the frontal highway or to leave the industrial park.
      (4)   There shall be no direct entrance or exists from parking areas or
structures into the frontal highway (or highways) but a service drive parallel
to the main traffic way may be provided for such access. Traffic on the service
drive shall enter the main traffic way via the principal entry.
      (5)   Wherever the industrial park and adjacent residential districts
have a common or joint boundary, an area with a width of at least 25 feet shall
be provided for the full length of such boundary for a planting screen, planted
with shrubs and trees so as to provide a tight screen effective at all seasons
of the year.
      (6)   The owner or owners shall provide a plan for the installation of
adequate facilities for the disposal of human and industrial wastes meeting the
approval of the State Department of Health.
      (7)   The owner or owners shall establish in the restrictions which are a
part of the plat for the subdivision a perpetuating organization for the
maintenance of the industrial park property, such as roads and planting areas,
the approval of building plans and other improvements, and the future
maintenance of the park.
      (8)   The development plan shall indicate the arrangement of the interior
roads to provide a unified, self-contained arrangement of industrial sites. The
basic concept of the interior road plan shall be subject to the approval of the
Commission and any modification or alterations in the basic plan shall likewise
be subject to such approval.
      (9)   The development plan shall show building lines established so that
no building or structure shall be erected on any tract within the park nearer
to the center line of any interior road than 85 feet nor nearer than 100 feet
to the property line of any bordering highway, and no building shall be erected
closer to the side line of a tract than 35 feet and not closer to an adjoining
residential district than 75 feet.
      (10)   No loading docks may be erected or used fronting on a bordering
highway. Provisions for loading or unloading operations and any handling of
freight or materials outside of buildings shall be located so as not to face on
bordering highways.
      (11)   No part of a parking area for passenger vehicles shall be closer
than 25 feet and no part of a loading or unloading area or parking area for
trucks shall be closer than 100 feet to an adjoining residential district. All
parking, loading and unloading areas shall be paved with a suitable last
preventative surface.
      (12)   The areas in front and on the sides of buildings shall be
developed in accordance with a well-designed landscape plan, and such areas
shall be perpetually maintained to the satisfaction of the Industrial Park
Organization.
      (13)   One off-street parking space shall be required for each four
employees, when the largest number of employees are present.
   (F)   Nonconforming uses.
      (1)   The lawful use of a building or premises existing at the time of
passage of this chapter may be continued although such use does not conform to
the provisions hereof. A nonconforming use may be extended throughout a
building provided no structural alterations, except those required by law, are
made therein. A nonconforming use may be changed to a conforming use or to a
use permitted in a district of greater restrictions, such use shall not
thereafter be changed to a nonconforming use or less restricted use. These
provisions apply in the same manner to a use which may become a nonconforming
use due to a later amendment of this chapter.
      (2)   In the event that a nonconforming use of any building or premises
is discontinued for a period of one year, the use of the same shall thereafter
conform to the use permitted in the district in which it is located.
      (3)   No building shall be erected upon any premises devoted to a
nonconforming use, and no building located upon any such premises, which has
been damaged by fire or other causes to the extent of more than 51% of its
value prior to the event, shall be repaired or rebuilt except in conformity
with the regulations of this chapter.
      (4)   The Building/Code may authorize, by written permit, in a
residential district for a period of not more than one year from the date of
such permit, a temporary building for commercial or industrial use for the
residential development of the district.
      (5)   No building whose use does not conform to the provisions of this
chapter shall be enlarged, extended, reconstructed or structurally altered,
except when required by law or chapter, unless such use is changed to a use
permitted in the district in which such building or premises is located.
      (6)   Any nonconforming open use of land shall be discontinued within
five years from the date of passage of this chapter.
      (7)   These provisions apply in the same manner to a use which may become
a nonconforming use due to a later amendment to this chapter.
      (8)   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction or designated use of a building for which a building permit has
been heretofore issued and the construction of which has been diligently
prosecuted within 90 days of the date of such permit and which entire building
shall be completed, according to such plans, as filed, within 18 months from
date of passage of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-5377, passed 5-5-2015; Am. Ord. 2024-5475, passed 2-20-2024)
§ 159.46 TABLE 2 SPECIAL USES, DISTRICTS AND PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
Type of Use Permitted In Parking Identifiers
Type of Use             Permitted In                        Parking Identifiers
Accessory dwelling unit R1, R1C                             1 off street space
(ADU)
Adult-use cannabis
cultivation centers,
adult-use craft
growers, adult-use
cannabis infusers, and  C-D, I                              See Article 120
adult-use processing
organizations, medical
cannabis cultivation
centers
Adult-use cannabis
dispensing
organizations, medical  C-3, C-4, C-D, I                    See Article 120
cannabis dispensing
organizations
Agriculture             All districts                       Not applicable
Amusement Park          See Planned Unit Development Code    
Art & music schools     CI, C2, C3                          26 & 39
Auditorium, arena,      RS, C3, C4                          50
field house, stadiums
Barber & beauty schools CI, C2, C3                          26 & 39
Boarding or lodging     R3, CI, C2, C3, C4                  26 & 38
house
Boat rentals            RS, C2                              22 & 26
Botanical gardens, zoos RS                                  26 & 50
& other native exhibits
Business schools        CI, C2, C3                          26 & 39
Camping and/or picnic   RS, CI, C2, C3                      35 or 23 & 50
areas
Cemeteries              All except C5 & I                   50
Churches, synagogues &  RS, RI, R2, R3, Cl, C2, C3 & C4     24
temples
Civil defense           CI, C2, C3, C4 & I                  See §
activities                                                  159.47
Civic, social, or       C2, C3                              5 & 26
fraternal organizations
Communications towers   C4, I                               N/A
Compact home            All districts excluding industrial  1 per dwelling unit
Colleges or             CI, C2, C3                          26 & 40
universities
Dancing schools         CI, C2, C3                          26 & 39
Digital display sign    All districts                       N/A
Driving schools         CI, C2, C3                          26 & 39
Elementary schools
(grades K-6, public or  RS, RI, R2, R3, CI, C2, C3          26 & 41
parochial)
Equipment rental and    Cl, C2, C3, C4                      12
leasing
Exhibition halls        All except RI, R2, R3               50
Fairgrounds             All except RI, R2, R3               50
Fire station            All                                 26
Golf course, country    RS, RI, R2, R3, Cl, C2               
club
Gymnasium               RS, CI, C2                          26 & 36
Heliport                C2, C3                              26 & 34
Historical- sites &     All                                 50
monuments
Homeless shelter        CI, C2, C3, C4                      26 & 38
Home occupation         All                                 See §
                                                            159.04
Industrial park**       RS, CI, C2, C3, C4 & I              See §
                                                            159.45
Junior colleges         CI, C2, C3                          26 & 40
Labor unions & halls    C1                                  8
Theatre                 C1, C2, C3                          24
Libraries, museums,     RS, CI, C2, C3                      16
planetariums, aquariums
Livestock - wholesale   RS, I                                
Mental hospitals &
other rehabilitation    R3, CI, C2                          16 & 30
institutions
Military bases,         C2, C3                              26 & 34
administration
Military school         CI, C2, C3                          39
Mineral extraction      RS, C4, I                           26
Mobile homes            R3, CI, C2 (see Municipal Code, §   
                        158.61)
Mobile home parks       See Planned Unit Development Code    
Motion picture theaters C2, C3, C5                          24
(indoors)
Motion picture theaters RS, I                               26 & 49
(outdoors)
Non-coterminous         All                                 §
additional parking                                          159.47(H)
Nursery schools,
preschools, day care    All except C4, C5 & I               25
homes and day care
centers
Nursing homes or homes  R3, CI, C2, C3                      26 & 31
for aged
Park                    All                                 50
Parks - leisure &       RS, RI, R2, R3, CI, C2, C5          50
ornamental
Police station          CI, C2, C3, C4 & I                  26 & 34
Post office or postal   CI,C2, C3                           26 & 44
sub-station
Playfields or athletic  RS, R1, R2, R3, CI                  50
fields
Playgrounds             RS, R1, R2, R3, CI                  50
Professional schools    CI, C2, C3                          26 & 39
Public utility
transmission lines,
substation & equipment  Parking requirements not applicable  
storage to be permitted
in all districts
Race tracks or go-cart  All except RI, R2, R3, & CI         50
tracks
Radio, television tower C3                                  N/A
Recreational centers    RS, CI                              8
Riding stables          RS, C4, & I                         36
Salvage yards, scrap,
waste materials,        I                                   32
demolition storage,
recycling center
Sanitary landfills      I                                   32
Sexually oriented       I                                   5 & 26
businesses
Secondary schools,
public or parochial -   RS, RI, R2, R3, CI, C2, C3          26 & 45
grades 7-12
Shopping centers*       C5                                  See §
                                                            159.47
Short-term rental, Tier All districts, excluding I          29
I
Short-term rental, Tier All districts, excluding I          29
II
Short-term rental, Tier All districts, excluding I          29
III
Short-term rental, Tier All districts, excluding I          29
IV
Sorority or fraternity  R3, CI                              26 & 51
houses
Stockyard               I                                   32
Swimming beaches        RS, R3, Cl, C2                      50
(public)
Swimming pools (public) RS, R3, CI, C2                      36
Tennis clubs or other   RS, CI, C2, C3                      36
athletic clubs
Tennis courts           RS, RI, R2, R3                      36
Planned Unit            See Planned Unit Development Code    
Development
Utilities company       CE, C3, C4, C5 & I                  26 & 44
Vocational or trade     CI, C2, C3                          26 & 39
schools
Welfare and charitable  C1                                  25
services
**Must conform to Planned Unit Developmental Code.
*Must conform to §
159.47, Requirement Standards.
 
(Ord. 2015-5377, passed 5-5-2015; Am. Ord. 2020-5431, passed 6-2-2020; Am. Ord.
2024-5474, passed 2-20-2024; Am. Ord. 2024-5475, passed 2-20-2024; Am. Ord.
2024-5476, passed 2-20-2024; Am. Ord. 2024-5478, passed 3-19-2024; Am. Ord.
2025-5488, passed 3-18-2025; Am. Ord. 2025-5489, passed 3-18-2025)
§ 159.47 MINIMUM REGULATIONS FOR OFF-STREET PARKING.
   (A)   In order to lessen or avoid congestion in the public streets and to
promote convenience, safety, and welfare, the following standards shall be the
minimum off-street parking space requirements for all additions and new uses
unless higher standards are established elsewhere within this chapter:
                                        2 per dwelling unit; and all non-
RS Rural Suburban District              dwelling units, not identified
                                        elsewhere, shall comply to C1 parking
                                        minimums
                                        2 per dwelling unit; and all non-
RI Single-Family Residence District     dwelling units, not identified
                                        elsewhere, shall comply to C1 parking
                                        minimums
                                        1 per dwelling unit; and all non-
R1C Single-Family Residential Compact   dwelling units, not identified
Home District                           elsewhere, shall comply to C1 parking
                                        minimums
                                        2 per dwelling unit; and all non-
R2 Two-Family Residence District        dwelling units, not identified
                                        elsewhere, shall comply with C1 parking
                                        minimums
                                        2 per dwelling unit and an additional
R3 Multiple-Family Residential District parking space for each employee on the
                                        largest shift
                                        2 per each 3 customer seating or
                                        waiting spaces (or 1 per each 100
CI Neighborhood Commercial District     square feet of gross floor area) and 1
                                        additional parking spot per each
                                        employee
                                        1 per each 2 customer seating or
                                        waiting spaces (or 1 per each 200
C2 Accommodation Commercial District    square feet of gross floor area)* and
                                        one per each employee when the largest
                                        number of employees are present
                                        1 per each 3 customer seating or
                                        waiting spaces (or 1 per each 300
C3 Service Commercial District          square feet of gross floor area)* and 1
                                        per each employee when the largest
                                        number of employees are present
                                        1 per each 2 customer seating or
                                        waiting spaces (or 1 per each 600
C4 General Commercial District          square feet of gross floor area)* and 1
                                        per each company vehicle and each
                                        employee when the largest number of
                                        employees are present
C5 Shopping Center District             1 per each 300 square feet of gross
                                        leasable area
                                        1 per each 3 employees on the largest
I Industrial District                   shift or 1 per each 3 employees when
                                        the largest number of employees are
                                        present
*Whichever is greater.
 
   (B)   Vehicle parking spaces required herein are the minimum to be provided.
Open area devoted to vehicle parking may be used in computing open spaces
required by this chapter. Where there is more than one use in a building, the
combined requirements per use will apply. A minimum of one parking space per
use is required. If the calculated number of parking spaces is fractional, the
required parking spaces shall equal the next whole number.
   (C)   Space for off-street vehicle parking may be provided on the lot
occupied by the building which it serves, or on adjacent or nearby areas, but
such parking areas shall be counted only once in determining off-street parking
requirements for individual or groups of buildings.
   (D)   Groups of stores or other buildings and uses requiring off-street
parking facilities as prescribed herein may join in establishing group parking
lots with adequate capacity for all the buildings and uses participating in
their establishment.
   (E)   A church or other place of congregation which requires parking
facilities at times when other nearby uses would not require established
parking facilities, may enter into a joint agreement for the use of such
facilities and, if such agreement is approved by the Zoning Board of Appeals,
the Board may relieve the church or other place of congregation from
establishing its own off-street parking facilities.
   (F)   The regulations herein prescribed shall not apply to lots located in a
block within a C3 District which, at the time of passage of this chapter, was
occupied by structures used for commercial purposes totaling 50% or more of the
area of the block.
   (G)   Any use which locates in a lower zoning district where it is not
specifically listed by name shall conform to the minimum parking requirements
of that use as indicated in §§
159.21 through
159.31. However, any use which locates in a higher zoning district where it is
not specifically listed by name shall conform to the maximum parking
requirements of that use as indicated in §§
159.21 through
159.31. When a use is not named in §§
159.21 through
159.31, then the maximum parking requirements of §
159.47 shall apply.
   (H)   The establishment of non-coterminous additional parking for any
individual, business, or organization shall be of the same or higher intensity
zoning designation as the principal building lot as outlined in Parking Table
1.
Parking Table 1
Permitted Zoning for Parking Expansion
Principal Building Lot Where Non-Coterminous Additional Parking Expansion is
                       Allowed
Parking Table 1
Permitted Zoning for Parking Expansion
Principal Building Lot Where Non-Coterminous Additional Parking Expansion is
                       Allowed
R1 and R1C Zoned       All Zoning Districts allowed
R2 Zoned               R2 and above allowed
R3 Zoned               R3 and above allowed
C1 Zoned               C1 and above allowed
C2 Zoned               C2 and above allowed
C3 Zoned               C3 and above allowed
C4 Zoned               C4 and above allowed
C5 Zoned               C5 and above allowed
Industrial             Industrial only
 
(Ord. 2015-5377, passed 5-5-2015; Am. Ord. 2024-5474, passed 2-20-2024; Am.
Ord. 2024-5475, passed 2-20-2024)
§ 159.48 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   Buildings hereafter erected or altered shall not exceed the following
prescribed maximum heights in each respective district.
   (A)   RS Suburban & RI Single-Family Residence Districts: maximum dimension
35 feet.
   (B)   R2 Two-family Residence District: 35 feet.
   (C)   R3 Multiple-family Residence District: 70 feet.
   (D)   CI and C2 Commercial Districts: 35 feet.
   (E)   C3 Service Commercial District: 70 feet.
   (F)   C4 general commercial district: 108 feet.
   (G)   C5 shopping center district: 50 feet.
   (H)   I industrial district: 108 feet.
   (I)   In residence districts dwellings may be increased in height by not
more then ten feet, provided that for each two feet of height above 35 feet,
they shall be set back one additional foot from each side yard as required
herein.
   (J)   Chimneys, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, fire towers, monuments,
penthouses, stacks, tanks, stage towers, scenery lofts, water towers,
ornamental towers and spires, radio towers or necessary mechanical
appurtenances may be erected to heights in accordance with architectural custom
and with existing or hereafter adopted chapters or building codes.
   (K)   Public, semi-public, or public service buildings, churches, temples or
schools may be erected to a height of 60 feet in a residence district,
providing that for each two feet of additional height over 35 feet, the
building shall be set back from the minimum front yard line one additional
foot.
   (L)   Any building may be erected in the C4 general commercial district to a
height greater than 108 feet if the portion of the building above 108 feet is
set back from all street and lot lines one foot for each three feet of
additional height.
   (M)   Accessory buildings shall not exceed 20 feet in height.
   (N)   All heights specified herein shall be measured from the ground lot
level.
(Ord. 2015-5377, passed 5-5-2015)
§ 159.49 YARDS.
   (A)   Front yards. Front yards shall be provided in each respective district
as follows:
      (1)   RS, RI, R2, R3, CI and C2, Residence and Commercial Districts:
Minimum dimension 25 feet.
         (a)   Front yard lines established in recorded subdivisions, which
equal at least 20% of the depth of the lots, shall apply to buildings erected
in such subdivisions.
         (b)   Buildings on through lots shall provide a front yard on each
street.
         (c)   A corner lot located at the intersection of the two streets,
shall provide front yards, for any building constructed thereon, parallel to
both streets and conforming to the front yard required on lots which front on
each street, provided that the building area on the corner lot need not be
reduced below 35 feet in width, measured perpendicularly to the side street.
         (d)   Provided further that no accessory building located at such lot
shall project beyond the front yard line established for the lots fronting on
the side street.
      (2)   R1C District Front Yards: minimum dimension is 15 feet.
      (3)   C3 Service Commercial Districts: the regulations for the RI Single-
Family Residence District shall apply to all types of buildings hereafter
erected, except on corner lots.
         (a)   Residential buildings shall comply with division (A)(1)(c)
above.
         (b)   Commercial buildings; the front yard requirement shall apply to
both streets provided that the building area on the corner lot need not be
reduced below 50 feet in width, measured perpendicularly to the side street.
      (4)   Where two or more lots, (see vision clearance on corner lots, §
159.51) comprising at least 33% of the frontage in a block are developed with
buildings having front yards which do not conform to the above, the average
front yard so established shall apply to buildings hereafter erected in the
block.
      (5)   C4 General Commercial District: front yards for residential
buildings shall comply with the regulations prescribed for the RI Single-Family
Residence District but front yards are not required for other structures.
      (6)   C5 Shopping Center District: per Requirement Standards.
      (7)   I Industrial District: front yards are not required for commercial
or industrial buildings.
      (8)   All lots fronting on two or more streets shall have a front yard
setback from each street.
   (B)   Side yards. Side yards shall be provided in each respective district
as follows.
      (1)   RS Suburban and RI Single-Family Residence Districts: minimum width
of side yard required is five feet measured from the foundation to the side lot
line, and four feet from an eave overhang to the side lot line.
      (2)   R1C District: the regulations for the R1 Single-Family Residence
District shall apply except for a dwelling contiguous to the lot line (zero-lot
line dwelling). The minimum width of the side yard opposite the zero-side yard
shall be ten feet measured from the foundation to the side lot line, and nine
feet from the eave overhand to the side lot line.
      (3)   R2 Two-Family Residence District: the regulations for the RI
Single-Family Residence District shall apply except for a dwelling contiguous
to the lot line (zero lot-line dwelling). The minimum width of the side yard
opposite the zero side yard shall be ten feet measured from the foundation to
the side lot line, and nine feet from the eave overhang to the side lot line.
      (4)   R3 Multiple-Family Residence District: the minimum width of the
side yard shall be ten feet measured from the foundation to the side lot lines.
These standards shall apply to all buildings not exceeding 40 feet in height.
Buildings higher than 40 feet in height shall provide a side yard on each side
of the building equal to 25% of the height of the building.
      (5)   CI, C2, and C3 Commercial Districts: the regulations of the R3
Multiple-Family Residence District shall apply to residential buildings.
Commercial buildings need not provide side yards except where the boundary of
the district adjoins a residence district, in which case a side yard ten feet
wide shall be provided on the side of the lot next to the residence district.
      (6)   C4 General Commercial District: the regulations of the C3 Service
Commercial District shall apply.
      (7)   C5 Shopping Center District: side yards are not required for
commercial buildings.
      (8)   I Industrial District: commercial and industrial buildings need not
provide side yards.
   (C)   Rear yards. Rear yards shall be provided in each respective district
as follows.
      (1)   RS Suburban and RI Single-Family Residence Districts: the minimum
dimension shall be five feet.
      (2)   R1C District: minimum dimension is five feet.
      (3)   R2 Two-Family Residence District: the regulations for the RI
Single-Family Residence District shall apply.
      (4)   R3 Multiple-Family Residence District: the minimum depth of the
rear yard shall be ten feet measured from the foundation to the rear lot lines.
These standards shall apply to all buildings not exceeding 40 feet in height.
Buildings higher than 40 feet in height shall provide a rear yard equal to 25%
of the height of the building.
      (5)   CI, C2, and C3 Commercial Districts: five feet. When not adjacent
to an alley, no rear yard is required.
      (6)   C4 General Commercial District: no rear yard required.
      (7)   C5 Shopping Center District: no rear yard required.
      (8)   I Industrial District: no rear yard required.
   (D)   Yard regulation exceptions. The following provisions shall apply to
front, side and rear yards in all districts.
      (1)   Where dwelling quarters are erected above stores, the side yard
requirements covering the commercial use shall apply to the entire structure.
      (2)   Open or lattice-enclosed fire escapes, fireproof outside stairways,
and balconies opening on firepower projecting into a yard not more than five
feet, and the ordinary projections of chimneys and flues shall be permitted.
      (3)   Rear yards abutting on alleys may use one-half the width of the
alley in computing the required depth of the lot.
      (4)   No yard or open space provided about any building for the purpose
of complying with these regulations shall again be used as a yard or open space
for another building.
      (5)   Accessory building and/or structure which are not part of a main
residential building may be built a minimum of three feet from the rear and
side lot lines in all districts. The limitations provided in this section for
accessory buildings shall include above-ground swimming pools. These
limitations shall not include below-ground pools, which must be a minimum of
six feet from the property lines, for which specific regulations are provided
in the City of Mattoon Building Code, as adopted by the City Council in §
150.01 of this code of ordinances.
      (6)   For the purpose of side yard requirements, a two-family dwelling or
group house/townhouse, shall be considered as one building occupying a single
lot.
      (7)   Buildings on through lots may waive the requirements for a rear
yard by furnishing an equivalent amount of open space in lieu of the rear yard.
(Ord. 2015-5377, passed 5-5-2015; Am. Ord. 2024-5474, passed 2-20-2024)
§ 159.50 INTENSITY OF USE.
   No building shall be erected which will increase the percentage of occupancy
of the lot above the regulations given below, and the intensity of the use of
lots shall conform to the following regulations for the respective districts.
   (A)   RS Suburban District. The principal building erected on the lot with
its accessory buildings shall not occupy more than 40% of the area of an
interior lot nor more than 45% of the area of a corner lot. No single-family
dwelling shall be erected on any lot having an area of less than 8,400 square
feet or a width less than 70 feet.
   (B)   RI Single-Family Residence District. The principal building erected on
the lot with its accessory buildings shall not occupy more than 35% of the area
of an interior lot nor more than 40% of the area of a corner lot. No single-
family dwelling shall be erected on any lot having an area of less than 7,500
square feet or a width of less than 50 feet.
   (C)   R1C Single Family Residence Compact Home District. The principal
building erected on the lot with its accessory buildings shall not occupy more
than 35% of the area of an interior lot nor more than 40% of the area of a
corner lot. No single-family dwelling shall be erected on any lot having an
area of less than 3,750 square feet or a width of less than 30 feet.
   (D)   R2 Two-Family Residence District. The principal building on the lot
with its accessory building shall not occupy more than 45% of the area of an
interior lot nor more than 55% of the area of a corner lot. No dwelling shall
be erected or altered to accommodate or make provision for more than one family
for each 7,500 square feet of lot area for single-family houses with a minimum
lot width of 50 feet and for two-family dwellings 3,750 square feet of lot area
per family with a minimum lot width of 50 feet.
   (E)   R3 Multiple-Family Residence District. The regulations applying to the
percentage of occupancy of the lot shall be the same as the R2 Two-Family
Residence District. Single and two-family dwellings shall be erected only on
lots having a minimum area of 7,500 feet and a minimum width of 50 feet, in
this district. Multiple dwellings, apartments or group houses/townhouses shall
not be erected or altered hereafter to accommodate or make provisions for more
than one family for each 500 square feet of the lot, with a minimum width of 50
feet and an area of not less than 7,500 square feet.
   (F)   CI, C2 and C3 Commercial Districts and C4 General Commercial
Districts. The regulations for intensity of use prescribed for the R3 Multiple-
Family Residence Districts shall apply to residential buildings erected or
altered in these districts.
   (G)   A lot in any district, except the C5 and I districts, which was a lot
of record or was in separate ownership at the time of passage of this chapter,
may be used as a residential building lot if additional frontage on either side
of the lot was not under the same ownership at the time of passage of this
chapter and cannot be reasonably acquired, as determined by the Zoning Board of
Appeals, so as to meet the minimum requirements for intensity of use for a
single-family dwelling in the district in which the lot is located.
   (H)   A minimum ground area shall be required for each dwelling unit in all
districts where permitted as follows:
 
Table 3. Square Feet of Total Floor Area per Dwelling Unit in Districts
Where Permitted
Use              RS   R1   R1 C R2   R3   C1 - C3 C4
Single- family   96 0 76 8 50 0 60 0 60 0 60 0    60 0
Two- family      --   --   --   60 0 50 4 50 4    --
Multiple- family --   --   --   --   50 4 50 4    50 4
 
(Ord. 2015-5377, passed 5-5-2015; Am. Ord. 2024-5474, passed 2-20-2024)
§ 159.51 VISION CLEARANCE ON CORNER LOTS.
   In all residence districts a triangular space shall be maintained at the
street corner of a corner lot, free from any kind of obstruction to vision
between the heights of three and 12 feet above the established grade,
determined by a diagonal fine connecting two points measured 15 feet
equidistant from the street corner along each property line.
(Ord. 2015-5377, passed 5-5-2015)
§ 159.52 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   See Planned Unit Development Code Ordinance Number 88-4851.
(Ord. 2015-5377, passed 5-5-2015)
§ 159.53 LOADING AND UNLOADING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   In order to lessen or avoid congestion in the public streets and to
promote convenience, safety and welfare, the following regulations are hereby
established to require that each commercial or industrial use and other uses
which by their nature will require the receipt and delivery of raw materials,
wastes and finished products into motor vehicles shall provide off-street
loading and unloading berths as follows:
 
Commercial Uses -
Loading And Unloading Berths Required
Type of Use                Gross Floor Area (Square Loading & Unloading Berths
                           Feet)                    Required
Retail Stores              3,000 to 15,000          1
Department Stores          15,001 to 40,000         2
Wholesale Establishments ,
Storage Uses and Other     Each 25,000 Additional   1 Additional
Commercial Uses
 
 
Industrial Uses - Loading and Unloading Berths Required
Gross Floor Area of Industrial Use (square feet) Number of Berths Required
15,000 or less                                   1
15,001 to 40,000                                 2
40,001 to 100,000                                3
Each 40,000 Additional                           1 Additional
 
   (B)   The Board shall require the provision of loading and unloading berths
for special uses as a part of its procedure as outlined in § 159.65 and the
loading requirements shall conform to those presented in this section.
(Ord. 2015-5377, passed 5-5-2015)
§ 159.54 ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT STANDARDS.
   (A)   The following requirements shall apply to ADUs established via special
use:
      (1)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall require that any special
use for an accessory dwelling unit shall be recorded with the deed for the
property and shall run with the land. The special use shall be contingent upon
this requirement.
      (2)   Ownership and occupancy. The property owner must reside in either
the principal building or the ADU. An ADU shall remain under common ownership
with the residential building. Occupancy of the ADU shall be limited to no more
than one family of three persons.
      (3)   (a)   All ADUs established via special use shall be inhabited only
by blood relatives or marital relatives of the owner of the principal building.
         (b)   A designated caregiver for a resident of the principal building
shall also be permitted, so long as said caregiver does not pay an inhabitant
or owner of the principal building for the right to occupy the ADU.
      (4)   Alterations of existing structures. If a detached ADU is created
from an existing detached accessory structure in compliance with current code
via allowed nonconforming use, the structure is exempt from the zoning standard
(s) it does not meet. However, any alterations that would result in the
structure becoming less conforming with those zoning standards it does not meet
shall not be permitted.
      (5)   The construction of ADUs shall conform and adhere to the lot
coverage, height, and setback requirements of the zoning district in which they
are constructed.
      (6)   The construction of ADUs shall conform and adhere to the
characteristics of the existing principal building.
      (7)   Maximum ADU size. All ADUs shall be smaller than the floor area of
the largest primary or principal dwelling unit. Any detached ADU constructed
shall not be more than 900 square-feet. An internal or attached ADU created
through the altering of an existing structure may exceed 900 square-feet of
floor area, but the floor area shall be limited to not more than one level of
the existing structure (i.e. a basement, story, or half story).
      (8)   All ADUs shall require separate ingress and egress than that of the
principal building.
      (9)   Minimum ADU size. All ADUs shall be constructed no smaller than 300
square-feet for up to two occupants, and no smaller than 375 square-feet for
three occupants. Newly adopted code requirements shall take precedence over
this section.
      (10)   All kitchen facilities located within an ADU shall measure at
least 50 square feet and contain the following facilities:
         (a)   A countertop for food preparation.
         (b)   Cabinetry for proper food storage.
         (c)   A sink with running water and a drain.
         (d)   A stove or stove hookup.
      (11)   Prior to the issuance of a building permit for an ADU, an
accessory dwelling unit relative permit shall be obtained from the Building/
Zoning Official. ADUs shall pass inspection by the Community Development
Department prior to habitation.
      (12)   All ADUs located below grade or above the first floor of a
structure shall have at least one exterior emergency escape and rescue opening
in accordance with this section. Where basements contain one or more sleeping
rooms, emergency egress and rescue openings shall be required in all sleeping
rooms, but shall not be required in adjoining areas of the basement. The sill
height shall not be more than 44 feet above the floor.
         (a)   Emergency and escape rescue openings shall have a net clear
opening of not less than 5.7 sq. ft. The net clear opening dimensions required
by this section shall be obtained by the normal operation of the emergency
escape and rescue opening from the inside. The net clear height opening shall
be not less than 24 inches and the net clear width shall be not less than 20
inches.
          ( b)    Table 1 - Examples of Compliant and Non-Compliant Emergency
Egress Windows.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7f9e42ce52bc644309f453fcff33948ce4e2609d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3601.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7f9e42ce52bc644309f453fcff33948ce4e2609d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3603.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7f9e42ce52bc644309f453fcff33948ce4e2609d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3605.jpg]
         ( c)    Ex: Windo ws A and B meet all of the area and dimensi ons
require ments and would pass egress in Illinois. Window C, while meeting the
dimension requirements, does not meet the area requirement and would not pass
egress.
      (13)   All sanitary facilities shall adhere to the same requirements as
the Illinois State Plumbing Code for single-family residences.
      (14)   All ADUs shall adhere to the most recently adopted Illinois Energy
Efficiency Code to ensure adequate and safe living facilities.
      (15)   All ADUs shall adhere to the currently adopted property
maintenance code.
      (16)   All detached ADUs shall have a dedicated subpanel for electrical
supply.
   (B)   The following requirements shall apply to ADUs established by right in
R2, R3, C1, C2, C3, and C5 Zoning Districts: the same requirements as outlined
for ADUs established by special use with the following exceptions:
      (1)   Hierarchical zoning for ADUs shall not be permitted in C4 and
Industrial Districts.
      (2)   ADUs established via this section may be occupied by non-family
members for rental purposes.
      (3)   Prior to the issuance of a building permit for an ADU, an accessory
dwelling unit rental permit shall be obtained from the Building/Zoning
Official.
      (4)   ADUs shall pass inspection by the Community Development Department
prior to habitation.
(Ord. 2024-5478, passed 3-19-2024)
§ 159.55 SHORT-TERM RENTAL STANDARDS.
   All short-term rentals (STR) shall adhere to the following requirements:
   (A)   Guests, the property manager, and STR property owner of a STR may not
use or allow the use of sound equipment that produces sound in excess of 70
decibels at the property line between 10:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
   (B)   Guests, the property manager, and STR property owner of a STR may not
use or allow use of sound equipment that produces sound audible beyond the
property line between 10:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m.
   (C)   Guests, the property manager, and STR property owner of a STR shall
not make or allow another to make noise or play a musical instrument audible to
an adjacent business or residence between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
   (D)   If a building permit prohibiting occupancy of the structure is active,
no person may occupy, for sleeping or living purposes, the structure until
final inspections have been passed and the building permit is closed.
   (E)   The property manager and STR property owner of a STR shall not
advertise or promote or allow another to advertise or promote a short-term
rental without including:
      (1)   A special use ordinance number which authorized its use as an STR
or an STR amnesty period waiver number. These may be obtained from the
Community Development Department of the City of Mattoon.
      (2)   The applicable occupancy limit for the short-term rental.
      (3)   Disclosure of any barriers to access for guests with ADA needs on
the property.
   (F)   The property manager and STR property owner of a STR may not advertise
or promote, or allow another to advertise or promote, the dwelling as a short-
term rental if they have not obtained a special use permit for a short-term
rental.
   (G)   The following information shall be provided to all guests of an STR
property.
      (1)   The name and contact information of the property manager of the
short-term rental or their designee. This contact information shall include a
working phone number that the property manager or their designee has immediate
access to.
      (2)   Occupancy limits are no more than two adults per bedroom and no
more than two additional adults as guests per dwelling.
      (3)   Restrictions on noise as outlined in divisions (A) and (B) of this
section.
      (4)   Applicable parking restrictions.
      (5)   Applicable trash collection schedule.
      (6)   Information on relevant burn bans.
      (7)   Disclose any barriers to access for guests with ADA needs on the
property.
   (H)   The property manager of a STR shall:
      (1)   Present relevant information to renters as outlined in division (G)
of this section at the start of their stay.
      (2)   Post a packet of said relevant information conspicuously in the
common area of each short-term rental.
      (3)   The property manager or their designee shall be able and available
to respond to maintenance and public nuisance- related needs upon request of
the tenant or the City of Mattoon, within a reasonable timeframe given the
nature of the circumstance, during the time in which the short-term rental is
hosting tenants.
   (I)   Short-term rentals shall be categorized in four tiers:
      (1)   Short-Term Rental Tier I. A short-term rental that is rented for
less than 30 consecutive days and is owner-occupied or associated with an
owner-occupied principal residential unit.
      (2)   Short-Term Rental Tier II.
         (a)   A short-term rental that is rented for less than 30 consecutive
days, includes the rental of an entire dwelling, is not part of a multi-family
residential use, and is not owner- occupied or associated with an owner-
occupied principal residential unit.
         (b)   A Tier II rental shall not:
            1.   Include the rental of less than an entire dwelling unit.
            2.   Operate without providing notification of city ordinance
related to short-term rentals to rentals.
            3.   Be located on a lot that is within 1,200 feet of the property
boundary of a lot on which another Short-Term Rental Tier II is located.
      (3)   Short-Term Rental Tier III. A short-term rental that is rented for
less than 30 consecutive days and is part of a multi-family or condominium
residential unit with no more than 50% of dwelling units allocated for the
purposes of a short-term rental. Multi-family properties with more than 50% of
united allocated for short-term rentals shall be considered Tier II short-term
rentals and shall adhere to their standards and requirements.
      (4)   Short-Term Rental Tier IV. A short-term rental that is owned by an
employer located in Coles County, Illinois that only permits employees to
occupy the dwelling as tenants. Tier IV STR’s shall not be subject to taxes on
gross rental receipts from renting of hotel or motel rooms.
(Ord. 2025-5488, passed 3-18-2024)
C/D CORRIDOR DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
§ 159.56 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the C/D (Corridor Development) District is to encourage
economic development activity along the Route 16 corridor between the Cities of
Charleston and Mattoon, thus expanding employment opportunities in Coles County
and enhancing its tax base. This district is founded on a cooperative working
relationship between those parties with an interest in encouraging the economic
development in the county and facilitating quality development along the
corridor. To that end, the requirements of this district are intended to
encourage development that both enhances the economy of the county and the
aesthetics of the area and maintains and encourages environmental quality.
(Ord. 93-4729, passed 3-16-1993; Am. Ord. 2025-5493, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 159.57 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   The C/D District extends along Route 16 and encompasses that area shown in
“Appendix A”, on file in the office of the City Clerk. It is the intent of the
city to annex all properties within this area. Upon such annexation, it is the
intent of the city to zone such property C/D.
(Ord. 93-4729, passed 3-16-1993; Am. Ord. 2025-5493, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 159.58 USE CONTROLS.
   The designation of a proposed activity as a permitted, conditional or
prohibited use shall be upon the determination of the City Clerk.
   (A)   Uses permitted. Except as specifically limited in this section, the
following uses and no others shall be permitted in the C/D District:
      (1)   Agricultural uses and any other similar uses or enterprises
customarily carried on in the field of general agriculture and not obnoxious or
detrimental to the public welfare;
      (2)   Accessory structures to permitted uses;
      (3)   Commercial: retail;
      (4)   Commercial: wholesale;
      (5)   Distribution;
      (6)   Educational institutions/services;
      (7)   Health/medical services;
      (8)   Light manufacturing;
      (9)   Offices;
      (10)   Storage; and
      (11)   Planned unit development (PUD). See Planned Unit Development Code
Ordinance No. 88-4851 and 2024 update.
   (B)   Special uses. Any use of land not specifically listed in division (A)
or (C) of this section shall be classified as a “special use” and shall be
permitted only when authorized under the requirements of the city Zoning Code.
   (C)   Prohibited uses. Permitted uses and conditional uses shall not be
construed to include the following uses which are prohibited in the C/
D District:
      (1)   Asphalt plants;
      (2)   Auto salvage yards;
      (3)   Batching plants;
      (4)   Commercial feed lots;
      (5)   Concrete plants;
      (6)   Foundry;
      (7)   Hides, skins and raw furs processing;
      (8)   Junkyards;
      (9)   Landfills;
      (10)   Refuse incinerators;
      (11)   Residential uses on zoning lots smaller than ten acres in size;
and
      (12)   Slaughterhouses.
(Ord. 93-4729, passed 3-16-1993; Am. Ord. 2025-5493, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 159.59 LOT CONTROLS.
   (A)   Minimum lot size.
      (1)   The minimum lot size for a zoning lot, any part of which is located
within 1,000 feet of Route 16, shall be two acres (87,120 square feet).
      (2)   The minimum lot size for a zoning lot located more than 1,000 feet
from Route 16 shall be one acre (43,560 square feet).
   (B)   Minimum lot width.
      (1)   The minimum lot width for a zoning lot, any part of which is
located within 1,000 feet of Route 16, shall be 200 feet.
      (2)   The minimum lot width for a zoning lot located more than 1,000 feet
from the Route 16 right-of-way shall be 100 feet.
   (C)   Corridor open space.
      (1)   In order to ensure quality development and preserve views along
Route 16, a corridor open space is established abutting Route 16. The open
space corridor shall be located in the 100 feet closest to the property lines
abutting Route 16. The 50 feet of the open space corridor closest to Route 16
shall be defined as “the front 50 feet.” The 50 feet of the open space corridor
located farthest from Route 16 shall be defined as “the rear 50 feet.” Unless
otherwise noted in this chapter, no activities or obstructions other than as
listed in § 159.60 shall be allowed in the front 50 feet of this open space
area as measured perpendicular from the property line abutting Route 16 and
this area shall be planted and maintained with live landscape material.
      (2)   Parking as required under §
159.60(G) shall be permitted within the rear 50 feet from Route 16. Should
parking be located within this portion of the corridor open space, it shall be
landscaped as required in §
159.60(I)(4).
      (3)   Low profile ground signs as permitted in §
159.60(F)(3) shall be set back at least 25 feet from Route 16.
      (4)   Directional signs as permitted by §
159.60(F)(3)(d) shall be permitted in the corridor open space when said signs
are used in indication of site ingress and egress.
      (5)   The 100-foot corridor open space is to be landscaped as required in
§
159.60(I)(4).
      (6)   Pole signs as permitted by §
159.60(F)(3)(c) shall be set back at least 50 feet from Route 16.
      (7)   Signs not listed in this section are prohibited in the open space
corridor.
   (D)   Yard requirements.
      (1)   All structures shall be set back a distance of at least 25 feet
from all front, side and rear lot lines and the corridor open space.
      (2)   In the case of zoning lots adjacent to major roads in the C/
D District, all structures shall be set back a distance of at least 50 feet
from the road. Major roads shall be defined as Loxa Road, Lerna Road, Old State
Road and Township Road 800N.
   (E)   Transitional yards.
      (1)   There shall be established a transitional yard of the first 50 feet
abutting the edge of the zoning district. Open storage, refuse containers or
other structures accessory or otherwise, shall not be located within the
transitional yard and shall be adequately screened from view if visible from
any residential lot(s).
      (2)   Every parking lot in a transitional yard shall be buffered and
screened by a perimeter landscaped open space having a width of at least five
feet. The landscaping and screening treatment of such space shall be designed
and maintained to a height of at least three feet above the surface of the
parking lot.
   (F)   Height.
      (1)   Structures located on a zoning lot, any part of which is located
within 1,000 feet of Route 16 shall have a maximum height of 60 feet.
      (2)   Structures located within 200 feet of the C/D District boundary
shall have a maximum height of 35 feet.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, all structures in the C/D District
shall also be subject to the height limitation established by the Coles County
Memorial Airport Hazard Zoning Regulations, as directed by §
159.60(B).
   (G)   Maximum lot coverage. The maximum coverage of any zoning lot within
the C/D District by building, parking, roads or any other impervious surface
shall not exceed 70%.
(Ord. 93-4729, passed 3-16-1993; Am. Ord. 2025-5493, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 159.60 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Nonconforming uses. Where, at the effective date of adoption of this
zoning district, a lawful use of land exists that is made no longer permissible
under the terms of this district, such use may continue subject to the
nonconforming use provisions of §
159.45.
   (B)   Airport restrictions. Any development within the Corridor Development
District that is also within the area controlled by the Coles County Memorial
Airport Hazard Zoning Regulations must meet the requirements of both sets of
regulations. In cases where differences exist between the two codes, the more
restrictive standard shall apply.
   (C)   Performance standards. All uses in the C/D District which require
buildings and/or open areas for manufacturing, fabrication, processing,
extraction, heavy repairing, dismantling, storage or disposal of equipment, raw
materials, manufactured products or wastes shall conform to the performance
standards defined in §
159.31(N) as concerns smoke, fly ash, dust, odor, gases and fumes, glare,
vibration, noise and sound.
   (D)   Severe slope restrictions. To protect the visual and environmental
quality of the C/D District, no building shall be constructed on any portion of
a zoning lot that exceeds 30% slope. In addition, all buildings and structures
shall be set back from the toe of the slope a minimum of ten feet and an
average of 20 feet.
   (E)   Curb cuts.
      (1)   In order for the city to support an application to the Illinois
Department of Transportation for a new vehicular ingress/egress onto Route 16,
the zoning lot which will gain access to Route 16 must conform to the
requirements of this division (E).
      (2)   Vehicular ingress/egress onto Route 16 shall he permitted only if
it:
         (a)   Is at least 20 acres in size;
         (b)   Has a minimum frontage on Route 16 of 1,000 feet; and
         (c)   Is not within 1,250 feet of an existing road or curb cut.
      (3)   As a condition of approving any development with a curb cut onto
Route 16, the property owner shall grant an easement for the purpose of linking
adjacent properties with an access road. Such easement shall be 50 feet in
width, parallel and abutting the property line along Route 16. The access road
shall be centered within the easement. Such road will be utilized in cases
where an applicant meets the requirements of §
159.60(E)(2)(a) and §
159.60(E)(2)(b) but not §
159.60(E)(2)(c).
      (4)   Access roads in the C/D District will be constructed to the
specifications defined in the city’s subdivision regulations, except as defined
otherwise in this section. The applicant for whom the access road is
constructed will bear responsibility of construction and maintenance of the
access road and submit to the city a letter of credit, which sum shall ensure
adequate design, construction and maintenance of the road. The terms of the
letter of credit, as to period and amount, shall be established by the City
Council.
      (5)   Where a zoning lot has access from a road that intersects with
Route 16, the center line of the road providing that access shall be at least
150 feet from the Route 16 right-of-way.
   (F)   Signs.
      (1)   Master Sign Plan required. For any zoning lot on which the owner
proposes to erect one or more signs, the owner, his or her agent or assignee
shall submit a master sign plan to the City Clerk. The City Clerk shall approve
the Master Sign Plan, which will meet the requirements of this division (F)
prior to the issuance of a building permit and all signs placed on the zoning
lot shall conform to the Master Sign Plan and the requirements of this division
(F). The Master Sign Plan shall contain the following information:
         (a)   An accurate plot plan of the zoning lot, at a specified scale;
         (b)   The location of all buildings, parking, driveways and landscaped
areas on the zoning lot;
         (c)   The computation of the maximum total sign area, the maximum area
for each individual sign, the height of each individual sign and the total
number of signs to be erected on the zoning lot; and
         (d)   An accurate indication on the plan of the proposed location of
each present and future sign, except temporary signs need not be shown. Such
plan may be amended from time to time upon approval by the Zoning
Administrator.
      (2)   Maximum sign area.
         (a)   Maximum total sign area. The maximum total sign area for all
signs on a zoning lot in the C/D District, except incidental signs, building
markers and temporary signs shall not exceed the lesser of the following:
            1.   Maximum number of total square feet: 500; and
            2.   Square feet of signage per linear foot of street frontage:
One.
         (b)   Area per frontage. Lots fronting on two or more streets are
allowed the permitted sign area for each street frontage. However, the total
sign area that is oriented toward a particular street may not exceed the
portion of the lot's total sign area allocations that is derived from the lot,
building or wall area frontage on that street.
         (c)   Computation of area of individual signs. The area of a sign face
(which is also the sign area of a wall sign or other sign with only one face)
shall be computed by means of the smallest square, circle, rectangle, triangle
or combination thereof that will encompass the extreme limits of the writing,
representation, emblem or other display, together with any material or color
forming an integral part of the background of the display or used to
differentiate the sign from the backdrop or structure against which it is
placed but not including any supporting framework, bracing or decorative fence
or wall when such fence or wall otherwise meets zoning ordinance regulations
and is clearly incidental to the display itself.
         (d)   Computation of area of multi-faced signs. The sign area for a
sign with more than one face shall be computed by adding together the area of
all sign faces visible from any one point. When two identical sign faces are
placed back to back so that both faces cannot be viewed from any point at the
same time and when such sign faces are part of the same sign structure and are
not more than 42 inches apart, the sign area shall be computed by the
measurement of one of the faces.
         (e)   Computation of height. The height of a sign shall be computed as
the distance from the base of the sign at normal grade to the top of the
highest attached component of the sign. Normal grade shall be construed to be
the lower of the existing grade prior to construction; or the newly established
grade after construction, exclusive of any filling, berming, mounding or
excavating solely for the purpose of locating the sign. In cases in which the
normal grade cannot reasonably be determined, sign height shall be computed on
the assumption that the elevation of the normal grade at the base of the sign
is equal to the elevation of the nearest point of the crown of a public street
or the grade of the land at the principal entrance to the principal structure
on the zone lot, whichever is lower.
      (3)   Permitted signs. The following signs are permitted in the C/
D District:
         (a)   Flat signs, provided that such signs shall not extend more than
24 inches from the wall or building to which they are attached, the bottom of
such signs shall be at least ten feet above grade and such signs shall not
cover or block any window, opening, architectural feature or architectural
detail. The sign and any appurtenant devices or structural supports shall not
project above the cornice or fascia of the building to which it is attached;
         (b)   Low profile ground signs, provided there shall be only one sign
per street frontage and further provided that each such sign shall not exceed a
height of eight feet and an area of 96 square feet;
         (c)   Pole signs, provided there shall be only one sign per street
frontage and further provided that each such sign shall not exceed a height of
25 feet and an area of 125 square feet;
         (d)   Directional signs, provided the total aggregate sign area of all
incidental signs shall not exceed 48 square feet and further provided that each
individual sign shall not exceed a height of three feet;
         (e)   Temporary real estate signs, provided there shall be only one
sign per street frontage and further provided that each sign shall not exceed
an area 12 square feet and a height of five feet. Temporary real estate signs
shall be removed from the property upon the completion or discontinuance of the
sale of said property;
         (f)   Temporary construction signs, provided there shall be only one
sign per street frontage and further provided that each sign shall not exceed
an area of 12 square feet and a height of five feet. Temporary construction
signs shall be removed from the property upon the completion or discontinuance
of said construction;
         (g)   Temporary non-commercial signs, provided that such signs for
purposes of public elections are displayed only during the duration of the
campaign and shall be removed within seven days after the date of the election
for which they are displayed;
         (h)   Governmental signs;
         (i)   Corporate flags, flags of the United States, the state, the
city, foreign nations having diplomatic relations with the United States and
any other flag adopted or sanctioned by an elected legislative body of
competent jurisdiction, provided that such flags shall be limited to a total of
four and each flag shall not exceed 60 square feet in area and shall not be
flown from a pole the top of which is more than 40 feet in height. These flags
shall be flown in accordance with the protocol established by the Congress of
the United States for the Stars and Stripes;
         (j)   Building marker, provided such sign shall not exceed an area of
four square feet; and
         (k)   An industrial/business park containing at least four sites or
ten acres may be permitted one directory sign identifying the industrial/
business park by name and identifying the occupants of the industrial/business
park. Said sign shall not exceed 100 square feet in size for the first ten
acres of the industrial/business park area plus 100 square feet for each
additional ten-acre increment of the industrial /business park area, to a total
of 400 square feet. The portion of the directory sign area dedicated any given
tenant shall be deducted from that tenant's allowable sign area, as controlled
by § 159.60(F)(2)(a).
      (4)   General requirements. The following general requirements shall
apply to all signs in the C/D District.
         (a)   All signs except non-commercial messages shall be appurtenant to
a permitted use of the property on which displayed.
         (b)   No sign shall exceed a height of 15 feet when said sign is
located on a lot on which the primary use of the property is agricultural or
the property is vacant.
         (c)   No sign shall be erected in any location where, by reason of its
position, it will obstruct the view of any authorized traffic sign, signal or
other traffic control device.
         (d)   No spotlight, floodlight or lighted sign shall be installed in
any way which will permit the rays of such sign's light to penetrate beyond the
property on which such light or lighted sign is located in such manner as to
constitute a nuisance.
         (e)   All signs shall be imprinted with the sign owner's name and
address and the sign erector's name and address. Signs not carrying such an
imprint will be presumed to be owned by the person in possession of the
property on which the sign is located.
         (f)   All signs shall comply with the applicable provisions of the
Building Code, the Fire Code and the Electrical Code of the city.
         (g)   All signs shall be maintained in good structural condition and
in compliance with all applicable city codes as well as the provisions
contained in this chapter.
         (h)   No sign shall be animated in the C/D District.
         (i)   No signs shall be erected upon or project through the roof of
any building nor shall any sign attached to a building extend above the roof
line.
         (j)   Notwithstanding any other provisions in this chapter, the
following signs shall be exempted from these regulations and need not be
designated in the Master Sign Plan:
            1.   Official signs promulgated by municipalities, state
government, special districts or the Department of Transportation; and
            2.   Signs affixed by public utilities to their poles and other
facilities for identification.
         (k)   No sign may be erected or maintained which contains, includes or
is illuminated by any flashing, intermittent or moving lights except those
giving public service information such as weather, date and temperature.
         (l)   No sign may be erected or maintained which is not effectively
shielded so as to prevent beams or rays of light from being directed at any
portion of the traveled way of any street or road so as to cause glare or
impair the vision of the driver of any motor vehicle.
         (m)   Structures for any ground or pole sign shall be more than 100
feet from any other structure for a ground or pole sign. This requirement shall
not apply to structures which are separated or screened by buildings, natural
surroundings or other obstructions in such a manner that only one sign facing
located within such distance is visible at any one time.
         (n)   Vehicles with exterior markings of any size, identifying or
advertising a commercial enterprise, shall not be stored in any front or corner
side yard. Such vehicles shall also be screened from view from all adjoining
properties and streets.
      (5)   Legal non-conforming signs.
         (a)   Any legal non-conforming sign may continue in use and be
maintained for the life of the sign in order to amortize the investment
therein.
         (b)   A legal non-conforming sign shall not be enlarged upon, expanded
or extended.
         (c)   Any legal non-conforming sign damaged by fire, flood, explosion,
war, riot or act of God may be restored or reconstructed, provided that said
restoration or reconstruction does not expand the pre-existing non-conformity
and is completed within two months.
   (G)   Parking requirements.
      (1)   The off-street parking requirements for uses permitted in the C/
D District shall be as follows:
Use type Spaces per 1,000 square feet of building area
Use type                             Spaces per 1,000 square feet of building
                                     area
Commercial: retail                   4
Commercial: wholesale                1
Distribution                         1
Educational institutions/services    3
Health/medical services              3
Manufacturing/assembly/production of 2.5
materials
Offices                              3
Storage                              1
 
      (2)   Off-street parking shall not be located in any yards in the C/
D District, except as otherwise permitted in this section.
   (H)   Loading requirements.
      (1)   The off-street loading berths required for uses permitted in the C/
D District shall be as follows:
Use type Square Feet Per One Off-Street Loading Berth
Use type                             Square Feet Per One Off-Street Loading
                                     Berth
Commercial: retail                   10,000
Commercial: wholesale                10,000
Distribution                         10,000
Educational institutions/services    100,000
Health/medical services              100,000
Manufacturing/assembly/production of 10,000
materials
Offices                              100,000
Storage                              40,000
 
      (2)   No loading dock shall be located in the front yard of any zoning
lot in the C/D District.
      (3)   No loading dock shall be located within the open space corridor or
any transitional yard.
      (4)   Screening of the loading dock shall be in conformance with §
159.60(I)(4).
   (I)   Landscaping and screening.
      (1)   Landscape Plan. A Landscape Plan shall be required for all exterior
construction and development activity. Such Landscape Plan shall be drawn in
conformance with the requirements specified herein. Landscape Plans must be
approved by the City Clerk prior to the issuance of a building permit for
exterior construction and development. All Landscape Plans submitted for
approval shall contain or have attached the following information unless
certain requirements are waived by the City Clerk due to non-applicability:
         (a)   The location and dimensions of all existing and proposed
structures, above- or below-ground utilities, parking lots and drives, roadways
and rights-of-way, sidewalks, bicycle paths, ground signs, refuse disposal
areas, bicycle parking areas, fences, freestanding electrical equipment, tot
lots and other recreational facilities and other freestanding structural
features as determined necessary by the City Clerk. This drawing may be
incorporated with the Master Sign Plan as determined in §
159.60(F)(1);
         (b)   The location, quantity, size and name, both botanical and
common, of all proposed planting materials;
         (c)   The location of existing buildings, structures and plant
materials on adjacent public or private property within 20 feet of the site;
         (d)   Existing and proposed grading of the site indicating contours at
two-foot intervals. Proposed berming indicating contours at one-foot intervals;
         (e)   Specification of the size and type and boundaries of all
proposed ground cover;
         (f)   The location, quantity, size and name, both botanical and
common, of all existing planting materials;
         (g)   Elevations of all fences proposed for location on the site; and
         (h)   Elevations, cross-sections and other details as determined
necessary by the City Clerk.
      (2)   Selection, installation and maintenance of plant materials.
         (a)   Planting materials used in conformance with the provisions
contained herein shall be of good quality, of a species normally grown in
Central Illinois and capable of withstanding the extremes of individual site
microclimates. Size and density of plant material, both at the time of planting
and at maturity, are additional criteria which must be considered when
selecting plant materials.
         (b)   All landscaping materials shall be installed in accordance with
the current planting procedures established by the American Association
Nurserymen. The installation of all plant material required by this chapter may
be delayed until the next optimal planting season, that being the period
between April 1 and October 30.
         (c)   The owner of the premises shall be responsible for the
maintenance, repair and replacement of all landscaping materials and barriers,
including refuse disposal areas and street right-of-ways, as may be required by
the provisions of this chapter.
         (d)   All landscaping materials shall be maintained in good condition
so as to present a healthy, neat and orderly appearance and plant material not
in this condition shall be replaced when necessary and shall be kept free of
refuse and debris. Fences, walls and other barriers shall be maintained in good
repair.
      (3)   Design criteria. Landscape plans described above shall be prepared
based on the following design criteria. The evaluation and approval of
landscape plans shall also be based on these design criteria:
         (a)   The scale and nature of landscaping materials should be
appropriate to the size of the structures and surrounding existing materials.
Large-scaled buildings, for example, should generally be complemented by
larger- scaled plants.
         (b)   Plant material should be selected for its form, texture, color,
pattern of growth and adaptability to local conditions.
         (c)   Evergreens should be incorporated into the landscape treatment
of a site, particularly in those areas screening parking lots.
         (d)   All shade trees and ornamental trees shall have a minimum trunk
size of two and one-half inches in diameter upon installation, as measured six
inches above the established ground level.
         (e)   Plant material should be placed intermittently against long
expanses of building walls, fences and other barriers to minimize their stark
appearance and create a softening effect.
         (f)   Planting beds should be mulched with bark chips, feather rocks
or similar materials. Mulch shall not be used as a substitute for plant
materials.
         (g)   Detention/retention basins and ponds shall be landscaped. Such
landscaping should include shade and ornamental trees, evergreens, shrubbery,
hedges, sod and/or other planting materials.
         (h)   Deciduous trees should be placed on the south and west sides of
buildings to provide shade from the summer sun. Evergreens and other materials
should be concentrated on the north side of buildings to dissipate the effect
of winter winds.
         (i)   Existing plant materials should be, wherever practical as
determined by the City Clerk, incorporated into the landscape treatment of a
site. The removal of trees within public rights-of-way is expressly forbidden
without the approval of the City Clerk.
         (j)   Earthen berms and existing topographic features should be,
whenever determined practical by the City Clerk, incorporated into the
landscape treatment of a site, particularly when combined with plant material
to facilitate screening.
      (4)   Open space corridor and transitional yards.
         (a)   Except as provided elsewhere in this chapter, the open space
corridor and all transitional yards shall be devoted exclusively to
landscaping. Driveways and sidewalks needed to serve a permitted use may be
located within the open space corridor and transitional yards subject to the
requirements of §
159.60(E) and approval of the City Clerk.
         (b)   1.   Landscaping for the open space corridor and transitional
yards shall consist of a combination of ground cover, shade trees, ornamental
trees and shrubs, decorative paving material and appropriate screening devices
such as decorative walls or berms. The use of shade trees and ornamental trees
shall be provided at the rate of one tree for every 50 linear feet of
landscaped open space. Evergreen trees may be substituted for shade trees or
ornamental trees upon approval of the Building and Zoning Enforcement Officer.
            2.   Ornamental shrubs shall be provided at a rate of one shrub for
every 50 linear feet of landscaped open space and except as otherwise required
shall be maintained at a height of not more than four feet. A mixture of shrub
species shall be provided, of which at least 25% shall be evergreen. Areas not
planted with shrubs or trees shall be maintained with groundcover.
         (c)   Where, as permitted under §
159.59(C)(2), parking is provided in the rear 50 feet of the corridor open
space, the parking lot shall be buffered and screened by a perimeter landscaped
open space having a width of at least five feet. The landscaping and screening
treatment of such space shall be designed and maintained to a height of at
least three feet above the surface of the parking lot.
      (5)   Refuse containers, outdoor storage.
         (a)   All refuse containers and all areas of permitted outdoor storage
shall be fully enclosed by an opaque fence, wall or densely planted evergreen
hedge of a height sufficient to completely screen such containers or storage
areas from view from all adjoining properties and all streets.
         (b)   No refuse containers or storage areas shall be located within
any required yard.
         (c)   Outdoor storage of semi-tractor trailers, heavy construction
vehicles and agricultural vehicles, as permitted in this section, shall not
require screening.
      (6)   Parking lots. Every parking lot shall be buffered by a perimeter
landscaped open space of at least five feet. The landscaping treatment of such
space shall be designed and maintained with ground cover or a combination of
ground cover, ornamental shrubs and trees, unless otherwise specified in this
chapter.
(Ord. 93-4729, passed 3-16-1993; Am. Ord. 2025-5493, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 159.61 APPROVAL PROCESS.
   Site plan review shall be required pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter in addition to the other requirements of this code before building
permits may be issued and shall apply to all uses whether permitted,
conditional or accessory. The following regulations shall apply generally to
all uses contained within the C/D District.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of these regulations is to promote safe and
efficient use of land, to contribute to an orderly and harmonious appearance of
the Route 16 corridor and to further enhance property values. The site plan
review process is intended to help ensure that newly developed properties and
redeveloped properties are compatible with adjacent development and that
adverse impacts of development are minimized. The site plan review process in
the C/D District is to provide for review of:
      (1)   Compatibility of a project with its environment, other land uses
and existing buildings in the area;
      (2)   Compatibility of a project with the site plan review criteria for
development of the Route 16 corridor, as defined in division (E) of this
section.
      (3)   Compliance of a project with the use, lot and general requirements
of this zoning district, as depicted in Route 16 Corridor Design Manual.
   (B)   Hearing body. A Corridor Review Committee (hereafter referred to as
the CRC) is hereby authorized to hear and make recommendations to the City
Council on uses proposed in the C/D District. The CRC shall consist of a
representative from each of the following:
      (1)   The City of Charleston City Council;
      (2)   The City of Mattoon City Council;
      (3)   The City of Charleston Board of Zoning Appeals and Planning;
      (4)   The City of Mattoon Plan Commission;
      (5)   Coles Together;
      (6)   Coles County Airport Authority; and
      (7)   Corridor Zone Land Owners' Associations.
   (C)   Procedures. Prior to issuance of a building permit, all development
within the C/D District that does not conform to the requirements of this
section, must be approved by the City Council in conformance with the following
process:
      (1)   Applicant will complete an application for zoning compliance in the
C/D District on forms provided by the city.
      (2)   Within 15 days of receipt of an application for zoning compliance
approval, the City Clerk shall schedule the applicant before the next available
plan review meeting of the CRC and shall notify the public of such meeting in
conformance with the requirements of §
159.05(C).
      (3)   The CRC shall conduct a plan review hearing to consider the merits
of the development proposal and its compliance with the standards of the C/
D District.
      (4)   Upon completion of the hearing, the CRC shall make a recommendation
to the Mattoon City Council regarding compliance of the proposed development
with the requirements of this section.
      (5)   The City Clerk shall schedule a public hearing before the City
Council within 30 days and shall make a public notice regarding the City
Council hearing, in compliance with §
159.05(C).
      (6)   Upon completion of the public hearing, the Council shall vote to
approve or deny the plan or to approve the plan subject to specific
modifications. The Mayor shall sign a concept plan, noting any approved or
required changes from said plan, and file it with the City Clerk.
      (7)   Upon application for building permit, the City Clerk shall compare
the building permit application to the filed concept plan. The building permit
application must substantially conform to the concept plan and fully comply
with the requirements of this section.
      (8)   Requests for departures from approved plans will be required to
follow the same procedure as outlined in this chapter.
   (D)   Submission requirements.
      (1)   A concept plan including the following information shall be
prepared by the applicant and submitted to the CRC at the formal review
meeting:
         (a)   Land use on the site;
         (b)   Land uses within 1,000 feet of the property;
         (c)   Location of available utilities;
         (d)   Property boundaries;
         (e)   Topographical data showing flood plain if any;
         (f)   Access points to the site;
         (g)   Location of buildings;
         (h)   Distances for setbacks and height;
         (i)   Tabulation of relevant lot and building data;
         (j)   Address and phone of applicant;
         (k)   Scale and north arrow; and
         (l)   Location and direction of surface and subsurface drainage and
retention.
      (2)   At the time of pre-application the CRC may, by majority vote,
require that the Landscape Plan as required by §
159.60(I) and Master Sign Plan as required by §
159.60(F) be presented at their formal review meeting.
   (E)   Review criteria. In evaluating a concept plan for development in the
C/D District the CRC shall consider how the proposed plan meets the following
land use and design criteria:
      (1)   Land use criteria.
         (a)   Avoid incompatibilities with larger existing users in corridor
(i.e., Coles County Memorial Airport and Sarah Bush Lincoln Hospital),
understanding that they are important economic development components of the
corridor and county;
         (b)   Focus office, commercial and light industrial development
(enclosed activities) along the frontage of Route 16 to enhance its appearance
and image;
         (c)   Locate industrial uses which may have an adverse impact on the
appearance and image of the corridor away from Route 16;
         (d)   Attract airport-related uses near the airport;
         (e)   Attract additional medical-related uses near the hospital; and
         (f)   Facilitate reuse or redevelopment of residential structures
along Route 16 for commercial uses.
      (2)   Design criteria.
         (a)   Avoid overburdening of soil, air, water or infrastructure in the
Route 16 corridor;
         (b)   Protect and enhance open/recreation uses in the study area,
particularly the Charleston Country Club, the hiking/biking trail, wooded areas
and creeks and rivers;
         (c)   Encourage redevelopment of older nonproductive uses;
         (d)   Build private roads to public standards;
         (e)   Protect residential uses from adverse impacts of non-residential
activities;
         (f)   Minimize changes in natural terrain;
         (g)   Separate residential uses from major noise-producing sources;
         (h)   Separate internal traffic circulation from parking aisles;
         (i)   Minimize visual impact of parking visible from the street; and
         (j)   Minimize impacts of airport noise.
(Ord. 93-4729, passed 3-16-1993; Am. Ord. 2025-5493, passed 5-6-2025)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 159.65 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Creation and membership.
      (1)   The Planning Commission is hereby established. The word
“Commission” when used in this section shall be construed to mean the Planning
Commission. The Commission shall consist of nine members who shall be
freeholders appointed by the Mayor upon approval by the City Council. The terms
of office of the members of the Commission shall be for five years, excepting
that the nine members first appointed shall serve respectively for terms of one
for one year, two for two years, three for three years, two for four years and
one for five years.
      (2)   Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term of the member
whose place has become vacant by the Mayor upon approval by the City Council.
The City Council shall have the power to remove any member of the Planning
Commission for cause and after notice and public hearing. The Planning
Commission shall elect its own Chairperson and Vice President each of whom
shall serve for one year. The Planning Commission shall adopt from time to time
such rules and regulations as it may deem necessary to carry into effect the
powers herein given it.
   (B)   Meetings.
      (1)   All meetings of the Planning Commission shall be held at the call
of the Chairperson and at such other times as the Commission may determine.
      (2)   All meetings of the Commission shall be open to the public. The
Commission shall keep minutes of its proceedings and shall also keep records of
its examinations and other official actions. Findings of fact shall be included
in the minutes of each case of a requested variation, specifying the reasons
for making or denying such variation.
      (3)   Every rule, regulation, every amendment or repeal thereof, and
every order, requirement, decision or determination of the Commission shall
immediately be filed in the office of the City Clerk and shall be a public
record. The Commission shall adopt its own rules of procedure not in conflict
with the statute in such cases made and provided.
   (C)   Appeal and review.
      (1)   An appeal shall be taken within such time as shall be prescribed by
the Planning Commission by general rule, by filing with the Building Inspector
and with the Commission, a notice of appeal, specifying the grounds thereof.
The Building Inspector shall forthwith transmit to the Commission all of the
papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
      (2)   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the Building Inspector certifies to the Commission after
the motion of appeal has been filed with him or her that by reason of facts
stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his or her opinion, cause imminent
peril to life or property, in which case the proceedings shall not be staid
otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the Commission or
by a court of record on application, on notice to the Building Inspector and on
due cause shown.
      (3)   The Commission shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the
appeal and give due notice thereof to the parties and decide the same within a
reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may appear in person, or by agent,
or by attorney. The Planning Commission may reverse or affirm wholly or partly
or may modify the order, requirements, decision or determination as in its
opinion ought to be made in the premises and to that end shall have the power
of the Building Inspector from whom appeal is taken.
      (4)   All final administrative decisions of the Commission made under
ILCS Ch. 65, Art. 5, §§ 11-13-1 through 11-13-20 as now enacted and may be
hereafter amended or modified, shall be subject to judicial review pursuant to
the provisions of the “Administrative Review Act” approved May 8, 1945, Chapter
110, Section 264 et seq., and all amendments and modifications thereof, and the
rule adopted pursuant thereto.
   (D)   Jurisdiction.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall hear and decide appeals for the
review of any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the
Building/Code Official, who is charged with the enforcement of this chapter.
      (2)   It shall also hear and decide all matters referred to it or upon
which it is required to pass under this chapter. The concurring votes of five
members of the Commission shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement,
decision or determination of the Building/Code Official or to decide in favor
of the applicant any matter upon which it is required to pass under this
chapter or to effect any variation in this chapter.
      (3)   Where in specific cases permits are applied for and there are
practical difficulties or particular hardships in the way of carrying out the
strict letter of any of the provisions or regulations of this chapter relating
to the use, construction or alteration of buildings or structures, or the use
of land, the Planning Commission may determine and vary their application in
harmony with their general purpose and intent and in accordance with the
following rules.
      (4)   No variation in the application of the provision of this chapter
shall be made by the Council concerning the use of land, the intensity of such
use, the size, shape or location of yards or open spaces, or the height of
structures now existing or to be constructed, unless, after a hearing by the
Planning Commission as provided for in this section, the Council shall find
that such variation will not:
         (a)   Impair an adequate supply of light and air to adjacent property;
         (b)   Will not increase the hazard from fire and other dangers to said
property;
         (c)   Will not diminish the taxable value of lands and buildings
throughout the city, the area, nor the immediate vicinity;
         (d)   Will not increase the congestion in the public streets; and
         (e)   Will not otherwise impair the public health, safety, comfort,
morals and welfare of the inhabitants of said city; nor shall any such
variation be made in any case unless the same shall comply with the following
limitations:
            1.   Such variation, whether applicable to new buildings, or to
addition to or alterations or extensions of existing buildings, shall not
reduce the required dimensions of open spaces by more than 20%, nor reduce the
required total area to open spaces by more than 10%, nor reduce the required
total lot area by more than 5%.
            2.   Such variation shall not permit an increase in the height of
structure of more than 10% above the maximum height permitted by this chapter.
            3.   Such variation shall not permit the extension of a
nonconforming use throughout a building or lot contrary to the limitations
imposed in the immediately preceding paragraphs.
            4.   Any variation or other zoning amendments described in this
section shall conform with the general review procedures as defined in §
159.05.
(Ord. 96-4835, passed 4-16-1996; Am. Ord. 2010-5307, passed 8-17-2010; Am. Ord.
2025-5493, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 159.66 PLATS.
   Each application for a building permit shall be accompanied by a plat, in
duplicate, drawn to the scale, showing the actual dimensions of the lot to be
built upon, the size of the building to be erected, and such other information
as shall be necessary to provide for the enforcement of this chapter. A careful
record of such application and plats shall be kept in the office of the
Building/Code Official.
(Ord. 96-4835, passed 4-16-1996; Am. Ord. 2025-5493, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 159.67 OCCUPANCY AND COMPLIANCE PERMITS.
   (A)   No land shall be occupied or used and no building hereafter erected or
altered shall be occupied or used in whole or in part for any purpose
whatsoever until a certificate shall have been issued by the Building/Code
Official stating that the building and use comply with all the building and
health laws and chapters and with the provisions of this chapter. No change of
use shall be made in any building or part thereof now or hereafter erected or
altered, without a permit having been issued by the Building/Code Official, and
no permit shall be issued to make such change unless it is in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter or amendments thereto duly enacted.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the continuances of the present
occupancy or use of any existing building, except as may be necessary for
safety of life or property.
   (C)   Certificate for occupancy and compliance shall be applied for
coincidentally with the application for a building permit and shall be issued
within ten days after the lawful erection or alteration of such building shall
have been completed. A record of all certificates shall be kept on file in the
office of the Building/Code Official and copies shall be furnished upon request
to any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in the building
affected.
   (D)   No building or premises shall be occupied until such certificate has
been issued.
(Ord. 96-4835, passed 4-16-1996; Am. Ord. 2025-5493, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 159.68 BOUNDARIES OF DISTRICTS.
   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of the various
districts, as shown on the zone map, the following rules shall apply:
   (A)   The district boundaries are either streets or alleys, unless otherwise
shown, and where the designation on the zone map indicates that the various
districts are approximately bounded by street or alley lines, such alleys or
streets shall be construed to be the boundaries of such districts.
   (B)   Where the district boundaries are not shown to be streets or alleys,
and where the property has been or may hereafter be divided into blocks and
lots, and where the designations on the zone map indicate that the various
districts are approximately bounded by lot lines, such lot lines shall be
construed to be the boundaries of such districts.
   (C)   Where the district boundaries are not shown by streets or alleys, or
lot or block lines, the district boundaries shall be determined by use of scale
shown on the zone map.
(Ord. 96-4835, passed 4-16-1996; Am. Ord. 2025-5493, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 159.69 AMENDMENTS AND CHANGES.
   (A)   The regulations imposed and the districts created by this chapter may
be amended from time to time by ordinance, but no such amendments shall be made
without a hearing before the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Any application for re-zoning inside the corporate limits will be
considered by the Planning Commission if, and only if, the physical area to be
re-zoned, or the area resulting from re-zoning is at least 40,000 coterminous
square feet, as defined herein.
   (C)   The Commission may, of its own motion, or upon petition signed by 50%
or more of the property owners of the area in question, or upon instruction
from City Council, cause to be prepared a notice indicating the changes
proposed to be made in the regulations or in the district boundary lines,
describing the boundaries or the territory to be affected. Such notice shall
state the time and place of the public hearing for consideration of such
proposed amendments, supplement or change, and the place where maps of the
proposed amendment, supplement or change will be accessible for examination by
interested parties.
   (D)   Notice of such public hearing shall be published no more than 30 days
nor less than 15 days in advance thereof in at least one newspaper of general
circulation in the city. After such public hearing, the Commission shall submit
a copy of the decision together with the pertinent considerations in the
proposed amendment to the City Council for its decision.
   (E)   The Commission shall report to the City Council on the proposed
amendment, supplement, or change and may cause an ordinance authorizing such
amendment, supplement, or change to be introduced in the City Council. Such
hearing may be adjourned from time to time. Whenever a written protest against
such proposed amendment, supplement, or change, signed and acknowledged by the
owners of the following property:
      (1)   Owners of 20% of the frontage property proposed to be altered;
      (2)   Owners of 20% of the property immediately adjoining or across an
alley; or
      (3)   Owners of 20% of the property located within a distance of 150 feet
from any boundary line of the property sought to be altered; shall have been
filed with the City Clerk within 30 days after said public hearing, the chapter
providing for such proposed amendment, supplement, or change shall not be
passed except by the favorable vote of three-fourths of the members of the City
Council.
   (F)   At the time application is made to zone or re-zone, alter or vary the
use of property under the provisions of this chapter, the applicant therefore
shall pay to the City Clerk the sum of $100.
(Ord. 96-4835, passed 4-16-1996; Am. Ord. 2010-5307, passed 8-17-2010; Am. Ord.
2025-5493, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 159.70 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects, or refuses to comply with, or who resists the enforcement of any of
the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined as set forth in
§
159.99. The Zoning Official is hereby designated and authorized to enforce this
chapter.
   (B)   In case any building or structure is erected, constructed,
reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted, or maintained, or any building,
structure, or premises is used in violation of this chapter or other
regulations made under the authority conferred thereby, the city, in addition
to other remedies, may institute any appropriate action or proceedings to
prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration,
repair, conversion, maintenance, or use; to restrain, correct, or abate such
violation; to prevent the occupancy of such building, structure, or premises;
or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, or use in or about such premises.
(Ord. 96-4835, passed 4-16-1996; Am. Ord. 2025-5493, passed 5-6-2025)
§ 159.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject to a fine
according to the general penalty of §
10.99 upon conviction. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 96-4835, passed 4-16-1996; Am. Ord. 2009- 5281, passed 9-15-09; Am. Ord.
2025-5493, passed 5-6-2025)
CHAPTER 160: SIGNS
Section
   
160.01   Application of regulations; retroactive application
   
160.02   Statement of purpose
   
160.03   Definitions
   
160.04   Sign permits
   
160.05   Prohibited signs
   
160.06   Illumination
   
160.07   Residential regulations
   
160.08   Nonresidential regulations
   
160.09   Establishment of City Entry Corridor Overlay Sign District
   
160.10   City Entry Corridor Overlay Sign District regulations
   
160.11   Special signs permitted
   
160.12   Nonconforming signs and removal
   
160.13   Obsolete signs and removal
   
160.14   Construction and maintenance performance standards for signs
   
160.15   Variance procedure
 
   
160.99   Penalty
§ 160.01 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS; RETROACTIVE APPLICATION.
   (A)   This chapter, which regulates signs, shall apply to all real property
located in the corporate city limits of Mattoon, Illinois.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter, in its entirety, shall have
retroactive application to all sign permit applications now pending before the
city. Further, §§
160.12 through
160.15, and §
160.99, shall have retroactive application to all existing signs; and, shall
have prospective application as to all sign applications for all sign permits
submitted to the city at any time after publication, hereof.
(Ord. 2001-5053, passed 3-6-2001)
§ 160.02 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   These sign regulations are adopted for the following purpose:
   (A)   To preserve, protect and promote the public safety on city streets by
limiting the unnecessary distraction of the motorist caused by signs.
   (B)   To protect the general public from damage and injury which may be
caused by the faulty and uncontrolled construction and use of signs within the
city.
   (C)   To create a fair and balanced system of sign regulations recognizing
both the needs of the business community and the desires of the citizenry for a
reduction of sign confusion.
   (D)   To preserve and protect the property values of the city's residential
neighborhoods by protecting visual character of the neighborhood from the
blighting effects of uncontrolled signs.
(Ord. 2001-5053, passed 3-6-2001)
§ 160.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ARCHITECTURAL SIGNS. An architectural sign shall include all signs which are
attached to a building and have no other supporting members other than those
attached to the building. An architectural sign is not a freestanding sign.
   BUILDING FACADE. The walls of a building or any other near vertical
structural element below the roof surface area(s).
   BUILDING FRONTAGE. The length in feet of the ground floor level of a
building front and/or sides abutting a public right-of-way.
   BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT. A business development is a grouping of two or more
business establishments which: (1) share a common, on site, parking lot, and
(2) occupy a single building or occupy separate buildings which are physically
attached. Business developments include shopping centers.
   DIGITAL DISPLAY SIGN. A type of an off-premises sign, or any portion of a
sign, made up of internally illuminated components capable of changing the
message periodically with images that appear to have movement or that appear to
change. DIGITAL DISPLAYS may include but are not limited to LCD, LED, or plasma
displays.
   ELECTRIC MESSAGE BOARD. A sign with a maximum area of 150 square feet per
side on which the copy or display of information or objects changes
electronically, automatically or mechanically. The display on the sign shall be
limited to public service information or advertising for business(es) located
on the same property as the sign. The display of information shall be presented
in a reasonable fashion and shall not flash in a manner to attract attention.
The use of movements or change in lighting to depict animation, or a moving
scene shall be limited to such displays that take at least two seconds to
complete. Individual movements or action within a display shall not occur more
rapidly than at a rate of 2½ times per second (e.g., a ball bouncing, a wheel
turning, a hand waiving or an eye winking). The ease of flashing, blinking or
pulsation lights to be depict sudden or intense actions such as explosions,
moving borders or other like actions shall be prohibited. The administrative
official shall determine if the display complies with the regulations.
   FESTOON LIGHTS. A group of two or more light bulbs hung or strung overhead
which are exposed to persons on a public right-of-way and which are not shaded,
shielded, or hooded to prevent the direct rays of light from being visible from
the right-of-way.
   FLASHING SIGNS. A sign which in total or in part has illumination which
changes or intermittently flashes on and off, or gives the appearance of
changing or flashing more frequently than five second intervals. Flashing signs
do not include time and temperature signs nor electronic message boards.
   FLUSH WALL SIGNS. A sign mounted on, attached to, or painted on the exterior
of a building where the plane of the sign surface is parallel to and no more
than one foot distance from the plane of the building to which it is attached.
A flush wall sign is an “architectural sign”.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. A sign, supported by one or more uprights, poles, or
braces placed in or upon the ground; or a sign supported by a structure
independent of the building, erected primarily for the display and support of
the sign. A freestanding sign is not an architectural sign.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN. A sign which has a light source as an integral part of the
sign or which has light directed on the sign from an external position.
   LOT FRONTAGE. Any portion, piece, division or parcel of land, which abuts a
public right-of-way.
   LUMINANCE. The photometric measure of luminous intensity per unit area of
light traveling in any given direction. LUMINANCE is measured in foot candles,
with one foot candle equivalent to one lumen of light density per square foot.
   MAINTENANCE OF SIGN. Any action, involving the painting or repair of a sign
that doesn't alter the shape, area, material, height or any other element of a
sign existing prior to the painting and/or repair of the sign. All other
actions, which result in a change in the sign's elements, shall be considered
as an erection of a new sign.
   MOVING SIGN. Any sign which revolves, moves, is animated or gives the visual
impression of revolving, moving or animation.
   NITS. A unit of measurement of brightness or luminance emitted from a
digital display sign. One nit is equivalent to one candle per square meter of
digital display sign area.
   OFF-PREMISES SIGN. A sign not related in its subject matter to the premises
on which it is located or to products, accommodations, services, or activities
on the premises. However, for businesses which no longer exist, signs on the
premises, which would otherwise conform to the provisions of this chapter shall
not be construed to be off-premises signs. Off-premises signs include signs
erected by the outdoor advertising industry, such as billboards.
   PORTABLE SIGN. Any sign which is not listed below shall be classified as a
portable sign:
      (1)   Any sign which is permanently mounted in the ground.
      (2)   Any sign which is permanently attached to a building.
      (3)   Any sign painted or magnetically affixed to a vehicle, if it
conforms to the shape of the vehicle and is not a changeable letter or
changeable copy sign.
      (4)   Any sign otherwise affixed to a vehicle, if less than five square
feet in surface area and not a changeable letter or changeable copy sign.
   PROJECTING SIGN.  A sign which is suspended from or supported solely by a
building or a wall of a building, and which projects from the plane of the
building to which it is attached.
   SATELLITE BUSINESS. A business which is part of a business development or
shopping center but is located in a building separate from the main building.
   SHOPPING CENTER. See the definition of "Business Development."
   SIGN. An object, graphic display or device or part thereof situated outdoors
or directly visible from outdoors which is used to advertise, identify, direct
or attract attention to an object, person, institution organization, business,
product, service, event, or location by any means including words, letters,
figures, logos, trademarks, designs, symbols, fixtures, colors, motion,
illumination, or projected images. The following shall not be considered to be
signs.
      (1)   Flags of nations, organization of nations, states, cities,
fraternal, religious, and civic organizations.
      (2)   Merchandise, pictures, models or products, or services incorporated
in a window display.
      (3)   Signs not exceeding one square foot in area and bearing only
property numbers, post office box numbers, names of occupants of premises, or
other identification of premises not having commercial connotations.
      (4)   Legal notices, informational, or direction signs erected or
required by governmental bodies.
      (5)   National, state, religious, fraternal, professional, and civic
symbols or crest.
      (6)   Decorations, clearly incidental and customarily and commonly
associated with any national, local or religious holiday displayed for a period
of not more than 60 consecutive days.
      (7)   Signs painted on or magnetically affixed to vehicles that do not
contain changeable letters or copy; and signs otherwise attached to vehicles
that do not exceed five square feet in area and do not contain changeable
letter or changeable copy.
   SIGNS, NUMBER OF. An individual sign shall be considered to be a single
display surface or display device containing elements organized to form a unit.
Where matter is displayed in a random manner without organized relationship of
elements, or where there is reasonable doubt the relationship of elements, each
element shall be considered to be a single sign.
   SIGNS, SURFACE AREA OF. The surface area of a sign shall be computed as
including the entire area of a regular geometric form or combination of regular
geometric forms within which the sign shape may be inscribed and comprising all
the display area and including all of the elements of the matter displayed.
Structural member not bearing advertising matter shall not be included in the
computation of the surface area.
   STREET CURB LINE. The street curb line is deemed to be located at the
furthest extent of the curb structure from the center line of the street for
those streets with a curb structure and the furthest extent of the street
surface from the center line of the street for those streets with no curb
structure.
   TIME AND TEMPERATURE SIGN. A sign whereon the date, time, and/or temperature
is indicated by intermittent lighting and is limited to the numerals indicating
the date, time and/or temperature.
   TWIRL TIME. The time it takes for static text, images or graphics on a
digital display to change to different text, images or graphics.
   WINDOW PROMOTIONAL SIGN. A temporary sign, viewable from the exterior of a
structure, which is attached to a window for the specific purpose of attracting
attention of a passerby to a sale, or to promotional items. By temporary it is
meant that a window promotional sign is not intended for display for more than
60 days.
(Ord. 2001-5053, passed 3-6-2001; Am. Ord. 2025-5489, passed 3-18-2025)
§ 160.04 SIGN PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit required; conditions. Before a sign is erected, altered, or
relocated, a permit must be obtained:
      (1)   If it is a new sign.
      (2)   If an existing sign is being moved to a new location.
      (3)   If an existing sign is being enlarged in any manner.
      (4)   If an existing sign is being replaced with a similar sign of a new
material.
      (5)   If structural modifications or changes are made other than routine
maintenance work.
   (B)   Responsibility to obtain permit. It is the responsibility of the owner
of the sign directly, or through his or her agent or contractor, to secure the
appropriate permit.
   (C)   Display of permit. The permit shall be on display on the premises at
the time of the beginning of erection and the next seven days.
   (D)   Exemptions. The following signs need not secure a permit, but these
signs must meet all other requirements of this chapter.
      (1)   The maintenance of existing sign areas as defined in Section 12 of
this chapter.
      (2)   Construction sign (erected after construction has commenced)
identifying the developer, builder, owner architect, source of financing and
other similar information.
      (3)   Window promotional signs.
      (4)   Yard sale signs.
      (5)   Signs permitted for single unit dwellings.
      (6)   Signs for historic places and buildings.
      (7)   Political signs.
      (8)   Temporary real estate signs advertising real estate for sale, rent
or lease.
      (9)   Temporary signs, pennants, banners, and portable signs.
   (E)   Permit fee. The applicant for a sign permit shall pay a fee to the
city through the office of the Community Development Office. The fee assessed
shall be related to the sign size in accordance with §
35.01(E)(3).
(Ord. 2001-5053, passed 3-6-2001; Am. Ord. 2010-5290, passed 4-6-2010)
§ 160.05 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   (A)   Off-premises signs with a surface area over 100 square feet.
   (B)   Pennants, propellers, paddle wheels, streamers, spinners or other
attraction devices designed to be set in motion by the wind, except as
permitted in §
160.11 of this chapter, Special Signs.
   (C)   Festoon lights.
   (D)   Moving signs except as permitted by §
160.08(A)(5) of this chapter, Nonresidential Regulations.
   (E)   Flashing signs.
   (F)   Bare bulb illumination exceeding 25 watts per bulb.
   (G)   Portable signs except as permitted in §
160.11 of this chapter, Special Signs.
(Ord. 2001-5053, passed 3-6-2001)
§ 160.06 ILLUMINATION.
   All signs except those allowed off-premises signs in the city’s Entry
Corridor Sign District and for one-, two-, three-, and four-unit dwellings and
for home occupations may be illuminated provided that it conforms to the
following restrictions:
   (A)   The light source, including the interior of a building shall be so
shaded, shielded, or directed so that the light intensity or brightness shall
not adversely affect surrounding or facing premises.
   (B)   The light shall not adversely affect the safe vision of operators of
vehicles.
   (C)   Light shall not shine on or into neighboring residential structures.
(Ord. 2001-5053, passed 3-6-2001; Am. Ord. 2025-5489, passed 3-18-2025)
§ 160.07 RESIDENTIAL REGULATIONS.
   This section regulates all signs erected in all areas within the city zoned
R-1, R-2, R-3.
   (A)   Location of signs. Signs may be erected at any location on private
property subject to the following restrictions:
      (1)   Signs erected on the property of multiple dwellings and for home
occupations must be flush wall signs.
      (2)   All freestanding signs must either have at least 20 feet of setback
from the street curb line (extended vertically), or have at least eight feet of
clearance between the base of the sign and the ground; and, no part of any
freestanding or building sign may be erected so as to suspend over or otherwise
encroach upon any public right-of-way.
      (3)   No sign may be erected on the roof of any structure, or be erected
on the building facade so that any portion of the sign exceeds the height of
the facade.
   (B)   Height of signs. For uses not specifically controlled by other
sections of this chapter, signs may be erected to the height of 12 feet above
the ground or the maximum height of the building facade, whichever is less.
   (C)   Sign area.
      (1)   For one-, two-, three-, and four-unit dwellings - one square foot
per dwelling unit.
      (2)   For home occupations - two square feet.
      (3)   For schools, government buildings, churches and public auditoriums
- 50 square feet.
      (4)   For multi-unit dwelling developments and mobile home parks - one
which shall not be smaller than 12 square feet and shall not exceed 50 square
feet.
      (5)   For bed and breakfast establishments and inns - 12 square feet.
      (6)   Other uses not listed above - one square foot of sign area for each
lineal foot of building frontage. (Such sign need not be smaller than 12 square
feet.)
   (D)   Illumination. Signs may be illuminated except signs for one-, two-,
three-, and four-unit dwellings and for home occupations. The illumination may
not flash in any manner.
   (E)   Movement. Signs in these zones may not move in any manner.
   (F)   Number of signs.
      (1)   Freestanding signs when permitted - one per street frontage. (50
feet of frontage, minimum)
      (2)   Architectural signs - there is no limit on the number of
architectural signs subject to the provisions for sign area, division (C) of
this section.
   (G)   Business and locations not permitted freestanding signs:
      (1)   Individual businesses within business development.
      (2)   Home occupations.
      (3)   One-, two-, three-, and four-unit dwellings.
      (4)   Lot with less than 50 feet of frontage. For corner lots, this
limitation shall refer to the shortest frontage dimension.
(Ord. 2001-5053, passed 3-6-2001)
§ 160.08 NONRESIDENTIAL REGULATIONS.
   This section regulates all signs erected in all areas within the city with
commercial or industrial zones.
   (A)   Freestanding signs. The following regulations apply to freestanding
signs only. Architectural signs are regulated by division (B) of this section.
      (1)   Location of signs. Freestanding signs may be erected at any
location on private property within the following restrictions:
         (a)   All freestanding signs must either have at least 20 feet of
setback from the street curb line (extended vertically), or have at least eight
feet of clearance between the base of the sign and the ground; and, no part of
any freestanding signs may be erected on, or so as to suspend over, otherwise
encroach upon, any public right-of-way.
      (2)   Height of signs. Freestanding signs may be erected to a maximum
height of 25 feet from the ground, unless located on real estate which is zoned
commercial or industrial and within 5000 feet west of the center point of the
intersection of Illinois Route 16 and I-57; or on commercial or industrially
zoned real estate and within 5000 feet in any compass direction of the center
point of the intersection of Illinois Route 45 and I-57, in which case any such
sign may be erected to a maximum height of 100 feet measured from the ground.
      (3)   Sign area.
         (a)   One and two-sided signs. A basic maximum of 150 square feet per
side which may be increased to final maximum of 400 square feet per side
according to the following rate: six square feet per side for each ten feet the
sign is set back from the center line of the nearest street surface.
         (b)   Signs with more than two sides. The maximum surface area shall
be determined by division (A)(3)(a) of this section. The total allowed for a
two-sided sign shall be divided equally on the number of sides desired.
         (c)   When two signs are permitted on a street frontage pursuant to
division (A)(6)(b) below, neither sign may exceed the areas permitted in
division (A)(3)(a) above and the cumulative area for both signs shall not
exceed 150% of the area permitted in division (A)(3)(a) above.
      (4)   Illumination. Signs may be illuminated. The total illumination of
the sign shall not change in intervals shorter than five seconds. More rapid
change in illumination constitutes a flashing sign, which is prohibited by this
chapter. Time and temperature signs and electronic message boards are permitted
and are not considered to be "flashing" signs.
      (5)   Movement. Signs may have no more than one unit, which rotates in an
uninterrupted manner not to exceed six revolutions per minute. No other
movement or appearance of movement is permitted, except for time and
temperature signs and electronic message boards, which are permitted to have
information, or objects move across their display area in a readable manner.
The use of movement or change in light depicts animation or a moving scene
shall be limited to such displays that take at least two seconds to complete.
Individual movements or action within a display shall not occur more rapidly
than at a rate of 2½ times per second (e.g. a ball bouncing, a wheel turning, a
hand waving or an eye winking). The use of flashing, blinking or pulsating
lights to depicting sudden intense actions such as explosion, moving borders or
other like actions shall be prohibited.
      (6)   Number of signs.
         (a)   One freestanding sign per frontage located only on that street
frontage except as provided in division (A)(6)(b) below.
         (b)   In the circumstance where the street frontage for a business on
a street exceeds 200 linear feet, a second freestanding sign may be erected on
that street frontage provided that the surface area for the signs complies with
the requirements of division (A)(3) above and provided further that the two
signs are placed at least 75 feet apart. If that business has street frontage
exceeding 200 linear feet on more than one street frontage, a second
freestanding sign may be only be erected on one frontage pursuant to this
provision.
      (7)   The following businesses are permitted freestanding signs:
         (a)   Individual businesses in individual buildings.
         (b)   Business development and shopping centers showing all tenants or
occupants of the development or shopping center.
         (c)   Satellite businesses within a shopping center area.
         (d)   Movie theaters and auditoriums in shopping centers and business
developments.
      (8)   Businesses not permitted freestanding signs: Individual businesses,
which are contained in a shopping center or business development, except movie
theaters or auditoriums.
   (B)   Architectural signs. The following regulations apply to architectural
signs only. Freestanding signs are regulated by division (A) of this section.
      (1)   Location of signs. Architectural signs may be erected any place on
private property within the following restrictions:
         (a)   No sign may be erected closer than three feet to any street or
alley curb line (projected vertically);
         (b)   No sign may project more than six feet from any building facade
except as provided below:
            1.   Signs painted or mounted flush on a canopy or awning, which is
located entirely on private property shall not be subject to the six foot
maximum projection restriction;
            2.   Signs on a canopy or awning which is located entirely on
private property, other than painted or flush mounted signs, shall be mounted
parallel to the building facade and shall not project more than six feet from
the building facade or one foot from the outer edge of the awning or canopy on
which it is mounted, whichever is greater;
         (c)   Any sign which projects or suspends over any sidewalk, public or
private, must have eight feet of clearance between the base of the sign and the
sidewalk surface;
         (d)   All signs, which suspend over a public right-of-way must have at
least eight feet of clearance between the base of the sign and ground;
         (e)   The owner of any sign suspended over a public right-of-way
agrees to indemnify and hold the city harmless from any liability which may
arise by reason of the sign being projected or suspended over the public right-
of-way.
      (2)   Height of signs. Architectural signs may not project more than five
feet above the top of the facade to which the sign is attached.
      (3)   Sign area. Signs may be erected on the building with a total sign
area not to exceed 15% of the total area of the facade to which the sign is
attached.
      (4)   Illumination. Signs may be illuminated. The total illumination of
the sign shall not change intervals shorter than five seconds. More rapid
change in illumination constitutes a flashing sign, which is prohibited by this
chapter. Time and temperature signs and electronic message boards are permitted
and are not considered to be "flashing" signs.
      (5)   Movement. Signs may have no more than one unit, which rotates in an
uninterrupted manner not to exceed six revolutions per minute. No other
movement or appearance of movement is permitted, except for time and
temperature signs and electronic message boards, which are permitted to have
information, or objects move across their display area in a readable manner.
The use of movement or change in lighting to depict animation or a moving scene
shall be limited to such displays that take at least two seconds to complete.
Individual movements or action within a display shall not occur more rapidly
than at a rate of 2½ times per second (e.g., a ball bouncing, a wheel turning,
a hand waiving or an eye winking). The use of flashing, blinking or pulsating
lights to depict sudden or intense actions such as explosions, moving borders
or other like actions shall be prohibited.
      (6)   Number of signs. There is no limit on the number of architectural
signs per establishment except as restricted by the sign area provisions,
division (B)(3) of this section.
      (7)   Business permitted architectural signs. All businesses are
permitted architectural signs on the premises of the business.
(Ord. 2001-5053, passed 3-6-2001)
§ 160.09 ESTABLISHMENT OF CITY ENTRY CORRIDOR OVERLAY SIGN DISTRICT.
   (A)   The City Entry Corridor Overlay Sign District is established in the
following locations and depicted on the city’s zoning map, as amended, as an
overlay district that adds the specific regulations set forth in §
160.10 to those in the applicable base district. City Entry Corridor Overlay
Sign District locations:
      (1)   Route 45 north of the city;
      (2)   Route 45 south of the city;
      (3)   Route 16 east of the city;
      (4)   Route 16 west of the city;
      (5)   Route 121 west of the city; and
      (6)   Route 57 east of the city.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7f9e42ce52bc644309f453fcff33948ce4e2609d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3637.png]
 
Figure 1 - All City Entry Corridor Overlay Sign districts
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7f9e42ce52bc644309f453fcff33948ce4e2609d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3639.png]
 
Figure 2 - Route 16 east of the city; Route 57 east of the city
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7f9e42ce52bc644309f453fcff33948ce4e2609d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3641.png]
 
Figure 3 - Route 121 west of the city
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7f9e42ce52bc644309f453fcff33948ce4e2609d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3643.png]
 
Figure 4 - Route 45 south of the city
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7f9e42ce52bc644309f453fcff33948ce4e2609d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3645.png]
 
Figure 5 - Route 45 north of the city
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7f9e42ce52bc644309f453fcff33948ce4e2609d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3647.png]
 
Figure 6 - Route 16 west of the city
   (B)   The purpose of the City Entry Corridor Overlay Sign District is to
limit the location of off- premises digital display signs to city- owned
properties within the City Entry Corridor Overlay Sign District. The major
highways that serve as corridors into and out of the city serve as ideal sites
to promote businesses and entertainment that are located both within and near
the City of Mattoon. Off-premises digital display signs are primarily oriented
towards motor vehicles and require a special use permit. In addition, off-
premises digital display signs must comply with the Illinois Highway
Advertising Control Act, ILCS Ch. 225, Act 440, §§ 1 et seq., as amended.
(Ord. 2025-5489, passed 3-18-2025)
§ 160.10 CITY ENTRY CORRIDOR OVERLAY SIGN DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)    Procedures for off-premises digital display signs.
      (1)   Special use permit. 
         (a)   All off-premises digital display signs require a special use
permit duly adopted by the City Council following a public hearing before and
recommendations from the city’s Planning and Zoning Commission.
         (b)   As a condition of this special use permit, if the company
requesting this sign already possesses at least one digital display sign or
regular non-digital billboard within the corporate boundaries of the City of
Mattoon and/or the extra-territorial boundary, one billboard of any type must
be decommissioned or removed in a satisfactory manner prior to the construction
of the digital display sign.
      (2)   Special use permit application. The permit for an off-premises
digital display sign shall include a site plan prepared by a licensed surveyor
and drawn to scale. The site plan shall, at a minimum, show the location and
the footprint of the off-premises digital display sign and the location of the
footprint of any buildings and commercial free standing signs within 400 feet
of the proposed footprint of the off-premises digital display sign. The
following signs need not be included in any survey:
         (a)   Instructional or directional signs;
         (b)   Temporary signs; or
         (c)   Traffic control or directional sign.
      (3)    Inspections. The Zoning Administrator, or his or her designee,
shall make or cause to be made, original and subsequent inspections for all
off-premises digital display signs and associated structures.
         (a)   Subsequent inspections shall be conducted by the Zoning
Administrator or his or her designee to periodically determine the electrical
and structural safety of all off-premises digital display signs.
         (b)   Off-premises digital display signs are subject to an additional
inspection fee as determined by the city.
      (4)   Location of signs.
         (a)   City-owned property. Off-premises digital display signs must be
located on city-owned property located within the City Entry Corridor Overlay
District.
         (b)   Required setbacks. All off-premises digital display signs shall
follow all applicable federal, state and local laws related to signage near
transportation routes that are in any business, commercial or industrial
district in compliance with the Highway Advertising Control Act of 1971, as
amended.
         (c)   Proximity to another off-premise digital display sign. Digital
display signs will not be allowed within 5,000 feet of another off-premises
digital display sign located on the same side of a public street as the
proposed off- premises digital display sign.
         (d)   No off-premises digital display sign will be located within a
utility easement.
         (e)   No off-premises digital display sign shall be closer than 400
feet to a residential zoning district boundary line.
         (f)   No digital display sign shall be located within 100 feet of
another building or commercial free standing sign.
         (g)   No off-premises digital display sign may project over any
adjacent public right-of-way.
         (h)   No off-premises digital display sign may be constructed on the
roof of any building.
      (5)   Sign height and area. No digital display sign shall exceed the
following limits (all dimensions include border and trim, but exclude
supports):
         (a)   Maximum area: 400 square feet.
         (b)   Maximum height: 10 feet.
         (c)   Maximum length: 40 feet.
      (6)   Dimensions. Off-premises digital display signs shall be supported
from the ground by a structure that shall have a minimum distance of nine feet
from the bottom of the structure or display, whichever is lower, to the ground.
No exposed live parts (lamps, sockets, neon tubes, etc.) shall be within nine
feet of the ground.
      (7)   Double-facing off-premise digital display signs. Off-premises
digital display signs may be double-faced and each side shall be considered as
facing traffic flowing in the opposite direction. There will be no vertical
stacking of these types of signs.
      (8)   Digital display sign operation. All off-premises digital display
signs must comply with the provisions of
Ch. 151 of the city’s code. In addition, the following regulations apply to
digital display signs:
         (a)   Luminance. The maximum luminance for any such sign shall not be
greater than:
            1.   7,000 nits between 5:00 a.m. and sunset; and
            2.   300 nits between sunset and midnight.
         (b)   Dwell time. The text, image, or display on the sign shall not
change more than once every ten seconds. Twirl time shall not exceed one-
quarter second.
         (c)   Motion. All motion is prohibited on the off-premises digital
display sign.
      (9)   Control/testing.
         (a)   All off-premises digital display signs shall be equipped with an
automatic dimmer control or other mechanism that automatically controls the
sign’s luminance in compliance with this section. In instances where the sign
malfunctions, the sign shall either automatically shut off or turn to a black
screen.
         (b)   Prior to the issuance of any special use permit for an off-
premises digital display sign, the applicant shall submit an affidavit that
attests that the sign has been tested and complies with the dwell time,
luminance, motion and other requirements of this section, and that the
luminance intensity, motion and dwell times requirements are protected from
manipulations by password-protected software or other method satisfactory to
the Zoning Administrator.
      (10)   Public service announcements (PSAs). Off-premises digital display
sign owners agree to provide PSAs to the city as related to police, fire,
emergency alerts, city events and tourism.
(Ord. 2025-5489, passed 3-18-2025)
§ 160.11 SPECIAL SIGNS PERMITTED.
   In addition to the signs permitted in each district as established in §§
160.07 and
160.08 of this chapter, the following signs are also permitted subject to the
conditions established in this section. Height of signs permitted in this
section shall not exceed the permitted sign height for the district where the
sign is to be erected unless otherwise specified by this section.
   (A)   Real estate sign. Real estate signs advertising property or buildings
for sale, rent, or lease are permitted in the following districts for the
period of time while the property is available for sale, rent or lease and for
not more than 14 days after the sale, rental, or leasing of the property or
building. No sign may be erected on, suspended over, or encroach upon the
public right-of-way. No real estate sign shall be erected so as to obstruct the
visual clearance needed for safe vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
      (1)   In all Industrial Zoned Districts:
         (a)   One sign per each 800 feet of frontage;
         (b)   A maximum of 100 square feet of sign surface area per side, two
sides permitted;
         (c)   The sign, if freestanding, must have eight feet of ground
clearance or maintain a 20 feet setback from any street pavement.
      (2)   In all Commercial Zoned Districts:
         (a)   One sign per lot frontage;
         (b)   A maximum of 32 square feet of sign surface area per side, two
sides permitted;
         (c)   The sign, if freestanding, must have eight feet of ground
clearance or maintain a 20 feet setback from any street pavement;
      (3)   In all residentially zoned districts:
         (a)   One sign per lot frontage;
         (b)   Maximum of six square feet of sign surface area per side, two
sides permitted;
   (B)   Temporary construction signs for building or projects. Sign stating
the nature and name of the building or project, the names of contractors,
architects, engineers, or official, financial information, or any information
required by law, are permitted in various districts subject to the following
provisions:
      (1)   Any such temporary signs required by government for a project shall
be permitted;
      (2)   In all Industrially Zoned Districts a maximum of 32 square feet per
side, two sides permitted (except where governmental standards require a larger
sign in which case such sign shall be permitted).
      (3)   In all Residential and Commercial Districts a maximum of six square
feet per side, two sides permitted.
      (4)   Signs may not be erected more than 30 days prior to the beginning
of actual construction of the building or project and shall be removed when
construction is substantially completed. If the sign is erected and if the
construction is not initiated within 30 days after the sign is erected, or
completion, said sign shall be removed and shall not thereafter be erected
again until actual construction has begun.
   (C)   Signs designating historic areas or buildings. Sign denoting historic
buildings or areas may be erected subject to the following provisions:
      (1)   Signs designating historic sites, areas, or districts shall be no
larger than:
         (a)   Fifty square feet in industrial zoned districts;
         (b)   Twelve square feet in all other zoning districts.
      (2)   Signs designating historic buildings shall be flush wall signs on
the building so designated and shall be no larger than two square feet in all
zoning districts.
   (D)   Minor directional signs. Signs for and within shopping centers,
business developments, or individual business establishments and their parking
areas, which guide automobile and pedestrian traffic. Such signs shall:
      (1)   Have a maximum height of fifteen feet;
      (2)   Have a maximum surface area of ten square feet per side, two side
permitted;
      (3)   Be located so as not to obstruct the vision of pedestrians or
motorists;
      (4)   Bear no advertising matter, except for the name of the
establishment;
      (5)   Be permanently affixed to the ground or any permanent building or
structure;
      (6)   Be located on the premises of the establishment, shopping center or
business development.
   (E)   Political signs. Political signs are permitted in all areas of the
city subject to the following provisions: No political sign may be attached to
utility poles, trees on public right-of-way, street light poles, street signs,
traffic signs, fire hydrants, or any other property owned or controlled by the
city.
   (F)   Temporary signs and banners in general. Temporary signs, pennants, and
banners including portable signs are permitted for promoting special community
activities, special events, charity drives, activities of nonprofit
organizations, or special events for individual business establishments,
subject to the following provisions:
      (1)   Maximum surface area. One hundred square feet per side, two sides
permitted.
      (2)   Maximum height. Six feet, if freestanding.
      (3)   Maximum exposure time.
         (a)    Fourteen days per event sponsored by not-for-profit
organizations where the sign, banner, etc., is stretched between two light
posts, a building and a post or a similar situation where there is created an
overhead banner supported from two ends.
         (b)   Sixty days per event for events sponsored by not-for-profit
organizations where the sign, banner, etc., is not erected in the manner
described in division (F)(3)(a) above.
         (c)   Banners suspended from a building or existing freestanding sign,
with a total area not to exceed 100 square feet, are permitted for periods up
to 30 days per event with no limit on the number of events.
         (d)   Pennants may be displayed for a maximum of 90 days per calendar
year with a limit of 30 consecutive days per event.
      (4)   No temporary sign shall be erected upon or suspended over public
right-of-way except as otherwise specifically permitted.
      (5)   No temporary sign shall be erected within 20 feet of the curb line
of any adjoining street surface except for buildings with less than 20 feet of
setback from the curb. Such buildings may have erected upon them temporary
signs mounted flush to the building.
   (G)   Temporary yard sale signs. Temporary yard sale signs may be erected
subject to the following provisions:
      (1)   Maximum exposure time. All such signs shall be erected not more
than 24 hours prior to or remain in place not more than 12 hours after the yard
or garage sale takes place.
      (2)   No yard sale sign may be erected on or attached to utility poles,
trees, or public right-of-way, street light poles, street or traffic signs, or
fire hydrants nor be located on the public right-of-way.
   (H)   Window promotional signs. Window promotional signs are permitted for
periods of up to 60 consecutive days in all commercial or industrial zoning
districts.
   (I)   Subdivision entrance or identification signs. Each individual
subdivision may have entrance or identification signs subject to the following
provisions:
      (1)   Entrance or identification signs shall only identify the name of
the subdivision.
      (2)   One pair may be erected per entrance, into the subdivisions, but in
no case shall two such pairs for the same subdivision be located closer than
300 feet apart.
      (3)   No single sign shall be larger than 24 square feet per side and
shall be limited to a maximum height of six feet.
   (J)   Industrial park identification signs. Each industrial park may have
identification signs subject to the following:
      (1)   One such sign shall be allowed for each industrial park entrance
and shall be used only to identify the name and location of the industrial
park;
      (2)   No single identification sign shall be larger than 125 square feet
per side nor shall exceed a height of 25 feet. All such signs shall be located
in a manner that does not impede the vision of drivers to other vehicles and
pedestrian traffic.
   (K)   Directory signs. Directory signs are permitted for multi-unit dwelling
developments and mobile home parks containing more than five structures or five
mobile homes in all districts subject to the following provisions:
      (1)   Only one sign is permitted with a maximum of 16 square feet;
      (2)   The sign may be freestanding or architectural;
      (3)   The sign may be illuminated;
   (L)   Office park identification signs. Each office park may have
identification signs subject to the following:
      (1)   One sign shall be allowed for each office park entrance and shall
be used only to identify the name and location of the office park and/or used
as a directory of business in the office park;
      (2)   No single identification sign shall be larger than 64 square feet
per side nor shall exceed a height of 12 feet. All such signs shall be located
in a manner that does not impede the vision of drivers to other vehicles and
pedestrian traffic. The location of such signs shall be subject to the approval
of the administrative official.
(Ord. 2001-5053, passed 3-6-2001; Am. Ord. 2025-5489, passed 3-18-2025)
§ 160.12 NONCONFORMING SIGNS AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   A nonconforming sign is a lawfully existing sign, which fails to com
ply with all applicable sign regulations, such as the location of the sign,
height of the sign or sign area. A nonconforming sign can remain in use, if
maintained in accordance with the definition of “maintenance of sign” contained
in §
160.03 of this chapter.
   (B)   If a nonconforming sign is proposed to be altered in any fashion that
would require the issuance of a new permit as determined in §
160.04(A) of this chapter, or if the nonconforming sign advertises a business
no longer being conducted or a product no longer sold on the premises, the sign
must be brought into conformity or removed within 30 days after written notice
from the administrative official. The notice to bring the sign into conformity
or remove shall be served on the owner, agent, or person having the beneficial
use of the buildings, structure or premises upon which the sign is found.
   (C)   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to
comply with the order of the administrative official to bring into conformity
or remove the nonconforming sign shall be in violation of this section. In
addition to the penalties provided for in §
160.99 of this chapter, an injunction requiring compliance with this Code
ordering the alteration or removal of the nonconforming sign may be obtained.
(Ord. 2001-5053, passed 3-6-2001; Am. Ord. 2025-5489, passed 3-18-2025)
§ 160.13 OBSOLETE SIGNS AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   An obsolete sign is a sign which advertises a business no longer being
conducted or a product no longer being sold on the premises upon which the sign
is located.
   (B)   An obsolete sign shall be covered or removed within 30 days after
written notice from the administrative official. The notice to cover or remove
the sign shall be served on the owner, agent or person having the beneficial
use of the premises upon which the sign is found. If the sign is covered, the
covering (which must be an opaque, durable, weatherproof material) and the
method of applying or installing the covering must be approved by the
administrative official.
   (C)   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to
comply with the order of the administration official to cover or remove the
obsolete sign shall be in violation of this section. In addition to the penalty
provided for in §
160.99 of this chapter, the administrative official is hereby authorized to
make application to the courts for an injunction requiring compliance with this
chapter ordering the covering or removal of the obsolete sign.
(Ord. 2001-5053, passed 3-6-2001; Am. Ord. 2025-5489, passed 3-18-2025)
§ 160.14 CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR SIGNS.
   (A)   The construction and maintenance performance standards for signs
contained in the Basic/National Building Code (BOCA) are adopted herein by
reference and shall be the performance standards for the construction and
continual maintenance of signs regulated by this chapter unless otherwise
specified in this chapter.
   (B)   All components of a sign shall be kept clean, in good repair and free
from all electrical and mechanical hazards, including but not limited to,
faulty wiring, loose connections, missing or broken panels, etc. All electrical
service shall conform to the city Electrical Code.
   (C)   Signs and their support structure(s) shall be painted when necessary
to prevent corrosion or to replace peeling or flaking paint.
   (D)   Any sign in violation of the construction and maintenance performance
standards shall be repaired or removed within 30 days after written notice from
the administrative official. The notice to repair or remove the sign shall be
served on the owner, agent or person having the beneficial use of the property
upon which the sign is found.
   (E)   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to
comply with the order of the administrative official to repair or remove the
sign shall be in violation of this section. In addition to the penalties
provided for in §
160.99 of this chapter, the administrative official is hereby authorized to
make application to the courts for an injunction requiring compliance with this
chapter ordering the repair or removal of the sign.
(Ord. 2001-5053, passed 3-6-2001; Am. Ord. 2025-5489, passed 3-18-2025)
§ 160.15 VARIANCE PROCEDURE.
   Any person subject to the provisions of this chapter may petition for a
variance from the technical restrictions of this chapter regarding sign
location, height, dimensions, area and location, and all other technical
provision of this chapter pursuant to the following procedure:
   (A)   Such person shall petition the City Council for a variance
specifically setting forth the technical requirements which petitioner seeks to
have modified. The petition shall be filed with the Building Inspector in
triplicate. No special form shall be required; however, the petition shall set
forth the legal description of the location of the sign; the nature and purpose
of the sign; the specific sections of this chapter from which relief is
requested; the specific reasons for the relief requested; and the claimed
hardship resulting from a strict enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   A copy of the petition for variance shall be furnished by the
petitioner to persons or businesses located on all property within 150 feet of
the location or proposed location of the sign(s) which is the subject matter of
the petition for variance. Proof of service shall be provided by petitioner to
the Building Inspector.
   (C)   The Building Inspector shall investigate the claim(s) set forth in the
petition within 30 days after the petition has been filed. The Building
Inspector shall make his or her recommendations, in writing, to the City
Planning Commission.
   (D)   The Planning Commission, at its next regularly scheduled meeting,
shall consider the petition for variance and the written report of the Building
Inspector regarding his or her investigation. The Planning Commission shall
decide promptly with respect to the petition and shall forward its
recommendation to the City Council. The Planning Commission may, from time-to-
time, continue its decision on the petition in the event that additional
information is desired in order to act upon the petition.
   (E)   The City Council shall consider the petition for variance at the next
regularly scheduled meeting following receipt of the recommendation of the
Planning Commission by the City Clerk. The City Clerk shall place the petition
for variance on the agenda for the City Council. Copies of the petition for
variance; the investigation report of the Building Inspector; and the
recommendation of the Planning Commission and any other relevant information
shall be provided to all members of the City Council prior to its official
action on the petition for variance.
   (F)   A variance shall be allowed from the technical provisions of this
chapter only if petitioner can prove a hardship which is hereby defined as an
inability by the petitioner to exercise its rights under the First Amendment of
the Constitution of the United States of America without unreasonable
restrictions unrelated to a legitimate governmental interest; or, in the event
that the technical requirements of this chapter is found to create a hardship
on the petitioner in the development or use of this property or business; or,
the technical requirements of this chapter is found to create such other
practical difficulty in the use or promotion of his or her business; and, that
a relief from technical restrictions will not impose undue burdens or hardships
upon others owning or occupying property within the area of petitioners
property or development.
(Ord. 2001-5053, passed 3-6-2001; Am. Ord. 2025-5489, passed 3-18-2025)
§ 160.99 PENALTY.
   All persons convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be subject to a
fine according to the general penalty of §
10.99. Each day of violation may be sought as separate charges.
(Ord. 2001-5053, passed 3-6-2001; Am. Ord. 2009-5281, passed 9-15-09)
CHAPTER 161: STORM WATER DETENTION
Section
   
161.01   Definitions
   
161.02   General requirements
   
161.03   Storm water detention - design method 1
   
161.04   Storm water detention - design method 2
   
161.05   Maintenance
§ 161.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEVELOPMENT.  New construction, or expansion, of any site for residential,
commercial, industrial, or mixed uses. This includes, but is not limited to,
residential subdivisions, planned unit developments, and mixed use
subdivisions. This includes, regardless of the number of buildings or separate
entities at a site, multi-family residential sites, commercial sites,
industrial sites, and trailer parks.
   MINOR RUN-OFF POTENTIAL. All proposed construction activities that would
result in the conversion of less than 0.25 acres of existing surfaces to less
permeable surfaces.
   MODERATE RUN-OFF POTENTIAL. All proposed construction activities that would
result in the conversion of between 0.25 to 0.40 acres of existing surfacesto
less permeable surfaces.
   PERMEABILITY. The relative permeability of existing and proposed surfaces
shall be based on the following Run-off Coefficients; grass areas C = 0.20,
crops C = 0.35, aggregate C = 0.50, pavement C = 0.90, buildings/roofs C =
0.90. Surfaces with lower C values are considered more permeable. Surfaces with
higher C values are considered less permeable.
   PHASED DEVELOPMENT. New construction, or expansion, in which portions of the
work occur at various points in time.
   SIGNIFICANT RUN-OFF POTENTIAL. All proposed construction activities that
would result in the conversion of 0.40 acres, or more, of existing surfaces to
less permeable surfaces.
   STORM WATER DETENTION FACILITIES. All wet basins, dry basins, surface
storage, underground storage, ditches, swales, and piping designed to convey,
store, and discharge storm water at a site.
(Ord. 2011-5341, passed 12-20-2011; Am. Ord. 2019-5423, passed 12-3-2019)
§ 161.02 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All developments resulting in significant run-off potential shall
comply with the requirements of storm water detention - design method 1,
described below.
   (B)   All developments resulting in moderate run-off potential shall comply
with the requirements of storm water detention - design method 2, described
below.
   (C)   Storm water detention is not required for:
      (1)   Developments resulting in minor run-off potential.
      (2)   The construction of a single-family residence, or two-family
residence, that is not constructed in conjunction with a development resulting
in moderate or significant run-off potential.
   (D)   Immediate use versus future use. The ultimate intended future use of
the development shall be used to determine the storm water detention
requirements. A residential, or mixed-use, subdivision which is platted and
constructed in phases will be allowed to construct the storm water detention
facilities in similar phases. All other developments shall be required to
construct the storm water detention facilities for full development with the
initial construction phase.
   (E)   All storm water detention facilities shall be designed by a licensed
professional engineer, at no expense to the City of Mattoon, and shall be
submitted to the city for approval. Approval by the City of Mattoon shall not
relieve the responsibility for the developer and/or site owner to design,
construct, and maintain a functional storm water detention system.
   (G)   Storm water run-off shall be calculated by the Rational Method
(Q=CIA). The following Run-off Coefficients shall be used for consistency among
site plans; grass areas C=0.20, crops C = 0.35, aggregate C = 0.50, pavement C
= 0.90, buildings/roofs C = 0.90. Rainfall Intensities Versus Time of
Concentration Charts shall be in accordance with the current edition of the
Illinois Department of Transportation Drainage Manual. Alternate calculation
methods can be approved, on a case by case basis, at the sole discretion of the
City of Mattoon.
   (H)   The minimum size for an underground discharge device shall be a 12-
inch pipe, or equivalent. The minimum size for restriction devices shall be
six-inch diameter short tube restrictors. Restrictor devices shall be
conveniently accessible for cleaning and maintenance.
   (I)   Sideslopes around the perimeter of detention basins shall not be
steeper than 4:1, horizontal to vertical.
   (J)   Manipulation of these requirements by phased development shall not be
allowed. All work on a site since the original adoption of these requirements
on December 20, 2011 shall be considered cumulatively when evaluating the storm
water requirements for successive phases of development.
(Ord. 2011-5341, passed 12-20-2011; Am. Ord. 2019-5423, passed 12-3-2019)
§ 161.03 STORM WATER DETENTION - DESIGN METHOD 1.
   Storm water detention facilities shall be designed to detain the 100-year
event for the developed site and to release the ten-year event for the existing
site.
(Ord. 2011-5341, passed 12-20-2011; Am. Ord. 2019-5423, passed 12-3-2019)
§ 161.04 STORM WATER DETENTION - DESIGN METHOD 2.
   Storm water detention facilities shall be designed such that there is no
increase in the storm water discharge from the site between the developed and
existing conditions. Calculations shall be provided for the ten-year event and
the 100-year event.
(Ord. 2011-5341, passed 12-20-2011; Am. Ord. 2019-5423, passed 12-3-2019)
§ 161.05 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The current and future site owner(s) shall be responsible for
maintaining the storm water detention facilities in a manner that:
      (1)   Provides for the original design storage volumes and discharge
rates;
      (2)   Does not cause a public nuisance by virtue of weeds, debris, odors,
insects, and/or diminished ability for use of downstream property.
   (B)   The City of Mattoon reserves the right to require the current property
owner of any storm water detention facility to comply with the requirements of
this section. In the case of failure by a property owner to properly maintain a
storm water detention facility, the city shall first issue a ten-day notice
specifying the remediation measures required. In the event that the required
remediation measures are not completed within ten days notice, the City of
Mattoon reserves the right to cause such remediation measures to be completed,
to file a lien against the property for the remediation costs, and to pursue
any other lawful means for collection of the remediation costs.
(Ord. 2011-5341, passed 12-20-2011; Am. Ord. 2019-5423, passed 12-3-2019)
CHAPTER 162: LANDSCAPING
Section
   
162.01   Definitions
   
162.02   Use of public right-of-ways
   
162.03   General requirements
   
162.04   Landscaping requirements by zoning classification
   
162.05   Maintenance
§ 162.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FOOD CROPS.  Includes all agricultural field crops typically grown for
profit such as, but not limited to, barley, corn, oats, rye, sorghum, soybeans,
and wheat. This includes all garden crops typically grown for human consumption
and available in the produce section of a grocery store.
   INVASIVE SPECIES. Autumn olive and multiflower rose.
   LANDSCAPING. Includes living and non-living landscaping features. Only those
items that are outdoors and are directly visible to the general public qualify
as landscaping.
   LIVING LANDSCAPING FEATURES. Ornamental plant material such as, but not
limited to, trees, shrubs, ivies, flowers, non-flowering ornamental plants,
grass, and ornamental grasses.
   LOT. The area within the property limits for the site being developed or
expanded.
   NON-LIVING LANDSCAPING FEATURES. Shall serve no other structural purpose, or
infrastructure related purpose, in order to be considered landscaping. For
example: building walls, roofs, sidewalks, driveways, parking areas, privacy
fencing, or security fencing shall not be considered landscaping regardless of
the materials of  construction. Examples of Non-Living Landscaping Features
include, but are not limited to, such as ornamental rock and/or pavers,
landscaping walls, shade structures, and/or water features.
   NOXIOUS WEEDS. Those plants identified in Illinois Administrative Code,
Title 8, Part 220, Section 220.60. The current list of noxious weeds at the
date of this chapter are: marijuana, giant ragweed (horseweed), common ragweed,
Canada thistle, perennial sowthistle, musk thistle (common thistle), perennial
members of the sorghum genus (johnsongrass, sorghum almum, and other
johnsongrass x sorghum crosses with rhizomes), and kudzu.
   OUTDOOR SEATING/DINING AREAS. Areas that are specifically designed for
outdoor seating and dining as part of a commercial site development that
includes food or drink service.
   PATRON PARKING AREAS. Those parking areas available for customers, guests,
members, residents, and/or visitors. This does not include parking spaces for
employees or vehicles/equipment for sale. The area includes the parking spaces
and the adjacent traffic lanes.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAYS. Streets, alleys, and utility easements owned by the
city, state, or county.
   STREET FRONTAGE. The portion of the lot that borders a public street.
   TREE. A deciduous or evergreen species with a minimum trunk diameter of two
and one-half inches measured two feet above the ground. Trees with trunks
smaller than two and one-half inch diameter are allowable in planting areas but
do not satisfy the requirement for a TREE where a TREE is referenced in this
chapter. Trees with trunks smaller than two and one-half inch diameter shall be
considered shrubs for the space coverage requirements of this chapter.
   WEEDS. Those items specifically identified herein cattails, cockleburs,
dandelions, gypsum weed, lambsquarter, mustard weed, pigweed, pokeberry, poison
ivy, poison oak, and teasel.
(Ord. 2011-5342, passed 12-20-2011; Am. Ord. 2023-5465, passed 4-18-2023)
§ 162.02 USE OF PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAYS.
   The size of the lot shall be calculated exclusive of any public right-of-
ways. Public right-of-ways shall not be used to meet the landscaping
requirements of this chapter except as specifically noted herein. Landscaping
features shall not be placed over utilities, or in areas designated for future
utility installation.
(Ord. 2011-5342, passed 12-20-2011)
§ 162.03 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   These landscaping requirements only apply to new developments, or in
the case of the expansion of existing developments that portion of the
development being expanded. There are no changes required of existing
developments by this chapter.
   (B)   A site plan detailing the proposed landscaping features shall be
submitted for review and approval, by the Community Development Coordinator,
prior to the issuance of any building permits for the site. The plan shall show
the calculations for the lot area, parking lot area(s), and the landscaping
area(s). The landscaping plan need not name the specific plant species to be
used, but may use general descriptions such as "ornamental grasses", "flowers",
"tree", "shrub", etc.
   (C)   Non-living landscaping features shall serve no other structural
purpose, or infrastructure related purpose, in order to be considered
landscaping. For example, building walls, roofs, sidewalks, driveways, parking
areas, privacy fencing, or security fencing shall not be considered landscaping
regardless of the materials of construction.
   (D)   Portions of storm water detention facilities may be used to meet
landscaping area requirements provided that they also meet the remaining
requirements of this chapter. The permanent water level of un-aerated retention
basins shall not be included. Security fencing, such as chain link, shall not
be included around detention basins. Living landscaping features and
intermittent ornamental fencing may be allowed where property owners wish to
deter access.
   (E)   Non-living landscaping features must be mixed with living landscaping
features in a ratio not to exceed 1 to 1, by area, to be considered to
contribute to the landscaping requirements of this chapter. Lawn areas must be
mixed with other landscaping features in a ratio not to exceed 1 to 1, by area,
to be considered to contribute to the landscaping requirements of this chapter.
Solid areas of non-living landscaping features, and/or lawns, shall not exceed
100 square feet to be considered to contribute to the landscaping requirements
of this chapter.
   (F)   A tree shall be considered to contribute 100 square feet of
landscaping area. A tree in a planter area with other landscaping will be
considered to contribute 100 square feet of landscaping area in addition to the
planter size. A shrub will be considered to contribute five square feet of
landscaping area, unless specific dimensions are listed otherwise on the
landscaping plan. Shrubs and other plants do not add to the landscaping area of
the planters in which they are located.
   (G)   Food crops, invasive species, noxious weeds, and weeds shall not be
used in the landscaping areas required by this chapter. Nothing in this chapter
shall be interpreted to prevent the planting of food crops in appropriately
zoned areas, undeveloped lots, or residential yards. Food crops are merely
excluded from being used to fulfill the landscaping requirements of this
chapter.
   (H)   The definitions of invasive species, noxious weeds, and/or weeds shall
be expanded at any time in which the City Council perceives that a plant has
been deliberately established, encouraged, or allowed to grow which is intended
to defy the general intent of this chapter or to cause irritation to the senses
of others. The city reserves the right to remove, or cause to be removed, at
the property owner's expense after ten days notice, any plant defined as an
invasive species, noxious weed, or weed.
   (I)   The full size of outdoor seating/dining areas will be considered as
contributing to the landscaping requirement for the site provided that; living
and non-living landscaping items are incorporated into the outdoor seating/
dining area, the outdoor seating/dining area is part of a commercial site
development that includes food or drink service, the outdoor seating/dining
area is visible from the street, and the outdoor seating/dining area is located
on the site for which the landscaping requirement applies.
(Ord. 2011-5342, passed 12-20-2011; Am. Ord. 2023-5465, passed 4-18-2023)
§ 162.04 LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS BY ZONING CLASSIFICATION.
   (A)   RS, R1, and R2. There are no specific landscaping requirements for
individual lots or common areas. New subdivisions or planned unit developments,
or the expansion of existing subdivisions or planned unit developments, shall
include trees at a minimum spacing of one tree per lot, or one tree per 100
feet, whichever results in the greater number of trees, on each side of the
roadway. These trees shall be located on city owned right-of-ways to the extent
practical.
   (B)   R3, C1,C2, C3,C4 and C5.  
      (1)   Sites with 500 feet of street frontage or less. The minimum
landscaping requirement shall be: two square feet of landscaping per foot of
street frontage, or 7.5% of the patron parking area(s), whichever is greater.
      (2)   Sites with more than 500 feet of street frontage. The minimum
landscaping requirement shall be: two square feet of landscaping per foot of
street frontage, and 7.5% of the patron parking area(s).
   (C)   I. The minimum landscaping requirement is one tree per 100 feet of
street frontage, or an equivalent amount of other landscaping. Sites which
border a different zoning classification shall also include one tree per 100
feet of property line bordering the other zoning, or an equivalent amount of
other landscaping. This requirement does not apply to property lines bordering
an unzoned agricultural area.
   (D)   C/D. See Chapter 159 (Zoning), §159.60(I).
   (E)   All zoning classifications. Landscaping requirements that are
calculated based on street frontage are intended to be used along the street
frontage. Landscaping requirements based on parking area(s) are intended to be
spread throughout, and/or around, the parking area(s). However, this shall not
be interpreted to limit creativity in the placement of landscaping areas nor to
prevent the combining of the individual requirements into common areas.
   (F)   Landscaping requirements that are described as a number of "square
feet of landscaping per foot of street frontage" are intended to describe the
method for calculating the total landscaping area required. They are not
intended to require that the landscaping to be spread continuously along the
street frontage.
(Ord. 2011-5342, passed 12-20-2011)
§ 162.05 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Landscaping areas shall be maintained at the property owner's expense.
Maintenance shall include, but not be limited to, watering, weeding, mowing,
trimming, debris removal, and replenishment of mulch or ornamental rock.
   (B)   The City of Mattoon reserves the right to require the current property
owner to comply with the requirements of this section. In the case of failure
by a property owner to properly maintain a landscaping area, the city shall
first issue a ten-day notice specifying the remediation measures required. In
the event that the required remediation measures are not completed within ten
days notice, the City of Mattoon reserves the right to cause such remediation
measures to be completed, to file a lien against the property for the
remediation costs, and to pursue any other lawful means for collection of the
remediation costs.
(Ord. 2011-5342, passed 12-20-2011)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to 1968 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Section Code Section
ILCS Section                                Code Section
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.01                      10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.02                      10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.03                      10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.04                      10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.05                      10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.07                      10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.08                      10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.09                      10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.10                      10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.11                      10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.12                      10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.15                      10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.16                      10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.17                      10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.20                      10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.24                      10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.28                      10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.29                      10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 2                         10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 3                         10.06
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 4                         10.06
Ch. 5, Act 85, § 2                         10.06
Ch. 5, Act 120, § 2(c)                     32.03
Ch. 5, Act 325 §§ 1 et seq. (Repealed)    37.02
Ch. 5, Act 330 §§ 1 et seq. (Repealed)    37.02
Ch. 5, Act 425, §§ 1 et seq.              31.11
Ch. 5, Act 430, §§ 1-1 et seq.            31.11
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 5-15                     31.11
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 5-65                     37.04
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 10-10 through 10-40      31.11
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 15-10                    37.04
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 50-5                     31.11
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5                     31.11
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5(a)                  31.11
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5(c)                  31.11
Ch. 20, Act 1605                            Ch. 136
Ch. 40, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq.           34.025
Ch. 40, Act 5, §§ 4-101 et seq.           34.051
Ch. 50, Act 45, §§ 1 et seq.              119.05,
                                            119.06
Ch. 50, Act 140, § 2 (Repealed)            37.02
Ch. 65, Act 5                               10.02
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-1-2(3)                  10.02
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1                     10.99,
                                            153.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1.1                   10.99
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-10-25                 35.51
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-30-10                 31.35
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 4-5-2                     31.20
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 5-1-1 et seq.           31.20
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 5-1-7                     31.20
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 5-3-1                     31.20
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 5-3-7(2)                  34.016,
                                            34.041
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 5-3-11                    31.20
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 5-5-1 et seq.           31.20
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 7-1-1 et seq.           159.05
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-2-9                     35.54
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-2-9.1                   31.20,
                                            35.51
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-2-9.1 - 8-2-9.10        35.50,
                                            35.59
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-9-1                     35.17
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-1                    36.01,
                                            36.07
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-1.3                  36.22
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-5                    36.02
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-6                    36.03,
                                            36.04
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-23                   36.08
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-24                   36.09
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 9-1-1 et seq            155.02
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 10-2.1 et seq.          34.001
Ch. 65, Act 5, 10-2.1-4                     34.016,
                                            34.041
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-12-12                  153.01
Ch. 65, Art. 5, §§ 11-13-1 through 11-13-2159.65
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-20-13                  52.35
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-30-2                   153.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-30-8                   153.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-31-2                   153.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-74.3-6                 36.90
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-74.3-6(b), (c), (d)    36.90
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-84-1 - 11-84-8       99.40
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-84-2                   99.41
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-84-7                   99.48
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-139-1                  51.082
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-139-8                  51.080
Ch. 109                                     157.08
Ch. 205, Act 510                            115.01
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 3-105                    99.31
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 16-102                   99.31
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 16-108.5(i)              99.31
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-201(v)                99.30
Ch. 220, Act 5 § 21-301(c)                 119.02
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-401                   99.30,
                                            119.01
Ch. 220, Act, 5, § 21-401(b)(6)            119.02
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-801                   119.01
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-801(b)                119.01
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-801(c)(1)(vi)         119.01
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 70-501                   119.15
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 70-501(r)(l)             119.99
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 70-501(s)                119.17
Ch. 220, Act 50, §§ 1 et seq.             99.30
Ch. 220, Act 65, § 4                       99.30
Ch. 225, Act 65, §§ 50-1 et seq.          34.090
Ch. 225, Act 225, §§ 1 et seq.            98.120
Ch. 225, Act 320                            150.11
Ch. 225, Act 320, § 3                      53.24
Ch. 225, Act 440, §§ 1 et seq.            160.09
Ch. 230, Act 20                             Ch. 136
Ch. 230, Act 25                             Ch. 136
Ch. 230, Act 30                             Ch. 136
Ch. 230, Act 40                             Ch. 136
Ch. 410, Act 705, § 10-35                  Ch. 98, Exhibit A
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 4                        53.24
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 7.1                      52.47
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 39.2                     52.47,
                                            52.49
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 40.1                     52.48
Ch. 425, Act 30, § 2                       92.20
Ch. 605, Act 5, §§ 1-101 et seq.          99.30
Ch. 625, Act 5                              72.43
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 1-100 et seq.          70.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-123.9                  76.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-188                    10.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 7-601                    76.04
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 7-602                    76.04
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-100 et seq.         76.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-201 et seq.         70.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-500 - 11-502        76.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 18c-7201             99.31
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-709                   76.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 9-1(a)(3)                118.02
Ch. 720, Act 550, § 3(a)                   37.03
Ch. 720, Act 570, §§ 20 et seq.           37.03
Ch. 720, Act 580, §§ 1 et seq.            37.03
Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq.          158.77
Ch. 740, Act 174, § 15(a)                  37.04
Ch. 740, Act 174, § 15(b)                  37.04
Ch. 745, Act 10, §§ 5-101 et seq.         34.055
Ch. 765, Act 205, § 2                      153.08
Ch. 775, Act 5, § 6-101                    37.04
                                            
 
REFERENCES TO 1968 CODE
1968 Code Section 1993 Code Section
1968 Code Section 1993 Code Section
1.05              10.19
1.06              10.99
1.07              130.01
1.10              10.18
2.01              31.01
2.10              32.02
2.11              32.03
2.12              32.04
2.13              39.01
2.17              39.02
2.19              35.02
2.20              11.01
2.21              31.10
2.23              31.35
2.24              31.21
2.26              31.36
2.27              31.37
2.28              31.02
2.29              31.05
2.30              31.06
2.31              31.07
2.32              31.08
2.33              31.09
2.34              34.001
2.35              96.20 -
                  96.25
2.36              96.01 -
                  96.03
2.37              155.01
2.38              155.02
2.39              39.03
2.40              34.026
2.41              31.04
2.46              37.01
2.47              37.01
2.48              36.05
2.50              31.38
2.52              34.044
2.53              35.03
2.54              33.003
2.55              37.01
3.07              34.020
3.08              34.021
3.09              34.022
3.10              34.023
3.11              34.024
3.12              134.01
3.13              34.025
4.01              34.040
4.031             34.043
4.05              34.045
4.06              34.046
4.07              34.047
4.09              34.048
4.10              34.049
4.11              34.049
4.12              34.048
4.13              34.050
4.14              34.049
4.15              34.049
4.16              34.051
6.01              99.01
6.02              99.02
6.03              99.03
6.04              99.04
6.05              99.05
6.06              99.06
6.07              99.07
6.08              99.08
6.09              99.09
6.10              99.10
6.11              99.11
6.13              99.13
6.14              99.14
6.15              99.15
6.17              99.17
6.18              99.18
6.19              99.19
6.20              99.20
6.21              99.21
6.22              99.22
6.24              99.23
6.25              99.40 -
                  99.54
6.26              99.24
6.27              99.25
6.28              99.27
9.15              50.076
9.16              50.076
11.02             93.01
11.03             93.04
11.04             90.06
11.05             93.05
11.06             116.03
11.07             116.02
11.08             158.61
14.01             90.20
14.02             90.20
14.03             90.21
14.04             90.22
14.05             90.23
14.06             90.24
14.07             90.25
14.08             90.01
14.09             90.02
14.10             90.03
14.11             90.04
14.12             90.05
15.01             93.02
16.01             158.01
16.02(a)          158.15
16.02(b)          158.16
16.02(c)          158.17
16.02(d)          158.18
16.02(e)          158.22
16.02(f)          158.20
16.02(g)          158.21
16.03             158.23
16.04             158.37
16.05             158.35
16.05(a)          158.36
16.05(b)          158.37
16.05(c)          158.38
16.05(d)          158.39
16.05(e)          158.40
16.05(f)          158.41
16.05(g)          158.42
16.05(h)          158.43
16.05(i)          158.44
16.06             158.76
16.07             158.58
16.08             158.56
16.09             158.57
16.10             158.55
16.11             158.59
16.12             158.02
16.13             158.75
16.14             158.60
16.15             158.77
16.16             158.19
17.01             91.01
17.02             91.02
17.03             91.03
17.04             91.20
17.08             91.24
17.10             91.25
17.11             91.26
17.12             91.28
17.13             91.29
17.14             91.30
17.15             91.31
17.16             91.33
17.17             91.34
17.18             91.36
17.19             91.36
17.20             91.04
17.21             91.37
17.22             91.05
                  152.01,
23.11             152.05,
                  152.06,
                  152.99
25.01             156.01
25.02             156.02
25.03             156.03 -
                  156.04
25.04             156.05
25.05             156.06
25.06             156.07
25.08             156.08,
                  156.09
25.09             156.10
25.10             156.11
25.11             156.12
25.12             156.13
25.13             156.14
25.14             156.15
26.01             92.01
26.02             92.01
26.03             92.02
26.04             92.03
27.01             154.01
27.02             154.02
27.03             154.15
27.04             154.35
27.05(a)          154.17
27.05(b)          154.18
27.05(c)          154.19
27.05(d)          154.20
27.05(e)          154.21
27.06             154.36
27.07             154.37
27.08             154.24
27.09(a)          154.55
27.09(b)          154.56
27.09(c)          154.58
27.09(d)          154.57
27.09(e)          154.59
27.09(f)          154.60
27.09(g)          154.61
27.10             154.38
27.11             154.39
27.12             154.22
27.13             154.16
27.14             154.40
27.15             154.23
27.16             154.41
27.17             154.42
27.18             154.16
27.19             154.03
31.01             110.01
31.02             110.02
31.03             110.03
31.04             110.04
31.05             110.05
31.06             110.06,
                  110.07
31.07             110.08
31.08             110.06
31.09             110.09
31.10             110.10
31.11             110.11
31.12             110.12
31.13             110.13
32.02             112.01
32.03(a)          111.15
32.03(b)          111.16
32.03(c)          111.16
32.03(d)          111.17
32.04             95.03
32.05             116.01
32.06             99.16
32.07             115.01
32.08(a)          112.05
32.08(b)          112.02
32.09(a)          112.20
32.09(b)          112.21
32.09(c)          112.22
32.09(d)          112.23
32.09(e)          112.24
32.09(f)          112.25
32.09(g)          112.23
32.10(a)          112.35
32.10(b)          112.36
32.10(c)          112.37
32.10(d)          112.38
32.10(e)          112.39
32.10(f)          112.40
33.01             36.01
33.02             36.02
33.04             36.03,
                  36.04
34.001            36.21
34.002            36.22
34.003            36.23
34.004            36.20
34.005            36.24
34.006            36.25
34.007            36.26
34.008            36.99
35.01             113.01
35.02             113.02
35.03             113.03
35.04             113.04
35.05             113.05
37.01             97.01
37.02             97.05
37.03             97.02
37.04             97.04
37.05             97.03
37.06             97.04
37.07             97.08
37.08             97.06
37.09             97.07
38.01             117.01
38.02             117.03
38.04             117.05
38.05             117.04
38.06             117.06
38.07             117.07
38.09             117.08
38.10             117.09
39.01             73.01
39.02(a)          73.99
39.02(b)          73.03
39.03             73.02
39.04(c)          73.15
39.05             73.17
39.06             73.30
39.07             73.18
39.09(a)          73.31
39.09(b)          73.32
39.09(c)          73.33
39.09(d)          73.34
39.09(e)          73.35
39.09(f)          73.36
39.09(g)          73.37
39.09(h)          73.38
39.09(i)          73.39
39.09(j)          73.40
42.01             130.02
42.02             131.01
42.03             130.03
42.04             111.30
42.05             111.01
42.06             97.09
42.07             137.02
42.08             133.01
42.09             133.04
42.10             133.06
42.11             133.02
42.12             133.03
42.13             99.26
42.14             137.01
42.15(a)          134.04
42.15(b)          132.16
42.15(e)          134.05
42.16             92.20 -
                  92.23
42.17             112.06
42.18(a)          136.01
42.18(b)          136.01
42.18(c)          136.01
42.18(d)          136.02
42.19             92.03
42.20             135.01
42.21             135.03
42.22             133.07
42.23             115.15
42.24             133.09
42.25             135.02
42.27             133.08
42.28             112.04
42.29             94.01
42.30             135.04
42.31             135.04
42.32             132.02
42.33             132.15
42.34             112.03
42.35             93.03
42.36             134.06
42.37             134.02
42.38             134.03
42.39             137.03
42.40             132.17
42.41             133.05
42.42             133.10
42.43             132.01
43.01             93.20
43.02             93.22
43.03             93.23
43.04             93.24
43.05             93.25
43.06             93.26
43.07             93.27
43.08             93.31
43.09             93.28
43.10             93.29
43.11             93.30
43.12             93.31
43.13             93.31
43.14             93.32
43.15             93.99
43.16             93.21
                  
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No.  Date Passed Code Section
1202      8-3-1976    37.01
1228      - -         35.03
1229      - -         33.003
98-2129   10-20-1998  52.09
99-2224   10-5-1999   33.065
2001-2423 5-1-2001    35.04
2001-2457 11-6-2001   37.01
                     
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.    Date Passed Code Section
3397        - -         91.20
3422        - -         99.27
3438        - -         94.01
3469        - -         99.22
3500        - -         31.02
3522        - -         92.21
3523        - -         31.02
3524        - -         35.02
                        99.13 -
3529        - -         99.15,
                        99.17
3545        - -         111.15 -
                        111.17
                        73.01 -
                        73.03,
                        73.15,
3549        - -         73.17 -
                        73.18,
                        73.30 -
                        73.40,
                        73.99
3554        - -         112.35 -
                        112.40
3574        - -         112.20 -
                        112.25
                        117.01,
3576        - -         117.03 -
                        117.08
                        154.03,
3584        - -         154.24,
                        154.39
3585        - -         154.16
3586        - -         112.20 -
                        112.25
                        154.42,
3589        - -         154.55 -
                        154.61
3598        - -         91.02
3604        - -         154.17 -
                        154.21
3658        - -         32.02
3674        - -         155.01
3678        - -         34.024
3693-A      - -         91.29
3698        - -         Ch. 74, Sch. I(a)
3701        - -         36.05
3749        - -         99.05
3750        - -         93.03
3751        - -         Ch. 75, Sch. II
                        158.01,
                        158.02,
                        158.15 -
                        158.23,
3758        - -         158.37-
                        158.44,
                        158.55 -
                        158.60,
                        158.75-
                        158.77
3760        - -         92.21
3763        - -         158.37
3783        - -         112.06
3786        - -         99.16
3807        - -         116.01
3814        - -         99.20
3857        - -         133.08
3884        - -         50.076
3885        - -         99.01
3895        - -         50.076
3914        - -         117.09
3921        - -         91.20
                        31.35,
3925        - -         33.095,
                        156.01 -
                        156.15
3969        - -         90.20 -
                        90.25
4042        - -         36.05
4055        - -         31.04
4068        - -         158.61
4236        - -         158.19
4245        - -         154.22
4247        - -         Ch. 74, Sch. I(b)
4250        - -         90.05
4251        - -         95.02
4264        - -         34.043
4295        - -         132.01
4299        - -         36.03,
                        36.04
4331        - -         90.01
62-3980     - -         99.06
64-4014     - -         73.34
65-839      - -         32.03
                        36.20 -
66-4054     - -         36.25,
                        36.99
69-4184     - -         36.01
69-4185     - -         36.02
                        93.20 -
69-4190     10-7-1969   93.32,
                        93.99
70-4197     - -         31.38
70-4194     - -         112.01
73-4259     5-15-1973   34.044
74-4293     - -         152.02
                        152.01,
76-4338     - -         152.05,
                        152.06,
                        152.99
76-4396     9-18-1979   34.044
79-4392     6-5-1979    31.03
80-4401     2-5-1980    Ch. 75, Sch. I
                        99.90 -
80-4402     2-5-1980    99.93,
                        99.99
80-4407     8-5-1980    155.10
                        36.20 -
81-4417     7-21-1981   36.26,
                        36.99
81-4421     12-15-1981  155.10
82-4423     1-19-1982   Ch. 75, Sch. I
82-4433     6-15-1982   Ch. 75, Sch. I
                        99.90 -
82-4434     6-15-1982   99.93,
                        99.99
82-4440     10-5-1982   34.053
82-4441     11-2-1982   Ch. 75, Sch. I
                        99.90 -
84-4456     5-1-1984    99.93,
                        99.99
84-1498     6-19-1984   38.01 -
                        38.06
                        152.01,
85-4483     7-16-1985   152.05,
                        152.06,
                        152.99
85-4484     7-16-1985   91.27
85-4485     7-16-1985   32.02
85-4486     8-20-1985   36.20
85-4496     11-19-1985  Ch. 75, Sch. I
                        99.90 -
85-4497     11-19-1985  99.93,
                        99.99
85-4499     12-17-1985  136.15 -
                        136.23
                        52.01 -
                        52.06,
86-4509     6-17-1986   52.20 -
                        52.23,
                        52.99
                        152.01 -
86-4513     7-1-1986    152.06,
                        152.99
86-4514     8-5-1986    150.99
86-4522     12-16-1986  Ch. 75, Sch. I
                        99.90 -
86-4523     12-16-1986  99.93,
                        99.99
87-4529     2-17-1987   Ch. 75, Sch. I
                        99.90 -
87-4531     2-17-1987   99.93,
                        99.99
                        50.002 -
                        50.009,
                        50.025 -
                        50.032,
                        50.045-
87-4536     4-7-1987    50.061,
                        50.075,
                        50.095,
                        50.096,
                        50.098 -
                        50.103,
                        50.999
87-4542     6-16-1987   32.02
87-4557     11-17-1987  33.095
                        157.01 -
                        157.11,
                        157.20 -
                        157.23,
                        157.30-
                        157.33,
                        157.40,
88-4582     10-18-1988  157.41,
                        157.50-
                        157.52,
                        157.60 -
                        157.72,
                        157.99,
                        Ch. 157, Appendices A and
                        B
88-4586     11-15-1988  Ch. 75, Sch. I
                        99.90 -
88-4587     11-15-1988  99.93,
                        99.99
                        91.27,
85-4572     5-3-1988    91.32,
                        91.35
89-4609     5-1-1989    32.01
89-4608     5-1-1989    32.05
89-4609     5-1-1989    35.02
90-4637     4-26-1990   37.01
90-4638     6-5-1990    99.28
                        100.01 -
90-4641     9-4-1990    100.09,
                        100.99
                        101.01,
90-4646     11-6-1990   101.02,
                        101.99
91-4653     3-5-1991    50.056,
                        50.074
91-4662     6-18-1991   36.45 -
                        36.54
92-4706     10-20-1992  117.01
93-4721     1-19-1993   37.01
93-4729     3-16-1993   159.56 -
                        159.61
93-4735     5-4-1993    31.02
93-4743     9-21-1993   150.99
93-4746     9-21-1993   156.13
                        102.01,
93-4757     12-21-1993  102.02,
                        102.99
                        52.01 -
                        52.08,
94-4766     3-15-1994   52.20 -
                        52.23,
                        52.99
94-4768     3-15-1994   91.27
94-4769     3-15-1994   136.16,
                        136.17
                        36.20 -
94-4771     3-19-1994   36.26,
                        36.99
94-4784     9-6-1994    39.04
94-4794     1-3-1995    150.99
95-4813     7-18-1995   52.10,
                        52.99
                        90.01 -
                        90.04,
95-4832     11-21-1995  90.20 -
                        90.23,
                        90.25
95-4834     12-19-1995  Ch. 75, Sch. III
                        159.65-
96-4835     4-16-1996   159.70,
                        159.99
96-4842     4-16-1996   150.70
                        36.20 -
96-4846     4-16-1996   36.26,
                        36.99
                        103.01 -
96-4847     4-16-1996   103.03,
                        103.99
                        157.62,
96-4850     5-21-1996   157.64,
                        157.71
96-4860     7-16-1996   99.29
                        53.01 -
97-4883     3-18-1997   53.06,
                        53.20 -
                        53.30
97-4916     11-18-1997  99.18
98-4933     3-3-1998    33.095
98-4940     4-21-1998   31.04
98-4949     6-2-1998    34.003
98-4956     7-7-1998    34.043
                        36.20 -
98-4958     7-21-1998   36.26,
                        36.99
98-4963     11-3-1998   150.70
98-4965     11-17-1998  52.22
98-4982     3-2-1999    34.003
                        34.070 -
99-4974     1-5-1999    34.079,
                        34.999
                        114.01 -
                        114.05,
                        114.15 -
99-4981     3-2-1999    114.30,
                        114.40-
                        114.53,
                        114.99
99-4983     3-16-1999   34.052
99-4984     5-18-1999   34.054
                        99.90 -
99-4987     5-4-1999    99.93,
                        99.99
99-4989     6-1-1999    36.07,
                        36.99
99-4992     6-15-1999   31.11
99-4993     7-20-1999   50.999
99-4995     8-17-1999   114.22
                        104.01 -
99-4997     9-21-1999   104.08,
                        104.99
99-5002     11-2-1999   36.45,
                        36.47
99-5003     11-16-1999  36.01
99-5009     12-7-1999   114.22
2000-5020   3-7-2000    31.03
2001-5047   1-16-2001   36.65 -
                        36.80
                        90.01 -
                        90.04,
2001-5050   2-6-2001    90.20 -
                        90.23,
                        90.25
2001-5051   2-20-2001   32.02
                        160.01 -
                        160.08,
2001-5053   3-6-2001    160.11 -
                        160.15,
                        160.99
2001-5061   5-1-2001    32.01,
                        35.02
2001-5082   8-21-2001   34.077
                        32.05,
2001-5083   9-18-2001   33.001 -
                        33.055
2001-5086   9-18-2001   32.16
2001-5096   12-21-2001  52.45 -
                        52.50
2002-5098   1-15-2002   32.02
2002-5099   2-5-2002    37.01
2002-5100   2-5-2002    114.22
2002-5101   2-19-2002   35.50 -
                        35.59
2002-5105   4-2-2002    91.27
2002-5135   8-20-2002   36.06,
                        36.21
2002-5136   8-20-2002   33.076 -
                        33.080
2002-5140   9-17-2002   114.23
2002-5151   11-5-2002   91.24
                        31.20,
2003-5157   2-4-2003    31.21,
                        31.22
                        98.001,
                        98.002,
                        98.004,
                        98.021 -
                        98.033,
                        98.035 -
                        98.047,
                        98.060 -
                        98.068,
2003-5160   3-5-2003    98.070 -
                        98.072,
                        98.080 -
                        98.084,
                        98.090 -
                        98.095,
                        98.100 -
                        98.102,
                        98.120,
                        98.999
2003-5161-A 6-3-2003    31.36
2003-5163   6-17-2003   35.35 -
                        35.40
2003-5164   7-1-2003    36.50
2003-5165   8-5-2003    50.999
2003-5166   8-5-2003    91.27
2003-5167   8-5-2003    98.029
2003-5168   9-2-2003    99.06
2003-5169   10-7-2003   Adopting Ordinance
2003-5170   10-7-2003   37.01
2004-5176   4-6-2004    37.02
                        98.029,
2004-5177   4-6-2004    98.060,
                        98.061,
                        98.101
2004-5179   5-4-2004    31.11
2004-5181   6-15-2004   Ch. 75, Sch. I
2004-5182   6-1-2004    95.01 -
                        95.07
2004-5183   8-3-2004    34.015 -
                        34.017
2004-5184   7-7-2004    Ch. 75, Sch. I
2004-5186   8-3-2004    98.041
2004-5188   10-5-2004   50.057,
                        50.059
2004-5189   9-7-2004    Ch. 75, Sch. I
                        150.01,
                        150.02,
                        150.10,
                        150.11,
2004-5191   10-21-2004  150.20,
                        150.21,
                        150.30,
                        150.31,
                        150.40,
                        150.41
2004-5192   10-6-2004   36.54
2004-5193   10-5-2004   114.03
2005-5197   1-18-2005   136.22
2005-5198   2-1-2005    150.70
2005-5199   2-1-2005    32.05
                        31.20 -
                        31.22,
                        33.015,
2005-5202   5-3-2005    33.025,
                        33.035,
                        33.045,
                        33.055
2005-5203   5-3-2005    35.04
2005-5204   6-21-2005   32.03
2005-5205   7-19-2005   37.03
2005-5207   9-6-2005    32.05
2005-5209   9-20-2005   33.130
2005-5211   11-15-2005  36.54
                        114.01 -
                        114.05,
                        114.15 -
2006-5214   1-17-2006   114.30,
                        114.40 -
                        114.53,
                        114.99
2006-5216   4-4-2006    99.70 -
                        99.79
2006-5217   6-20-2006   37.01
2006-5219   10-3-2006   34.041
2006-5221   11-21-2006  114.53
2007-5233   4-17-2007   36.90
2007-5238   9-18-2007   35.05
                        114.03,
2007-5239   9-18-2007   114.04,
                        114.22.2,
                        114.99
2007-5240   9-18-2007   99.55
2007-5241   9-18-2007   36.90
2007-5247   12-4-2007   36.90
2008-5248   1-15-2008   32.06
2008-5250   2-19-2008   92.35
2008-5251   3-4-2008    91.27
                        70.01 -
                        70.03,
                        70.15,
                        70.16,
                        70.99,
                        71.01 -
                        71.04,
                        72.01 -
2008-5254   5-6-2008    72.07,
                        72.40,
                        72.41,
                        72.55 -
                        72.60,
                        Ch. 72, Appendix,
                        Ch. 74, Sch. I,
                        II,
                        III
2008-5255   6-3-2008    50.900
2009-5266   1-6-2009    32.02
2009-5269   1-20-2009   Ch. 75, Sch. I
2009-5270   1-20-2009   50.076
                        99.90 -
2009-5271   1-20-2009   99.93,
                        99.99
2009-5274   3-17-2009   Ch. 74, Sch. II
2009-5277   5-5-2009    33.015,
                        33.025
                        152.01 -
2009-5278   8-18-2009   152.06,
                        152.99
2009-5279   9-2-2009    152.02
2009-5280   9-15-2009   10.99
                        34.999,
                        50.999,
                        52.99,
                        70.99,
                        Ch. 75, Sch. I,
                        99.99,
2009-5281   9-15-2009   100.99,
                        101.99,
                        102.99,
                        103.99,
                        104.99,
                        150.99,
                        159.99,
                        160.99
2009-5283   12-15-2009  110.14
2009-5284   12-15-2009  52.21,
                        52.22
2010-5288   4-6-2010    34.52
                        99.06,
                        150.02,
                        150.11,
                        150.31,
2010-5290   4-6-2010    152.06,
                        152.99,
                        156.12,
                        156.13,
                        160.04
                        91.27,
2010-5291   4-6-2010    98.061,
                        98.101
2010-5292   4-6-2010    35.01
2010-5293   4-6-2010    35.01
2010-5302   5-4-2010    Ch. 75, Sch. I,
                        III
                        33.095,
2010-5303   6-1-2010    157.31 -
                        157.33,
                        Ch. 157, Appendix C
2010-5304   6-1-2010    36.50
2010-5305   6-1-2010    34.017
2010-5306   7-6-2010    34.056
                        35.01,
2010-5307   8-17-2010   159.65,
                        159.66
2010-5308   8-17-2010   35.01
2010-5309   9-7-2010    99.30,
                        99.99
2010-5310   9-7-2010    95.01,
                        95.03
2010-5312   12-7-2010   34.018
2010-5313   12-7-2010   95.03
2011-5315   2-22-2011   35.01
2011-5318   4-5-2011    35.15 -
                        35.28
2011-5319   4-12-2011   35.26,
                        35.27
                        153.01 -
2011-5320   5-3-2011    153.14,
                        153.99
2011-5322   6-7-2011    Ch. 74, Sch. II
2011-5323   8-16-2011   Ch. 75, Sch. IV,
                        V
2011-5325   9-6-2011    35.70,
                        35.71
2011-5327   10-4-2011   Ch. 74. Sch. II
                        35.01,
2011-5328   10-4-2011   117.02,
                        117.04
2011-5330   10-18-2011  72.56
2011-5331   11-1-2011   Ch. 75, Sch. IV,
                        V
2011-5332   11-15-2011  34.043
                        114.19,
                        114.21.1,
                        114.25.1,
2011-5333   11-15-2011  114.40.2,
                        114.42.1,
                        114.46,
                        114.53,
                        114.54
2011-5334   12-6-2011   114.22
2011-5336   12-6-2011   114.22
2011-5337   12-6-2011   114.22
                        114.22,
2011-5338   12-6-2011   114.22.1,
                        114.22.2
2011-5339   12-6-2011   35.01
2011-5340   12-6-2011   133.12
                        157.64,
2011-5341   12-20-2011  161.01 -
                        161.05
2011-5342   12-20-2011  162.01 -
                        162.05
2012-5343   2-7-2012    Ch. 75, Sch. V
2012-5344   2-7-2012    35.01
2012-5345   2-7-2012    10.99
                        72.01 -
2012-5346   3-6-2012    72.07,
                        72.41,
                        72.60
2012-5347   3-6-2012    114.22
2012-5349   4-3-2012    50.074
2012-5350   4-17-2012   136.01
2012-5351   4-17-2012   35.01
2012-5353   5-1-2012    34.002
2012-5355   5-15-2012   35.01
2012-5357   8-7-2012    Ch. 74, Sch. II
                        31.03,
                        31.04,
2012-5358   8-7-2012    32.05,
                        33.003,
                        34.044,
                        37.01
2012-5359   12-18-2012  36.54
2013-5360   3-19-2013   35.01
                        151.01 -
2013-5362   4-2-2013    151.06,
                        151.99
2013-5363   8-20-2013   35.01
2013-5364   9-3-2013    34.002
2014-5367   4-15-2014   133.11
                        33.075,
                        33.081 -
2014-5369   6-17-2014   33.083,
                        98.003,
                        98.020,
                        98.034
2014-5370   7-1-2014    35.01
2014-5371   11-4-2014   33.065
                        118.01 -
2014-5372   12-16-2014  118.16,
                        118.99
2015-5374   3-3-2015    35.01
2015-5376   4-21-2015   35.01
                        159.01 -
                        159.06,
                        159.20 -
2014-5377   5-5-2015    159.23,
                        159.25 -
                        159.33,
                        159.45 -
                        159.53
                        114.03,
                        114.04,
2014-5378   5-19-2015   114.18,
                        114.21.1,
                        114.22
2015-5382   12-15-2015  36.07,
                        36.22
2016-5383   1-5-2016    34.080 -
                        34.083
                        36.07,
2016-5384   1-19-2016   36.21,
                        36.22
2016-5386   4-5-2016    35.01
2016-5387   5-3-2016    33.065
2016-5388   9-6-2016    133.11
2016-5389   9-6-2016    95.01,
                        95.06
2016-5390   9-20-2016   72.30
                        151.01 -
2016-5391   12-20-2016  151.06,
                        151.99
                        119.01 -
                        119.06,
2017-5393   2-7-2017    119.15 -
                        119.17,
                        119.99
2017-5395   3-21-2017   35.01
2017-5396   11-7-2017   151.03,
                        151.06
2017-5399   11-7-2017   34.002
2017-5400   12-19-2017  37.04
                        35.01,
2017-5401   12-19-2017  54.01 -
                        54.06,
                        54.99
                        35.01,
2018-5404   4-3-2018    114.22,
                        114.55
2018-5405   4-17-2018   35.01
                        34.090 -
                        34.101,
                        34.103 -
2018-5406   7-11-2018   34.108,
                        34.110 -
                        34.118,
                        34.999,
                        35.01
2018-5407   7-17-2018   99.31
2018-5409   10-16-2018  35.29
2018-5410   10-16-2018  34.040,
                        34.049
2018-5412   12-4-2018   37.04
2019-5415   4-16-2019   35.01
                        55.001 -
                        55.004,
                        55.010 -
                        55.015,
                        55.020 -
                        55.023,
                        55.030 -
                        55.034,
                        55.036,
                        55.037,
                        55.045,
                        55.046,
                        55.048 -
                        55.052,
                        55.060 -
                        55.067,
2019-5416   5-21-2019   55.069 -
                        55.073,
                        55.080,
                        55.081,
                        55.090,
                        55.100,
                        55.110 -
                        55.117,
                        55.125,
                        55.127,
                        55.128,
                        55.138,
                        55.139,
                        55.145 -
                        55.147,
                        55.156,
                        55.160
2019-5417   6-4-2019    99.60
2019-5419   7-2-2019    99.73
2019-5420   8-20-2019   35.01
2019-5421   9-3-2019    54.03
2019-5422   9-17-2019   34.091
2019-5423   12-3-2019   161.01 -
                        161.05
2020-5425   1-21-2020   99.12
                        35.18,
2020-5426   2-4-2020    35.21,
                        35.22
2020-5427   2-4-2020    114.30,
                        114.40.2
2020-5428   2-18-2020   36.08
2020-5430   3-23-2020   33.015
                        120.01 -
2020-5431   6-2-2020    120.09,
                        159.46
2020-5432   6-16-2020   37.04
2020-5433   6-16-2020   39.05
2020-5435   12-15-2020  32.05
2021-5436   1-19-2021   Ch. 74, Sch. II
2021-5437   2-16-2021   34.018
2021-5439   4-20-2021   35.01
                        50.095,
                        50.096,
                        50.099 -
                        50.103,
                        51.001 -
                        51.003,
                        51.015 -
                        51.026,
                        51.040 -
2021-5442   6-1-2021    51.045,
                        51.047,
                        51.049 -
                        51.054,
                        51.065 -
                        51.067,
                        51.080 -
                        51.096,
                        51.098 -
                        51.104
2021-5443   6-1-2021    50.096,
                        51.098
                        73A.01 -
2021-5444   8-3-2021    73A.04,
                        73A.99
2021-5445   9-21-2021   34.002
2022-5446   2-1-2022    34.055
2022-5447   2-1-2022    35.01
2022-5449   4-5-2022    120.08
2022-5451   4-19-2022   35.01
2022-5452   4-19-2022   50.096,
                        51.098
                        100.01 -
                        100.03,
2022-5453   4-19-2022   100.05 -
                        100.07,
                        100.09
                        98.100, Ch. 98, Exhibit
2022-5454   8-2-2022    A,
                        B
2022-5459   11-1-2022   34.002
2023-5460   2-21-2023   33.065
2023-5461   3-7-2023    114.22,
                        114.40.2
2023-5462   3-21-2023   159.20
2023-5463   4-18-2023   50.096,
                        51.098
2023-5464   4-18-2023   50.097
2023-5465   4-18-2023   162.01,
                        162.03
2023-5467   5-2-2023    34.043
2023-5468   7-5-2023    114.22
                        98.100,
2023-5469   9-5-2023    Ch. 98, Exhibit A,
                        B
                        159.04,
                        159.20,
                        159.24,
2024-5474   2-20-2024   159.46,
                        159.47,
                        159.49,
                        159.50
                        159.04,
2024-5475   2-20-2024   159.45 -
                        159.47
                        159.04,
2024-5476   2-20-2024   159.31,
                        159.46,
                        159.52
                        35.01,
                        159.04,
2024-5478   3-19-2024   159.25,
                        159.26,
                        159.46,
                        159.54
2024-5479   4-16-2024   35.01
2024-5480   4-16-2024   50.096,
                        51.098
2024-5482   8-20-2024   35.01
                        Ch. 74, Sch.
2024-5483   11-5-2024   II,
                        III
                        35.01,
2024-5484   11-19-2024  114.03,
                        114.22
                        150.01 -
                        150.04,
2024-5485   12-17-2024  150.10,
                        150.11,
                        150.20,
                        150.21
                        36.45 -
                        36.47,
                        36.49,
                        36.50,
2025-5488   3-18-2025   36.53,
                        36.54,
                        159.04,
                        159.46,
                        159.55
                        159.46,
                        160.03,
2025-5489   3-18-2025   160.06,
                        160.09 -
                        160.15
2025-5490   4-1-2025    31.20
2025-5491   4-15-2025   50.096,
                        51.098
                        31.02,
                        31.04,
                        31.10,
                        31.21,
                        31.22,
                        31.36,
                        31.37,
                        32.03,
                        32.05,
                        32.16,
                        33.001,
                        33.002,
                        33.015,
                        33.025,
                        33.035,
                        33.045,
                        33.055,
                        33.065,
                        33.075,
                        33.095,
                        34.016,
                        34.017,
                        34.026,
                        34.041,
                        34.043,
                        34.048 -
                        34.050,
                        34.090,
                        35.03,
                        35.18,
2025-5492   5-6-2025    35.20,
                        35.21,
                        35.23 -
                        35.25,
                        35.35,
                        35.40,
                        35.51,
                        35.70,
                        36.53,
                        36.54,
                        38.04,
                        39.05,
                        51.021,
                        52.48,
                        52.49,
                        92.21 -
                        92.23,
                        97.04,
                        99.41,
                        99.51,
                        99.55,
                        99.60,
                        99.73,
                        110.06,
                        110.11,
                        112.24,
                        117.06,
                        118.13,
                        151.05,
                        157.20,
                        157.21,
                        157.33
                        159.56 -
                        159.61,
2025-5493   5-6-2025    159.65 -
                        159.70,
                        159.99
                        35.01,
                        114.02,
                        114.03,
                        114.22,
2025-5495   5-20-2025   114.22.1,
                        114.25,
                        114.40.2,
                        114.41,
                        114.52,
                        114.53
2025-5496   6-3-2025    36.09
                        76.01 -
2025-5497   6-17-2025   76.06,
                        76.99
                       
 
 
