VILLAGE OF MAZON, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-7 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-07, passed 10-14-2024; and
State legislation current through Illinois Legislative Service,
2024 Acts, Pamphlet No. 5
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
(800) 445-5588
www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE # 2014-03
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE VILLAGE OF MAZON, COUNTY OF
GRUNDY, STATE OF ILLINOIS REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND
COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION
DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN
EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the political
subdivision are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affairs; and
WHEREAS, THE Acts of the Legislature of the State of Illinois empower and
authorize the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book
form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF THE VILLAGE OF MAZON:
   Section 1. The general ordinances of the Political Subdivision as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the Village of Mazon, State of
Illinois.
   Section 2. Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
   Section 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offence nor shall
such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating
money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing franchises, or granting
special rights to certain persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing
the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale
of real or personal property, granting or accepting easements, plat or
dedication of land to public use, vacating or setting the boundaries of streets
or other public places; nor shall such repeal affect any other ordinance of a
temporary or special nature or pertaining to subjects not contained in or
covered by the Code.
   Section 4. Such code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the Political
Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of
Ordinances in the Office of the clerk.
   Section 5. Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in
Section 6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places
of the ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations
therein contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly
signed, attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearing and
notices thereof as required by law have been given.
   Section 6. This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION OF
THE VILLAGE OF MAZON ON THIS 5 DAY OF May, 2014
ATTEST:
                           Robert Breisch /s/
                           Robert Breisch - President
Kim Marques /s/
Kim Marques - Clerk
ORDINANCE # 2015-09
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE VILLAGE OF MAZON COUNTY OF GRUNDY, STATE OF ILLINOIS.
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the first supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Village of
Mazon, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
Village of Mazon; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Illinois code; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF THE VILLAGE OF MAZON:
   Section 1. That the first supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Village of Mazon as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2. Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the Village of
Mazon is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement in the copy of
the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
   Section 3. This ordinance is declared to be a measure necessary for the
immediate preservation of peace, health, safety and general welfare of the
people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION OF
THE VILLAGE OF MAZON ON THIS 17 DAY OF August, 2015
ATTEST:
                           Robert Breisch /s/
                           Robert Breisch - Village President
Kim Marques /s/
Kim Marques - Village Clerk
ORDINANCE # 2017-01
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE VILLAGE OF MAZON COUNTY OF GRUNDY, STATE OF ILLINOIS.
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the second supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Village of
Mazon, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
Village of Mazon; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Illinois code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the legislative authority fo accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Illinois;
and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF THE VILLAGE OF MAZON:
   Section 1. That the second supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Village of Mazon as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2. Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the Village of
Mazon is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement in the copy of
the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
   Section 3. This ordinance is declared to be a measure necessary for the
immediate preservation of peace, health, safety and general welfare of the
people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the legislative authority of the political subdivision of
the Village of Mazon on this 17th day of January, 2017.
 
                           Robert Breisch /s/
                           Robert Breisch, Village President
Kim Marques /s/
Kim Marques, Village Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section headings
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Official time
   
10.06   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   Amendments to code
   
10.10   Severability
   
10.11   Reference to public office or officer
   
10.12   Errors and omissions
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances saved
   
10.16   Technical codes
   
10.17   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification by and for the Village of Mazon shall be designated as the
code of Mazon and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES or VILLAGE BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the village.
   COUNTY. Grundy County, Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of Grundy County, Illinois.
(5 ILCS 70/1.07)
   COURT. Construed to mean any court of competent jurisdiction.
   DECREE. Synonymous with JUDGMENT.   
(5 ILCS 70/1.24)
   ELECTORS. Persons qualified to vote for elective officers at municipal
elections.
(65 ILCS 5/1-1-2)
   EXECUTIVE OFFICER. Words used for an executive or ministerial officer may
include any deputy or other person performing the duties of that officer,
either generally or in special cases.
(5 ILCS 70/1.08)
   HERETOFORE or HEREAFTER.    HERETOFORE means any time previous to the day on
which the ordinance, resolution or statute takes effect; HEREAFTER means at any
time after that date.
(5 ILCS 70/1.17)
   HIGHWAY,   ROAD or STREET. May include any road laid out by authority of the
United States, or of this state, or of any town or county of this state, and
all bridges thereupon.
(5 ILCS 70/1.16)
   ILCS . Illinois Compiled Statutes, 1992, as heretofore and hereafter
amended.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves, or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MAYOR. The President of the Village of Mazon.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
   MUNICIPAL CODE. The Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/.
   OATH.  Includes affirmation, and SWEAR includes affirm.
(5 ILCS 70/1.12)
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner,
purchaser and seller under a contract and/or deed, or tenant in common of the
whole or part of the property, and includes any beneficiary of a land trust
which owns property.
   PERSON. Any legal person; includes associations, partnerships, corporations,
joint ventures and bodies politic and corporate as well as individuals.
(5 ILCS 70/1.05)
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   POLICE OFFICERS. Police officers employed and in the service of the village.
POLICE FORCE shall be construed to include those persons in the employ of a
village as members of the Department of Police, who are or shall hereafter be
appointed and sworn as POLICE OFFICERS.
(5 ILCS 70/1.20)
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and other interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes school districts; units of legal government; the
village, county, state or federal governments, officers and agencies thereof,
or any commissions or committees thereof; or any duly authorized public
official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
(625 ILCS 5/1-188)
   SPECIAL DISTRICTS. The meaning ascribed in Article VII of the Constitution
of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.29)
   STATE. The State of Illinois.
   STREET. Where the context admits, includes alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, squares and other public thoroughfares.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The village code hereby adopted, and
as hereinafter modified by amendment, revision and by the adoption of new
titles, chapters or sections.
   UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The meaning established in § 1 of Article VII of
the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.28)
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Mazon, Illinois.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes printing, electronic and any other mode of
representing words and letters; but when the written signature of any person is
required by law on any official or public writing or bond, required by law,
except as otherwise provided by law it shall be:
      (1)   The proper handwriting of the person, or in case he or she is
unable to write, his or her proper mark; or
      (2)   An electronic signature as defined in the Uniform Electronic
Transactions Act.
(5 ILCS 70/1.15)
   YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed; and the word YEAR alone is
equivalent to the expression “Year of Our Lord.”
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
§ 10.03 SECTION HEADINGS.
   Headings and captions used in this code are employed for reference purposes
only and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed according to
the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and phrases that have acquired a
technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative or judicial definition
or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
   (B)   As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following rules will be followed.
      (1)   The singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include
the singular.
(5 ILCS 70/1.03)
      (2)   Words of one gender shall include the other genders.
(5 ILCS 70/1.04)
      (3)   Words in the present tense shall include the future.
(5 ILCS 70/1.02)
      (4)   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the context admits.
   (C)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last day
is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or fixed in any statute now or
hereafter in force in this state, and then it shall also be excluded. If the
day succeeding Saturday, Sunday or a holiday is also a holiday or a Saturday or
Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be excluded.
(5 ILCS 70/1.11)
   (D)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Words purporting to give joint authority to three or more municipal
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority
of the officers or persons.
(5 ILCS 70/1.09)
   (F)   These rules of construction shall not apply to any provision of this
code which shall contain any express provision excluding that construction, or
when the subject matter or context of this code may be repugnant thereto.
   (G)   All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the President
and Board of Trustees may be fully carried out.
(5 ILCS 70/1.01)
   (H)   The provisions of any ordinance, in so far as they are the same as
those of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions, and not as a new enactment.
(5 ILCS 70/2)
§ 10.05 OFFICIAL TIME.
   (A)   Beginning on the last Sunday in April in each year and continuing to
the last Sunday in September, the official time of the village shall be Central
Daylight Savings Time.
   (B)   CENTRAL STANDARD TIME is hereby defined to be the time heretofore
established in the Central Zone of the United States in which said village is
located. CENTRAL DAYLIGHT SAVINGS TIME is hereby defined as one hour later than
Central Standard Time.
   (C)   All offices and public works of the village shall operate on Central
Daylight Savings Time at all times during the period mentioned in division (A)
above, and shall operate on Central Standard Time during the balance of each
year.
(Ord. passed 5-16-1941)
§ 10.06 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed, nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment or repeal of an ordinance does not do any
of the following, except as provided in division (C) of this section:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment. The
investigation, proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture or punishment for any offense is reduced by
a reenactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in this code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of this code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision and the context clearly
indicates that the reference to the section as amended or revised was not
intended.
§ 10.08 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of these codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.09 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or in any
way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of
this code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed
chapters, sections and divisions, or any part thereof, by subsequent
ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by the omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as
numbered and printed, or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie
evidence of subsequent ordinances until this code of ordinances and subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code of ordinances by the
Board of Trustees.
§ 10.10 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of these codified ordinances or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the section or
related sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions are severable.
§ 10.11 REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICE OR OFFICER.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the village exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary. These references
shall also include the designee or agent of the officer or office, unless the
law or the context clearly requires otherwise.
§ 10.12 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including but not limited
to tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the village; and all special ordinances) as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code of ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect unless herein
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the Board
of Trustees or a certain village officer or employee to make additional
regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
regulations of a similar nature serving that purpose effected prior to the
codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect and are
saved.
§ 10.16 TECHNICAL CODES.
   Whenever any technical codes are incorporated herein by reference, any
subsequent amendments or revisions to the technical codes shall automatically
become a part of this code and shall be made available for public inspection by
the village. Further, to the extent of any conflict between the technical
provisions of this code and any technical codes adopted by reference, the most
restrictive provision shall prevail.
§ 10.17 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance or resolution, and amending ordinances or
resolutions, if any, are listed following the text of the code section.
Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   An “ILCS” cite included in the history indicates that the text of the
section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-2-1)
   (C)   An “ILCS” cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the text
of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
   § 38.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      The village shall make available to any person for inspection or copying
all public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of Information Act.
   Statutory reference:
      Freedom of Information Act, see 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq .
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this code or other ordinance of this
village for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall be fined
not more than $750 for each and every violation thereof, and every day the
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to imprison for certain ordinance violations, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-
1.1
   Limitations on penalties and collection upon default in payment, see 65 ILCS
5/1-2-1
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   VILLAGE BOARD AND VILLAGE OFFICIALS
      
31.   VILLAGE DEPARTMENTS AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
      
33.   TAXATION AND FINANCE
      
34.   PROCUREMENT
      
35.   P-TICKET ENFORCEMENT
      
36.   REIMBURSEMENT POLICY OF ALL TRAVEL EXPENSES
CHAPTER 30: VILLAGE BOARD AND VILLAGE OFFICIALS
Section
Village Board
   
30.01   Approving and ratifying prior actions of the Village Board
   
30.02   Standing judiciary committee
   
30.03   Public records; fees
Officials
   
30.15   Bond of officers
   
30.16   Compensation, generally
   
30.17   Village Clerk
   
30.18   Village Collector
   
30.19   Village Treasurer
Cross-reference:
   Equal employment policies, see §
32.31
   State Municipal Retirement Fund, see §
32.33
   State Officials and Employees Ethics Act, see §
32.02
VILLAGE BOARD
§ 30.01 APPROVING AND RATIFYING PRIOR ACTIONS OF THE VILLAGE BOARD.
   (A)   Whereas, the Village Board has taken, or caused to be taken, certain
acts, deeds or instituted certain directives in the past; the Village Board
wishes to confirm, approve and ratify any and all such acts, deeds or
directives performed prior to the adoption of this section.
   (B)   All prior acts, deeds or other directives taken, or caused to be
taken, by the Village Board, specifically including all motions, resolutions,
ordinances or other actions taken, or caused to be taken by the Village Board,
prior to the effective date of this section are hereby confirmed, approved and
ratified in all respects.
(Ord. 2002-4, passed 5-1-2002)
§ 30.02 STANDING JUDICIARY COMMITTEE.
   There is hereby created an additional standing committee of the Board of
Trustees to be known as the Committee on Judiciary, to consist of three members
including the Chairperson, to be appointed by the President of the Board of
Trustees, who shall also designate the Chairperson thereof.
(Ord. passed 6-2-1952)
§ 30.03 PUBLIC RECORDS; FEES.
   (A)   Upon the effective date of this section, there shall be a fee charged
for the reproduction of all documents and records requested of the village
pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act, being 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
   (B)   In addition to the above, an additional sum shall be charged for the
copying and reproduction of any documents requested pursuant to the Freedom of
Information Act request.
(Ord. 99-3, passed 2-15-1999)
OFFICIALS
§ 30.15 BOND OF OFFICERS.
   The Clerk of the village, before entering upon the duties of his or her
office, shall execute a bond with security to be approved by the President and
Board of Trustees, payable to said village in a penal sum to be set by the
Board from time to time; the Treasurer of the village shall, before entering
upon the duties of his or her office, execute a bond with security to be
approved by the President and Board of Trustees, payable to said village in a
penal sum to be set by the Board from time to time; the village police officer,
the Street Commissioner and Poundmaster shall each before entering upon the
duties of their respective office, execute a bond with surety to be approved by
the President and Board of Trustees, payable to the village in a penal sum to
be set by the Board from time to time. The bonds of all officers shall be
conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of the office, and the
payment of all moneys received by such officers according to law and the
ordinances of said village. All such bonds shall be filed with the Clerk,
except that of the Clerk, which shall be filed with the Treasurer.
(Ord. passed 4-29-1941)
§ 30.16 COMPENSATION, GENERALLY.
   (A)   (1)   The President shall receive a sum, to be set by the Village
Board from time to time, for each meeting attended. Each member of the Board of
Trustees shall receive a sum, to be set by the Village Board from time to time,
for each meeting attended, as compensation for their services. This sum shall
be paid annually.
      (2)   This division (A) shall be in full force and effect starting with
the Annual Meeting, May 1, 1957, and after its passage and approval as required
by law.
   (B)   (1)   The salary of the Village Treasurer shall be a sum, to be set by
the Village Board from time to time, per year.
      (2)   This division (B) shall be in full force and effect starting with
the Annual Meeting, May 1, 1957 and after its passage and approval as required
by law.
(Ord. passed 4-29-1941; Ord. passed 4-2-1945; Ord. passed 1-7-1957; Ord. passed
1-7-1957)
§ 30.17 VILLAGE CLERK.
   (A)   The following recitals are hereby incorporated into the body of this
section as though fully set forth herein:
      (1)   The Village Board has determined it reasonable and appropriate to
review and adjust the annual salary of the Village Clerk;
      (2)   Section 3.1-50-10 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-
10) authorizes the corporate authorities of a municipality to increase or
diminish, by ordinance, the salaries for those officers who hold elective
office for a definite term, and that said salaries shall be fixed at least 180
days before the beginning of the terms of the officers whose compensation is to
be fixed;
      (3)   Act 5, § 3.1-35-90 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/3.1-
35-90) authorizes the corporate authorities to establish other duties of the
Village Clerk beyond those set forth in said statute; and
      (4)   The Village Board has prescribed additional duties and
responsibilities of the Village Clerk beyond those required by statute (65 ILCS
5/3.1-35-90), as set forth herein.
   (B)   The duties of the Village Clerk from and following the effective date
of this section shall be as follows:
      (1)   Carry the corporate seal;
      (2)   Attend all Village Board regular and special meetings;
      (3)   Record the Village Board minutes;
      (4)   Present the Village Board minutes at the meetings;
      (5)   Post the agenda for the Village Board meetings 48 hours in advance;
      (6)   Present the Zoning and Park Board minutes at the village meetings;
      (7)   Publish, sign, file new ordinances;
      (8)   Publish public and bid notices, and the like in the Morris Herald
and other required places;
      (9)   Sign all village checks;
      (10)   Before entering upon the duties of office, the Clerk must file a
bond with the Treasurer who shall record and preserve it;
      (11)   Administer oaths;
      (12)   Receive the nominating papers and certify the names of all
candidates;
      (13)   Other duties per Illinois Municipal League Handbook and as
directed by Village Board; and
      (14)   Reports to the Village President and Village Board.
   (C)   The annual salary of the Village Clerk shall be paid once per year in
May, according to the fiscal year starting May 1, and shall be in an amount
established by the Village Board from time to time.
(Ord. 2000-18, passed 10-16-2000; Doc. passed 5- -2001)
§ 30.18 VILLAGE COLLECTOR.
   (A)   A Village Collector for the village is hereby appointed pursuant to 65
ILCS 5/3.1-35-120.
   (B)   The Collector will be required to receive the payments for the
municipal water services and from any other source.
   (C)   The Collector shall pay the Village Treasurer all money collected once
a week.
   (D)   The Collector will be required to take from the Treasurer a receipt in
duplicate for all money deposited with the Treasurer.
   (E)   The Collector will be required to deposit the Treasurer’s receipt with
the Village Clerk upon receipt from Treasurer.
(Ord. 2001-6, passed 5-1-2001)
§ 30.19 VILLAGE TREASURER.
   (A)   The Village Treasurer for the Village of Mazon shall be appointed by
the President, and with the advice and consent of the Trustees of the Village
Board, pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5.
   (B)   The Village Board shall review the compensation of the Village
Treasurer on an annual basis.
   (C)   The duties of the Village Treasurer from and following the effective
date of this section shall be the following:
      (1)   Those duties established in Division 35, Article 3.1 (65 ILCS 5/
3.1-35), of the Illinois Municipal Code, which may be amended hereinafter;
      (2)   Receive, verify, and deposit all village funds received;
      (3)   Open, maintain, and provide detailed reports to the Village Board
regarding all village certificates of deposit;
      (4)   Research, report, and provide recommendations to the Village Board
regarding current bank interests rates and investments;
      (5)   Review and verify all end of month financial reports received from
the Village Secretary;
      (6)   Balance village end of month financial ledgers and disbursement
journals;
      (7)   Prepare, present, and file village annual budget and
appropriations;
      (8)   Review on a monthly basis the approved village budget and provide a
report to the Village Board if requested;
      (9)   Prepare, present, and file annual appropriation line item
adjustments as approved by the Village Board;
      (10)   Provide a monthly Treasurer's report to the Village Board;
      (11)   Monitor and provide recommendations for distribution of village
school site funds;
      (12)   Prepare, present and file annual levy and assessment of tax, and
estimated annual revenue as approved by the Village Board;
      (13)   Prepare documentation to assist with the village annual audit as
performed by the Village Auditor;
      (14)   Complete cash receipt deposits on a weekly basis, and prepare a
written log of monthly deposits for the same;
      (15)   Review of village payroll reports on a bi-weekly basis;
      (16)   Attend all Village Board meeting, and provide reports,
recommendations, or documentation, as previously requested by the President or
Village Board;
      (17)   Only utilize accounting and report software as provided by the
village; and
      (18)   Provide assistance to the Village Secretary to include but not
limited to in answering the Village Telephone, and assisting citizens at
Village Hall, in the absence of the Village Secretary.
   (D)   The term of the Village Treasurer shall be for one year, and shall not
exceed the fiscal year in which the appointment was made.
   (E)   The compensation for the Village Treasurer shall be established by
budget, within the approved village appropriations ordinance, every fiscal
year. The established compensation shall be paid to the Village Treasurer in
monthly installments throughout the fiscal year.
(Ord. 2022-01, passed 1-10-2022)
CHAPTER 31: VILLAGE DEPARTMENTS AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Police Department
   
31.01   Creation of Police Department
   
31.02   Minimum hiring standards for part-time police officers
 
   
31.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Identity theft program, see §§
32.15 through
32.18
   NIMS, see §
32.01
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 31.01 CREATION OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Police Department of the said village shall consist of the Chief
of Police and such other officers as the Village Board shall from time to time
deem necessary to appoint.
   (B)   By this section the offices of the Chief of Police and police officer
are hereby created and established in the said village. Officers to fill such
of the offices as may be required or deemed necessary may be appointed, bonds
and compensation fixed, by the President of the Village Board, subject to the
approval of a majority of the Board of Trustees, authorized to be selected,
such vote to be taken by yeas and nays and entered of record.
   (C)   The Trustees of the Village Board shall be, by this section,
constituted and authorized conservators of the peace. They shall have power to
arrest or cause to be arrested, all persons who shall break the peace, or be
found violating any ordinance of the said village, or any criminal law of the
state, commit for examination and, if necessary, detain such persons in custody
over night or Sunday in the watch house or any other safe place, or until they
can be brought before the proper magistrate, and shall have and exercise such
other powers as conservators of the peace as the Village Board may prescribe.
   (D)   The Chief of Police and police officer, shall have a power and it
shall be his or her duty, when any criminal offense or breach of peace is
committed and any person or persons who shall be found violating any village
ordinance, to forthwith apprehend the offender or offenders.
   (E)   Should the said village require the services temporarily or otherwise
of more than one peace officer or police officer, the one first employed shall
be designated Chief of Police and his or her duties shall be such as are
usually given to a police officer of that rank.
   (F)   The police officers or peace officer of the said village, whenever it
becomes necessary, may call upon any able-bodied male person or persons above
the age of 21 years, to aid him, her or them in arresting or taking into
custody any person or persons guilty of having committed any unlawful act.
Whosoever shall refuse or neglect to give such aid or assistance when so
requested shall be subject to a penalty as set forth in §
31.99.
(Ord. passed 6-7-1937) Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.02 MINIMUM HIRING STANDARDS FOR PART-TIME POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   The following standards for hiring part-time police officers are
hereby established as follows:
      (1)   Part-time police officers must be citizens of the United States of
America; and
      (2)   Part-time police officers must have successfully completed the 400-
hour basic law enforcement recruit training or its equivalent from another
jurisdiction, or be entitled to receive a waiver from the State Law Enforcement
Training Standards Board, if necessary.
   (B)   The Village Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to submit a
certified copy of this section to the State Law Enforcement Training Standards
Board for approval.
(Ord. 1997-9, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 31.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
CHAPTER 32: POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Adoption of National Incident Management System
   
32.02   Implementing the provisions of the State Officials and Employees Ethics
Act
   
32.03   Public records; fees
Identity Theft Protection and Prevention Program
   
32.15   Preamble; standing committee; Program Administrator
   
32.16   Identity Theft Prevention Program
   
32.17   Identity protection policy
   
32.18   Statement of purpose for collection of Social Security numbers
Personnel Policies
   
32.30   Prevailing wages
   
32.31   Equal employment policy; including provisions to benefit disabled
individuals
   
32.32   (Reserved)
   
32.33   Electing participation in the Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund
Sexual Harassment Policy
   
32.40   Policy and prohibition on sexual harassment
   
32.41   Definition of sexual harassment
   
32.42   Procedure for reporting an allegation of sexual harassment
   
32.43   Prohibition on retaliation for reporting sexual harassment allegations
   
32.44   Consequences of a violation of the prohibition on sexual harassment
   
32.45   Consequences for knowingly making a false report
Citizen Participation at Public Meetings
   
32.60   Purpose
   
32.61   Compliance
   
32.62   Limitations
   
32.63   Persons wishing to speak
   
32.64   Speakers
   
32.65   Timer
   
32.66   Audience
   
32.67   Representative speakers
   
32.68   Public body questions
   
32.69   Public hearings
   
32.70   Invited speakers
Robert’s Rules of Order
   
32.80   Robert’s Rules of Order
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 ADOPTION OF NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)   It is the policy of the village to adopt the National Incident
Management System (NIMS) concept of emergency planning and unified command.
   (B)   As a matter of policy, all village officials and personnel with an
emergency management role are to be trained in the NIMS training in all
emergency management training programs.
(Res. 2008-01, passed 2-4-2008)
§ 32.02 IMPLEMENTING THE PROVISIONS OF THE STATE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS
ACT.
   (A)   The regulations of § 5-15 (5 ILCS 430/5-15) and Article 10 (5 ILCS
430/10-10 through 10-40) of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act, being
5 ILCS 430/1-1 et seq. (hereinafter referred to as the “Act” in this section),
are hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to the officers and
employees of the village to the extent required by 5 ILCS 430/70-5.
   (B)   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or
acted under the Act, by any officer or any employee of the village, is hereby
prohibited.
   (C)   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to an
officer or employee of the village under the Act is hereby prohibited.
   (D)   The participation in political activities prohibited under the Act, by
any officer or employee of the village, is hereby prohibited.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, the terms “officer” and “employee” shall
be defined as set forth in 5 ILCS 430/70-5(c).
   (F)   The penalties for violations of this section shall be the same as
those penalties set forth in 5 ILCS 430/50-5 for similar violations of the Act.
   (G)   This section does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of village officers and
employees. To the extend that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this section, however, the provisions of this section shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 ILCS 430/70-5(a).
   (H)   Any amendment to the Act that becomes effective after the effective
date of this section shall be incorporated into this section by reference and
shall be applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of
gifts and to prohibited political activities. However, any amendment that makes
its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be
incorporated into this section by reference without formal action by the
corporate authorities of the city.
   (I)   If the State Supreme Court declares the Act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this section shall be repealed as of the date that the State
Supreme Court’s decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This section shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the corporate authorities of the village if the Act is found unconstitutional
by the State Supreme Court.
   (J)   If the State Supreme Court declares part of the Act unconstitutional
but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the Act, or does not
address the remainder of the Act, then the remainder of the Act as adopted by
this section shall remain in full force and effect; however that part of this
section relating to the part of the Act found unconstitutional shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of the village.
(Ord. 1999-6, passed 6-21-1999; Ord. 2004-6, passed 5-3-2004)
§ 32.03 PUBLIC RECORDS; FEES.
   (A)   Upon the effective date of this section, there shall be a fee charged
for the reproduction of all documents and records requested of the village
pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act, being 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
   (B)   In addition to the above, an additional sum shall be charged for the
copying and reproduction of any documents requested pursuant to the Freedom of
Information Act request.
(Ord. 99-3, passed 2-15-1999)
IDENTITY THEFT PROTECTION AND PREVENTION PROGRAM
§ 32.15 PREAMBLE; STANDING COMMITTEE; PROGRAM ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   A Program Administrator is hereby appointed with authority to develop,
approve and implement all programs to comply with federal and state identity
theft protection programs.
   (B)   This subchapter reflects a finding by the village that identity theft
is an issue affecting municipal constituents. While open and transparent action
by local authorities is necessary for effective government, it leaves
municipalities vulnerable to the risks associated with identity theft. In order
to more effectively deal with this issue, the village has appointed a Program
Administrator to head a standing Identity Theft Committee. This Committee will
be responsible for developing and implementing any necessary and required plans
or programs and their periodic amendment. The following plans minimize identity
theft risk, educate employees on signs of identity theft and protect consumers.
(Res. 2011-07, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 32.16 IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM.
   (A)   Introduction. The village (hereafter municipality) developed this
Identity Theft Prevention Program (Program) pursuant to the Federal Trade
Commission’s Red Flags Rule (Rule), which implements § 114 of the Fair and
Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 (15 U.S.C. § 1681m), 16 C.F.R. §
681.2. This Program was developed with oversight and approval of the Program
Administrator. After consideration of the size and complexity of the village
utility operations and account systems, and the nature and scope of their
activities, the Program Administrator determined that this Program was
appropriate for the municipality, and therefore approved this Program December
5, 2011.
   (B)   Program application. All individual municipal utility accounts,
whether residential, commercial or industrial are covered by this Program.
Therefore, reasonable policies and procedures for identification, detection and
response to identity theft will be developed and maintained for training
employees.
   (C)   Identification of “red flags.”  
      (1)   The Red Flags Rule defines “Identity Theft” as “fraud using
‘identifying information’” of another person. IDENTIFYING INFORMATION
specifically includes: name, address, telephone number, Social Security number,
date of birth, government issued driver’s license or identification number,
alien registration number, government passport number, employer or taxpayer
identification number, unique electronic identification number, computer’s
Internet protocol address and/or routing code.
      (2)   In order to identify relevant red flags, the municipality considers
the types of accounts that it offers and maintains, the methods it provides to
open its accounts, the methods it provides to access its accounts, and any
previous experiences with identity theft. The municipality identifies the
following red flags, in each of the listed categories:
         (a)   Suspicious documents; red flags.
            1.   Identification document or card that appears to be forged,
altered or inauthentic;
            2.   Identification document or card on which a person’s photograph
or physical description is not consistent with the person presenting the
document; and
            3.   Other document with information that is not consistent with
existing customer information (such as if a person’s signature on a check
appears forged).
         (b)   Suspicious personal identifying information; red flags.
            1.   Identifying information presented that is inconsistent with
other information the customer provides (example: inconsistent birth dates);
            2.   Identifying information presented that is inconsistent with
other sources of information (for instance, an address not matching an address
on a credit report);
            3.   Identifying information presented that is the same as
information shown on other applications that were found to be fraudulent;
            4.   Identifying information presented that is consistent with
fraudulent activity (such as an invalid phone number or fictitious billing
address);
            5.   An address or phone number presented that is the same as that
of another person;
            6.   A person fails to provide complete personal identifying
information on an application when reminded to do so (however, by law Social
Security numbers must not be required); and
            7.   A person’s identifying information is not consistent with the
information that is on file for the customer.
         (c)   Suspicious account activity or unusual use of account; red
flags.
            1.   Change of address for an account followed by a request to
change the account holder’s name;
            2.   Payments stop on an otherwise consistently up-to-date account;
            3.   Mail sent to the account holder is repeatedly returned as
undeliverable;
            4.   Notice that a customer is not receiving mail sent by the
utility;
            5.   Breach in the computer system security; and
            6.   Unauthorized access to or use of customer account information.
         (d)   Alerts from others; red flag. Notice from a customer, identity
theft victim, law enforcement or other person that it has opened or is
maintaining a fraudulent account for a person engaged in identity theft.
   (D)   Detection of red flags.
      (1)   New accounts. In order to detect any of the red flags identified
above associated with the opening of a new account, personnel will take the
following steps to obtain and verify the identity of the person opening the
account:
         (a)   Require certain identifying information such as name, date of
birth, residential or business address, principal place of business for an
entity, driver’s license or other identification;
         (b)   Verify the customer’s identity (for instance, review a driver’s
license or other identification card);
         (c)   Review documentation showing the existence of a business entity;
and
         (d)   Independently contact the customer.
      (2)   Existing accounts. In order to detect any of the red flags
identified above for an existing account, personnel will take the following
steps to monitor transactions with an account:
         (a)   Verify the identification of customers if they request
information (in person, via telephone, via facsimile, via email);
         (b)   Verify the validity of requests to change billing addresses; and
         (c)   Verify changes in banking information given for billing and
payment purposes.
   (E)   Responding to red flags—preventing and mitigating theft. In the event
personnel detect any identified red flags, such personnel shall take one or
more of the following steps, depending on the degree of risk posed by the red
flag:
      (1)   Prevent and mitigate.
         (a)   Continue to monitor an account for evidence of identity theft;
         (b)   Contact the customer;
         (c)   Change any passwords or other security devices that permit
access to accounts;
         (d)   Not open a new account;
         (e)   Close an existing account;
         (f)   Reopen an account with a new number;
         (g)   Notify the Program Administrator for determination of the
appropriate step(s) to take;
         (h)   Notify law enforcement; or
         (i)   Determine that no response is warranted under the particular
circumstances.
      (2)   Protect customer-identifying information. In order to further
prevent the likelihood of identity theft occurring with respect to utility
accounts, the municipality will take the following steps with respect to its
internal operating procedures to protect customer-identifying information:
         (a)   Ensure that its website is secure or provide clear notice that
the website is not secure;
         (b)   Ensure complete and secure destruction of customer information;
         (c)   Ensure that computers are password protected and computer
screens lock after a set period of time;
         (d)   Keep offices clear of papers containing customer information;
         (e)   Ensure computer virus protection is up to date; and
         (f)   Require and keep only the kinds of customer information that are
necessary for utility purposes.
   (F)   Program updates. This Program will be periodically reviewed and
updated to reflect changes in risks to customers and the soundness of the
municipality from identity theft. At least every two years the Program
Administrator will consider the experiences with identity theft situations,
changes in identity theft methods, changes in identity theft detection and
prevention methods, changes in types of accounts maintained and changes in
business arrangements with other entities. After considering these factors, the
Program Administrator will determine whether changes to the Program, including
the listing of red flags, are warranted. If warranted, the Program
Administrator will update the Program or present the corporate authorities with
recommended changes and the corporate authorities will make a determination of
whether to accept, modify or reject those changes to the Program.
   (G)   Program administration.
      (1)   Oversight. Responsibility for developing, implementing and updating
this Program lies with an Identity Theft Committee for the municipality. A
Program Administrator heads the Committee. The Program Administrator shall
appoint two other members to the Committee. The Program Administrator will be
responsible for the Program administration, for ensuring appropriate training
of staff on the Program, for reviewing any staff reports regarding the
detection of red flags and the steps for preventing and mitigating identity
theft, determining which steps of prevention and mitigation should be taken in
particular circumstances and considering periodic changes to the Program.
      (2)   Staff training and reports. Staff responsible for implementing the
Program shall be trained either by or under the direction of the Program
Administrator in red flag detection, and responsive steps to be taken when a
red flag is detected.
      (3)   Service provider arrangements. In the event the municipality
engages a service provider to perform an activity in connection utility
accounts, the municipality will take the following steps to ensure the service
provider performs its activity in accordance with reasonable policies and
procedures designed to detect, prevent and mitigate the risk of identity theft:
         1.   Require, by contract, that service providers have such policies
and procedures in place; and
         2.   Require, by contract, that service providers review the utility’s
Program and report any red flags to the Program Administrator.
(Res. 2011-07, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 32.17 IDENTITY PROTECTION POLICY.
   (A)   Introduction. The village developed this Identity Protection Policy
pursuant to the State Identity Protection Act (5 ILCS 179/1 et seq.). This
Program was developed with oversight and approval of the Program Administrator
who approved this plan December 5, 2011.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PERSON. Any individual in the employ of the village.
      PUBLICLY POST or PUBLICLY DISPLAY. To intentionally communicate or
otherwise intentionally make available to the general public.
   (C)   Prohibited activities.
      (1)   No officer or employee of the village shall do any of the
following:
         (a)   Publicly post or publicly display in any manner an individual’s
Social Security number;
         (b)   Print an individual’s Social Security number on any card
required for the individual to access products or services provided by the
person or entity;
         (c)   Require an individual to transmit his or her Social Security
number over the Internet, unless the connection is secure or the Social
Security number is encrypted; or
         (d)   Print an individual’s Social Security number on any materials
that are mailed to the individual, through the U.S. postal service, any private
mail service, electronic mail or any similar method of delivery, unless state
or federal law requires the Social Security number to be on the document to be
mailed. Notwithstanding any provision in this section to the contrary, Social
Security numbers may be included in applications and forms sent by mail,
including but not limited to any material mailed in connection with the
administration of the Unemployment Insurance Act, any material mailed in
connection with any tax administered by the Department of Revenue, and
documents sent as part of an application or enrollment process or to establish,
amend or terminate an account, contract or policy or to confirm the accuracy of
the Social Security number. A Social Security number that may permissibly be
mailed under this section may not be printed, in whole or in part, on a
postcard or other mailer that does not require an envelope or be visible on an
envelope without the envelope having been opened.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this policy, beginning December 5,
2011, no officer or employee of the village shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Collect, use or disclose a Social Security number from an
individual, unless:
            1.   Required to do so under state or federal law, rules or
regulations, or the collection, use or disclosure of the Social Security number
is otherwise necessary for the performance of that agency’s duties and
responsibilities;
            2.   The need and purpose for the Social Security number is
documented before collection of the Social Security number; and
            3.   The Social Security number collected is relevant to the
documented need and purpose.
         (b)   Require an individual to use his or her Social Security number
to access an Internet website; or
         (c)   Use the Social Security number for any purpose other than the
purpose for which it was collected.
      (3)   The prohibitions in division (C)(2) above do not apply in the
following circumstances:
         (a)   The disclosure of Social Security numbers to agents, employees,
contractors or subcontractors of the village or disclosure to another
governmental entity or its agents, employees, contractors or subcontractors if
disclosure is necessary in order for the entity to perform its duties and
responsibilities; and, if disclosing to a contractor or subcontractor, prior to
such disclosure, the officer or employee of the village must first receive from
the contractor or subcontractor a copy of the contractor’s or subcontractor’s
policy that sets forth how the requirements imposed under this policy on the
village to protect an individual’s Social Security number will be achieved;
         (b)   The disclosure of Social Security numbers pursuant to a court
order, warrant or subpoena;
         (c)   The collection, use or disclosure of Social Security numbers in
order to ensure the safety of village employees, persons committed to
correctional facilities, local jails and other law enforcement facilities or
retention centers; wards of the state; and all persons working in or visiting a
village facility;
         (d)   The collection, use or disclosure of Social Security numbers for
internal verification or administrative purposes; or
         (e)   The collection or use of Social Security numbers to investigate
or prevent fraud, to conduct background checks, to collect a debt, to obtain a
credit report from a consumer reporting agency under the federal Fair Credit
Reporting Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 1681 et seq. to undertake any permissible
purpose that is enumerated under the federal Gramm Leach Bliley Act, being 15
U.S. C. §§ 6801 et seq. or to locate a missing person, a lost relative or a
person who is due a benefit such as a pension benefit or an unclaimed property
benefit.
   (D)   Public inspection and copying of documents. Notwithstanding any other
provision of this policy to the contrary, all officers and employees of the
village must comply with the provisions of any other state law with respect to
allowing the public inspection and copying of information or documents
containing all or any portion of an individual’s Social Security number. All
officers and employees of the village must redact Social Security numbers from
the information or documents before allowing the public inspection or copying
of the information or documents.
   (E)   Applicability.
      (1)   This policy does not apply to the collection, use or disclosure of
a Social Security number as required by state or federal law, rule or
regulation.
      (2)   This policy does not apply to documents that are required to be
open to the public under any state or federal law, rule or regulation,
applicable case law, Supreme Court rule or the Constitution of this state.
   (F)   Compliance with federal law. If a federal law takes effect requiring
any federal agency to establish a national unique patient health identifier
program, the village shall follow that law.
   (G)   Embedded Social Security numbers. Beginning December 5, 2011, no
officer or employee of the village may encode or embed a Social Security number
in or on a card or document, including but not limited to using a bar code,
chip, magnetic strip, RFID technology or other technology, in place of removing
the Social Security number as required by this policy.
   (H)   Identity protection requirements.
      (1)   All officers, employees and agents of the village identified as
having access to Social Security numbers in the course of performing their
duties shall be trained to protect the confidentiality of Social Security
numbers. Training shall include instructions on the proper handling of
information that contains Social Security numbers from the time of collection
through the destruction of the information.
      (2)   Only employees who are required to use or handle information or
documents that contain Social Security numbers have access to such information
or documents.
      (3)   Social Security numbers requested from an individual shall be
provided in a manner that makes the Social Security number easily redacted if
required to be released as part of a public records request.
      (4)   When collecting a Social Security number or upon request by the
individual, a statement of the purpose or purposes for which the village is
collecting and using the Social Security number shall be provided.
      (5)   A written copy of this privacy policy and any amendment thereto,
shall be filed with the Village Board within 30 days after approval of this
policy or any amendment thereto.
      (6)   The village shall advise its employees of the existence of the
policy and make a copy of the policy available to each employee, and shall also
make this privacy policy available to any member of the public upon request. If
the village amends this privacy policy, then the village shall also advise its
employees of the existence of the amended policy and make a copy of the amended
policy available to each employee.
   (I)   Violations. Any person who intentionally violates the prohibitions in
§ 10 of the Identity Protection Act (Paragraph 2 of this policy), being 5 ILCS
179/10, is guilty of a Class B misdemeanor.
(Res. 2011-07, passed 12-5-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.18 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE FOR COLLECTION OF SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBERS.
   The statement of purpose for citizen information is as follows:
      The Identity Protection Act, being 5 ILCS 179/1 et seq., requires local
government agencies to draft, approve and implement an identity protection
policy that includes a statement of the purpose or purposes for which the
agency is collecting and using an individual’s Social Security number (SSN).
This statement of purpose is being provided to you because you have been asked
by the village to provide your SSN or because you requested a copy of this
statement.
   Why do we collect your Social Security number?
      • Complaint mediation or investigation
      • Crime victim compensation
      • Vendor services
      • Law enforcement investigation
      • Child support collection
      • Internal verification
      • Administrative services
      • Other                                           
   What do we do with your Social Security Number?
      We will only use your SSN for the purpose for which it was collected. The
village will not: sell, lease, loan, trade, or rent your SSN to a third party
for any purpose, publicly post or publicly display your SSN; print your SSN on
any card required for you to access our services; require you to transmit your
SSN over the Internet, unless the connection is secure or your SSN is
encrypted, or print your SSN on any materials that are mailed to you, unless
state or federal law requires that numbers be on documents mailed to you, or
unless we are confirming the accuracy of your SSN.
      If you have any questions or complaints about this Statement of Purpose,
write the Village of Mazon:
   Village Clerk
   520 Depot Street
   P.O. Box 33
   Mazon, IL 60444
(Res. 2011-07, passed 12-5-2011)
PERSONNEL POLICIES
§ 32.30 PREVAILING WAGES.
   (A)   To the extent and as required by “An Act regulating wages of laborers,
mechanics and other workers employed in any public works by state, county, city
or any public body or any political subdivision or by any one under contract
for public works,” approved June 26, 1941, as amended, the general prevailing
rate of the wages in the locality for laborers, mechanics and other workers
engaged in construction of public works coming under the jurisdiction of the
village is hereby ascertained to be the same as the prevailing rate of wages
for construction work in the Grundy County area as determined by the State
Department of Labor, as of September 2017, a copy of that determination being
attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference. As required by said Act,
any and all revisions of the prevailing rate of wages by the Department of
Labor of the State shall supersede the Department’s September determination and
apply to any and all public works construction undertaken by the village. The
definition of any terms appearing in this section which are also used in
aforesaid Act shall be the same as in said Act.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to apply said general
prevailing rate of wages as herein ascertained to any work or employment except
public works construction of the village to the extent required by the
aforesaid Act.
   (C)   The Village Clerk shall publicly post or keep available for inspection
by any interested party in the main office of the village this determination or
any revisions of such prevailing rate of wage. A copy of this determination or
of the current revisions determination of prevailing rate of wages then in
effect shall be attached to all contract specifications.
   (D)   The Village Clerk shall mail a copy of this determination to any
employer, and to any association of employers and to any person or association
of employees who have filed their names and addresses, requesting copies of any
determination stating the particular rates and the particular class of workers
whose wages will be affected by such rates.
   (E)   The Village Clerk shall promptly file a copy of the ordinance codified
herein with the Department of Labor of the State of Illinois.
   (F)   The Village Clerk shall cause to be published in a newspaper of
general circulation within the area a copy of this section, and such
publication shall constitute notice that the determination is effective and
that this is the determination of this public body.
(Ord. 1981-1, passed 6-15-1981; Ord. 1982-8, passed 6-21-1982; Ord. 1983-7,
passed 8-1-1983; Ord. 1984-5, passed 6-18-1984; Ord. 1985-3, passed 8-5-1985;
Ord. 1986-1, passed 6-16-1986; Ord. 1987-2, passed 7-6-1987; Ord. 1989-3,
passed 6-5-1989; Ord. 1990-7, passed 6-4-1990; Ord. 1991-6, passed 12-2-1991;
Ord. 1992-6, passed 6-15-1992; Ord. 1993-6, passed 7-19-1993; Ord. 1994-15,
passed 6-20-1994; Ord. 95-12, passed 6-19-1995; Ord. 1996-13, passed 6-17-1996;
Ord. 1997-6, passed 6-2-1997; Ord. 1998-4, passed 7-6-1998; Ord. 1999-5, passed
6-7-1999; Ord. 2000-10, passed 6-19-2000; Ord. 2001-8, passed 6-18-2001; Ord.
2002-8, passed 6-17-2002; Ord. 2003-6, passed 6-16-2003; Ord. 2004-8, passed 6-
7-2004; Ord. 2005-7, passed 6-6-2005; Ord. 2006-8, passed 7-3-2006; Ord. 2007-
8, passed 6-4-2007; Ord. 2008-07, passed 6-2-2008; Ord. 2009-04, passed 6-15-
2009; Ord. 2010-05, passed 5-17-2010; Ord. 2011-01, passed 5-2-2011; Ord.
2012.06, passed 5-21-2012; Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-13-2013; Ord. 2014-04, passed
6-2-2014; Ord. 2015-08, passed 6-1-2015; Ord. 2016-10, passed 6-6-2016; Ord.
2017-07, passed 6-5-2017; Ord. 2018-05, passed 6-4-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Prevailing Wage Act, see 820 ILCS 130/
§ 32.31 EQUAL EMPLOYMENT POLICY; INCLUDING PROVISIONS TO BENEFIT DISABLED
INDIVIDUALS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the term MINORITY will refer to
American Indians, Asians, blacks or Hispanics, or to such protected classes as
youth, elderly, women or persons with disabilities.
   (B)   The village hereby declares to uphold, defend, enforce and advocate
for all laws related to equal employment opportunity, including but not limited
to the following:
      (1)   Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 2000d
et seq. which prohibits discrimination in the participation in or benefits of
programs or activities receiving federal financial assistance on the basis of
race, color or national origin;
      (2)   Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 2000e
et seq. which prohibits discrimination because of race, color, religion, sex or
national origin in all employment practices including hiring, firing,
promotions, compensation and other terms, privileges and conditions of
employment;
      (3)   Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, being 20 U.S.C. §§
1681 et seq. which prohibits discrimination in federally assisted education
programs;
      (4)   The Equal Pay Act of 1963, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq. which
covers all employees who are covered by the Fair Labor Standards Act. The Act
forbids pay differentials on the basis of sex;
      (5)   The Age Discrimination Act of 1967, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 621 et seq.
which prohibits discrimination because of age against anyone between the ages
of 40 and 65;
      (6)   Federal Executive Order 11246, Compliance Assistance Bylaw, which
requires every contract with federal financial assistance to contain a clause
against discrimination because of race, color, religion, sex or national
origin;
      (7)   Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, being 29 U.S.C. §
794 and DOL Implementing Regulations at 29 C.F.R. Part 32 which prohibits any
discrimination based on disability;
      (8)   Section 188 of WIA and the U.S. DOL Regulations at 29 C.F.R. Parts
31 and 32 which provides that no person in the United States shall be excluded
from participation in, be denied the benefits of or be subject to
discrimination on the basis of race, color or national origin, under any
program or activity receiving federal financial assistance from the Department
of Labor;
      (9)   Chapter 68, Article I, § 17-19 of the State Constitution which
prohibits discrimination based on race, color, creed, national ancestry,
disability and sex in the hiring and promotion practices of any employer;
      (10)   The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§
12101 et seq., prohibits discrimination on the basis of their disability; and
      (11)   State Human Rights Act (775 ILCS 5/) which prohibits
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, national origin, ancestry,
age, order of protection status, marital status, physical or mental disability,
military status, sexual orientation or unfavorable discharge from military
service in connection with employment, real estate transactions, access to
financial credit and the availability of public accommodations.
   (C)   The village will assure nondiscriminatory employment practices in
recruitment, recruitment advertising, employment, placement, layoff or
termination, promotion, demotion or transfer, rate of pay or other forms of
compensation and use of facilities.
   (D)   The village will not contract with other agencies, banks, businesses,
vendors and the like who practice or establish a pattern of discrimination
based on race, color, religion, sex, national origin, ancestry, age, order of
protection status, marital status, physical or mental disability, military
status, sexual orientation or unfavorable discharge from the military.
   (E)   The village will incorporate into any contract for construction work,
or modification thereof, subject to the relevant rules, regulations and orders
of the Secretary of Labor or of any prior authority that remains in effect,
which is paid in whole or in part with the aid of such financial assistance,
the following equal opportunity clause.
      (1)   In the event of the contractor’s noncompliance with the provisions
of this equal employment opportunity clause, the Act or the rules and
regulations of the Department, the contractor may be declared ineligible for
future contracts or subcontracts with the state or any of its political
subdivisions or municipal corporations, and the contract may be cancelled or
voided in whole or in part, and other sanctions or penalties may be imposed or
remedies invoked as provided by statute or regulation.
      (2)   During the performance of this contract, the contractor agrees as
follows:
         (a)   That he or she will not discriminate against any employee or
applicant for employment because of race, color, religion, sex, sexual
orientation, marital status, national origin or ancestry, citizenship status,
age, physical or mental disability unrelated to ability, sexual orientation,
military status or an unfavorable discharge from military service; and,
further, that he or she will examine all job classifications to determine if
minority persons or women are underutilized and will take appropriate
affirmative action to rectify any underutilization;
         (b)   That, if he or she hires additional employees in order to
perform this contract or any portion of this contract, he or she will determine
the availability (in accordance with the Department’s rules and regulations) of
minorities and women in the areas from which he or she may reasonably recruit
and he or she will hire for each job classification for which employees are
hired in a way that minorities and women are not underutilized;
         (c)   That, in all solicitations or advertisements for employees
placed by him or her or on his or her behalf, he or she will state that all
applicants will be afforded equal opportunity without discrimination because of
race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, marital status, national origin
or ancestry, citizenship status, age, physical or mental disability unrelated
to ability, sexual orientation, military status or an unfavorable discharge
from military service;
         (d)   That he or she will send to each labor organization or
representative of workers with which he or she has or is bound by a collective
bargaining or other agreement or understanding, a notice advising the labor
organization or representative of the contractor’s obligations under the Act
and the Department’s rules and regulations. If any labor organization or
representative fails or refuses to cooperate with the contractor in his or her
efforts to comply with the Act and rules and regulations, the contractor will
promptly notify the Department and the contracting agency and will recruit
employees from other sources when necessary to fulfill its obligations under
the contract;
         (e)   That he or she will submit reports as required by the
Department’s rules and regulations, furnish all relevant information as may
from time to time be requested by the Department or the contracting agency, and
in all respects comply with the Act and the Department’s rules and regulations;
         (f)   That he or she will permit access to all relevant books,
records, accounts and work sites by personnel of the contracting agency and the
Department for purposes of investigation to ascertain compliance with the Act
and the Department’s rules and regulations; and
         (g)   That he or she will include verbatim or by reference the
provisions of this clause in every subcontract awarded under which any portion
of the contract obligations are undertaken or assumed, so that the provisions
will be binding upon the subcontractor. In the same manner as with other
provisions of this contract, the contractor will be liable for compliance with
applicable provisions of this clause by subcontractors; and further it will
promptly notify the contracting agency and the Department in the event any
subcontractor fails or refuses to comply with the provisions. In addition, the
contractor will not utilize any subcontractor declared by the State Human
Rights Commission to be ineligible for contracts or subcontracts with this
state or any of its political subdivisions or municipal corporations.
   (F)   The village assures that it will actively provide nondiscriminatory
outreach, selection and service to all individuals.
   (G)   Efforts will be made to hire minority individuals for all job
categories so that minority employment in all categories of the work force will
represent a proportionate share of minority populations in the village as well
as surrounding areas.
   (H)   The village will provide accommodations to the best of its ability for
employees with disabilities, contingent on budget and structural limitations.
   (I)   All village employees are expected to adhere to the above policy and
to work actively for its implementation both internally and in carrying out
village program activities.
   (J)   The village designates the Village President and Board of Trustees to
carry out the EEO/AA plan.
(Ord. 1996-8, passed 3-28-1996; Ord. 2011-02, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 32.32 (RESERVED).
§ 32.33 ELECTING PARTICIPATION IN THE ILLINOIS MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT FUND.
   (A)   The village does hereby elect to participate in the Illinois Municipal
Retirement Fund (IMRF), in accordance with division (B) below, effective
January 1, 1993.
   (B)   The standard for IMRF participation shall be a position normally
requiring performance of duty for 1,000 hours per year.
   (C)   The Village Clerk is hereby directed to promptly file a certified copy
of this subchapter with the Board of Trustees of the Illinois Municipal
Retirement Fund.
(Ord. 93-1, passed 1-4-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund, see 40 ILCS 5/7-101 et seq.
SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY
§ 32.40 POLICY AND PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   It is unlawful to harass a person because of that person's sex. All persons
have a right to work in an environment free from sexual harassment. Sexual
harassment is unacceptable misconduct which affects individuals of all genders
and sexual orientations. It is a policy of the village to prohibit harassment
of any person by any village official, village agent, village employee or
village agency or office on the basis of sex or gender. All village officials,
village agents, village employees and village agencies or offices are
prohibited from sexually harassing any person, regardless of any employment
relationship, or lack thereof.
(Ord. 2018-01, passed 2-5-2018)
§ 32.41 DEFINITION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   For purposes of this subchapter the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SEXUAL HARASSMENT. Any unwelcome sexual advance or requests for sexual favor
or any conduct of a sexual nature when:
      (1)   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly
a term or condition of an individual's employment; or
      (2)   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used
as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual; or
      (3)   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering
with an individual's work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or
offensive working environment.
(Ord. 2018-01, passed 2-5-2018)
§ 32.42 PROCEDURE FOR REPORTING AN ALLEGATION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   (A)   Any employee may report conduct, which is believed to be sexual
harassment, by the following:
      (1)   Contact with supervisory personnel. The harassed employee should
directly, clearly, and confidentially report the alleged sexual harassment to
his or her immediate supervisor, a department head, a member of the Village
Board or the Village President. The report may be verbal, or transmitted in a
note or memorandum.
      (2)   Resolution outside municipality. All village employees have the
right to contact the Illinois Department of Human Rights (IDHR) or the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) for information regarding filing a
formal complaint with those entities.
   (B)   All allegations, including anonymous reports, will be accepted and
investigated regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the
village. However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment
charges and the difficulties associated with their investigation and the
questions of credibility involved, the claimant's willing cooperation is a
vital component of an effective inquiry and an appropriate outcome.
(Ord. 2018-01, passed 2-5-2018)
§ 32.43 PROHIBITION ON RETALIATION FOR REPORTING SEXUAL HARASSMENT ALLEGATIONS.
   (A)   No village official or village employee shall take any retaliatory
action against any village employee due to the employee's:
      (1)   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this
policy; or
      (2)   Provision of information related to or testimony before any public
body conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any violation of this
policy; or
      (3)   Assistance or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this policy.
   (B)   For the purposes of this policy, RETALIATORY ACTION means the
reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer, or
change in the terms or conditions of employment of any village employee that is
taken in retaliation for a village employee's involvement in protected activity
pursuant to this policy.
   (C)   All village employees shall also be afforded the protections against
retaliation for reporting sexual harassment allegations, contained within the
State Officials and Employee Ethics Act (5 ILCS 430/15-10), the Whistleblower
Act (740 ILCS 174/15), and the Illinois Human Rights Act (775 ILCS 5/6-101
(A)).
(Ord. 2018-01, passed 2-5-2018)
§ 32.44 CONSEQUENCES OF A VIOLATION OF THE PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   In addition to any and all other discipline that may be applicable pursuant
to municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks
and/or collective bargaining agreement, any person who violates this policy
shall be subject to the necessary discipline, or discharge by the village. Each
violation may constitute a separate offense. Any discipline imposed by the
village shall be separate and distinct from any penalty imposed by a court of
law or a state or federal agency.
(Ord. 2018-01, passed 2-5-2018)
§ 32.45 CONSEQUENCES FOR KNOWINGLY MAKING A FALSE REPORT.
   A false report is a report of sexual harassment made by an accuser using the
sexual harassment report to accomplish some end other than stopping sexual
harassment or retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. A false report is
not a report made in good faith which cannot be proven. Any person who
intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation of any provision of
this policy shall be subject to the necessary discipline or discharge pursuant
to applicable municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee
handbooks and/or collective bargaining agreements.
(Ord. 2018-01, passed 2-5-2018)
CITIZEN PARTICIPATION AT PUBLIC MEETINGS
§ 32.60 PURPOSE.
   The following rules for permitting persons to address public officials are
hereby established and are set forth within this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 10-7-2019)
§ 32.61 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to address or attempt to address
any public official at any public meeting of any public body of the village
except in compliance with the limitations and restrictions imposed as provided
herein.
   (B)   Citizen participation shall be permitted as follows:
      (1)   Public forum.
      (2)   Agenda participation.
      (3)   Invited speakers.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 10-7-2019)
§ 32.62 LIMITATIONS.
   The president or the chairperson of any public body of the village may
impose reasonable limitations on the citizen participation at public meetings
such as barring repetitious, irrelevant, immaterial, or inappropriate comments
or testimony. The president or chairperson has the right to halt or suspend the
public meeting to a later date if the rules are not being followed. All
speakers will limit their comments to no more than five minutes.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 10-7-2019)
§ 32.63 PERSONS WISHING TO SPEAK.
   Persons wishing to speak during any portion of a public meeting shall sign
in before the start of the meeting stating his or her name, address, and topic
to be discussed. All speakers shall comply with these rules and regulations of
the president or chairperson. Speakers shall be called by name to address the
public body.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 10-7-2019)
§ 32.64 SPEAKERS.
   Speakers will identify themselves and provide their current address before
beginning their comments. Speakers will state their position on the issue, and
may provide supporting documentation and/or evidence. The speaker shall refrain
from engaging in debates, directing threats, or making personal attacks at
village officials, staff, other speakers, or members of the audience.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 10-7-2019)
§ 32.65 TIMER.
   A timer shall be used to notify the speaker when the time allotted has
expired. The speaker will then be informed that his or her time has expired,
and shall stop speaking and stand down, unless a majority of the public body
grants additional time. If necessary, the president or chairperson shall take
action to enforce this rule.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 10-7-2019)
§ 32.66 AUDIENCE.
   Members of the audience shall refrain from applauding, cheering, or booing
during or at the conclusion of remarks made by any person.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 10-7-2019)
§ 32.67 REPRESENTATIVE SPEAKERS.
   Groups of persons should, whenever possible, consolidate their comments and
avoid repetition through the use of representative speakers.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 10-7-2019)
§ 32.68 PUBLIC BODY QUESTIONS.
   Members of the public body may, but need not, ask questions of the speakers
at the conclusion of their comments.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 10-7-2019)
§ 32.69 PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   The rules applicable to public meetings shall generally apply to public
hearings.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 10-7-2019)
§ 32.70 INVITED SPEAKERS.
   Any citizen may address a public body by invitation of the president,
chairperson, or a majority of the public body. Speakers invited to participate
shall be subject to such limitations as the president, chairperson, or majority
of the public body shall prescribe.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 10-7-2019)
ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER
§ 32.80 ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER.
   The 11th Edition of Robert’s Rules of Order which may be amended or revised
hereafter, shall govern the deliberations of the Village Board except when in
conflict with any of the foregoing rules.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 10-7-2019)
CHAPTER 33: TAXATION AND FINANCE
Section
General Provisions
   
33.001   Village depository designated
   
33.002   Release of school site donation balance at the start of fiscal year
Locally Imposed and Administered Tax Rights and Responsibilities
   
33.015   Title
   
33.016   Scope
   
33.017   Definitions
   
33.018   Notices
   
33.019   Late payment
   
33.020   Order of application of payment
   
33.021   Certain credit and refunds
   
33.022   Audit procedure
   
33.023   Appeal
   
33.024   Hearing
   
33.025   Interest and penalties
   
33.026   Abatement
   
33.027   Installment contracts
   
33.028   Statute of limitations
   
33.029   Voluntary disclosure
   
33.030   Publication of tax ordinances
   
33.031   Internal review procedure
   
33.032   Application
Electrical Utility Taxes
   
33.045   Annual tax imposed; conditions
   
33.046   Effective date
   
33.047   Periodic return
   
33.048   Gross receipts tax
   
33.049   Overpayment of tax and credit
   
33.050   Definitions
   
33.051   Monthly tax imposed
   
33.052   Exceptions
   
33.053   Additional taxes
   
33.054   Collection
   
33.055   Monthly reports to municipality
   
33.056   Credit for erroneous payment
   
33.057   Time limit for action to recover
Gas Utility Tax
   
33.070   Tax imposed
   
33.071   Transactions not subject to taxation
   
33.072   Definitions
   
33.073   Effect of provisions
   
33.074   Taxpayer to make return
   
33.075   Credit for erroneous payment
   
33.076   Time limit for action to recover
   
33.077   Effective date
Investment Policy
   
33.090   Policy and scope
   
33.091   Prudence
   
33.092   Objectives
   
33.093   Delegation of authority
   
33.094   Ethics and conflicts of interest
   
33.095   Authorized financial dealers and institutions
   
33.096   Authorized and suitable investments
   
33.097   Collateralization
   
33.098   Safekeeping and custody
   
33.099   Diversification
   
33.100   Maximum maturities
   
33.101   Internal control
   
33.102   Performance standards
   
33.103   Reporting; marking to market
   
33.104   Investment policy adoption
Municipal Taxes
   
33.115   Municipal use tax
   
33.116   Municipal service occupation tax
   
33.117   Municipal retailers occupation tax
  Fire Insurance
   
33.130   Unlawful to do business if in default
   
33.131   Tax on foreign fire insurance companies
   
33.132   Agent to render annual account
   
33.133   Village agents to refrain from business with those in default
Tax Increment Financing Interested Parties Registry; Registration Rules
   
33.150   Definitions
   
33.151   Establishment of registry
   
33.152   Maintenance of registry
   
33.153   Registration by residents
   
33.154   Registration by organizations
   
33.155   Determination of eligibility
   
33.156   Renewal and termination
   
33.157   Amendment to registration
   
33.158   Registries available for public inspection
   
33.159   Notices to be sent to interested parties
   
33.160   Non-interference
   
33.161   Amendments of registration rules
Municipal Cannabis Retailers’ Occupation Tax
   
33.180   Tax imposed; rate
   
33.181   Collection of tax by retailers
 
   
33.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.001 VILLAGE DEPOSITORY DESIGNATED.
   The Treasurer shall deposit the village funds in such depositories as may be
selected from time to time by the Village Board.
§ 33.002 RELEASE OF SCHOOL SITE DONATION BALANCE AT THE START OF FISCAL YEAR.
   The Village Treasurer is hereby authorized to release any accrued school
site donation balance at the start of each fiscal year.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 12-2-2002)
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
§ 33.015 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the Locally Imposed
and Administered Tax Rights and Responsibility Ordinance.
(Ord. 2001-1, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 33.016 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to the village’s procedures in
connection with all of the village’s locally imposed and administered taxes.
(Ord. 2001-1, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 33.017 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Local Government Taxpayers Bill of Rights Act, being 50 ILCS 45/
1 et seq.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES. The Village President and Board of Trustees.
   LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The Village Clerk is charged with the
administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes,
including staff, employees or agents to the extent they are authorized by the
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR to act in the LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR’S stead. The
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR shall have the authority to implement the terms of this
subchapter to give full effect to this subchapter. The exercise of such
authority by the LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR shall not be inconsistent with this
subchapter and the Act.
   LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX or TAX. Each tax imposed by the village
that is collected or administered by the village not an agency or department of
the state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
property tax code, being 35 ILCS 200/1-1 et seq., or fees collected by the
village other than infrastructure maintenance fees.
   NOTICE. Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the village’s locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   TAX ORDINANCE. Each ordinance adopted by the village that imposes any
locally imposed and administered tax.
   TAXPAYER. Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered
tax and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax
is placed, and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
village.
   VILLAGE.  The Village of Mazon, Illinois.
(Ord. 2001-1, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 33.018 NOTICES.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given,
the notice is to be in writing and mailed (not less than seven calendar days)
prior to the day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act
of the Local Tax Administrator.
   (B)   The notice shall be sent by the Local Tax Administrator as follows:
      (1)   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the person’s last known address; or
      (2)   Personal service or delivery.
(Ord. 2001-1, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 33.019 LATE PAYMENT.
    Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the
village pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is
either:
   (A)   Physically received by the village on or before the due date; or
   (B)   Received in an envelope or other container displaying a valid,
readable U.S. postmark dated on or before the due date, properly addressed to
the village, with adequate postage prepaid.
(Ord. 2001-1, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 33.020 ORDER OF APPLICATION OF PAYMENT.
   Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order:
   (A)   First to the tax due for the applicable period;
   (B)   Second to the interest due for the applicable period; and
   (C)   Third to the penalty for the applicable period.
(Ord. 2001-1, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 33.021 CERTAIN CREDIT AND REFUNDS.
   (A)   The village shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid
without written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally
imposed and administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional
by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed
to have paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts
upon which to protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid
the taxes under duress.
   (B)   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be
one year after the end of the calendar year in which payment in error was made.
The village shall not grant a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties to a person who has not paid the
amounts directly to the village.
   (C)   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as follows.
      (1)   The taxpayer shall submit to the Local Tax Administrator, in
writing, a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         (a)   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         (b)   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         (c)   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the
cancelled check or receipt for the payment;
         (d)   The taxpayer’s recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         (e)   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any moneys to the village.
      (2)   Within ten days of the receipt by the Local Tax Administrator of
any claim for a refund or credit, the Local Tax Administrator shall either:
         (a)   Grant the claim; or
         (b)   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement
as to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      (3)   In the event the Local Tax Administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of 0% per annum, based on a year of 365
days and the number of days elapsed, from the date of the overpayment to the
date of mailing of a refund check or the grant of a credit.
(Ord. 2001-1, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 33.022 AUDIT PROCEDURE.
   Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this subchapter.
   (A)   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The tax;
      (2)   The time period of the audit; and
      (3)   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   (B)   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and if the
date and time selected by the Local Tax Administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer (within 30
days) after the originally designated audit and during normal business hours.
   (C)   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven days nor more than
30 days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer and the Local
Tax Administrator agree to some other convenient time. In the event taxpayer is
unable to comply with the audit on the date in question, the taxpayer may
request another date within the 30 days, approved in writing, that is
convenient to the taxpayer and the Local Tax Administrator.
   (D)   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the taxpayer’s
business or activities, including original source documents and books of entry
denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given rise to any
tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in the English
language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by the village.
The auditor must sign a confidentiality agreement upon request by taxpayer.
   (E)   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make available
its books and records for inspection by the village. If the taxpayer fails to
provide the documents necessary for audit within the time provided, the Local
Tax Administrator may issue a tax determination and assessment based on the Tax
Administrator’s determination of the best estimate of the taxpayer’s tax
liability.
   (F)   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within 30 days of the
village’s determination of the amount of overpayment. Upon completion of the
audit, the local jurisdiction must issue an audit closure report to the
taxpayer with the results of the audit.
   (G)   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the Local Tax Administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing such tax.
(Ord. 2001-1, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 33.023 APPEAL.
   (A)   The Local Tax Administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the Local Tax Administrator’s issuance of a protestable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The
notice shall include the following information:
      (1)   The reason for the assessment;
      (2)   The procedure for appealing the assessment;
      (3)   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      (4)   The obligations of the village during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   (B)   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the Local Tax
Administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the
Local Tax Administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting
forth the basis of the taxpayer’s request for a hearing. The written protest
and petition for hearing must be filed with the Local Tax Administrator within
45 days of receipt of the tax determination and assessment.
   (C)   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the
Local Tax Administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within 14 days of receipt of the written protest and petition for hearing,
unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
   (D)   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the
45-day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment shall become a final
bill due and owing without further notice.
   (E)   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the Local Tax Administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than 90 days after the expiration of the 45-day period.
(Ord. 2001-1, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 33.024 HEARING.
   (A)   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under §
33.023, the Local Tax Administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any
appeal.
   (B)   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance
is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed 14 days.
   (C)   At the hearing the Local Tax Administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit
or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
   (D)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the Local Tax Administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision.
(Ord. 2001-1, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 33.025 INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   In the event a determination has been made that a tax is due and owing,
through audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be paid within the
time frame otherwise indicated.
   (A)   Interest.  The village hereby provides for the amount of interest to
be assessed on a late payment, underpayment or nonpayment of the tax, to be 0%
per annum, based on a year of 365 days and the number of days elapsed.
   (B)   Late filing and payment penalties. If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty of 0% of the amount of tax required to be shown as due on a return
shall be imposed; and a late payment penalty of 0% of the tax due shall be
imposed. If no return is filed within the time or manner provided by the
controlling tax ordinance and prior to the village issuing a notice of tax
delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure-to-file penalty shall be
assessed equal to 25% of the total tax due for the applicable reporting period
for which the return was required to be filed. A late filing or payment penalty
shall not apply if a failure-to-file penalty is imposed by the controlling
ordinance.
(Ord. 2001-1, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 33.026 ABATEMENT.
   The Local Tax Administrator shall have the authority to waive or abate any
late filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure-to-file penalty if the
Local Tax Administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists for delay or
failure to make a filing.
(Ord. 2001-1, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 33.027 INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS.
   The village may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The Local Tax
Administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
Local Tax Administrator that the payment is 30 days delinquent, the taxpayer
shall have 14 working days to cure any delinquency. If the taxpayer fails to
cure the delinquency within the 14-day period or fails to demonstrate good
faith in restructuring the installment contract with the Local Tax
Administrator, the installment contract shall be canceled without further
notice to the taxpayer.
(Ord. 2001-1, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 33.028 STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The village, through the Local Tax Administrator, shall review all tax
returns in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due
and owing. The taxpayer shall have 45 days after receiving notice of the
reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax still
due and owing.
   (B)   (1)   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than
four years maximum after the end of the calendar year for which the return for
the applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return
for the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
      (2)   If any tax return is not filed or if, during any four-year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
village, the tax paid was less than 75% of the tax due, the statute of
limitations shall be six years maximum after the end of the calendar year in
which return for the applicable period was due or end of the calendar year in
which the return for the applicable period was filed.
      (3)   No statute of limitations shall not apply if a fraudulent tax
return was filed by the taxpayer.
(Ord. 2001-1, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 33.029 VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE.
   For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation or assessment form the
Local Tax Administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
Local Tax Administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of 1% per month, for all periods prior to the filing
of the application but not more than four years before the date of filing the
application. A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure application may not
be liable for any additional tax, interest or penalty for any period before the
date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer incorrectly determined
and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is liable for the underpaid
tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid tax unless the underpayment
was the result of fraud on the part of the taxpayer, in which case the
application shall be deemed invalid and void. The payment of tax and interest
must be made by no later than 90 days after the filing of the voluntary
disclosure application or the date agreed to by the Local Tax Administrator.
However, any additional amounts owed as a result of an underpayment of tax and
interest previously paid under this section must be paid within 90 days after a
final determination and the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount
owed or the date agreed to by the Local Tax Administrator, whichever is longer.
(Ord. 2001-1, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 33.030 PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES.
   Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
Internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the Village
Clerk’s office.
(Ord. 2001-1, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 33.031 INTERNAL REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Local Tax Administrator shall establish an internal review
procedure regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes.
   (B)   Upon a determination by the Local Tax Administrator, he or she shall:
      (1)   Timely remove the lien at the village’s expense;
      (2)   Correct the taxpayer’s credit record; and
      (3)   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien.
(Ord. 2001-1, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 33.032 APPLICATION.
   This subchapter shall be liberally construed and administered to supplement
all the village tax ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in
conflict with or inconsistent with this subchapter, this subchapter shall be
controlling.
(Ord. 2001-1, passed 1-2-2001)
ELECTRICAL UTILITY TAXES
§ 33.045 ANNUAL TAX IMPOSED; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following occupations
of privileges: persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling electricity for use of consumption within the corporate
limits of the village, and not for resale, at the rate of 5% of the gross
receipts therefrom.
   (B)   No tax is imposed by this subchapter with respect to any transaction
in interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to which the business may
not, under the Constitution and statutes of the United States, be made the
subject of taxation by this state or any political subdivision thereof; nor
shall any persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing, or selling gas, water or electricity, or engaged in the business of
transmitting messages be subject to taxation under the provisions of this
subchapter for those transactions that are or may become subject to taxation
under the provisions of the Municipal Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act authorized
by § 8-11-1 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/); nor shall any tax
authorized by this subchapter be imposed upon any person engaged in a business
unless the tax is imposed in like manner and at the same rate upon all persons
engaged in business of the same class within the village, whether privately or
municipally owned or operated.
   (C)   Such tax shall be in addition to the payment of money, or value of
products or services furnished to this municipality by the taxpayer as
compensation for the use of its streets, alleys or other public places, or
installation and maintenance therein, thereon or thereunder of poles, wires,
pipes or other equipment used in the operation of the taxpayer’s business.
(Ord. 2000-8, passed 6-5-2000)
§ 33.046 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)    This subchapter shall take effect after publication and the tax
provided for herein shall be based on the gross receipts, as herein defined,
actually paid to the taxpayer for services billed on or after the fifth day of
June 2000.
   (B)   The provisions of Ord. 2000-8 in this subchapter shall take effect on
the first day of the month next following its passage.
(Ord. 2000-8, passed 6-5-2000)
§ 33.047 PERIODIC RETURN.
   (A)   On or before the last day of             , 2000 (note: use the fourth
month after the month in the preceding section, i.e., if the tax begins in
January the report is due in May), each taxpayer shall make a return to the
City Treasurer for the months of , October           and            , 2000,
stating:
      (1)   His or her name;
      (2)   His or her principal place of business;
      (3)   His or her gross receipts during those months upon the basis of
which the tax is imposed;
      (4)   Amount of tax; and
      (5)   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
   (B)   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the time
of making such return, pay to the Village Treasurer the amount of tax herein
imposed; provided that in connection with any return the taxpayer may, if he or
she so elects, report and pay an amount based upon his or her total billings of
business subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made
(exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later
payments based upon any difference between such billings and the taxable gross
receipts.
(Ord. 2000-8, passed 6-5-2000)
§ 33.048 GROSS RECEIPTS TAX.
   The tax imposed under this subchapter shall not apply with respect to gross
receipts pertaining to bills for the distribution, supply, furnishing or sale
of electricity where the use or consumption of the electricity is subject to
the tax imposed under §
33.051.
(Ord. 2000-14, passed 8-21-2000)
§ 33.049 OVERPAYMENT OF TAX AND CREDIT.
   If a taxpayer under this chapter is unable to use a credit authorized by
this subchapter solely because the tax imposed by this subchapter has been
replaced by the tax imposed under this amendment, then the taxpayer may apply
such credit against any tax due under this kilowatt hour tax.
(Ord. 2000-14, passed 8-21-2000)
§ 33.050 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. The consideration received for the transmission of messages,
the consideration received for distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling
gas, for use or consumption and not for resale, and the consideration received
for distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling electricity for use or
consumption and not for resale, and the consideration received for
distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling water for use of consumption and
not for resale, and for all services rendered in connection therewith valued in
money, whether received in money or otherwise, including cash, credit, services
and property of every kind and material and for all services rendered
therewith, and shall be determined without any deduction on account of the cost
of transmitting such messages, without any deduction on account of the cost of
the service, product or commodity supplied, the cost of materials used, labor
or service cost, or any other expenses whatsoever. For utility bills issued on
or after May 1, 1998, and for receipts from those utility bills, GROSS RECEIPTS
does not include:
      (1)   Amounts added to customer’s bills under § 9-222 of the Public
Utilities Act , 220 ILCS 5/9-222; or
      (2)   Amounts added to customer’s bills by taxpayers who are not subject
to rate regulation by the State Commerce Commission for the purpose of
recovering any of the tax liabilities described in § 9-222 of the Public
Utilities Act, 220 ILCS 5/9-222.
   PERSON. Any natural, individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, limited
liability company, municipal corporation, estate or any of its political
subdivisions, any state university created by statute, or a receiver, trustee,
conservator or other representative appointed by order of the court.
   PERSON MAINTAINING A PLACE OR BUSINESS IN THIS STATE. Any person having or
maintaining within this state, directly or by a subsidiary or other affiliate,
in office, generation, facility, distribution facility, transmission facility,
sales office or other place of business, or any employee, agent or other
representative operating within the state under the authority of the person or
its subsidiary or other affiliate, irrespective of whether such place of
business or agent or other representative is located in this state permanently
or temporarily, or whether such person, subsidiary or other affiliate is
licensed or qualified to do business in the state.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Shall have the meaning ascribed to it in § 3-105 of the
Public Utilities Act, 220 ILCS 5/3-105, and shall include telecommunications
carriers as defined in § 13-202 of that Act, 220 ILCS 5/13-202. In the case of
persons engaged in the business of transmitting messages through the use of
mobile equipment, such as cellular phones and paging systems, the gross
receipts from the business shall be deemed to originate within the corporate
limits of a municipality only if the address to which the bills for the service
are sent is within those corporate limits. If, however, that address is not
located within a municipality that imposes a tax under this section, then: if
the party responsible for the bill is not an individual, the gross receipts
from the business shall be deemed to originate within the corporate limits of
the municipality where that party’s principal place of business in this state
is located; and if the party responsible for the bill is an individual, the
gross receipts from the business shall be deemed to originate within the
corporate limits of the municipality where that party’s principal residence in
this state is located.
   PURCHASE AT RETAIL. Any acquisition of electricity by a purchaser for
purposes of use or consumption, and not for resale, but shall not include the
use of electricity by a public utility, as defined in § 8-11-2 of the Illinois
Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-2), directly in generation, production,
transmission, delivery or sale of electricity.
   PURCHASER. Any person who uses or consumes, within the corporate limits of
the village, electricity acquired in purchase at retail.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Mazon.
(Ord. 2000-14, passed 8-21-2000)
§ 33.051 MONTHLY TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   (1)   A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following
occupations or privileges: the privilege of using or consuming electricity
acquired in a purchase at retail and used or consumed within the corporate
limits of the municipality at the following rates, calculated on a monthly
basis for each purchaser:
KW-Hours Used/Consumed in a Month Rate per KW-Hour (Cents)
KW-Hours Used/Consumed in a Month                 Rate per KW-Hour (Cents)
For the first 2,000                               0.00513 cents
For the next 48,000                               0.336 cents
For the next 50,000                               0.303 cents
For the next 400,000                              0.294 cents
For the next 500,000                              0.286 cents
For the next 2,000,000                            0.269 cents
For the next 2,000,000                            0.265 cents
For the next 5,000,000                            0.261 cents
For the next 10,000,000                           0.256 cents
For all electricity used or consumed in excess of 0.252 cents
20,000,000
 
      (2)   The tax is in addition to all taxes, fees and other revenue
measures imposed by the village or any other political subdivision of the
state.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the tax shall not
be imposed if and to the extent that imposition or collection of the tax would
violate the Constitution or statutes of the United States or the Constitution
of this state.
   (C)   The tax shall be imposed with respect to the use or consumption of
electricity by residential customers beginning with the first bill issued on or
after October 1, 2000; and with respect to the use or consumption of
electricity by nonresidential customers beginning with the first bill issued to
such customers for delivery services in accordance with § 16-104 of the Public
Utilities Act (220 ILCS 5/16-104), or the first bill issued to such customers
on or after January 1, 2001, whichever issuance occurs sooner.
(Ord. 2000-14, passed 8-21-2000)
§ 33.052 EXCEPTIONS.
   None of the taxes authorized by this subchapter may be imposed with respect
to any transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to which
the business or privilege may not, under the Constitution and statutes of the
United States, be made the subject of taxation by this state or any political
subdivision thereof; nor shall any persons engaged in the business of
distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling or transmitting gas, water or
electricity, or engaged in the business of transmitting messages, or using or
consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at retail, be subject to taxation
under the provisions of this subchapter for those transactions that are or may
become subject to taxation under the provisions of the Municipal Retailers’
Occupation Tax Act authorized by § 8-11-1 (65 ILCS 5/); nor shall any tax
authorized by this subchapter be imposed upon any person engaged in a business
or on any privilege unless the tax is imposed in like manner and at the same
rate upon all persons engaged in the businesses of the same class in the
municipality, whether privately or municipally owned or operated, or exercising
the same privilege within the municipality.
(Ord. 2000-14, passed 8-21-2000)
§ 33.053 ADDITIONAL TAXES.
   Such tax shall be in addition to other taxes levied upon the taxpayer or its
business.
(Ord. 2000-14, passed 8-21-2000)
§ 33.054 COLLECTION.
   (A)   The tax authorized by this subchapter shall be collected from the
purchaser by the person maintaining a place of business in this state who
delivers the electricity to the purchaser. Any tax required to be collected by
this subchapter, and any tax in fact collected, shall constitute a debt owed to
the village by the person delivering the electricity; provided that the person
delivering electricity shall be allowed credit for such tax related to
deliveries of electricity the charges for which are written off as
uncollectible, and provided further, that if such charges are thereafter
collected, the delivering supplier shall be obligated to remit such tax.
   (B)   Persons delivering electricity shall collect the tax from the
purchaser by adding such tax to the gross charge for delivering the
electricity. Persons delivering electricity shall also be authorized to add to
such gross charge an amount equal to 3% of the tax to reimburse the person
delivering electricity for the expense incurred in keeping records, billing
customers, preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax and supplying data
to the municipality upon request. If the person delivering electricity fails to
collect the tax from the purchaser, then the purchaser shall be required to pay
the tax directly to the municipality in the manner prescribed by the
municipality. Persons delivering electricity who file returns pursuant to this
division (B) shall, at the time of filing such return, pay the municipality the
amount of the tax collected pursuant to this subchapter.
(Ord. 2000-14, passed 8-21-2000)
§ 33.055 MONTHLY REPORTS TO MUNICIPALITY.
   (A)   On or before the last day of each month, each taxpayer shall make a
return to the village for the preceding month stating:
      (1)   His or her name;
      (2)   His or her principal place of business;
      (3)   His or her gross receipts and/or kilowatt-hour usage during the
month upon the basis of which the tax is imposed;
      (4)   Amount of tax; and
      (5)   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
   (B)   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the time
of making such return, pay to the village the amount of tax herein imposed;
provided that in connection with any return, the taxpayer may, if he or she so
elects, report and pay an amount based upon his or her total billings of
business subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made
(exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later
payments based upon any differences between such billings, and the taxable
gross receipts.
(Ord. 2000-14, passed 8-21-2000)
§ 33.056 CREDIT FOR ERRONEOUS PAYMENT.
   If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not due
under the provisions of this subchapter, whether as the result of a mistake of
fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any tax
due, or to become due, under this subchapter from the taxpayer who made the
erroneous payment; provided that no amounts erroneously paid more than three
years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited.
(Ord. 2000-8, passed 6-5-2000)
§ 33.057 TIME LIMIT FOR ACTION TO RECOVER.
   No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of this
subchapter shall be commenced more than three years after the due date of such
amount.
(Ord. 2000-8, passed 6-5-2000)
GAS UTILITY TAX
§ 33.070 TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following occupations
of privileges: persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing, or selling gas for use of consumption within the corporate limits
of the village, and not for resale, at the rate of 5% of the gross receipts
therefrom.
   (B)   Such tax shall be in addition to the payment of money, or value of
products or services furnished to this municipality by the taxpayer as
compensation for the use of its streets, alleys or other public places, or
installation and maintenance therein, thereon or thereunder of poles, wires,
pipes or other equipment used in the operation of the taxpayer’s business.
(Ord. 2000-9, passed 6-5-2000)
§ 33.071 TRANSACTIONS NOT SUBJECT TO TAXATION.
   No tax is imposed by this subchapter with respect to any transaction in
interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to which the business may not,
under the Constitution and statutes of the United States, be made the subject
of taxation by this state or any political subdivision thereof; nor shall any
persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing or
selling gas, water or electricity, or engaged in the business of transmitting
messages be subject to taxation under the provisions of this subchapter for
those transactions that are or may become subject to taxation under the
provisions of the Municipal Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act authorized by § 8-11-
1 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-1); nor shall any tax
authorized by this subchapter be imposed upon any person engaged in a business
unless the tax is imposed in like manner and at the same rate upon all persons
engaged in business of the same class within the village, whether privately or
municipally owned or operated.
(Ord. 2000-9, passed 6-5-2000)
§ 33.072 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. The consideration received for distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas for use or consumption and not for resale, as the
case may be; and for all services rendered in connection therewith valued in
money, whether received in money or otherwise, including cash, credit, services
and property of every kind and material and for all services rendered
therewith; and shall be determined without any deduction on account of the cost
of the service, product or commodity supplied, the cost of materials used,
labor or service cost, or any other expenses whatsoever.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, municipal
corporation or political subdivision of this state, or a receiver, trustee,
guardian or other representative appointed by order of any court.
(Ord. 2000-9, passed 6-5-2000; Ord. 2000-16, passed 9-18-2000)
§ 33.073 EFFECT OF PROVISIONS.
   This subchapter shall take effect after publication and the tax provided for
herein shall be based on the gross receipts, as herein defined, actually paid
to the taxpayer for services billed on or after the fifth day of June 2000.
(Ord. 2000-9, passed 6-5-2000)
§ 33.074 TAXPAYER TO MAKE RETURN.
   (A)   On or before the last day of October, 2000, each taxpayer shall make a
return to the Village Treasurer for the prior month stating:
      (1)   His or her name;
      (2)   His or her principal place of business;
      (3)   His or her gross receipts during those months upon the basis of
which the tax is imposed;
      (4)   Amount of tax; and
      (5)   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
   (B)   On or before the last day of every month thereafter, each taxpayer
shall make a like return to the Village Treasurer for the corresponding month.
   (C)   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the time
of making such return, pay to the Village Treasurer, the amount of tax herein
imposed; provided that in connection with any return the taxpayer may, if he or
she so elects, report and pay an amount based upon his or her total billings of
business subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made
(exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later
payments based upon any differences between such billings and taxable gross
receipts.
   (D)   This section shall be effective as to bills issued on or after
September 1, 2000.
(Ord. 2000-9, passed 6-5-2000; Ord. 2000-16, passed 9-18-2000)
§ 33.075 CREDIT FOR ERRONEOUS PAYMENT.
   If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not due
under the provisions of this subchapter, whether as the result of a mistake of
fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any tax
due, or to become due, under this subchapter from the taxpayer who made the
erroneous payment; provided that no amounts erroneously paid more than three
years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited.
(Ord. 2000-9, passed 6-5-2000)
§ 33.076 TIME LIMIT FOR ACTION TO RECOVER.
   No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of this
subchapter shall be commenced more than three years after the due date of such
amount.
(Ord. 2000-9, passed 6-5-2000)
§ 33.077 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect on the first day of the month next
following its passage.
(Ord. 2000-9, passed 6-5-2000)
INVESTMENT POLICY
§ 33.090 POLICY AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Policy. It is the policy of the village to invest public funds in a
manner which will provide the highest investment return with the maximum
security while meeting the daily cash flow demands of the entity and conforming
to all state and local statutes governing the investment of public funds.
   (B)   Scope. The policy includes all funds governed by the Board of
Trustees.
(Ord. 1999-8, passed 7-6-1999)
§ 33.091 PRUDENCE.
   (A)   Investments shall be made with judgment and care, under circumstances
then prevailing, which persons of prudence, discretion and intelligence
exercise in the management of their own affairs, not for speculation, but for
investment, considering the probable safety of their capital, as well as the
probable income to be derived.
   (B)   The standard of prudence to be used by investment officials shall be
the “prudent person” standard and shall be applied in context of managing an
overall portfolio.
(Ord. 1999-8, passed 7-6-1999)
§ 33.092 OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   The primary objectives, in order of priority, shall be:
      (1)   Legality: conformance with federal, state and other requirements;
      (2)   Safety: preservation of capital and protection of investment
principal;
      (3)   Liquidity: maintenance of sufficient liquidity to meet operating
requirements; and
      (4)   Yield: attainment of market rates of return.
   (B)   The portfolio should be reviewed periodically as to its effectiveness
in meeting the entity’s needs for safety, liquidity, rate of return,
diversification and its general performance.
(Ord. 1999-8, passed 7-6-1999)
§ 33.093 DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY.
   Management and administrative responsibility for the investment program is
hereby delegated to the Finance Director (Treasurer) who, under the delegation
of the Board of Trustees, shall establish written procedures for the operation
of the investment program.
(Ord. 1999-8, passed 7-6-1999)
§ 33.094 ETHICS AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   Officers and employees involved in the investment process shall refrain from
personal business activity that could conflict with the proper execution and
management of the investment program, or that could impair their ability to
make impartial decisions.
(Ord. 1999-8, passed 7-6-1999)
§ 33.095 AUTHORIZED FINANCIAL DEALERS AND INSTITUTIONS.
   (A)   The Village Treasurer will maintain a list of financial institutions
authorized to provide investment services.
   (B)   In addition, a list will also be maintained of approved security
brokers/dealers selected by credit-worthiness.
(Ord. 1999-8, passed 7-6-1999)
§ 33.096 AUTHORIZED AND SUITABLE INVESTMENTS.
   (A)   Investments may be made in any type of security allowed for in state
statutes regarding the investment of public funds.
   (B)   Investments shall be made that reflect the cash flow needs of the fund
type being invested.
(Ord. 1999-8, passed 7-6-1999)
§ 33.097 COLLATERALIZATION.
   Funds on deposit (checking accounts, certificates of deposit, and the like)
in excess of FDIC limits must be secured by some form of collateral, witnessed
by a written agreement and held at an independent, third-party institution in
the name of the municipality.
(Ord. 1999-8, passed 7-6-1999)
§ 33.098 SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY.
   All security transactions, including collateral for repurchase agreements,
entered into by the village, shall be conducted on a delivery-versus-payment
(DVP) basis. Securities will be held by an independent third-party custodian
designated by the Village Treasurer and evidenced by safekeeping receipts and a
written custodial agreement.
(Ord. 1999-8, passed 7-6-1999)
§ 33.099 DIVERSIFICATION.
   The entity shall diversify its investments to the best of its ability based
on the type of funds invested and the cash flow needs of those funds.
Diversification can be by type of investment, number of institutions invested
in and length of maturity.
(Ord. 1999-8, passed 7-6-1999)
§ 33.100 MAXIMUM MATURITIES.
   (A)   To the extent possible, the village shall attempt to match its
investments with anticipated cash flow requirements. Unless matched to a
specific cash flow, the village will not directly invest in securities maturing
more than five years from the date of purchase.
   (B)   Reserve funds may be invested in securities exceeding five years if
the maturity of such investments are made to coincide as nearly as practicable
with the expected use of the funds.
(Ord. 1999-8, passed 7-6-1999)
§ 33.101 INTERNAL CONTROL.
   (A)   The Village Treasurer is responsible for establishing and maintaining
an internal control structure designed to ensure that the assets of the entity
are protected from loss, theft or misuse. The internal control structure shall
be designed to provide reasonable assurance that these objectives are met.
   (B)   The internal controls shall address the following points:
      (1)   Control of collusion;
      (2)   Separation of transaction authority from accounting;
      (3)   Custodial safekeeping; and
      (4)   Written confirmation of telephone transactions for investments and
wire transfers.
(Ord. 1999-8, passed 7-6-1999)
§ 33.102 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   This investment portfolio will be managed in accordance with the parameters
specified within this policy. The portfolio should obtain a comparable rate of
return during a market/economic environment of stable interest rates. Portfolio
performance should be compared to benchmarks with similar maturity, liquidity
and credit quality as the portfolio.
(Ord. 1999-8, passed 7-6-1999)
§ 33.103 REPORTING; MARKING TO MARKET.
   (A)   The Village Treasurer shall prepare an investment report at least
monthly. The report should be provided to the Board of Trustees and available
on request. The report should be in a format suitable for review by the general
public. An annual report should also be provided to the Board.
   (B)   A statement of the market value of the portfolio shall be issued to
the Board of Trustees quarterly.
(Ord. 1999-8, passed 7-6-1999)
§ 33.104 INVESTMENT POLICY ADOPTION.
   The investment policy shall be adopted by the Board of Trustees. The policy
shall be reviewed on an annual basis by the Village Treasurer and any
modifications made thereto must be approved by the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 1999-8, passed 7-6-1999)
MUNICIPAL TAXES
§ 33.115 MUNICIPAL USE TAX.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed in accordance with the provisions of § 8-11-
6 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/) upon the privilege of using in
the municipality any item of tangible personal property which is purchased
outside this state at retail from a retailer, and which it titled or registered
with any agency of state government. The tax shall be at a rate of 1% of the
selling price of such tangible property with selling price to have the meaning
as defined in the Use Tax Act, approved July 14, 1955.
   (B)   Such tax shall be collected by the State Department of Revenue for all
municipalities imposing the tax and shall be paid before the title or
certificate of registration for the personal property is issued.
   (C)   This subchapter shall be published within ten days of its enactment as
provided in § 1-2-4 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/) and shall be
effective on the first day of the month following the expiration of such
publication.
(Ord. passed 1-20-1975)
§ 33.116 MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the village in the business
of making sales of service at the rate of 1% of the cost price of all tangible
personal property transferred by said servicemen either in the form of tangible
personal property or in the form of real estate as an incident to a sale of
service in accordance with § 8-11-5 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/
).
   (B)   Every serviceman required to account for municipal service occupation
tax for the benefit of this municipality shall file, on or before the last day
of each calendar month, a report to the State Department of Revenue required by
§ 9 of the Service Occupation Tax Act, being 35 ILCS 115/9.
   (C)   At the time such report is filed there shall be paid to the State
Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed.
   (D)   This subchapter shall be published within ten days of its enactment as
provided in § 1-2-4 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/) and shall be
effective from and after the first day of the calendar month next following the
expiration of the ten-day publication period.
   (E)   This subchapter shall take effect on November 1, 1969.
(Ord. passed 10-6-1969)
§ 33.117 MUNICIPAL RETAILERS OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed on all persons engaged in the village in the
business of selling tangible personal property at retail at the rate of 1% of
the gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such business in
accordance with § 8-11-1 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/).
   (B)   Every person engaged in selling tangible personal property at retail
is required to account for municipal occupational tax for the benefit of this
municipality shall file, on or before the last day of each calendar month, a
report to the State Department of Revenue required by § 9 of the Retailers
Occupational Tax Act, being 35 ILCS 120/9.
   (C)   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the State
Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed.
   (D)   This subchapter shall be published within ten days of its enactment as
provided in § 1-2-4 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/) and shall be
effective from and after the first day of the calendar month next following the
expiration of the ten-day publication period.
   (E)   This subchapter shall take effect on November 1, 1969.
(Ord. passed 10-6-1969)
FIRE INSURANCE
§ 33.130 UNLAWFUL TO DO BUSINESS IF IN DEFAULT.
   It shall be unlawful for any corporation or association not incorporated
under the laws of this state to engage in the village, in effecting fire
insurance or to transact any business of fire insurance in the village, while
in default by not fully complying with any of the requirements of this section,
and until such requirements shall have been fully complied with, but this
provision shall not relieve any company, corporation or association from the
payment of any risk that may be undertaken in violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 3-7-1955) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.131 TAX ON FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES.
   Any such corporation, company or association not incorporated under the law
of this state, which is engaged in the village in effecting fire insurance,
shall pay the Village Treasurer for the maintenance, use and benefit of the
Fire Department of the village a sum of money equal in amount to 2% per annum
of the gross receipts received as premiums upon fire insurance policies by any
and all agents of such corporation, company or association during the year
ending on July 1 in each year, for any insurance effected or agree to be
effected on property located in the village, by or with such corporation,
company or association during such year.
(Ord. passed 3-7-1955)
§ 33.132 AGENT TO RENDER ANNUAL ACCOUNT.
   (A)   Every person acting in the village as agent, for or on behalf of any
such corporation, company or association, shall on or before July 15 of each
and every year render the Village Clerk a full, true and just account verified
by his or her oath, of all premiums upon fire insurance policies which during
the year ending July 1 preceding such report, shall have been received by him
or her, or by some other person for him or her, in his or her behalf of any
such corporation, company or association on property located in the village.
Such agent shall also at the time of rendering the aforesaid report pay to the
Village Treasurer the sum of money for which company, corporation or
association, represented by him or her is chargeable, by virtue of the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The sum of money for which such company, corporation or association is
so chargeable may be recovered of it or its agents or agent, by an action in
the name of and for the use of the village as for money had and received.
Nothing in this section shall be held to exempt any person, corporation,
company or association from indictment and conviction under the provisions of
an act entitled “An Act to enable cities, towns and villages, organized under
any general or special law, to levy and collect a tax or license fee from
foreign insurance companies for the benefit, of organized fire departments,” in
force July 1, 1895.
(Ord. passed 3-7-1955)
§ 33.133 VILLAGE AGENTS TO REFRAIN FROM BUSINESS WITH THOSE IN DEFAULT.
   No insurance agent in the village shall have any insurance business or
dealings with any company, association or corporation not incorporated under
the laws of this state, which shall be in default for not reporting or making
payments as hereinbefore provided, until it shall have complied with all the
requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 3-7-1955) Penalty, see §
33.999
TAX INCREMENT FINANCING INTERESTED PARTIES REGISTRY; REGISTRATION RULES
§ 33.150 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Tax Increment Allocation Redevelopment Act, 65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-1, et
seq., as amended from time to time.
   CLERK. The Village Clerk.
   INTERESTED PARTY(IES):
      (1)   Any organization(s) active within the village;
      (2)   Any resident(s) of the village; and
      (3)   Any other entity or person otherwise entitled under the Act to
register in the interested parties registry who has registered in such registry
and whose registration has not been terminated in accordance with these
registration rules.
   REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA. A redevelopment project area that:
      (1)   Is intended to qualify or that has previously or subsequently
qualified as a "redevelopment project area" under the Act; and
      (2)   Is subject to the "interested parties registry" requirements of the
Act.
   REGISTRATION FORM. The form appended to these registration rules, or such
revised form as may be approved by the Department consistent with the
requirements of the Act.
   REGISTRY or REGISTRIES. Each interested parties registry, and all such
registries, collectively, established by the village pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-
74.4-4.2 of the Act for a Redevelopment Project Area.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Mazon, an Illinois Municipal Corporation.
(Ord. 2014-09, passed 9-15-2014; Ord. 2014-11, passed 11-17-2014)
§ 33.151 ESTABLISHMENT OF REGISTRY.
   The village shall establish a separate interested parties registry for each
Redevelopment Project Area, whether existing as of the date of the adoption of
these rules or hereafter established.
(Ord. 2014-09, passed 9-15-2014; Ord. 2014-11, passed 11-17-2014)
§ 33.152 MAINTENANCE OF REGISTRY.
   The registries shall be maintained by the Clerk, which has a principal
business office located at Village Hall, Mazon, Illinois. The village may
transfer the responsibility for maintaining the registries to such other
Department provided that the village:
   (A)   Gives prior written notice to all interested parties not less than 30
days prior to such transfer; and
   (B)   Publishes notice of such transfer in a newspaper of general
circulation in the village.
(Ord. 2014-09, passed 9-15-2014; Ord. 2014-11, passed 11-17-2014)
§ 33.153 REGISTRATION BY RESIDENTS.
   An individual seeking to register as an interested party with respect to a
Redevelopment Project Area must complete and submit a registration form to the
Clerk. Such individual must also submit a copy of a current driver's license,
lease, utility bill, or such other evidence as may be acceptable to the Clerk
to establish the individual's current residency.
(Ord. 2014-09, passed 9-15-2014; Ord. 2014-11, passed 11-17-2014)
§ 33.154 REGISTRATION BY ORGANIZATIONS.
   An organization seeking to register as an interested party with respect to a
redevelopment project area must complete and submit a registration form to the
Clerk. Such organization must also submit a copy of a one-page statement
describing the organization's current operations in the village.
(Ord. 2014-09, passed 9-15-2014; Ord. 2014-11, passed 11-17-2014)
§ 33.155 DETERMINATION OF ELIGIBILITY.
   All individuals and organizations whose registration form and supporting
documentation complies with these registration rules shall be registered in the
applicable registry within ten business days of the Clerk's receipt of all such
documents. The Clerk shall provide written notice to the registrant confirming
such registration. Upon registration, interested parties shall be entitled to
receive all notices and documents required to be delivered under these rules or
as otherwise required under the Act with respect to the applicable
redevelopment project area. If the Clerk determines that a registrant's
registration form and/or supporting documentation is incomplete or does not
comply with these rules, the Clerk shall give written notice to the registrant
specifying the defect(s). The registrant shall be entitled to correct any
defects and resubmit a new registration form and supporting documentation.
(Ord. 2014-09, passed 9-15-2014; Ord. 2014-11, passed 11-17-2014)
§ 33.156 RENEWAL AND TERMINATION.
   An interested party's registration shall remain effective for a period of
three years. At any time after such three year period, the Clerk may provide
written notice by regular mail to the interested party stating that such
registration shall terminate unless the interested party renews such
registration within 30 days of the Clerk's mailing of written notice. To renew
such registration, the interested party shall, within such 30 day period,
complete and submit the same registration form and supporting documentation
then required of initial registrants in order to permit the Clerk to confirm
such person's residency or such organization's operations in the village. The
registration of all individuals and organizations whose registration form and
supporting documentation is submitted in a timely manner and complies with
these regulation rules shall be reviewed for an additional, consecutive three
year period. If the Clerk determines that a registrant's renewal registration
form and/or supporting documentation is incomplete or does not comply with
these registration rules, the Clerk shall give written notice to the registrant
at the address specified in the renewal registration form submitted by such
registrant, specifying the defect(s). The registrant shall be entitled to
correct any defects and resubmit a new registration form and supporting
documentation within 30 days of receipt of the Clerk's notice. If all defects
are not corrected within 30 days or the interested party's receipt of the
Clerk's notice, the interested party's registration shall be terminated. Any
interested party whose registration is terminated shall be entitled to register
again as if a first-time registrant.
(Ord. 2014-09, passed 9-15-2014; Ord. 2014-11, passed 11-17-2014)
§ 33.157 AMENDMENT TO REGISTRATION.
   (A)   An interested party may amend its registration by giving written
notice to the Clerk by certified mail of any of the following:
      (1)   A change in address for notice purposes;
      (B)   In the case of organizations, a change in the name of the contact
person; and
      (3)   A termination of registration.
   (B)   Upon receipt of such notice, the Clerk shall revise the applicable
registry accordingly.
(Ord. 2014-09, passed 9-15-2014; Ord. 2014-11, passed 11-17-2014)
§ 33.158 REGISTRIES AVAILABLE FOR PUBLIC INSPECTION.
   Each registry shall be available for public inspection during normal village
business hours. The registry shall include the name, address and telephone
number of each interested person and, for organizations, the name and phone
number of a designated contact person.
(Ord. 2014-09, passed 9-15-2014; Ord. 2014-11, passed 11-17-2014)
§ 33.159 NOTICES TO BE SENT TO INTERESTED PARTIES.
   Interested parties shall be sent the following notices and any other notices
required under the Act with respect to the applicable Redevelopment Project
Area.
   (A)   Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-5(a) of the Act, notice of the
availability of a proposed redevelopment plan and eligibility report, including
how to obtain this information; such notice shall be sent by mail within a
reasonable period of time after the adoption of the ordinance fixing the public
hearing for the proposed redevelopment plan.
   (B)   Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-5(a) of the Act, notice of changes to
proposed redevelopment plans that do not:
      (1)   Add additional parcels of property to the proposed redevelopment
project area;
      (2)   Substantially affect the general land uses proposed in the
redevelopment plan;
      (3)   Substantially change the nature of or extend the life of the
redevelopment project; or
      (4)   Increase the number of low or very low income households to be
displaced from the redevelopment project area, provided that measured from the
time of creation of the redevelopment project area the total displacement of
the households will exceed ten; such notice shall be sent by mail not later
than ten days following the village's adoption by ordinance of such changes.
   (C)   Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-5(c) of the Act, notice of amendments to
previously approved redevelopment plans that do not:
      (1)   Add additional parcels of property to the redevelopment project
area;
      (2)   Substantially affect the general land uses in the redevelopment
plan;
      (3)   Substantially change the nature of the redevelopment project;
      (4)   Increase the total estimated redevelopment project costs set out in
the redevelopment plan by more than 5% after adjustment for inflation from the
date the plan was adopted;
      (5)   Add additional redevelopment project costs to the itemized list of
redevelopment project costs set out in the redevelopment plan; or
      (6)   Increase the number of low or very low income households to be
displaced from the redevelopment project area, provided that measured from the
time of creation of the redevelopment project area the total displacement of
households will exceed ten; such notice shall be sent by mail not later than
ten days following the village's adoption by ordinance of any such amendment.
   (D)   Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-5(d)(9) of the Act, for redevelopment
plans or projects that would result in the displacement of residents from ten
or more inhabited residential units or that contain 75 or more inhabited
residential units, notice of the availability of the certified audit report
described in 65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-5(d)(9), including how to obtain the certified
audit report; such notice shall be sent by mail within a reasonable period of
time after completion of the certified audit report.
   (E)   Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-6(e) of the Act, notice of the
preliminary public meeting required under the Act for a proposed Redevelopment
Project Area that will result in the displacement of ten or more inhabited
residential units or which will contain 75 or more inhabited residential units,
such notice shall be sent by certified mail not less than 15 days before the
date of such preliminary public meeting.
(Ord. 2014-09, passed 9-15-2014; Ord. 2014-11, passed 11-17-2014)
§ 33.160 NON-INTERFERENCE.
   These registration rules shall not be used to prohibit or otherwise
interfere with the ability of eligible organizations and individuals to
register for receipt of information to which they are entitled under the Act.
(Ord. 2014-09, passed 9-15-2014; Ord. 2014-11, passed 11-17-2014)
§ 33.161 AMENDMENTS OF REGISTRATION RULES.
   These registration rules may be amended by the Village Board, subject to and
consistent with the requirements of the Act.
(Ord. 2014-09, passed 9-15-2014; Ord. 2014-11, passed 11-17-2014)
MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX
§ 33.180 TAX IMPOSED; RATE.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling cannabis, other than cannabis purchased under the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, at retail in the village at the rate of 3%
of the gross receipts from these sales made in the course of any such business.
   (B)   The imposition of this tax is in accordance with the provisions of §
8-11-22 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-22).
(Ord. 2019-09, passed 9-16-2019)
§ 33.181 COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS.
   (A)   The tax imposed by this subchapter shall be remitted by such retailer
to the Illinois Department of Revenue (Department). Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this subchapter and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the Department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers may reimburse
themselves for their seller’s tax liability hereunder by separately stating
that tax as an additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in
a single amount, with any state tax that sellers are required to collect.
   (B)   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed
as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department. The
Department shall have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 2019-09, passed 9-16-2019)
§ 33.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   For violations of §§
33.045 through
33.055, any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a fraudulent
return, or who willfully violates any other provision of this subchapter is
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less
than $100 nor more than $500 and in addition shall be liable in a civil action
for the amount of tax due.
   (C)   For violations of §§
33.070 through
33.077, any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a fraudulent
return, or who willfully violates any other provision of this subchapter is
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less
than $100 nor more than $500 and in addition shall be liable in a civil action
for the amount of tax due.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
33.130 through
33.133 shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $200 for each offense.
(Ord. passed 3-7-1955; Ord. 2000-8, passed 6-5-2000; Ord. 2000-9, passed 6-5-
2000)
CHAPTER 34: PROCUREMENT
Section
   
34.01   Purpose
   
34.02   Application
   
34.03   Policy; methods of procurement
   
34.04   Contract pricing
   
34.05   Procurement records
§ 34.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to ensure that sound business judgment is
utilized in all procurement transactions and that supplies, equipment,
construction and services are obtained efficiently and economically and in
compliance with applicable federal law and executive orders and to ensure that
all procurement transactions will be conducted in a manner that provides full
and open competition.
(Res. passed 8-1-2011)
§ 34.02 APPLICATION.
   This policy applies to the procurement of all supplies, equipment,
construction and services of and for the village related to the implementation
and administration of the CDBG award. All procurement will be done in
accordance with 24 C.F.R. Part 85.36.
(Res. passed 8-1-2011)
§ 34.03 POLICY; METHODS OF PROCUREMENT.
   Procurement under grants shall be made by one of the following methods, as
described herein: small purchase procedures; sealed bids (formal advertising);
competitive proposals; and noncompetitive proposals.
   (A)   Small purchase procedures are relatively simple and informal
procurement methods that are sound and appropriate for the procurement of
services, supplies or other property, costing in aggregate not more than
$100,000. If small purchase procedures are used for procurement under a grant,
price or rate quotations shall be obtained from an adequate number of qualified
sources.
   (B)   In sealed bids (formal advertising), sealed bids are publicly
solicited and a firm-fixed-price contract (lump sum or unit price) is awarded
to the responsible bidder whose bid, conforming with all of the material terms
and conditions of the invitation for bids, is the lowest in price. The sealed
bids method is the preferred method for procuring construction.
      (1)   In order for formal advertising to be feasible, appropriate
conditions must be present, including, at a minimum, the following:
         (a)   A complete, adequate and realistic specification or purchase
description is available;
         (b)   Two or more responsible bidders are willing and able to compete
effectively for the village’s business; and
         (c)   The procurement lends itself to a firm-fixed-price contract, and
the selection of the successful bidder can be made principally on the basis of
price.
      (2)   When sealed bids are used for a procurement under a grant, the
following requirements apply:
         (a)   A sufficient time prior to the date set for opening of bids,
bids shall be solicited (publicly advertised) from an adequate number of known
suppliers;
         (b)   The invitation for bids, including specifications and pertinent
attachments, shall clearly define the items or services needed in order for the
bidders to properly respond to the invitation for bids;
         (c)   All bids shall be opened publicly at the time and place stated
in the invitation for bids;
         (d)   A firm-fixed-price contract award shall be made by written
notice to that responsible bidder whose bid, conforming to the invitation for
bids, is lowest. Where specified in the bidding documents, factors such as
discounts, transportation costs and life cycle costs shall be considered in
determining which bid is lowest. Payment discounts may only be used to
determine low bid when prior experience of the village indicates that such
discounts are generally taken; and
         (e)   Any or all bids may be rejected if there are sound documented
business reasons in the best interest of the program.
   (C)   Procurement by competitive proposals is normally conducted with more
than one source submitting an offer, and either a fixed-price or cost-
reimbursable type contract is awarded, as appropriate. Competitive proposals
are generally used when conditions are not appropriate for the use of sealed
bids. If the competitive proposals method is used for a procurement under a
grant, the following requirements apply:
      (1)   Requests for proposals shall be publicized and identify all
evaluation factors and their relative importance. Any response to publicized
requests for proposals shall be honored to the maximum extent practical;
      (2)   Requests for proposals shall be solicited from an adequate number
of qualified sources;
      (3)   The village shall have a method for conducting evaluations of the
proposals received and for selecting awardees;
      (4)   Awards will be made to the responsible offeror whose proposal will
be most advantageous to the procuring party, with price (other than
architectural/engineering) and other factors considered. Unsuccessful offerors
will be promptly notified in writing; and
      (5)   The village may use competitive proposal procedures for
qualification-based procurement of architectural/engineering (A/E) professional
services whereby competitors’ qualifications are evaluated and the most
qualified competitor is selected, subject to negotiation of fair and reasonable
compensation. The method, where price is not used as a selection factor, can
only be used in the procurement of A/E professional services. It cannot be used
to procure other types of services (e.g., administration professional services)
even though A/E firms are a potential source to perform the proposed effort.
   (D)   Noncompetitive proposals is procurement through solicitation of a
proposal from only one source or, after solicitation from a number of sources,
competition is determined inadequate. Noncompetitive proposals may be used only
when the award of a contract is infeasible under small purchase procedures,
sealed bids (formal advertising) or competitive proposals. Circumstances under
which a contract may be awarded by noncompetitive proposals are limited to the
following:
      (1)   The item is available from only a single source;
      (2)   After solicitation of a number of sources, competition is
determined inadequate;
      (3)   A public exigency or emergency exists when the urgency for the
requirement will not permit a delay incident to competitive solicitation; and
      (4)   The Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity (DCEO)
authorizes noncompetitive proposals. (Sole-source procurement for supplies,
equipment, construction and services valued at $25,000 or more must have prior
approval of DCEO.)
   (E)   The village will provide, to the greatest extent possible, that
contracts be awarded to qualified small and minority firms, women business
enterprises and labor surplus area firms whenever they are potential sources.
   (F)   Any other method of procurement must have prior approval of the DCEO.
(Res. passed 8-1-2011)
§ 34.04 CONTRACT PRICING.
   (A)   The cost plus a percentage of cost and percentage of construction cost
method of contracting shall not be used.
   (B)   The village shall perform some form of cost/price analysis for every
procurement action, including modifications, amendments or change orders.
(Res. passed 8-1-2011)
§ 34.05 PROCUREMENT RECORDS.
   The village shall maintain records sufficient to detail the significant
history of a procurement, including the rationale for the method of
procurement, selection of contract type, contractor selection or rejection, and
the basis for the contract price.
(Res. passed 8-1-2011)
CHAPTER 35: P-TICKET ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
35.01   Creation of enforcement process
   
35.02   P-tickets not available to offenders guilty of offense three or more
times
   
35.03   Offenses available to P-tickets; fines
§ 35.01 CREATION OF ENFORCEMENT PROCESS.
   The village hereby creates an enforcement vehicle which shall be known as
the “P-ticket” for the enforcement of certain ordinances. Persons who are
issued a P-ticket by appropriate village agents and employees shall be given
the option of tendering a written plea of guilty along with payment of the fine
set herein, and as hereafter amended, directly to the Village Clerk within 14
days of the issuance of a P-ticket. All fines are to be double for days 15
through 25 after issuance of the P-ticket. Persons who do not pay the fine and
enter a plea of guilty within the given 25 days with the Village Clerk shall be
subject to summons to hearing in the Circuit Court and shall be subject to the
full range of fines and penalties as provided by each separate village
ordinance.
(Ord. 2007-16, passed - -2007)
§ 35.02 P-TICKETS NOT AVAILABLE TO OFFENDERS GUILTY OF OFFENSE THREE OR MORE
TIMES.
   P-tickets shall not be issued to any one person who has been convicted or
pled guilty to any one of the offenses enumerated in the P-ticket three or more
times in the past.
(Ord. 2007-16, passed - -2007)
§ 35.03 OFFENSES AVAILABLE TO P-TICKETS; FINES.
   A P-ticket shall be issued only for certain offenses. The fines to be
collected upon the plea of guilty of a person charged with an ordinance
violation by the P-ticket method shall be as follows:
Violation Ordinance No. Fine
Violation                 Ordinance No. Fine
Building permit           1999-2        $25
Burning regulation        1995-11       $25
Contractor registration   2005-09       $25
Control of animals        1998-01       $25
Curfew violation          1995-18       $25
Fireworks violation       1937          $25
Handbill violation        1993-05       $25
Littering                 1970          $10
Loitering                 1970          $10
Nuisance violation        1995-19       $25
Parking violation         1999-09       $25
Poultry housing violation 2021-05       $25
Scavenging                1995-7        $25
Tobacco violation         1995-17       $25
Truancy violation         2003-02       $25
Water use violation       1988-02       $25
Weed violation            2002-06       $25
 
(Ord. 2007-16, passed - -2007; Ord. 2015-11, passed 12-7-2015; Ord. 2021-05,
passed 9-13- 2021)
CHAPTER 36: REIMBURSEMENT POLICY FOR ALL TRAVEL EXPENSES
Section
   
36.01   Purpose
   
36.02   Definitions
   
36.03   Officer and employee expense reimbursement
   
36.04   Approval of expenses
   
36.05   Documentation
   
36.06   Non-employees
   
36.07   Repayment for disallowed expenses
   
36.08   Miscellaneous and entertainment expenses
§ 36.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish procedures for the control and
documentation of expenses incurred by village employees and officers for
travel, meal, and lodging expenses.
(Ord. 2016-16, passed 12-5-2016)
§ 36.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENTERTAINMENT. Includes, but is not limited to, shows, amusements, theaters,
circuses, sporting events, or any other place of public or private
entertainment or amusement, unless ancillary to the purpose of the program or
event.
   TRAVEL. Any expenditure directly incident to the official travel by
employees and officers of the village or by wards or charges of the village
involving reimbursement to travelers or direct payment to private agencies
providing transportation or related services.
   VILLAGE BOARD. The Village Board of Trustees, and the Village President,
specifically with regard to this policy.
(Ord. 2016-16, passed 12-5-2016; Ord. 2017-06, passed 4-17-2017)
§ 36.03 OFFICER AND EMPLOYEE EXPENSE REIMBURSEMENTS.
   The following expenses shall be reimbursed for officers and employees of the
village only for purposes of official business conducted on behalf of the
village, which includes, but not limited to, out-of-town meetings related to
official business and pre-approved seminars, conferences and other educational
events related to the employee's or officer's official duties. Travel, meal,
and lodging expenses incurred by any employee or officer in excess of $300 per
day because of emergency or other extraordinary circumstances must be approved
in an open meeting by a majority roll-call vote of the Village Board.
   (A)   Travel, meal, and lodging expenses incurred by any member of Village
Board must be approved by roll call vote at an open meeting of the Village
Board.
   (B)   Travel, meal, and lodging expense advanced as a per diem to any
employee or officer, or member of the Village Board must be approved by roll
call vote at an open meeting of the Village Board prior to payment.
Documentation of expense must be provided in accordance with this policy, and
any excess per diem must be returned to the village.
   (C)   Lodging. Lodging shall be pre-approved. The lodging expense shall only
cover the minimum number of evenings required by the event, unless approved by
the Village Board, for a longer duration; the lodging shall be reasonable in
accommodations and expense; the lodging expense must be supported by a receipt.
The village shall only pay the single occupancy rate. Extra lodging expenses
such as dry cleaning, vending machines, and valet service are not reimbursable
expenses, unless approved.
   (D)   General expenses. The village will pay or reimburse registration fees,
gasoline and associated costs for village vehicles, mileage for personal
vehicle usage, parking fees, baggage handling fees, fees for transportation
between home, office, airport, and hotel.
   (E)   Meal allowances.
      (1)   All receipts must substantiate the cost of the meals. If the
destination city is in an area of high cost, the Village Board may approve
reasonable expenditures in excess of the established rates of the following:
         (a)   Breakfast allowance of $10;
         (b)   Lunch allowance of $15;
         (c)   Dinner allowance of $25.
      (2)   No payment or reimbursement may be made for personal supplies,
alcoholic beverages, or entertainment. If some meals are included within the
prepaid registration fees, the employee or officer of the village may not be
reimbursed for those meals.
   (F)   Airfare. Employees and officers are expected to obtain the lowest
available airfare that reasonable meets the business travel needs. Employees
and officers are encouraged to book flights in advance to avoid premium airfare
pricing.
(Ord. 2016-16, passed 12-5-2016)
§ 36.04 APPROVAL OF EXPENSES.
   The Village Board must approve the following reimbursement for travel,
meals, and lodging, by a roll call vote at an open meeting of the Board for the
following:
   (A)   Any expense of any officer or employee that exceeds the maximum
permitted in §
36.03;
   (B)   Any expense of any member of the Village Board.
(Ord. 2016-16, passed 12-5-2016)
§ 36.05 DOCUMENTATION.
   (A)   Within ten business days after completion of travel, meals, and
lodging, an expense report, with receipts documenting all expenditures, must be
submitted to the Village Clerk, or appropriate village officer or Board member.
   (B)   Before an expense for travel, meals, or lodging may be approved, the
following minimum documentation must first be submitted, in writing, to the
Village Clerk, or appropriate village officer or Board member, on a Travel,
Meal and Lodging Expense Reimbursement Form, which will include, but shall not
be limited to the following:
      (1)   A receipt of the cost of travel, meals, or lodging if the expenses
have already been incurred;
      (2)   The name of the individual who received or is requesting the
travel, meal, or lodging expense;
      (3)   The job title or office of the individual who received or is
requesting the travel, meal, or lodging expense; and
      (4)   The date or dates and nature of the official business for which the
travel, meal, or lodging expense was or will be expended.
   (C)   All documents and information submitted under this section are public
records, and subject to disclosure under the Illinois Freedom of Information
Act (5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.).
(Ord. 2016-16, passed 12-5-2016)
§ 36.06 NON-EMPLOYEES.
   Under no circumstances are any expenses to be paid by the village when
incurred by a non-employee of the village or for an unauthorized employee or
officer.
(Ord. 2016-16, passed 12-5-2016)
§ 36.07 REPAYMENT FOR DISALLOWED EXPENSES.
   Amounts disbursed for travel, meal, or lodging expenses which are
subsequently disapproved by the Village Board, shall be refunded to the village
within 15 days. Failure to do so will result in the amount being deducted from
the employee's, officer's or Board Member's next regular payroll check.
(Ord. 2016-16, passed 12-5-2016)
§ 36.08 MISCELLANEOUS AND ENTERTAINMENT EXPENSES.
   Other items of reasonable expense specifically not addressed and necessary
in the course of conducting village business shall be reimbursed after review
and approval by the Village Board. No employee, officer or member of the
Village Board shall be reimbursed for any entertainment expense, unless
ancillary to the purpose of the program, event or other official business.
(Ord. 2016-16, passed 12-5-2016)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE
      
51.   WATER AND SEWER SERVICES
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
50.01   Required containers for garbage and refuse
   
50.02   Depositing garbage or refuse in streets or other property
   
50.03   Scavenging prohibited
   
50.04   Garbage carts
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross reference:
   Refuse and recycling contract, see
TSO VIII
§ 50.01 REQUIRED CONTAINERS FOR GARBAGE AND REFUSE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every owner or his or her agent or occupant of
any house, building, flat, apartment or tenement in the village where people
reside, board or lodge, or where animal or vegetable food is prepared or
served, and at all times, to maintain in good order and repair, a separate can
for garbage and a separate receptacle for tin cans, bottles and similar refuse.
It shall be the duty of every such occupant to deposit nothing but garbage in
the can provided for the same, and nothing but tin cans, bottles and similar
refuse in the receptacle provided therefor.
   (B)   A can for garbage and recyclables shall be provided by the garbage
company.
(Ord. passed 6-7-1948) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.02 DEPOSITING GARBAGE OR REFUSE IN STREETS OR OTHER PROPERTY.
   No garbage, tin cans, bottles or refuse of any kind shall be deposited in
any street, alley or public way, or upon any private property, excepting as
herein provided; and no such refuse shall be so placed that it can be blown
about or scattered by the wind or by animals.
(Ord. passed 6-7-1948) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 SCAVENGING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to collect, obtain, possess or pick up
any recyclable item placed for collection at any residence, business or other
site within the village unless said person is licensed as the exclusive
residential recycling contractor under the provisions of a contract with the
village.
(Ord. 1995-7, passed 5-15-1995) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 GARBAGE CARTS.
   In addition to the costs associated with the collection and disposal of
solid waste, each residential unit within the village shall be charged an
additional sum of $1 per month for the use associated with a garbage cart for
the duration of the agreement. The above fee shall be waived for those persons
considered senior citizens within the village, which shall be defined as those
persons residing within the corporate limits of the village who have attained
the age of 65 years or more. The use of garbage carts shall be mandatory
throughout the village for all residential units.
(Ord. 1999-13, passed 10-18-1999)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
50.01 and
50.02 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500 for each offense.
   (C)   Any person convicted of violating §
50.03 shall be fined not less than $50, nor more than $500 for each offense.
(Ord. passed 6-7-1948; Ord. 1995-7, passed 5-15-1995)
CHAPTER 51: WATER AND SEWER SERVICES
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Prohibiting use of groundwater as potable water supply
   
51.002   Water and sewer infrastructure development policy; impact fees
   
51.003   Restriction of water usage in emergency situations
Sewers
   
51.015   Installation of sewer laterals; bond
   
51.016   Cross-connection control
Stormwater Drainage
   
51.030   Stormwater drainage facilities required
   
51.031   Design to be filed with preliminary plat or site plan
   
51.032   Supplemental storm sewer service line
   
51.033   Sump pump connections
   
51.034   Piping
   
51.035   Drainage right-of-way
   
51.036   Surface drainage structures
   
51.037   Subdivision drainage; costs to be paid by owner or developer
   
51.038   Review by Village Engineer
   
51.039   Costs for design and construction; maintenance responsibility
   
51.040   Street drainage; sanitary and industrial sewage prohibited
Waterworks System
   
51.055   Water Department established
   
51.056   Application for water service
   
51.057   Obstruction of water system
   
51.058   Unauthorized turn-on of water at fire hydrant or service cock
   
51.059   All water to be metered
   
51.060   Removal or disconnection of water meters
   
51.061   Village right of access to meters
   
51.062   Connection to water mains
   
51.063   Use of water service by nonresidents
   
51.064   Water used for building or construction purposes
   
51.065   Rules for consumers and plumbers
Rates and Charges
   
51.080   Rates established
   
51.081   Measurement of flow
   
51.082   Voluntary shutoff
   
51.083   Service connection
   
51.084   Effective date
   
51.085   Revenues
   
51.086   Accounts
   
51.087   Notice of rates
   
51.088   Automatic rate increases
   
51.089   Surcharge for commercial properties
Billing Procedures
   
51.100   Bills
   
51.101   Delinquent bills
   
51.102   Termination of services; reconnection fee
   
51.103   Lien for services; collections
   
51.104   Security deposit
   
51.105   Effective date; notice
 
   
51.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Groundwater Area Map
Cross-reference:
   Sewer and water impact fees, see also §§
151.056,
151.057
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 PROHIBITING USE OF GROUNDWATER AS POTABLE WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   Prohibition. On and after the effective date of this section, no
person shall use or attempt to use as a potable water supply groundwater from
within an area designated as a restricted groundwater zone, within the
corporate limits of the village, as a potable water supply, by the installation
or drilling of wells or by any other method.
   (B)   Restricted groundwater zone. The following properties shall be
designated a restricted groundwater zone:
 
Street Address             Property Tax ID
Portion of 500 East Street 08-21-501-001
Portion of 419 East Street 08-21-233-002
Begin at the eastern most edge of Illinois Route 47, then westerly along the
southern edge of Front Street to the western edge of the intersection of Front
Street and Gifford Street, then southerly to a point 50 feet south of the
southern edge of South Street, then easterly to the eastern edge of Illinois
Route 47, then north 219 feet to the point of beginning.
 
   Figure 1 in
Appendix A to this chapter illustrates the area of the restricted groundwater
zone.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
limited liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company,
trust, estate, the village and any of its or their legal representatives,
agents or assigns.
      POTABLE WATER. Any water used for human or domestic consumption,
including, but not  limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming,
washing dishes, preparing foods, watering lawns, or watering gardens in which
produce intended for human consumption is grown.
      RESTRICTED GROUNDWATER ZONE. That areal extent of “groundwater”, within
the village limits, and around the “source” of a “release” of “petroleum,”
“pesticides” or “regulated substance,” as those words are defined in the
Illinois Environmental Protection Act, 415 ILCS 5/1 et seq., (“the Act”), which
has been designated by the Board of Trustees by this section. That area shall
extend, at a minimum, to any area within the measured and modeled extent of
groundwater contamination above what would otherwise be the applicable Tier 1
groundwater remediation objectives at 35 Illinois Administrative Code 742.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 5-21-2012; Ord. 2013-03, passed 5-13-2013; Ord. 2014-08,
passed 7-7-2014; Ord. 2015-07, passed 4-20-2015) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.002 WATER AND SEWER INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT POLICY; IMPACT FEES.
   (A)   The Village Water and Sewer Infrastructure Development Policy attached
as division (D) hereinbelow is hereby adopted and approved in all respects, and
shall be implemented immediately upon the effective date of this section.
   (B)   It shall hereafter be the policy of the village to require payment of
all fees contained in the Water and Sewer Infrastructure Development Policy as
a condition of the annexation of property or upon the issuance of a building
permit for any property within the corporate limits of the village on the
effective date of this section. Additionally, the annexation of territory into
the village after the effective date of this section shall be effected pursuant
to an annexation agreement which expressly requires the owner/developer to
comply with the Village Water and Sewer Infrastructure Development Policy and
the payment of all fees required therein.
   (C)   The President, Village Clerk, Trustees and standing committees of the
village are authorized to perform such further acts as may be deemed reasonable
or necessary in enforcing the provisions of the Water and Sewer Infrastructure
Development Policy on residential, commercial and industrial developments
within the village.
   (D)   The following are water and sewer acreage impact fees.
      (1)   Wastewater treatment (based on facility plan cost estimate).
         (a)   $2,500,000 treatment plant estimate for the new Mazon Wastewater
Treatment Plant based on the facility planning report dated December, 2004 and
updated in 2007 for the IEPA loan preapplication.
         (b)   Plant Capacity = 199,000 gal./day design average flow.
         (c)   The plant is projected to serve an additional 462 people based
on an existing average flow of 142,000 gal./day. Based on an existing
population of 950 people being served by the new plant, thus a total population
tributary to the new plant of 1,412, the following percentage of the plant
construction cost is calculated to serve new growth and development. 462/1,412
= 33%; 33% of $2,500,000 equals $825,000.
         (d)   Based on residential development of two dwelling units per acre
and two and one-half residents per dwelling unit, a calculated density of five
residents per acre for new development is estimated. Thus, 462 new sewer users,
at five residents per acre will utilize 92 acres.
         (e)   An acreage fee for wastewater treatment is thus calculated as
$825,000/92 acres equals $8,967/acre based on a fee payment in July of 2006
(CCI = 7,642). Division (D)(5) shows the updated fees for the current year.
This division will be updated effective May 1 of each year based on the
previous 12-month average construction cost index as published in the
Engineering News Record.
      (2)   Wastewater collection (based on planning costs). Based on Exhibit 1
and Table A, attached, a total cost estimate of $8,193,790 is calculated to
serve 5,779 acres. This equates to $l,418/acre based on construction in July,
2006 (CCI = 7,642). Master planned sewers and additional sewers designed and
built that benefit off-site acreage will be handled through a conventional
recapture agreement between property owner’s/developer's. Impact fees collected
as part of this section only deal with the specified master planned trunk
sewers identified in Exhibit 1 and Table A.
      (3)   Water treatment (based on actual costs).
         (a)   Based on future development requiring the drilling of deep wells
and the:
            1.   New 0.403 mgd ion exchange plant bid at $854,000 in July,
2004;
            2.   Treatment cost then estimated at $854,000 / 0.403 mgd = $2.12/
gal.;
            3.   Additional well capacity at $300,000 / 0.432 mgd = $0.69/gal.
- 2004 cost basis.
               a.   A water treatment impact fee of $2.81/gal. is calculated
based on the combined cost of plant expansion and additional well capacity.
               b.   Based on a residential development density of five
residents per acre, with each resident using 100 gal./day, 500 gallons per acre
of treated water is estimated.
               c.   An acreage cost is then calculated as 500 gal/acre x $2.81/
gal. which equals $l,405/acre based on fee payment in 2004.
         (b)   Based on a construction cost index of 7115 for 2004 as published
in the Engineering News Record, and a cost index of 7,642 for the 12-month
average ending with July, 2006 , a water treatment impact fee of $l,509/acre is
calculated based on a fee payment in July of 2006.
      (4)   Water distribution (based on planning costs).
         (a)   Based on typical water line capital improvements estimated at
$40/lineal foot, an acreage fee of $800/acre is estimated for providing all
large (greater than eight-inch diameter) mains to existing undeveloped areas.
         (b)   Master planned water mains and additional water mains designed
and built that benefit off-site acreage will be handled through a conventional
recapture agreement between property owners/developer's. Impact fees collected
as part of this ordinance only deal with specified master planned water mains
as identified in an attached exhibit.
         (c)   Elevated storage will be required and is based on recent bids of
$2/gal., which equates to a $108,000 expenditure or $1000/acre based on serving
the 538 residents or 108 undeveloped acres referenced in division (D)(1) above.
         (d)   A water distribution and storage impact fee of $l,800/acre is
calculated based on fee payment in July of 2006 (CCI = 7,642).
      (4)   Total water and sewer impact fee determination; updated to 5/1/08
costs. The four components of the W&S Impact Fee are summarized as follows:
 
                               $/acre      $/acre  % of Fee
                               CCI = 7,642 8,109
Wastewater treatment           8,697       9,515   66%
Wastewater collection          1,418       1,505   10%
Water treatment                1,509       1,601   11%
Water distribution and storage 1,800       1,910   13%
TOTAL:                                     $14,531
 
         All costs are based on paying the fee beginning May 1, 2008 through
April 30, 2009. The total water and sewer impact fee will be adjusted on May 1
(village fiscal calendar) of each year based on the updated construction cost
index as published by Engineering News Record.
            (6)   Foot frontage fee (effective May 1, 2008).
Sewer
Assumed length (ft)                    400
Minimum pipe size (in)                 8
Cost per foot                          $35
Total cost                             $14,000
Manholes                               1
Sewer
Unit cost                              $2,500
Total cost                             $2,500
Subtotal                               $16,500
Contingency and non-construction       25%
                                       $4,125
Total cost                             $20,625
Total feet assessed (400' each side)   800
Cost per foot                          $25.78
Water
Assumed length                         1,000
Minimum pipe size                      8
Cost per foot                          $30
Total cost                             $30,000
Valves                                 3
Unit cost                              $650
Total cost                             $1,950
Hydrants                               2
Unit cost                              $2,400
Total cost                             $4,800
Sub-total cost                         $36,750
Contingency and non-construction       25%
                                       $9,188
Total construction for water mains     $45,938
Total feet assessed (1,000' each side) 2,000
Cost per foot                          $22.97
 
Fee determination example:
Assume a 20-acre property desires service. A trunk sewer and water
transmission mail will cross through the middle of the property at a length of
800 feet and along one property line for a length of 200 feet.
                 20 acres
Assessment       $14,531 per acre
                 $290,620
                 1,800 feet
Sewer front fee  $25.78
                 $46,404
                 1,800 feet
Water front fee  $22.97
                 $41,346
Total assessment $378,370
 
(Ord. 2008-04, passed 4-7-2008)
§ 51.003 RESTRICTION OF WATER USAGE IN EMERGENCY SITUATIONS.
   (A)   Order. The Village President may order the limited use of water
produced by the municipal water system of the village, whenever in the opinion
of the Village President the use of water should be restricted due to drought,
mechanical failure, disruption of service from the various sources from which
the municipal water supply is obtained, or for whatever other reason or reasons
the municipal water supply of the village becomes in short supply and/or the
means of transporting the water from the municipal water supply to the users
within the village as impeded. The Village President may curtail the use of
water for all nonessential use, including but not limited to one or more of the
following:
      (1)   The use of water, other than that accumulating naturally through
rain or other natural precipitation, for sprinkling, irrigation or otherwise
artificially using the municipal water system or any attachment thereto to
bring water to shrubbery, trees, lawns, grass, ground cover of any kind,
plants, vines, gardens, vegetables, flowers or any other vegetation;
      (2)   The washing of any structure or object, including but not limited
to automobiles, the outside of dwelling residences, the washing of the outside
of commercial buildings, washing and cleaning of any business or industrial
equipment or machinery, and the use of water for industrial use;
      (3)   The filling or refilling of swimming or wading pools and the
ornamental use of any fountain or structure making use of municipal water for
ornamental or decorative purposes;
      (4)   To prohibit the sale of water to new users outside of the municipal
boundary of the village;
      (5)   To prohibit the use of any defective plumbing system from which
water may escape from the municipal water system; or
      (6)   To generally prohibit the unnecessary use of any water, as the
circumstances dictate to preserve the village water supply for drinking,
cooking, and personal plumbing and bath uses.
   (B)   Board of Trustees. Any prohibition or restriction on the use of water
within the municipal water system as set forth in division (A) above by the
Village President shall be affirmed or overruled by the Village Board of
Trustees at the Board’s next regular meeting or at a specially scheduled
meeting called for the purpose of considering the emergency water use
restrictions imposed by the Village President. A majority of those Board
members constituting a quorum shall be sufficient to affirm or overturn or
modify the emergency water usage theretofore initiated by the Village
President. In addition, the Village Board of Trustees may initiate, on its own
action, restrictions on water usage prior to the initiation of any restrictions
by the Village President. Any time limit with respect to the restrictions to be
applied shall be approved by the Village Board of Trustees at the next regular
meeting and/or special meeting of the Village Board of Trustees called for the
purpose of affirming, overruling or modifying the restrictive water usage
within the village.
   (C)   Notice. Notice of the restrictive use of water either initiated by the
President, or on the initiation of the Board of Trustees on its own motion,
shall be given by posting notice thereof at three or more conspicuous places
within the village, and further by publishing notice thereof in a newspaper
having general circulation within the village. No fine or penalty as set forth
herein shall be imposed until 12:00 midnight of the day following the
publication of the notice in such newspaper; provided, however, prior to that
time violators may be warned of any such violation of the ban imposed.
(Ord. 88-2, passed 7-5-1988) Penalty, see §
51.999
SEWERS
§ 51.015 INSTALLATION OF SEWER LATERALS; BOND.
   (A)   Any contractor or person performing under a contract or agreement for
pay or hire for the installation of lateral sewers in the village shall, prior
to commencement of any such work, post with the Village Clerk a penal bond in
the amount of $1,000 conditioned upon the faithful performance of said work
according to the plans and specifications on file with the village.
   (B)   Any property holder or land owner or tenant who shall install sewer
laterals in the village on land which he or she owns or occupies shall install
the lateral sewers according to the plans and specifications on file with the
Village Clerk.
(Ord. passed 10-1-1979) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.016 CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL.
   (A)   All plumbing installed within the village shall be installed in
accordance with the State Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code Part 890. If, in
accordance with the State Plumbing Code or in the judgment of the
Superintendent of Water, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary
for the safety of the public water system, the Superintendent of Water will
give notice to the water customer to install such an approved device
immediately. The water customer shall, at his or her own expense, install such
approved device at a location and in a manner in accordance with manufacturer’s
instructions, the State Plumbing Code, State Environmental Protection Agency
and all applicable local regulations and shall have inspections and tests made
of such approved devices upon installation and as required by the State
Plumbing Code, State Environmental Protection Agency and local regulations.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a
private, auxiliary or emergency water supply other that the regular public
water supply of the village enters the supply or distribution system of said
municipality, unless such private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the
method of connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the
Superintendent of Water and the State Environmental Protection Agency.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of Water to cause surveys
and investigations to be made of commercial, industrial and other properties
served by the public water supply to determine whether actual or potential
hazards to the public water supply may exist. Cross-connection control devices
shall be inspected at least annually by a person approved by the Environmental
Protection Agency as a CCCDI (Cross-Connection Control Device Inspector).
   (D)   Each device shall be tested at least annually or more frequently if
recommended by the Superintendent of Water. Each device shall have a tag
attached listing the date of test, name of CCCDI, and type and date of repairs.
   (E)   The Superintendent of Water of the village is hereby authorized and
directed to discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the
water service to any property wherein any connection in violation of the
provisions of this section is known to exist and to take such other
precautionary measures as he or she may deem necessary to eliminate any danger
of contamination of the public water supply distribution mains. Water service
to such property shall not be restored until such conditions have been
eliminated or corrected in compliance with the provisions of this section and
until a reconnection fee, as set forth in ordinances of the village as from
time to time amended, is paid to the village. Immediate disconnection with
verbal notice can be effected when the Superintendent of Water is assured that
imminent danger of harmful contamination of the public water supply system
exists. Such action shall be followed by written disconnection notice to any
party that can be affected. In the reasonable opinion of the Superintendent of
Water and State Environmental Protection Agency, such action is required to
prevent actual or potential contamination or pollution of the public water
supply. Neither the public water supply, the Superintendent of Water or his or
her agents or assigns shall be liable to any customer for any injury, damages
or lost revenues which may result from termination of said customer’s water
supply in accordance with the terms of this section, whether or not said
termination was with or without notice.
   (F)   The consumer responsible for backsiphoned material or contamination
through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs
through an illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed, maintained or
repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of
cleanup of the potable water supply system.
   (G)   Unless designated otherwise by ordinance or resolution of the Board of
Trustees of the village, the Superintendent of Public Works, the Village
President or their successors are the enforcement officials of the village.
(Ord. 2004-4, passed 4-19-2004)
STORMWATER DRAINAGE
§ 51.030 STORMWATER DRAINAGE FACILITIES REQUIRED.
   All development sites and subdivisions shall provide an adequate system of
stormwater drainage which shall be constructed and installed, consisting at a
minimum of stormwater detention or retention basins or ponds, tiles, swales,
manholes, catch basins, pipes, inlets and other necessary facilities that will
adequately drain the subdivision or development site and protect roadway
pavements, buildings and surrounding properties from flooding. The rate of
discharge of stormwater from any subdivision or development site shall not
exceed the rate of stormwater runoff prior to development.
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 2-6-2006)
§ 51.031 DESIGN TO BE FILED WITH PRELIMINARY PLAT OR SITE PLAN.
   Comprehensive design documents, computations and other applicable data,
documents or other information for storm sewer systems for onsite and offsite
drainage shall be presented with the filing of the preliminary plat or site
plan as presented for approval.
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 2-6-2006)
§ 51.032 SUPPLEMENTAL STORM SEWER SERVICE LINE.
   In all residential subdivisions in the village subsequent hereto, the
developer shall install a supplemental storm sewer service line for each lot
within any proposed development for the purpose of serving residential
stormwater sump pump discharge lines. All sump pump discharge lines shall
attach to said supplemental stormwater service line. Said supplemental
stormwater services lines shall be connected to the storm sewer systems at
inlets or catch basins, and may also be used to collect surface drainage as
required by §
51.036. Service connections directly to the storm sewer laterals shall be
permitted only with pre-cast connections in order to preserve the structural
and hydraulic integrity of the main line sewer.
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 2-6-2006)
§ 51.033 SUMP PUMP CONNECTIONS.
   All systems of stormwater drainage shall include underground piping for sump
pump connections. Said piping shall extend from either the front, rear or side
of each building lot to an approved storm sewer system, and shall include
manholes and/or cleanouts for maintenance purposes. No water from footing tiles
or basement sumps shall be discharged onto the ground, any public right-of-way
or roadway. Such water discharge pipes shall be discharged directly into storm
sewer systems as set forth herein.
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 2-6-2006)
§ 51.034 PIPING.
   All piping for footing tiles and basement sumps shall be laid on a uniform
grade with a minimum slope of one-quarter inch per foot with a minimum depth of
cover of three feet. The pipe diameter, fixtures and other infrastructure
improvements shall be determined and made in accordance with the opinions and
recommendations of the Village Engineer, depending upon the use of the subject
property. Any such drainage structures shall be furnished with a cleanout at
its terminus.
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 2-6-2006)
§ 51.035 DRAINAGE RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Whenever any stream or important surface drainage course is located in any
area which is being developed or subdivided, the developer or subdivider shall
reserve an adequate drainage right-of-way within the site plan or preliminary
and final plats as determined by the village and/or the State Department of
Transportation, Division of Water Resources, Department of Natural Resources or
other applicable governmental entity, along each side of the stream, swale or
other drainage structure for the purpose of widening, deepening, sloping,
improving or protecting said surface drainage.
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 2-6-2006)
§ 51.036 SURFACE DRAINAGE STRUCTURES.
   All development sites or subdivisions approved within the village subsequent
hereto shall provide for the placement and construction of adequate surface
drainage structures and facilities. All public storm sewers shall be placed
within dedicated public rights-of-way or public utility easements. Storm sewers
in side yards shall be avoided if at all possible, and shall be subject to
approval by the Village Engineer. All catch basin lids shall have the words
“STORM SEWER” cast on the top-side of any such lids.
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 2-6-2006)
§ 51.037 SUBDIVISION DRAINAGE; COSTS TO BE PAID BY OWNER OR DEVELOPER.
   Where installation of storm sewer lines of larger capacity have been
required to serve any such site or subdivision as required by the Village Board
to serve future growth in the vicinity of any such site plan or subdivision,
the owner or developer shall pay for those costs required by the village,
subject to recapture from any benefited properties. The village shall require a
recapture agreement consistent with the provisions of § 9-5-1 of the Illinois
Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/9-5-1), and shall recapture said costs at the time
the benefited property is developed.
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 2-6-2006)
§ 51.038 REVIEW BY VILLAGE ENGINEER.
   The design and construction of all stormwater structures, faculties and
improvements shall be subject to the review and approval of the Village
Engineer.
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 2-6-2006)
§ 51.039 COSTS FOR DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION; MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITY.
   The costs for the design and construction of all stormwater improvements
shall be paid by the developer/owner, and only those stormwater improvements
identified by the village shall be dedicated to the village by the developer/
owner. The village reserves the right to require the developer/owner to retain
ownership, future responsibility and control over certain stormwater
improvements, specifically including stormwater detention or retention basins
or ponds, either individually or through a homeowners’ association or other
legally recognized entity.
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 2-6-2006)
§ 51.040 STREET DRAINAGE; SANITARY AND INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or
institution, public or private, to connect or cause to be connected any drain
carrying or to carry any toilet, sink, basement, septic tank, cesspool,
industrial waste or any fixture or device discharging polluting substances, to
any open ditch, drain or drainage structure installed solely for street or
highway drainage purposes in the village.
   (B)   This section is intended to and shall be in addition to all other
ordinances, state statutes, rules and regulations concerning pollution and
shall not be construed as repealing or rescinding any other ordinance or part
of any ordinance unless in direct conflict herewith.
(Ord. passed 11-4-1946; Ord. 1994-6, passed 4-4-1994) Penalty, see §
51.999
WATERWORKS SYSTEM
§ 51.055 WATER DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established an executive department of the village to be
known as the Water Department, and the President and Board of Trustees are
hereby authorised to appoint a Superintendent of the Water Department and all
other necessary employees, and said Superintendent shall have the general
management and control of the waterworks system, subject, however, to the
supervision of the President and Board of Trustees.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 51.056 APPLICATION FOR WATER SERVICE.
   No water shall be turned on for use on or in any premises until an
application therefor in writing has been made for that purpose and filed with
the Village Clerk, stating the purpose for which the water is to be used. If
the applicant is not the owner in fee simple of the recorded title to the
property where the applicant desires the water to be turned on, he or she shall
deposit with his or her application the sum of $100 before any water is turned
on. Such deposit shall be held by the village of as security for the payment of
water used by the applicant, and may be so applied when any default is made in
payment of a water bill.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 51.057 OBSTRUCTION OF WATER SYSTEM.
   No person shall in any manner obstruct the access to any stop-cock, hydrant
or valve, or any public faucet or opening for taking water in any street,
alley, public ground or place connected with or part of said water system, nor
pile or place any lumber, brick or building material or other article, thing or
hindrance whatsoever within 12 feet of the same, or so as to in any manner
hinder, delay or obstruct the members of the Fire Department in reaching the
same. It shall be unlawful for any person in any manner to interfere with or
obstruct the flow, retention, storage or unauthorized use of water in said
water system, reservoir or plant, or any part thereof, or to injure, deface,
remove or displace any water main, hydrant, service pipe, water meter, shutoff
box, public fountain, valve, engine or building connected with said water
system or plant, or to cause, suffer or permit any of said things to be done.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.058 UNAUTHORIZED TURN-ON OF WATER AT FIRE HYDRANT OR SERVICE COCK.
   No person not duly authorized shall turn the water on at any fire hydrant or
service cock, or use water therefrom when so turned on, under penalty for each
offense as set forth in §
51.999, and the person so using or wasting water in such unlawful manner shall
be liable to pay for the same.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.059 ALL WATER TO BE METERED.
   (A)   All water consumers supplied by the village shall be supplied through
meters only and shall pay for the water at the rates and in the manner
hereinafter specified.
   (B)   Whenever any meter, by reason of its being out of repair or for any
cause, fails promptly to register the water passing through the same, the
consumer shall be charged at the rate shown for the corresponding time of the
previous year under like conditions. If no record of the previous year exists,
then it shall be the duty of the Superintendent of the waterworks to estimate
or determine so far as he or she can the amount of water consumed during the
time such meter fails to operate, and the consumer shall pay the amount so
estimated.
   (C)   In all cases where one service pipe supplies two or more separate
consumers in a building, one meter may be placed at the service connection for
either or all of the said consumers and the water rent, as registered by such
meters, shall be charged to and be payable by the owner of such premises or
building.
   (D)   (1)   All water furnished consumers shall be metered. All meters shall
be purchased by the consumer from the village and shall be the property of the
village. Meters shall be placed in a convenient place for the reading of such
meter, and when placed inside, the owner or occupant of such building shall
permit access to such inside location by meter installers and inspectors for
the purpose of inspecting, repairing or replacing such meters. All meters shall
be installed by the village, and the installation charge, together with the
cost of the meter shall be a included in the cost of the tap on fee. Every new
apartment, separate business, trailer which is occupied for human habitation in
a trailer court located in the village, and every separate professional office
and each separate consumer shall have a separate water hookup to said
apartment, business, trailer or other building unit which is occupied by said
consumer.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Village Clerk to enforce the general
provisions of this section.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 1-20-1975) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.060 REMOVAL OR DISCONNECTION OF WATER METERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to disconnect or remove any water
meter currently attached to or in use with the water supply of the village or
in any area under the jurisdiction of said village without first notifying and
receiving permission from the Director of Public Works.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) above, it shall not be
unlawful for any person to remove or disconnect any water meter in the event of
an emergency threatening life or property where removal or disconnection of
said water meter is required for the protection of life or property.
   (C)   In the event that a water meter as above described is removed or
disconnected, the village will assess a fee equal to the current cost of a
water meter plus $60 for replacing or reconnecting said water meter.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1980; Ord. 2023-5, passed 7-10-2023) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.061 VILLAGE RIGHT OF ACCESS TO METERS.
   Said village and its employees shall have ready access at reasonable times
to the premises, places or buildings where meters are located for the purpose
of reading, examining, testing and repairing the same, and examining and
testing the consumption, use and flow of water, and it shall be unlawful for
any persons or corporations to interfere with, prevent or obstruct said village
or its duly authorized agent in its duties hereunder. Every consumer of said
water shall take the same upon the conditions prescribed in this section.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.062 CONNECTION TO WATER MAINS.
   All persons desiring a connection between the water mains of the village and
the property owned or occupied by such persons shall make application for such
connection in writing to the Board of Trustees of the village and shall at the
time of completion of the work pay a fee which shall be equal to the actual
costs of materials used for said connection and shall at the time of making
such connection cause all necessary digging to be done between the property
line and the water main, under the supervision of the village authorities and
shall furnish all pipe in making such connection. The village shall furnish the
connection between the main and the pipe furnished by the applicant and will
furnish a water meter without additional charge to the applicant. All pipes
laid by said applicant shall be suitably covered with earth under the direction
of the village authorities, and all connections applied for hereunder and all
water used hereunder shall be upon the express conditions that the village
shall not be liable, nor shall any claim be made against it for damages or
injury caused by reason of the breaking of any main, branches, service pipes,
apparatus er appurtenances connected with said system or plant, or any part or
portion of said plant, or for any interruption of the supply by reason of the
breakage of machinery, or by reason of stoppage, alterations, extensions or
renewals.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 7-3-1944; Ord. passed 5-1-1957)
§ 51.063 USE OF WATER SERVICE BY NONRESIDENTS.
   Nonresidents of the village may, in the sound discretion of the President
and the Board of Trustees, be granted water service for personal use only upon
the following terms and conditions.
   (A)   All of the provisions, rules, regulations and ordinances of the
village, pertaining to the use of water or water service by residents of the
village, shall apply to and become obligatory upon all nonresident users.
   (B)   Any grant of water service to a nonresident shall be for only so long
a time that there is sufficient and adequate water supply to satisfy all
reasonable needs of residents of the village, and if at any time the President
and Board of Trustees of said village shall be of the opinion that the water
supply of the village is not sufficient to furnish water to nonresidents of the
village, they may immediately turn off any or all water going to said
nonresident users without notice to said users.
   (C)   Application for nonresident water service shall be made jointly by the
owner of said premises and by the head of the household of the occupant or
tenant of said premises and shall be jointly and severally liable to pay any
and all water bills used on said property.
   (D)   The village shall in no instance furnish water service pipes or
equipment beyond the limits of the village for nonresident users. Said user
shall cause a meter to be placed at or adjacent to the village limits on said
water line, and all of said users from said water line shall be jointly and
severally liable to pay the whole of said water bill.
   (E)   Such permit to all nonresident users shall be personal with the owner,
occupant or tenant as the case may be and shall not be subject to gift, sale,
transfer or inheritance.
   (F)   If more than one user is to be fed from any one line, extending from
said village, then the application for permission by said owners, occupants and
tenants shall be jointly made by all and they shall all be jointly and
severally liable for the whole bill as metered on said line.
   (G)   The village reserves the right to enter upon and inspect all premises
and parcels using water or across which the water is piped and in the event an
inspection reveals in the opinion of the inspectors an unsafe or unsanitary or
wasteful condition, the city may shut off the water on said line without
further notice to said user or users.
   (H)   This section shall be made a part of each permit granted a nonresident
and, by making an application and accepting said permit, said nonresident shall
be deemed to have accepted the terms and conditions of this section and upon
the violation of any of the terms of which, said village may shut off said
water without further notice to said nonresident. The violation of one or more
persons upon a joint line shall be deemed just cause for closing all of said
line, and in addition, upon violation, the village may also revoke the permits.
(Ord. passed 6-11-1958)
§ 51.064 WATER USED FOR BUILDING OR CONSTRUCTION PURPOSES.
   Persons or corporations desiring to use village water for building or
construction purposes shall make application therefor in writing and file the
same in the office of the Village Clerk on a form provided for that purpose.
Upon a permit being granted (permits shall be issued in writing and signed by
the Superintendent of the waterworks), the service pipe shall be carried at the
expense of the applicant to the inside of the curb line, where a service cock
and meter shall be placed, with pipe leading to the surface, and a faucet
placed at the end thereof above said surface. When the building or construction
work is completed, the faucet and meter shall be removed and the water shut
off, unless permanent connection hereunder is made. Charge for the use and
connecting of meters shall be as prescribed herein by the President and Board
of Trustees.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 51.065 RULES FOR CONSUMERS AND PLUMBERS.
   (A)   The following rules and regulations for the consumers of water and
plumbers are hereby adopted and established.
      (1)   No water shall be furnished or supplied to any consumer for any
purpose whatever, until such consumer shall make application therefor. Such
application shall state the location of the premises to be served and the use
to which the water will be put.
      (2)   No water consumer may supply water to other families or allow them
to take it, except for use on the premises and for the purposes specified in
the application, nor after water is introduced into any building or upon any
premises shall any person make or employ any other person to make any tap, or
connection with the work upon the premises for alterations, repairs, extensions
or attachments without a written permit therefor to be issued by the
Superintendent of the waterworks system.
      (3)   The village reserves the right to shut off water at any time in the
mains for the purpose of repairing, cleaning, making connections with or
extensions to same, or for the concentrating of water in any part of the
village in case of fire; and for restricting the use of the water in cases of
deficiency in supply. No claim shall be made against the village by reason of
the breaking of any service pipe or service cock, or damage arising from
shutting off of water for repairing, laying or relaying mains, hydrants or
other connections or repairing any part of the water systems, or from failure
of the water supply, or by increasing the water pressure at any time, or from
concentration or restricted use of water as above.
   (B)   No owner or plumber shall be permitted to conduct water pipes into any
two distinct premises or tenements unless separate and distinct stop-cocks
shall be placed on the outside of such premises along the sidewalk opposite the
same, nor shall any pipe be allowed to cross lots or buildings to adjoining
premises.
   (C)   The right is reserved to suspend the use of lawn fountains and hose
for sprinkling lawns and gardens, whenever in the opinion of the President and
Board of Trustees public exigencies require it.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
51.999
Cross-reference:
   Emergency water restrictions, see §
51.003
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.080 RATES ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Rates established. There shall be and there hereby are established
rates or charges for the use of and for the service supplied by the combined
waterworks and sewerage system of the village. All property located within the
boundaries of the village, and property located outside the boundaries of the
village having a connection with the waterworks and sewerage system of the
village, shall pay the current charges for use of and for service supplied by
the combined waterworks and sewerage system:
      (1)   There is established a minimum charge of $14.40 per month.
      (2)   All other use and sale of water from any village well, reservoir or
hydrant not heretofore set forth in this subchapter shall be at the rate of:
   (B)   Basis for user charges. The charge for the use of and for service
supplied by the water and wastewater facilities of the village consists of a
debt service charge, a basic user charge for the operation and maintenance of
the wastewater facilities plus replacement, and a basic user charge for the
operation and maintenance of the waterworks system. The user charge for the
wastewater facilities shall be based on water usage as recorded by water meters
for normal waste having the following strengths:
      (1)   A five-day, 20ºC biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) of 20 mg/l; and
      (2)   A suspended solids (SS) contents of 250 mg/l.
   (C)   Surcharge. A surcharge will be levied to all users whose waters exceed
the normal concentrations of BOD (20 mg/l) and SS (250 mg/l). The surcharge
will be based on water usage as recorded by water meters and/or sewage meters
for all wastewaters which exceed said concentrations.
   (D)   Annual review. The adequacy of the wastewater service charge shall be
reviewed annually by certified public accountants for the village in their
annual audit report. The wastewater service charge shall be revised
periodically to reflect a change in debt service or a change in operation and
maintenance costs including replacement costs.
   (E)   Surcharge rate. The rates of surcharge for wastewaters exceeding the
normal concentrations of BOD and SS shall be determined as the need arises.
   (F)   Effective date. The effective date of this section, as amended, is May
1, 1992.
(Ord. 1984-1, passed 10-3-1983; Ord. 1984-3, passed 6-4-1984; Ord. 91-2, passed
4-1-1991; Ord. 1992-4, passed 4-6-1992)
§ 51.081 MEASUREMENT OF FLOW.
   The volume of flow used for computing basic user charges and surcharges
shall be the metered water consumption read to the lowest even increments of
100 gallons.
   (A)   If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures any
part, or all, of his or her water from sources other than the public waterworks
system, all or a part of which is discharged into the public sewers, the person
shall install and maintain, at his or her expense, water meters of a type
approved by the village for the purpose of determining the volume of water
obtained from these other sources.
   (B)   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be required
by the village if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined from the metered
water consumption records.
   (C)   Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, owned and maintained by the person. Following approval and
installation, such meters may not be removed, unless service is cancelled,
without the consent of the village.
(Ord. 1984-1, passed 10-3-1983; Ord. 1984-3, passed 6-4-1984)
§ 51.082 VOLUNTARY SHUTOFF.
   Any user desiring for his or her convenience a shutting off of the water
supply shall make application therefor to the Village Secretary. Such shutting
off of the water will not avoid the imposition of and the liability for the
payment of the minimum charges elsewhere provided for in this subchapter.
(Ord. 1984-1, passed 10-3-1983; Ord. 1984-3, passed 6-4-1984)
§ 51.083 SERVICE CONNECTION.
   (A)   No connection with the water and sewerage system shall be made without
having first obtained a permit therefor and having first paid the prescribed
fee. Before connection is made, the premises to be served must be equipped with
a meter to measure water consumption.
   (B)   The fee for connection to the water supply system for property located
within the boundaries of the village shall be the greater of $800 or the actual
cost to the village for completing said connection, but not to exceed $2,500.
The fee for connection to the sewerage system for property located within the
boundaries of the village shall be the greater of $600 or the actual cost to
the village for completing said connection, but not to exceed $2,000. The fees
for connection to the water supply and the sewerage systems for property
located outside the boundaries of the village shall be the foregoing rates
multiplied by two. ACTUAL COST shall be defined to include the cost of labor
provided by village employees at rates to be set by the Director of Public
Works. Actual cost shall include the cost of making connections to existing
lines and the cost of extending sewer and water lines to the property to be
connected to the system. The water meter shall be the property of the village
upon installation in the combined waterworks and sewerage system.
(Ord. 1984-1, passed 10-3-1983; Ord. 1984-3, passed 6-4-1984)
§ 51.084 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The rates and charges established herein shall be effective as of the next
meter reading after the passage of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1984-1, passed 10-3-1983; Ord. 1984-3, passed 6-4-1984)
§ 51.085 REVENUES.
   All revenues and moneys derived from the operation of the combined
waterworks and sewerage system shall be held by the Village Treasurer separate
and apart from his or her private funds. All funds collected from the operation
of the sewerage system shall be held separate and apart from all other funds of
the village in a separate fund designated as the Sewerage Fund of the village,
and said Treasurer shall administer such fund in every respect in the manner
provided by the applicable provisions of Division 139 of Article II of the
Illinois Municipal Code, being 65 ILCS 5/11-139-1 et seq., approved May 20,
1961, and all laws amendatory thereof and supplementary thereto and as provided
in the ordinance heretofore adopted on November 7, 1977, and authorizing the
issuance of $420,000 waterworks and sewerage revenue bonds of said village.
(Ord. 1984-1, passed 10-3-1983; Ord. 1984-3, passed 6-4-1984)
§ 51.086 ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   The Village Treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounts and
shall keep proper books, records and accounts in which complete and correct
entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the waterworks and
sewerage system, and at regular annual intervals he or she shall cause to be
made an audit by an independent auditing concern of the books to show the
receipts and disbursements of the waterworks and sewerage system.
   (B)   In addition to the customary operating statement, the annual audit
reports shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of the water and
wastewater facilities, including a replacement cost, to indicate that service
charges under the cost recovery system and capital amounts required to be
recovered under the industrial cost recovery system do in fact meet these
regulations. In this regard, the financial information to be shown in the audit
reports shall include the following:
      (1)   Flow data showing total gallons received at the wastewater plant
for the current fiscal year;
      (2)   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed;
      (3)   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year;
      (4)   Number of users connected to the system;
      (5)   Number of non-metered sewer users; and
      (6)   A list of users discharging non-domestic waste (industrial users)
and volume of waste discharged.
(Ord. 1984-1, passed 10-3-1983; Ord. 1984-3, passed 6-4-1984)
§ 51.087 NOTICE OF RATES.
   A copy of §§
51.080 through
51.088 properly certified by the Village Clerk shall be filed in the office of
the Recorder of Deeds of the county and shall be deemed notice to all owners of
real estate of the charges of the combined waterworks and sewerage system of
said village on their properties.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. 1984-1, passed 10-3-1983; Ord. 1984-3, passed 6-4-1984)
§ 51.088 AUTOMATIC RATE INCREASES.
   (A)   The rate for said water service shall continue to be based upon the
amount of water used or consumed in each residence, and the rate for said sewer
services shall remain at a fixed rate.
   (B)   The rate for said water and sewer services shall automatically
increase each fiscal year, at a rate of 6%, to 106% of the rate for the year
immediately preceding the then current year.
   (C)   Prior to April 1 of each fiscal year, the Water and Sewer Committee
shall review the status of the water and sewer rates to determine whether the
automatic annual increase should be adjusted. Upon completing its analysis, the
Water and Sewer Committee shall make a report and recommendation to the Village
Board no later than the second meeting in April of the same fiscal year.
Thereafter the Village Board may, at its option, adjust the automatic increase
for any current year. Any adjustment by the Village Board shall not constitute
an adjustment of future rate increases, nor shall such adjustment prejudice the
future rights of the Village Board.
(Ord. 92-7, passed 7-20-1992; Ord. 1998-2, passed 5-18-1998; Ord. 2023-5,
passed 7-10-2023)
§ 51.089 SURCHARGE FOR COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES.
   (A)   All commercial properties constructed within the village shall pay a
monthly surcharge in the amount of $65 for each water supply line in excess of
one inch. The surcharge shall not apply to residential properties, and any
ordinance which is inconsistent herewith, is hereby repealed to the extent of
any inconsistency.
   (B)   Said surcharge shall be paid in addition to the monthly charges
associated with water usage. In the event the charge for services are not paid
within 30 days after rendition of the bill for such services, such charges
shall be deemed delinquent, and thereafter such delinquencies shall constitute
liens upon the real estate for which such service is supplied, and the Village
Collector is hereby authorized and directed to file sworn statements showing
such delinquencies in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of the county, and
the filing of such statements shall be deemed notice for the payment of such
charges for such service.
   (C)   If the rates or charges for such services are not paid within 30 days
after the rendition of the bill for such services, such services shall
thereafter be discontinued without further notice and shall not be reinstated
until all past due bills, including the penalties thereon, are paid in full,
together with payment made of $100 for reinstating such service.
(Ord. 94-17, passed 10-3-1994)
BILLING PROCEDURES
§ 51.100 BILLS.
   (A)   Rates or charges for service shall be billed and payable monthly. The
owner of the premises, the occupant thereof and the user of the service shall
be jointly and severally liable to pay for the service to such premises and the
service is furnished to the premises by the village only upon the condition
that the owner of the premises, occupant and user of the services are jointly
and severally liable therefor to the village.
   (B)   Bills for water and sewer service, and refuse service shall be sent
out monthly by the Village Secretary for the service charges accrued during the
preceding month.
   (C)   All monthly bills are due and payable on the fifteenth day of each
month. A penalty of 15% shall be added to all bills not paid on the fifteenth
day of each month.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. 1984-1, passed 10-3-1983; Ord. 1984-3, passed 6-4-1984;
Ord. 2000-4, passed 5-15-2000; Ord. 2023-5, passed 7-10-2023)
§ 51.101 DELINQUENT BILLS.
   If payment for bills sent out in accordance with this chapter is not
received within 30 days after said bill is rendered, said account is hereby
deemed delinquent, and water service may be discontinued in the manner set
forth herein, in addition to all other remedies available pursuant to this
subchapter.
(Ord. 1984-1, passed 10-3-1983; Ord. 1984-3, passed 6-4-1984; Ord. 2000-4,
passed 5-15-2000)
§ 51.102 TERMINATION OF SERVICES; RECONNECTION FEE.
   (A)   Any person who fails to pay water and sewer service charges as
required herein, and upon said service charges being deemed delinquent, shall
be subject to having water service terminated.
   (B)   The Village Secretary shall determine the name and service address of
all persons who are delinquent in the payment of water and sewer service
charges together with the amount of such arrearages. Pursuant to §
51.101, all accounts for water and sewer service charges shall be considered
delinquent if not paid within 30 days after said bill is rendered.
   (C)   All persons who are delinquent shall be notified by the village in
writing, that unless such arrearages are paid within ten days, their water
service will be terminated. Said notice shall contain a statement that said
owner, occupants or other persons in possession shall be entitled to an
opportunity for a hearing before the Village President, Village Board or other
authorized person as the Village President may hereafter appoint. In the event
that the village fails to receive a request for a hearing, said hearing shall
be deemed waived, and the water service shall be immediately terminated.
   (D)   In the event that said arrearages are not completely paid and
satisfied within the time limit set forth herein, the Water Superintendent or
other authorized village agent shall terminate water services to said service
address until such arrearages are paid in full. However, no new resident at
such service address shall be withheld water service on account of the
arrearages of a former resident. The village shall not be liable for any damage
to any person or property on account of the termination of water service for
non-payment of said service charges.
   (E)   Upon the full payment of delinquent water service charges where the
water service has been terminated, the owner, tenant, occupant or other persons
in possession shall pay a reconnection fee of $100.
(Ord. 1984-1, passed 10-3-1983; Ord. 1984-3, passed 6-4-1984; Ord. 2000-4,
passed 5-15-2000; Ord. 2023-5, passed 7-10-2023)
§ 51.103 LIEN FOR SERVICES; COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   The village shall have a continuing lien upon the premises and real
estate upon or for which water and sewer services are supplied by the combined
waterworks and sewerage system for the water or sewer fees as provided in this
chapter. Every such lien shall, upon compliance with the conditions set forth
in this chapter, become and be prior and superior to the rights and interest of
creditors, encumbrances, purchasers and other parties in interest in the
premises and real estate; however, the village shall have no preference over
the rights of any purchaser, mortgagee, judgment creditor or other lien holder
arising prior to the filing of the notice of such liens in the office of the
Recorder of the county in which such real estate is located.
   (B)   Notice of said lien shall be given by first class mail, postage
prepaid, to the owner of record of the real estate, as referred by the
taxpayer’s identification number. Said notice shall include:
      (1)   A copy of each delinquency notice sent to the person who is
delinquent in paying the charges or rates or other notices sufficient to inform
the owner or owners of record, as referred by the taxpayer’s identification
number, that the charges or rates have become delinquent; and
      (2)   A notice that unpaid charges or rates may create a lien on the real
estate.
   (C)   Whenever a bill for water service, sewer service, or refuse service
have been deemed delinquent, the Village Clerk shall file with the Recorder of
Deeds a statement of lien claim, verified by affidavit. The statement shall
contain a sufficiently correct legal description of the lot or tract of land to
identify the same, the balance due including all costs and reasonable
attorney’s fees after allowing all credits, and a notice that the village
claims a lien for this amount. No lien shall be defeated because of an error or
overcharge on the part of the village, nor shall any such lien be defeated upon
proof that such water or sewer connection charges were incurred by a tenant of
the premises or occupant other than the owner.
   (D)   If payment is not made, as provided in this chapter, of any water
service, sewer service, or refuse service charges when the same become due, and
if said charges have become delinquent, the village may file or cause to be
filed a complaint in the Circuit Court of the county for the foreclosure of
such lien, or upon becoming a defendant in any pending suit affecting the
premises or real estate, by answer to the complaint, petition to intervene,
counter-complaint or cross-complaint as the Village Attorney may deem necessary
to foreclose such lien. The village may proceed, in its corporate name, to
foreclose such lien in like manner and with like effect as provided by the
statutes of the state in foreclosure of mechanics’ liens or other statutory
liens. Such suit shall be commenced or answered by cross-complaint filed
pursuant to applicable state laws. Any decree rendered in the court may be
enforced and collected as other decrees or judgments in the same court. The
Village Attorney is authorized and directed to institute such foreclosure
proceedings in the name of the village for such water service or wastewater
service charges deemed delinquent.
   (E)   In addition to the remedies set forth above, the village may also file
an action based upon a breach of contract or other appropriate action against
the owner, occupant or persons in possession to collect on said delinquent
account and to recover its costs and reasonable attorney’s fees incurred
therewith. Said action may be filed independently of, or in addition to any
lien claim, foreclosure proceeding or other proceeding instituted by the
village.
   (F)   On any account deemed delinquent as defined herein, the owner,
occupant and user of said water services shall be jointly and severally liable
for the payment and satisfaction of all costs incurred by the village in any
way related to all delinquent accounts. Costs include but are not limited to
recording costs, court costs, filing fees, deposition expenses, subpoena fees,
travel charges, copy and fax charges, expert witness fees, postage costs and
other similar expenses. In addition, said owner, occupant and user of said
water services shall be jointly and severally liable for the payment and
satisfaction of all reasonable attorney’s fees incurred by the village in any
way related to all delinquent accounts, whether incurred with or without a
lawsuit or whether incurred with or without the recording of a lien.
   (G)   The remedies provided in this section for the collection of delinquent
water or sewer charges shall not be construed to abridge or in any manner
interfere with the right and power of the village to enforce collection thereof
by any other action the village may deem necessary or appropriate. The remedies
provided in this section shall be taken and held as an additional means to
enforce payment of such delinquent water or sewer charges.
(Ord. 1984-1, passed 10-3-1983; Ord. 1984-3, passed 6-4-1984; Ord. 2000-4,
passed 5-15-2000; Ord. 2023-5, passed 7-10-2023)
§ 51.104 SECURITY DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Subsequent to the effective date of this subchapter, all new water and
sewer service accounts shall require the payment of a security deposit of $100
to the village. Said security deposit shall be held by the village until such
time as the account is terminated, and shall be returned within 45 days
following the termination of said account on the condition that said account is
current and paid in full (including the payment and satisfaction of all fees,
costs, penalties, attorney’s fees or other authorized expenses set forth
herein). In the event that said account contains a balance due, the village is
hereby authorized to apply any portion or all of said security deposit towards
any outstanding balance. Said security deposit shall not act as a limitation
upon any sums which may be due and owing, and all accounts shall remain subject
to all penalties, fees, costs or other expenses authorized herein. The village
shall not be responsible for the payment of any interest on said security
deposit.
   (B)   Current water accounts within the village may be transferred by a
resident of the village when a resident moves to an existing or new residence
within the village. If a resident has an established water and sewer account
within the village at the time of the move, that resident will not be
considered a new account for water of sewer services. If the resident has
previously paid the $100 deposit to the village, it will transfer to the new
residence. Any account which has been previously terminated by the village or
by the consumer will be considered a new account for any subsequent
reconnection. This division (B) does not apply to those residents of the
village who own more than one parcel of property.
(Ord. 2000-4, passed 5-15-2000; Ord. 2001-11, passed 10-15-2001)
§ 51.105 EFFECTIVE DATE; NOTICE.
   This subchapter shall become effective upon passage, approval and
publication as required by law. A copy of this subchapter, properly certified
by the Village Clerk, shall be filed for public record in the office of the
Recorder of Deeds of the county, and shall be deemed notice to all owners,
occupants or party or parties in possession of real estate of their liability
for service supplied to any user of the service of the combined waterworks and
sewerage system of the village on their properties.
(Ord. 2000-4, passed 5-15-2000)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating the provision of §
51.001 shall be subject to a fine of up to $750 for each violation. Each day of
the continued existence or use of a prohibited well shall be considered a
separate violation.
   (C)   For violations of §
51.003:
      (1)   Each unlawful usage shall constitute a separate offense, and
further provided, each day an unlawful usage continues or occurs shall be
deemed to be a separate offense;
      (2)   A restriction period shall be deemed to commence from midnight of
the day after the publication as herein required has been made, until such time
as the particular water use restriction is terminated by action of the
appropriate village officials;
      (3)   Any person, firm, corporation or other violating §
51.003 shall pay a fine of $100 for the first offense hereunder committed
during a particular restriction period;
      (4)   Any person, firm, corporation or other violating §
51.003 shall pay a fine of $250 for the second offense hereunder committed
during a particular restriction period; and
      (5)   Any person, firm, corporation or other violating §
51.003 shall pay a fine of $500 for the third offense hereunder committed
during a particular restriction period.
   (D)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §
51.015 shall be punished upon conviction by a fine not less than $50 nor more
than $500.
   (E)   Any person, firm or corporation violating §
51.040 shall be fined not less than $50, nor more than $500 for each offense,
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed for each and every day during
which a violation continues or exists.
   (F)   Any person who shall perform any act in violation of § 51.057 shall
upon conviction thereof be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500 for each
offense, and shall in addition be liable for the actual damage done or caused.
   (G)   The penalty for each offense pursuant to §
51.058 is $50.
   (H)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §
51.059(D) shall be punished by a fine of not less than $50 and not more than
$500. Each day that such violation continues to exist shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (I)   Any person who shall violate any of the rules and regulations provided
for in §
51.065(A) respecting the regulations for consumers of water and plumbers shall,
upon conviction, in addition to the enforcement of the forfeiture and
liabilities herein contained, pay a fine of not less than $10 nor more than
$100.
   (J)   Any person, firm or corporation which violates any provision of §§
51.080 through
51.087 and
51.100 through 51.103 shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $500 for
each offense.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 11-4-1946; Ord. passed 1-20-1975; Ord. passed 10-
1-1979; Ord. 1984-1, passed 10-3-1983; Ord. 1984-3, passed 6-4-1984; Ord. 88-2,
passed 7-5-1988; Ord. 1994-6, passed 4-4-1994; Ord. 2012-04, passed 5-21-2012;
Ord. 2013-03, passed 5-13-2013; Ord. 2014-08, passed 7-7-2014; Ord. 2015-07,
passed 4-20-2015)
APPENDIX A: GROUNDWATER AREA MAP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2df39c1fa0092d856acbc8a71a7a33ec61d10b47/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2045.png]
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 5-21-2012; Ord. 2013-03, passed 5-13-2013; Ord. 2014-08,
passed 7-7-2014; Ord. 2015-07, passed 4-20-2015)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   PEDESTRIANS
      
74.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
75.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
76.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions  
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Classification of vehicles
   
70.03   Obedience to police
   
70.04   Signs and signals; obedience required
   
70.05   Unauthorized signs
   
70.06   Interference with signs
   
70.07   Animals or bicycles
   
70.08   Exemptions
   
70.09   Effective date
Vehicle Licenses
   
70.20   Vehicle displaying expired state registration plate or sticker
Annual Licenses; Purchase and Conspicuous Display
   
70.35   Definitions
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Emergency vehicles of municipal departments or
public service corporations as are designated or authorized by proper local
authorities; police vehicles; vehicles of the fire department; vehicles of a
HazMat or technical rescue team authorized by a county board under §§ 5-1127 of
the Counties Code; ambulances; vehicles of the Illinois Emergency Management
Agency; vehicles of the Office of the Illinois State Fire Marshal; mine rescue
and explosives emergency response vehicles of the Department of Natural
Resources; vehicles of the Illinois Department of Public Health; vehicles of
the Illinois Department of Transportation identified as Emergency Traffic
Patrol; and vehicles of a municipal or county emergency services and disaster
agency, as defined by the Illinois Emergency Management Agency Act.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The closely built-up portion of the village.
   CROSSWALK.  
      (1)   That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway, and in the absence of a sidewalk on one side of the
highway, that part of the highway included within the extension of the lateral
line of the existing sidewalk to the side of the highway without the sidewalk,
with such extension forming a right angle to the centerline of the highway;
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface
placed in accordance with the provisions in the Manual adopted by the
Department of Transportation as authorized in § 11-301.
   DRIVER. Any person who is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Any vehicle of the Police or Fire Department, or any
ambulance.
   EXPLOSIVE. Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is commonly used
or intended for the purpose of producing an explosion and which contains any
oxidizing and combustive units or other ingredients in such proportions,
quantities or packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by
percussion or by detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause
such a sudden generation of highly heated gases that the resultant gaseous
pressures are capable of producing destructible effects on contiguous objects
or of destroying life or limb.
   FARM TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing wagons, plows, mowing machines and other implements of
husbandry, and every implement of husbandry which is self propelled, excluding
all-terrain vehicles and off-highway motorcycles as defined in this 625 ILCS
5/.
   FLAMMABLE LIQUID. Any liquid which has a flash point of 70ºF, or less, as
determined by a tagliabue or equivalent closed cup test device.
   IMPROVED HIGHWAY. Any roadway of concrete, brick, asphalt, macadam and
crushed stone or gravel.
   INTERSECTION.  
      (a)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right
angles or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different roadways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      (b)   Where a highway includes two roadways 40 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
      (c)   The junction of an alley with a street or highway does not
constitute an intersection.
   METAL TIRE. Every tire, the surface of which in contrast with the roadway is
wholly or partly composed of metal or other hard, non-resilient material.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground,
but excluding a tractor.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which
is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails, except for vehicles moved solely by human power, motorized
wheelchairs, low-speed electric bicycles, and low-speed gas bicycles. For 625
ILCS 5/, motor vehicles are divided into two divisions:
      (1)   FIRST DIVISION. Those motor vehicles which are designed for the
carrying of not more than ten persons.
      (2)   SECOND DIVISION. Those motor vehicles which are designed for
carrying more than ten persons, those motor vehicles designed or used for
living quarters, those motor vehicles which are designed for pulling or
carrying freight, cargo or implements of husbandry, and those motor vehicles of
the FIRST DIVISION remodeled for use and used as motor vehicles of the SECOND
DIVISION .
   PARK. To stand a vehicle, whether occupied or not, for a period of time
greater than is reasonably necessary for the actual loading or unloading or
persons.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot or wearing in-line speed skates, including a
person with a physical, hearing, or visual disability.
   PNEUMATIC TIRE. Every tire in which compressed air is designed to support
the load.
   PROPERTY LINE. The line marking the boundary between any street and the lots
or property abutting thereon.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The closely built-up residence portion of the village.
   ROAD TRACTOR.  Every motor vehicle designed and used for drawing other
vehicles and not so constructed as to carry any load thereon either
independently or as any part of the weight of a vehicle or load so drawn.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a highway
includes two or more separate roadways the term ROADWAY as used herein shall
refer to any such roadway separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
   SEMI-TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power, other than a pole trailer,
designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor
vehicle and so constructed that some part of its weight and that of its load
rests upon or is carried by another vehicle.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
   SOLID TIRE . Every tire of rubber or other resilient material which does not
depend upon compressed air for the support of the load.
   STREET. The entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained, when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel.
   SUBURBAN DISTRICT.  The portion of the village other than the closely built-
up business and residence districts.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars and
other conveyances either singly or together while using any highway for
purposes of travel.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power in operation, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the
towing vehicle.
   TRUCK TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles and not so constructed so to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
   VEHICLE.
      (1)   Every device, in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway or requiring a certificate of title
under 625 ILCS 5/3-101(d), except devices moved by human power, devices used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks and snowmobiles as defined in the
Snowmobile Registration and Safety Act.
      (2)   For the purposes of this 625 ILCS 5/, unless otherwise prescribed,
a device shall be considered to be a vehicle until such time it either comes
within the definition of a junk vehicle, as defined under 625 ILCS 5/, or a
junking certificate is issued for it.
      (3)   For 625 ILCS 5/, vehicles are divided into two divisions:
         (a)   FIRST DIVISION. Those motor vehicles which are designed for the
carrying of not more than ten persons.
         (b)   SECOND DIVISION. Those vehicles which are designed for carrying
more than ten persons, those designed or used for living quarters and those
vehicles which are designed for pulling or carrying property, freight or cargo,
those motor vehicles of the FIRST DIVISION remodeled for use and used as motor
vehicles of the SECOND DIVISION , and those motor vehicles of the FIRST
DIVISION used and registered as school buses.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1950)
§ 70.02 CLASSIFICATION OF VEHICLES.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, motor vehicles shall be divided into
two divisions: first, vehicles which are designed for the carrying of not more
than seven passengers; and second, those vehicles which are designed and used
for pulling or carrying freight and also vehicles designed and used for
carrying more than seven persons.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1950)
§ 70.03 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE.
   Members of the police are hereby authorized to direct all traffic in
accordance with the provisions of this title, or in emergencies as public
safety or convenience may require, and it shall be unlawful for any person to
fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order, signal or direction of a police
officer. Except in case of emergency, it shall be unlawful for any person not
authorized by the President of the Village Board or police to direct or attempt
to direct traffic.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1950) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 SIGN AND SIGNALS; OBEDIENCE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
instruction of any traffic sign or signal placed in view by authority of the
Village Board or in accordance with the laws of the state.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1950) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain or display any
device, other than an official warning or direction sign or signal authorised
by statute or ordinance, upon or in view of any street, if such device purports
to be or is in imitation of an official warning or direction sign or signal, or
directs or purports to direct traffic. Any such unauthorized device is hereby
declared to be a nuisance and may be removed by any police officer.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1950) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, injure, move or interfere
with any official traffic sign or signal.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1950) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 ANIMALS OR BICYCLES.
   Every person riding a bicycle or an animal or driving any animal drawing a
vehicle upon any street shall be subject to the provisions of this subchapter
applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except those provisions which can have
no application to one riding a bicycle or driving or riding an animal.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1950)
§ 70.08 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter regulating the movement or parking of
vehicles shall not apply to persons engaged in repairing or otherwise improving
any street under authority of the Village Board or of the state.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1950)
§ 70.09 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The provisions of the traffic ordinance passed February 6, 1950 take effect
ten days after the posting of the notice thereof.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1950)
VEHICLE LICENSES
§ 70.20 VEHICLE DISPLAYING EXPIRED STATE REGISTRATION PLATE OR STICKER.
   (A)   The Village Board hereby adopts § 11-1304.5 (625 ILCS 5/11-1304.5) and
§ 16-102.5 (625 ILCS 5/16-102.5) of the State Vehicle Code by reference, and
incorporates the same as though set forth herein. These sections are related to
the regulation of vehicles upon any public street, highway or roadway which has
displayed an expired Illinois registration plate or plates or registration
sticker.
   (B)   Any law enforcement officer employed by or contracted with the village
is hereby authorized and empowered to enforce the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 2000-1, passed 1-17-2000) Penalty, see §
70.99
ANNUAL LICENSES; PURCHASE AND CONSPICUOUS DISPLAY
§ 70.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Includes automobiles and all other vehicles propelled
otherwise than by muscular power, except traction engines and road rollers, the
cars of electric and steam railways, and other motor vehicles running only upon
rail or tracks. Nothing herein shall be construed to apply to or affect
bicycles or tricycles or such other vehicles as are propelled exclusively by
human muscular power.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 4-3-2000)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this title for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §
70.35 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500 for each offense. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each and every day during or on
which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1950; Ord. 2000-1, passed 1-17-2000; Ord. 2000-2, passed 4-3-
2000)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
Rules for Driving
   
71.01   Driver’s signals
   
71.02   Alleys
   
71.03   Vehicles not to be driven on sidewalks
   
71.04   Right-of-way
   
71.05   Following fire apparatus forbidden
   
71.06   Driving on the right side of the roadway
   
71.07   Overtaking
   
71.08   Reckless driving
   
71.09   Speed restrictions
   
71.10   Traffic not to be obstructed
   
71.11   Riding bicycles and motorcycles
   
71.12   Clinging to vehicles
   
71.13   Toy vehicles
   
71.14   Riding on running boards
   
71.15   Through streets
   
71.16   Train signals
   
71.17   Snow routes; towing of violators
Condition of Vehicles
   
71.35   Clear vision
   
71.36   Unnecessary noise
   
71.37   Horn
   
71.38   Gas and smoke
   
71.39   Projecting loads - width
   
71.40   Brakes
   
71.41   Muffler
   
71.42   Lights
   
71.43   Non-skid devices
   
71.44   Tires
   
71.45   Weight
Regulations Concerning Drivers
   
71.60   Liquor or drugs
   
71.61   Accidents
   
71.62   Engine braking noise
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Stop intersections, see
Ch. 75, Sched. III
   Truck routes designated, see
Ch. 75, Sched. V
RULES FOR DRIVING
§ 71.01 DRIVER’S SIGNALS.
   (A)   No driver of a vehicle shall suddenly start, slow down, stop or
attempt to turn without first giving a suitable signal in such a manner as to
apprise others who might be affected by his or her action.
   (B)   The signals herein required shall be given either by means of the hand
and arm or by a signal lamp or other signal device, but when a vehicle is so
constructed or loaded that a hand and arm signal would not be visible both to
the front and rear of such vehicle, then said signals must be given by such a
lamp or device.
   (C)   All signals herein required, given by hand and arm signal, shall be
given from the left side of the vehicle in the following manner, and such
signals shall indicate as follows:
      (1)   Left turn—hand and arm extended horizontally;
      (2)   Right turn—hand and arm extended upward or moved with a sweeping
motion from the rear to the front; and
      (3)   Stop or decrease of speed—hand and arm extended downward.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1950)
§ 71.02 ALLEYS.
   The driver of any vehicle emerging from any alley, driveway or garage shall
stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or across a
sidewalk line projected across such alley, driveway or garage and sound the
horn of said vehicle and shall exercise unusual care in driving said vehicle
upon said sidewalk or across such line. It shall be unlawful for any vehicle of
the second class as herein defined, except emergency vehicles, garbage trucks
or delivery vehicles, when making a delivery therein or in an emergency to
travel upon or drive over the alleys in the village.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1950; Ord. passed 5-8-1961) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 VEHICLES NOT TO BE DRIVEN ON SIDEWALKS.
   No driver of a vehicle shall drive within any sidewalk area, except at a
permanent or temporary driveway.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1950) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Subject to §§
70.03 and
71.15, the driver of a vehicle shall give the right-of-way to the driver of a
vehicle approaching along an intersecting street from the right and shall have
the right-of-way over those approaching from the left.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1950)
§ 71.05 FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS FORBIDDEN.
   (A)   Upon the sounding of gongs or warning devices used upon fire apparatus
or fire patrol vehicles, drivers shall draw their vehicles as near to the
right-hand curb as is reasonably possible and shall remain standing until such
fire apparatus has passed. It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle,
other than on official business, to follow any fire apparatus in response to a
fire alarm closer than one block, or to park any vehicle within the block where
fire apparatus has stopped to answer a fire alarm.
   (B)   It shall be further unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to drive
over any unprotected hose of the Fire Department without the consent of the
Fire Marshal or the assistant in command.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1950) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 DRIVING ON THE RIGHT SIDE OF THE ROADWAY.
   Any driver of a vehicle upon meeting another vehicle shall turn to the right
side of the roadway so far as may be necessary to avoid collision with such
vehicle. It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle upon the left-hand side of
any roadway except where necessary because of obstructions.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1950) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.07 OVERTAKING.
   Any driver of a vehicle, upon overtaking another vehicle, shall pass on the
left side of the overtaken vehicle. When requested to do so, any driver of a
vehicle traveling upon any street shall as soon as practicable turn to the
right, so as to allow any overtaking vehicle free passage to the left of the
overtaken vehicle.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1950)
§ 71.08 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle in the village in a reckless or
wanton manner or so as to unnecessarily endanger life or property.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1950) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.09 SPEED RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall drive a vehicle of the first division as
described in §
70.02, upon any public highway at a speed greater than is reasonable and proper
having regard to the traffic and the use of the way, or so as to endanger the
life or limb or injure the property of any person. If the rate of speed of any
motor vehicle of said first division through the business district of the
village exceeds 20 mph, or if the rate of speed of any motor vehicle while
operated upon any public highway through the residence district of the village
exceeds 25 mph, or if the rate of speed of any such motor vehicle operated on
any public highway in a suburban district exceeds 35 mph, such rates of speed
shall be prima facie evidence that the person operating such motor vehicle is
running at a rate of speed greater than is reasonable and proper having regard
to the traffic and use of the way, or so as to endanger the life or limb or
injure the property of any person.
      (2)   The rate of speed of all vehicles of the second division, as
described in §
70.02, shall always be reasonable and safe and be governed, as near as may be,
by the general requirements of division (A)(1) of this section, but such speed
shall not exceed the following rates:
         (a)   Vehicles having a gross weight of 5,000 pounds and less,
including the weight of the vehicle and the maximum load, if equipped with
pneumatic tires, 35 mph;
         (b)   Vehicles designed and used for carrying more than seven persons
and having a gross weight of not more than 12,000 pounds, including the weight
of the vehicle and the maximum load, if equipped with pneumatic tires, 35 mph;
vehicles designed and used for pulling and carrying freight and having a gross
weight of not more than 12,000 pounds, including the weight of the vehicle and
maximum load, if equipped with pneumatic tires, 35 mph;
         (c)   Vehicles designed and used for carrying and having a gross
weight of more than 12,000 pounds but not more than 15,000 pounds, including
the weight of the vehicle and the maximum load, if equipped with pneumatic
tires, 35 mph; vehicles designed and used for pulling and carrying freight and
having a gross weight of more than 12,000 but not more than 15,000 pounds,
including the weight of the vehicle and maximum load, if equipped with
pneumatic tires, 30 mph; and
         (d)   Vehicles having a gross weight of more than 15,000 pounds,
including the weight of the vehicle and the maximum load, if equipped with
pneumatic tires, 25 mph.
      (3)   The fact that the speed of a vehicle is lower than the foregoing
prima facie limits shall not relieve the driver from the duty to decrease speed
when approaching and crossing an intersection, when approaching and going
around a curve, when traveling upon any narrow roadway, or when special hazards
exist with respect to pedestrians or other traffic by reason of weather or
highway conditions, and speed shall be decreased as may be necessary to avoid
colliding with any person or vehicle, or on entering the highway in compliance
with legal requirements and the duty of all persons to use due care.
   (B)   (1)   Definitions.     For the purpose of this division (B), the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
         ALLEY. A public way within a block, generally giving access to the
rear of lots or buildings, and not used for general traffic circulation.
         STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between property lines or every
way or place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use of the
public, as a matter of right, for the purpose of vehicular traffic.
         VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is
or may be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
      (2)   Speed restrictions. It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle
within the village at a speed in excess of the designated speed limits set
forth in
Chapter 75, Schedule II.
      (3)   Conditions.
         (a)   If the President and Board of Trustees by ordinance sets other
limits as provided by statute after an engineering or traffic survey, then such
limits shall govern the rate of speed on the streets indicated in such
ordinance. The Director of Public Works and Public Safety shall post
appropriate signs showing such speed limits.
         (b)   The speed of all vehicles of the second division, as defined by
statute, having two or more solid tires shall not exceed ten mph.
         (c)   The fact that the speed of a vehicle does not exceed the
applicable maximum speed limit does not relieve the driver from the duty to
decrease speed when approaching and crossing an intersection, when approaching
and going around a curve, when approaching a hill crest, when traveling upon
any narrow or winding roadway, or when special hazards exist with respect to
pedestrians or other traffic by reason of weather or highway conditions; and
speed shall be decreased as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person
or vehicle on or entering the highway in compliance with legal requirements and
the duty of all persons to use due care.
         (d)   It shall be unlawful to drive any vehicle on any street or
highway within the village under jurisdiction of the State Department of
Transportation or of the county at a speed exceeding that lawfully set for such
street.
      (4)   Special speed limit while passing schools. No person shall drive a
motor vehicle at a speed in excess of 20 mph while passing a school zone as
designated by road signs at any time during school days when school children
are present.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1950; Ord. 90-4, passed 7-16-1990) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.10 TRAFFIC NOT TO BE OBSTRUCTED.
   No vehicle shall be operated or allowed to remain upon any street in such a
manner as to form an unreasonable obstruction to the traffic thereon.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1950) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.11 RIDING BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES.
   It shall be unlawful for more than one person to ride upon any bicycle
propelled by human power upon any street, or for any person to ride upon any
motorcycles other than upon a seat attached to said vehicle.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1950) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.12 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person on any street riding a bicycle,
motorcycle or any toy vehicle to cling to or attach himself or herself or his
or her vehicle to any moving motor vehicle or wagon.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1950) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.13 TOY VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person upon skates, a coaster, sled or other
toy vehicle, to go upon any roadway other than at crosswalk.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1950) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.14 RIDING ON RUNNING BOARDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride upon the fender, running board
or outside step of any vehicle.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1950) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.15 THROUGH STREETS.
   (A)   The streets and parts of streets set forth in
Chapter 75, Schedule I are hereby declared to be through streets.
   (B)   Every driver of a vehicle traversing any street intersecting with any
through street shall stop such vehicle before entering upon the through street
unless a go signal is given at such intersection by a traffic officer.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1950; Ord. passed 3-1-1954)
§ 71.16 TRAIN SIGNALS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a railroad grade crossing when a
signal device gives warning of the immediate approach of a train, shall stop
within 50 feet but not less than ten feet from the nearest track of such
railroad and shall not proceed until he or she can safely do so.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop and remain standing and not
traverse such grade crossing when a crossing gate is lowered or when a
flagperson gives a signal of the approach of a train.
   (C)   The driver of any motor vehicle carrying passengers for hire or any
school bus, or of any vehicle carrying explosives or flammable liquid as cargo,
shall stop such vehicle within 50 feet but not less than ten feet from the
tracks and shall listen and look in both directions from which a train might
come, before proceeding across such tracks at a grade crossing; provided, that
the provisions of this division (C) shall not apply when traffic at the
crossing is directed by an officer who gives a go signal.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1950)
§ 71.17 SNOW ROUTES; TOWING OF VIOLATORS.
   (A)   Snow routes; generally. Snow routes in the village shall be divided
into two categories: primary snow routes and secondary snow routes.
   (B)   Primary snow routes. It is unlawful to park any vehicle between the
hours of midnight and 7:00 a.m. on the streets designated in
Chapter 75, Schedule IV(A) at any time after snow has accumulated to a depth of
two inches or more until snow removal operations have been completed on any of
the following streets
   (C)   Secondary snow routes. Secondary snow routes are designated as set
forth in
Chapter 75, Schedule IV(B), and upon such routes snow plowing may take place
under direction of the village authorities and cars will not have to be
removed, but it will be to the benefit of the residents to remove cars if
possible.
   (D)   Authority to remove and tow away violating vehicles. Chief of Police,
members of the Police Department, Village Board and its representatives are
hereby authorized to remove and tow away or have removed and towed away, by a
commercial towing service, any car or other vehicle which violates or fails to
comply with the primary snow routes. Cars or vehicles so towed away shall be
stored on village property or in a public garage or parking lot and shall be
restored to the owner or operator thereof after payment of the expense incurred
by the village in removing and storing such cars or vehicles. In addition to
the towing charges to be paid by the owner or operator, there shall be a
penalty minimum not to be less than $50, and not to exceed $750 for a violation
of the above section.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed 3-4-2002)
CONDITION OF VEHICLES
§ 71.35 CLEAR VISION.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle which is so loaded or in such
condition that the operator does not have a clear vision of all parts of the
roadway essential to the safe operation of the vehicle. Any vehicle which is
constructed or loaded so that the driver’s view of the roadway to the rear is
obstructed shall be equipped with a mirror so attached as to give him or her a
view of the roadway behind.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1950) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.36 UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle upon the street which makes an
unusually loud or unnecessary noise.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1950) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.37 HORN.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a good and sufficient,
audible signaling device in efficient working order. Such signaling device
shall be sounded when necessary to give timely warning of the approach of the
vehicle, but such horn or other signaling device shall not be sounded for any
purpose other than as a warning of impending danger.
   (B)   No motor vehicle other than an emergency vehicle shall be equipped
with a siren signaling device.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1950) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.38 GAS AND SMOKE.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle which emits dense clouds of gas
or smoke or such an amount of smoke or fumes as to be dangerous to the health
of the persons or as to endanger the drivers of other vehicles.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1950) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.39 PROJECTING LOADS – WIDTH.
   (A)   The maximum width of any vehicle and its load shall not exceed eight
feet excepting loads of loose hay, straw, corn, fodder or similar farm
products, agricultural implements and threshing machines.
   (B)   No passenger type vehicle shall be operated upon the streets with a
load extending beyond the line of the fenders on the left side of the vehicle
nor extending more than six inches beyond the line of the fenders on the right
side of the vehicle.
   (C)   No vehicle, unladen or with a load, shall exceed a length of 35 feet
extreme dimensions; a truck trailer and a semi-trailer shall be regarded as one
vehicle for the purpose of determining length.
   (D)   No combination of vehicles coupled together shall consist of more than
two units, and no such combination shall exceed a total length of 40 feet
whether with or without a load, but such length limitation shall not apply to
vehicles operated in the daytime when transporting poles, pipes, machinery or
other objects which cannot be readily be dismembered, nor to such vehicles
operated at night-time by a public utility when engaged in emergency repair
work but such loads carried at night shall be clearly marked with sufficient
lights to show the full dimensions of the load.
   (E)   No part of a load of a vehicle shall extend more than three feet in
front of the extreme front portion of the vehicle.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1950) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.40 BRAKES.
   It shall be unlawful to drive any vehicle upon any street unless such motor
vehicle is equipped with good and sufficient brakes in good working condition,
as required by the state traffic law, or to operate any vehicle which is so
loaded that the operator does not have ready access to the mechanism operating
the brakes of such vehicle.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1950) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.41 MUFFLER.
   No motor vehicle shall be operated on any street unless such vehicle is
provided with a muffler in efficient working condition; and the use of a cut-
out is prohibited.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1950) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.42 LIGHTS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate or park on any street any vehicle not
equipped with adequate lights conforming to the requirements of the state law.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1950) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.43 NON-SKID DEVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any motor vehicle upon any street equipped
with any non-skid device so constructed that any rigid or non-flexible portion
thereof comes into contact with the pavement or roadway.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1950) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.44 TIRES.
   It shall be unlawful to operate on any street any motor vehicle which is not
equipped with tires conforming to the requirements of the state traffic law.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1950) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.45 WEIGHT.
   It shall be unlawful to drive on any street any motor vehicle with a weight,
including the weight of the load, in excess of that permitted by the state
traffic law for driving on improved highways or with weight distributed in a
manner not conforming to such law.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1950) Penalty, see §
71.99
REGULATIONS CONCERNING DRIVERS
§ 71.60 LIQUOR OR DRUGS.
   It shall be unlawful for the habitual user of narcotic drugs to operate any
motor vehicle on any street; and it shall be unlawful for any intoxicated
person under the influence of liquor, alcoholic liquor or of a narcotic drug,
to operate or attempt to operate any motor vehicle on any street.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1950) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.61 ACCIDENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle which has collided with any
vehicle, person or property, in such as manner as to cause injury or damage, to
fail or refuse to stop immediately, to render such assistance as many be
possible, to give his or her true name and residence to the injured person or
the owner of the property damaged, and to a police officer if one is present. A
report of each such accident shall be given by the driver of each vehicle
concerned in it to the police within 24 hours after the accident.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1950) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.62 ENGINE BRAKING NOISE.
   (A)   Prohibition. It shall be unlawful to make excessive engine braking
noise while operating any vehicle upon any street within the corporate limits
of the village.
   (B)   Signs.  The Director of Public Works is hereby authorized and directed
to purchase and install signs consistent with division (C) below designating
the following areas as “excessive engine braking noise prohibited” areas:
      (1)   Northbound and southbound traffic on State Route 47 within the
corporate limits of the village; and
      (2)   Eastbound and westbound traffic on Grand Ridge Road within the
corporate limits of the village.
   (C)   Engine braking sign, R5-I106.
      (1)   The standard size sign shall be 30 inches wide by 36 inches high
with three-inch D letters. The plaque size will vary with the message.
      (2)   For high-speed locations or multi-lane highways, a larger-sized 48-
inch by 60-inch sign with five-inch D letters may be used.
      (3)   The sign shall be black on white and shall be retroreflective.
      (4)   The message on the sign is prescribed by statute (see § 12-602.1 of
the State Vehicle Code (Public Act 094-0756) and 92 Ill. Adm. Code 547, Engine
Braking Signs).
      (5)   A plaque should be used to define the extent of the prohibition
such as “next X miles,” “on village streets,” “next X blocks” and the like and
may indicate a time such as 8:00 p.m. through 7:00 a.m.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2df39c1fa0092d856acbc8a71a7a33ec61d10b47/
IMAGES/0-0-0-33.jpg]
 
(Ord. 2004-10, passed 6-21-2004; Ord. 2007-13, passed 7-2-2007)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §
71.09(B) shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500 for each offense.
(Ord. 90-4, passed 7-16-1990)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   No parking places
   
72.02   Parking at curb
   
72.03   Parking vehicles for sale
   
72.04   Handicap parking locations
Encroachment on Public Rights-of-Way
   
72.15   Definitions
   
72.16   Encroachments prohibited
Commercial Vehicles
   
72.30   Recitals adopted
   
72.31   Vehicles of the second division prohibited from parking
   
72.32   Signage
   
72.33   Enforcement
   
72.34   Fines
Recreational Vehicles
   
72.45   Definitions
   
72.46   Parking of these vehicles prohibited after 72 hours
   
72.47   Removal and towing of violators
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Limited parking zones, see
Ch. 76, Sched. II
   No parking zones, see
Ch. 76, Sched. I
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 NO PARKING PLACES.
   At any time it shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle, except when
necessary to avoid conflict with other vehicles or in compliance with the
direction of traffic police officers or signals, to stand in any of the
following places:
   (A)   In any intersection;
   (B)   In a crosswalk;
   (C)   Within 30 feet of a through street sign on the approaching side;
   (D)   Within 20 feet of any intersection;
   (E)   At any place where the standing of a vehicle reduces the usable width
of the roadway for moving traffic to less than 18 feet;
   (F)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
   (G)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
   (H)   At any place where the vehicle would block the use of a driveway;
   (I)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking;
   (J)   At any and all places upon North Street;
   (K)   On State Route 47 north of its intersection with the Grand Ridge Road,
a distance of 500 feet north of said intersection; and
   (L)   On the north side and the south side of Jonquil Lane, approximately
112 feet west of the intersection of Illinois Route 47 and Jonquil Lane.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1950; Ord. passed 6-14-1954; Ord. passed 7-6-1959; Ord. 2019-
08, passed 8-19-2019) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 PARKING AT CURB.
   No vehicle shall be parked with the left side of such vehicle at the curb or
curb line, and it shall be unlawful to stand or park any vehicle in a street
other than parallel with the curb or curb line and with the two right wheels of
the vehicle within 12 inches of the regularly established curb line, except
upon Depot Street, from the south line of Park Street to the northerly line of
Front Street, where vehicles shall be parked at an angle of 45 degrees with the
curb, and the right front corner of each vehicle shall be against the curb.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1950) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 PARKING VEHICLES FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon any street for the purpose of
displaying it for sale, or to park upon any business street any vehicle from
which merchandise is peddled.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1950) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 HANDICAP PARKING LOCATIONS.
   Parking spaces for disabled persons are established at the following
locations:
   (A)   The third, fourth, and 21st parking stalls starting from the south,
located on the east side of Depot Street, north of the intersection of Front
Street and Depot Street;
   (B)   The 17th parking stall starting from the south, located on the west
side of Depot Street, north of the intersection of Front Street and Depot
Street;
   (C)   The first parking stall from the east, located on the west side of
Depot Street, located at the south/west corner of the intersection of Park
Street and Depot Street; and
   (D)   The first parking stall starting from the south, on the east side of
7th Street, north of 7th Street and Park Street intersection.
(Ord. 2023-03, passed 4-10-2023)
ENCROACHMENT ON PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
§ 72.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSTRUCTION EASEMENT AREA. Area lying between the project right-of-way
limits and the platted street limits within which the village, by concurrence
in the establishment of the project right-of-way lines, will permit the state
to enter to perform all necessary construction operations.
   ENCROACHMENT. Any building, fence, sign or any other structure or object of
any kind (with the exception of utilities and public road signs), which is
placed, located or maintained, in, on, under or over any portion of the project
right-of-way or the roadway right-of-way where no project right-of-way line has
been established.
   PERMISSIBLE ENCROACHMENT. Any existing awning, marquee, advertising sign or
similar overhanging structure supported from a building immediately adjacent to
the limits of the platted street where there is a sidewalk extending to the
building lane and which does not impair the free and safe flow of pedestrian
traffic and traffic on the highway. The permissive retention of overhanging
signs is not to be construed as being applicable to those signs supported from
poles constructed outside the project right-of-way line and not confined by
adjacent buildings.
   PROJECT RIGHT-OF-WAY. Those areas within the project right-of-way lines
established jointly by the village, state and the Federal Highway
Administration which will be free of encroachments except as hereinafter
defined.
   ROADWAY RIGHT-OF-WAY. Those areas existing or acquired by dedication or by
fee simple for highway purposes; also, the areas acquired by temporary easement
during the time the easement is in effect.
(Ord. 1983-3, passed 1-17-1983; Ord. 1994-7, passed 4-4-1994)
§ 72.16 ENCROACHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect or
cause to be erected, to retain or cause to be retained, any encroachment
(defined in §
72.15) within the limits of the project right-of-way or roadway right-of-way
where no project right-of-way lines have been established.
   (B)   This section is intended to and shall be in addition to all other
ordinances, rules and regulations concerning encroachments and shall not be
construed as repealing or rescinding any other ordinance or part of any
ordinance unless in direct conflict therewith.
(Ord. 1983-3, passed 1-17-1983; Ord. 1994-7, passed 4-4-1994) Penalty, see §
72.99
COMMERCIAL VEHICLES
§ 72.30 RECITALS ADOPTED.
   The recitals to Ordinance 2005-8 are hereby deemed to be the findings of the
Village Board, and are hereby restated, re-alleged and incorporated into the
body of this subchapter as follows:
   (A)   The Village Board has deemed it reasonable and necessary to regulate
the parking of specified vehicles on the public right-of-way and within Mazon
Commercial Park;
   (B)   The village is authorized to regulate the stopping, standing or
parking of vehicles within the corporate limits of the village pursuant to and
in accordance with the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/11-1-1 and 5/11-80-2)
and State Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/, 5/11-1303); and
   (C)   Regulating the parking as set forth herein shall promote the health,
safety and welfare of the inhabitants of the village.
(Ord. 2005-8, passed 7-18-2005)
§ 72.31 VEHICLES OF THE SECOND DIVISION PROHIBITED FROM PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall park, leave standing or allow to be unattended for any
period of time any vehicle of the second division on any public right-of-way
within the village. For the purposes of this subchapter, a vehicle of the
second division shall be as defined in Act 5, § 1-217 of the State Vehicle Code
(625 ILCS 5/1-217), and shall specifically include a truck tractor,
transporter, trailer, stinger-steered semi-trailer, semi-trailer road tractor,
motorhome, implement of husbandry or other commercial vehicle.
   (B)   Any such vehicles may, however, use said public rights-of-way within
the village for the purpose of loading or unloading goods, equipment or other
personal property.
(Ord. 2005-8, passed 7-18-2005) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.32 SIGNAGE.
   Following the effective date of this subchapter, the Village Director of
Public Works is hereby authorized and directed to purchase and place official
signs which prohibit parking as set forth herein at conspicuous locations along
and upon the public rights-of-way within the village.
(Ord. 2005-8, passed 7-18-2005)
§ 72.33 ENFORCEMENT.
   This subchapter shall be enforceable through the provisions of Act 5, § 11-
1303 of the State Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/11-1303), and shall be prosecuted as
a state offense pursuant thereto rather than an ordinance violation of the
village.
(Ord. 2005-8, passed 7-18-2005)
§ 72.34 FINES.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates the provisions of this
subchapter shall be fined as determined by the court for each such offense.
Each calendar day during which a violation of this subchapter continues shall
be deemed a separate and independent violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2005-8, passed 7-18-2005) Penalty, see §
72.99
RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
§ 72.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPING TRAILER. A trailer, not used commercially, constructed with partial
side walls which fold for towing and unfold to provide temporary living
quarters for recreational camping or travel use and of a size or weight not
requiring an overdimension permit when towed on a highway.
(625 ILCS 5/1-109.01)
   HOUSE TRAILER.   
      (1)   A trailer or semi-trailer equipped and used for living quarters or
for human habitation (temporarily or permanently) rather than for the
transportation of freight, goods, wares and merchandise; or
      (2)   A HOUSE TRAILER or a semi-trailer which is used commercially
(temporarily or permanently), that is, for the advertising, sales, display or
promotion of merchandise or services, or for any other commercial purpose
except the transportation of property for hire or the transportation of
property for distribution by a private carrier.
(625 ILCS 5/1-128)
   MOTOR HOME, MINI MOTOR HOME OR VAN CAMPER. A self-contained motor vehicle,
not used commercially, designed or permanently converted to provide living
quarters for recreational, camping or travel use, with direct walk-through
access to the living quarters from the driver’s seat. Such vehicles must
include at least four of the following:
      (1)   A cooking facility with an on-board fuel source;
      (2)   A gas or electric refrigerator;
      (3)   A toilet with exterior evacuation;
      (4)   A heating or air conditioning system with an on-board power or fuel
source separate from the vehicle engine;
      (5)   A potable water supply system that includes at least a sink, a
faucet and a water tank with an exterior service supply connection; and
      (6)   A 110-125 volt electric power supply.
(625 ILCS 5/1-145.01)
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Every camping trailer, motor home, mini motor home,
travel trailer, truck camper or van camper used primarily for recreational
purposes and not used commercially nor owned by a commercial business.
(625 ILCS 5/1-169)
   TRAILER.   
      (1)   Every vehicle without motive power in operation, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the
towing vehicle.
(625 ILCS 5/1-209)
      (2)   A TRAILER shall include but not be limited to those vehicles
designed to carry watercraft of any kind, snowmobiles, motorcycles, other
automobiles or vehicles, all-terrain vehicles.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A trailer, not used commercially, designed to provide living
quarters for recreational, camping or travel use, and of a size or weight not
requiring an overdimension permit when towed on a highway.
(625 ILCS 5/1-210.01)
   TRUCK CAMPER.  A truck, not used commercially, when equipped with a portable
unit designed to be loaded onto the bed which is construed to provide temporary
living quarters for recreational, travel or camping use.
(625 ILCS 5/1-211.01)
(Ord. 1999-9, passed 7-19-1999)
§ 72.46 PARKING OF THESE VEHICLES PROHIBITED AFTER 72 HOURS.
   No person shall park, leave standing or allow to be unattended for any
period of time in excess of 72 hours any of the vehicles defined in §
72.45 along or upon any right-of-way located within the village, except in such
places as from time to time may be designated by ordinance.
(Ord. 1999-9, passed 7-19-1999) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.47 REMOVAL AND TOWING OF VIOLATORS.
   Any agent of the village or law enforcement official is hereby authorized to
remove and tow away or have removed and towed away any prohibited vehicles
illegally parked. The owner of any vehicle towed shall pay all costs of the
towing and storage, and the village shall have the right to withhold possession
from the owner until the owner has paid the towing and storage costs in full.
(Ord. 1999-9, passed 7-19-1999)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating §§
72.15 and
72.16 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500 for each offense, and
a separate offense shall be deemed committed for each and every day during
which a violation continues or exists.
   (C)   For violations of §§
72.45 through
72.47:
      (1)   Each calendar day during which a violation of this subchapter
continues shall be deemed a separate and independent violation of this
subchapter; and
      (2)   Any person who violates the provisions of this subchapter shall be
fined not less than $50 nor more than $500 for each such offense.
   (D)   For violations of the limited parking zones set forth in
Chapter 76, Schedule II, any person, firm or corporation violating the
provisions of that schedule shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500
for each offense.
(Ord. 1983-3, passed 1-17-1983; Ord. 1994-7, passed 4-4-1994; Ord. 1999-9,
passed 7-19-1999; Ord. 2012-05-02, passed 6-4-2012)
CHAPTER 73: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
73.01   Right-of-way
   
73.02   Pedestrians using roadway
   
73.03   Signals
§ 73.01 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to drive into any
crosswalk without the exercise of due care and proper care in view of the
special use made thereof by pedestrians.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to drive any vehicle into any crosswalk while
there is in such crosswalk upon the half of the roadway upon which such vehicle
is traveling any pedestrian engaged in crossing the roadway, until such
pedestrian shall have passed beyond the path of such vehicle, when the
pedestrian shall indicate his or her intention to cross.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop before entering any crosswalk when
any other vehicle proceeding in the same direction is stopped at such crosswalk
for the purpose of permitting a pedestrian to cross.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1950) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.02 PEDESTRIANS USING ROADWAY.
    (A)   At no place shall a pedestrian cross any roadway other than by the
most direct route to the opposite curbing, and when crossing at any place other
than a crosswalk he or she shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon
the roadway.
   (B)   No person shall stand or loiter in any roadway, if such act interferes
with the lawful movement of traffic.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stand in a roadway for the
purpose of soliciting a ride from the driver of any vehicle.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1950) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.03 SIGNALS.
   At intersections where traffic is directed by a police officer, it shall be
unlawful for any pedestrian to cross the roadway, other than with released
traffic, if such crossing interferes with the lawful movement of traffic.
(Ord. passed 2-6-1950) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 74: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Golf Carts
   
74.01   Definitions
   
74.02   Designated areas of operation
   
74.03   Equipment
   
74.04   Operation
   
74.05   License and insurance
   
74.06   Inspection and registration
 
   
74.99   Penalty
GOLF CARTS
§ 74.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Golf carts shall be allowed on village streets as defined and qualified
herein. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART.  A vehicle specifically designed and intended for the purpose of
transporting one or more persons and their golf clubs or maintenance equipment
while engaged in the playing of golf, supervising the play of golf or
maintaining the condition of the grounds on a public or private golf course.
Electric or gas motorized bikes or scooters are not considered GOLF CARTS under
this subchapter.
   RECREATIONAL OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLE. Any motorized off highway device designed
to travel primarily off highway, 64 inches or less in width, having a
manufacturer’s dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less, traveling on four or more
non highway tires, designed with a non-dashstartle seat and a steering wheel
for steering control except such equipment as lawn mowers.
   VILLAGE STREETS. Any of the streets within the boundaries of the village
under the jurisdiction of the village.
(Ord. 2010-06-A, passed 9-7-2010)
Statutory reference:
   Golf cart defined, see 625 ILCS 5/1-123.9
   Recreational vehicle defined, see 625 ILCS 5/1-168.8
§ 74.02 DESIGNATED AREAS OF OPERATION.
   Golf carts may be operated within the following designated areas of
operation within the village.
   (A)   Golf carts shall only be allowed on village streets.
   (B)   Golf carts may only be operated on streets with a posted speed limit
of 35 mph or less.
   (C)   No golf cart will be allowed to cross any street that has a speed
limit of 35 mph or more unless there is a four-way stop or stop light.
   (D)   Golf carts are prohibited to be used in any village park, upon any
village parkway, walk path or sidewalk.
(Ord. 2010-06-A, passed 9-7-2010) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.03 EQUIPMENT.
   All golf carts within the village must be equipped with the following:
   (A)   Working brakes;
   (B)   Steering apparatus;
   (C)   Properly inflated and functional tires;
   (D)   An operating rear-view mirror;
   (E)   Red reflectorized warning devices in the front and rear of the
vehicle;
   (F)   A slow moving emblem on the rear of the vehicle;
   (G)   A headlight that emits a white light that is visible from a distance
of 500 feet from the front of the vehicle;
   (H)   A tail lamp that emits a red light visible from at least 100 feet from
the rear of the vehicle; and
   (I)   Headlights and tail lamps must be lighted at all times when on a
village street.
   (J)   Turn signals.
   (K)   Break lights.
(Ord. 2010-06-A, passed 9-7-2010; Ord. 2013-08, passed 8-5-2013)
§ 74.04 OPERATION.
   All golf carts within the village must operate as follows.
   (A)   Each passenger must be in a seat and only one passenger per seat is
permitted;
   (B)   Golf carts are not permitted to tow additional vehicles or items
behind their vehicle (trailer, wagon, cart and the like);
   (C)   Must obey all traffic laws of this state and the village;
   (D)   Golf carts shall not be operated in inclement weather, nor when
visibility is impaired by weather, smoke, fog or other conditions; or at any
time when there is insufficient light to clearly see persons and vehicles on
the roadway at a distance of 500 feet;
   (E)   A person who drives or is in actual physical control of a golf cart on
a roadway while under the influence of alcohol and/or drugs is subject to 625
ILCS 5/11-500 through 11-502;
   (F)   All drivers of a golf cart shall comply with and be responsible for
obeying all laws, rules and regulations as may be amended from time to time,
specifically including the compiled statutes with regard to the State Child
Protection Act with the proper use of seatbelts and/or child safety seats (625
ILCS 5/12-603.1); and
   (G)   All drivers of a golf cart shall comply with and be responsible for
obeying all laws, rules and regulations as may be amended from time to time, as
set forth in the State Vehicle Code (being 625 ILCS 5/).
(Ord. 2010-06-A, passed 9-7-2010) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.05 LICENSE AND INSURANCE.
   All persons operating a golf cart within the village must have a current
valid driver’s license and must have proof of current liability insurance.
(Ord. 2010-06-A, passed 9-7-2010) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.06 INSPECTION AND REGISTRATION.
   No person shall operate a golf cart without obtaining an inspection and
registration from the village, as provided herein. The village shall perform an
annual inspection and shall charge a registration fee with a cost of $25 per
year, per golf cart. The village will issue a registration number to be
displayed on each side of the vehicle. It shall be the responsibility of the
vehicle owner to display the registration in black and reflective numbers, four
inches high and two inches wide.
(Ord. 2010-06-A, passed 9-7-2010) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   For violations of §§
74.01 through
74.06:
      (1)   Separate violations. Each calendar day during which a violation of
this subchapter continues shall be deemed a separate and independent violation
of this subchapter.
      (2)   Fine. Any person who violates the provisions of this subchapter
shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $750 for each offense.
(Ord. 2010-06-A, passed 9-7-2010)
CHAPTER 75: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Through streets
   
II.   Speed limits
   
III.   Stop intersections
   
IV.   Snow removal routes
   
V.   Truck routes designated
SCHEDULE I. THROUGH STREETS.
   The following streets and parts of streets are hereby declared to be through
streets.
 
Street                    Extent                          Ord No. Date Passed
                          From the south line of North    Ord. -; 2-6-1950;
Depot Street              Street to the north line of     Ord. -  3-1-1954
                          Jewett Street
East Street or State Bond From the north corporation      Ord. -; 2-6-1950;
Issue Route 47            limits to the south corporation Ord. -  3-1-1954
                          limits
                          From the west corporation       Ord. -; 2-6-1950;
North Street              limits to East Street or State  Ord. -  3-1-1954
                          Bond Issue Route 47
 
SCHEDULE II. SPEED LIMITS.
   It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle within the village at a
speed in excess of the following designated speed limits. The Director of
Public Works shall post appropriate signs showing these speed limits:
 
Road                                     Speed Limit (mph) Ord. No. Date Passed
Grand Ridge Road, from a point three-
fourths of one mile west of State Route  55                90-4     7-16-1990
47 west to the western boundary of the
village
Grand Ridge Road, from State Route 47    30                90-4     7-16-1990
west three-fourths of one mile
Grand Ridge Road, from the intersection
of the said Grand Ridge Road and State   30                1984-8   11-5-1984
Route 47 to the West boundary of the
village
Grand Ridge Road, from the intersection
of the said Grand Ridge Road and Seventh
Street to the West boundary of the       20                1984-8   11-5-1984
village, on any school days when school
children are present
Any other street within the village not
under the jurisdiction of the State      20                90-4     7-16-1990
Department of Transportation
Any alley within the village             15                90-4     7-16-1990
 
Penalty, see §
71.99
SCHEDULE III. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   The locations set forth below are designated as stop intersections. The
Director of Public Works is hereby authorized and directed to purchase and
install stop signs at the designated locations:
Intersection Direction Ord. No. Date Passed
Intersection                Direction                     Ord. No. Date Passed
Center Street at Warren     Southbound traffic on Center
Drive                       Street shall stop at Warren   2007-04  4-2-2007
                            Drive
Jonquil Lane at Center      Westbound traffic on Jonquil
Street                      Lane shall stop at Center     2007-04  4-2-2007
                            Street
                            Westbound traffic on Jonquil
Jonquil Lane at Main Street Lane shall stop at Main       2007-04  4-2-2007
                            Street
                            Northbound traffic on Main
Main Street at Jonquil Lane Street shall stop at Jonquil  2007-04  4-2-2007
                            Lane
                            Southbound traffic on
Primrose at Jonquil Lane    Primrose shall stop at        2007-04  4-2-2007
                            Jonquil Lane
Seneca Street at Center     Eastbound traffic on Seneca
Street                      Street shall stop at Center   2007-04  4-2-2007
                            Street
Seventh Street at South     Northbound traffic on Seventh
Street                      Street shall stop at South    2007-04  4-2-2007
                            Street
 
Penalty, see §
71.99
SCHEDULE IV. SNOW REMOVAL ROUTES.
   (A)   Primary snow routes. Pursuant to §
71.17(B), it is unlawful to park any vehicle between the hours of midnight and
7:00 a.m. on the following streets:
 
Street           Extent                                Ord. No. Date Passed
Depot Street     From Grand Ridge Road to Front Street 2002-1   3-4-2002
Eighth Street    From Grand Ridge Road to Front Street 2002-1   3-4-2002
Front Street     From Eighth Street to Depot Street    2002-1   3-4-2002
Grand Ridge Road From Route 47 west to Dwight Road     2002-1   3-4-2002
 
   (B)   Secondary snow routes. Pursuant to §
71.17(C), secondary snow routes are designated as the following streets:
Street Extent Ord. No. Date Passed
Street           Extent                                    Ord. No. Date Passed
Center Street    From Grand Ridge Road to Warren Drive     2002-1   3-4-2002
Depot Street     From South Street to Jewett Street        2002-1   3-4-2002
Eighth Street    From South Street to Jewett Street        2002-1   3-4-2002
Industry Parkway (All)                                     2002-1   3-4-2002
Jewett Street    From Eighth Street to Center Street       2002-1   3-4-2002
Jonquil Lane     From Main Street to Commercial Drive      2002-1   3-4-2002
Main Street      From Warren Drive to Jonquil Lane         2002-1   3-4-2002
Park Street      From Depot Street to Mazon Verona Kinsman 2002-1   3-4-2002
                 Grade School
South Street     From Route 47 to Dwight Road              2002-1   3-4-2002
 
Penalty, see §
71.99
SCHEDULE V. TRUCK ROUTES DESIGNATED.
   The following streets are designated truck routes for the village:
 
Street        Direction          Class Route     Res./ Ord. No. Date Passed
              Beginning at the
              intersection with
North Street  State Route 47 and Class III truck
(Grand Ridge  extending west 1.0 route           Res.           1-6-1997
Road)         mile to the
              intersection of
              Dwight Road
 
CHAPTER 76: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   No parking zones
   
II.   Limited parking zones
SCHEDULE I. NO PARKING ZONES.
   The following are no parking zones:
 
Street                                                                    Side Ord.  Date
                                                                               No.   Passed
State Route 47 (East Street), from the village’s south corporate limits      1994- 4-4-
northerly plus or minus 2,300 feet (plus or minus 0.44 mile) to its north Both 8     1994
corporate limits
 
Penalty, see §
72.99
SCHEDULE II. LIMITED PARKING ZONES.
   (A)   The following are limited parking zones for the village:
 
Street                       Time Limitation            Ord. No.   Date Passed
Park Street, south side, the 30-minute parking between
first 4 non-handicapped      the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 2012-05-02 6-4-2012
parking stalls beginning at  7:00 p.m.
Depot Street
 
   (B)   The Director of Public Works is hereby authorized and directed to
purchase and install the required signs and to perform any further acts that
may be necessary to indicate the limitation for parking in the above referenced
area.
(Ord. 2012-05-02, passed 6-4-2012) Penalty, see §
72.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FIRE PROTECTION AND REGULATION
      
92.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
93.   NUISANCES; ENVIRONMENT AND SANITATION
      
94.   HOUSING DISCRIMINATION
      
95.   SMOKING
      
96.   CABLE COMMUNICATIONS
      
97.   CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN THE RIGHTS-OF-WAY
      
98.   UNSCHEDULED BUSES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
Regulation of Animals
   
90.01   Animal Control Officer
   
90.02   Animals prohibited in the village
   
90.03   Running at large prohibited
   
90.04   Impounding
   
90.05   Dangerous and vicious animals prohibited
   
90.06   Diseased animals prohibited
   
90.07   Authority to destroy animals
   
90.08   Number of dogs/cats; limitation; exemption
   
90.09   Noisy animals prohibited
   
90.10   Solid waste removal
Dangerous and Vicious Animals
   
90.25   Adoption of county ordinance
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross reference:
   Contract for animal control services, see
TSO VIII
REGULATION OF ANIMALS
§ 90.01 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   For the purpose of enforcing this chapter, the village will contract with
the Grundy County Department of Animal Control.
(Ord. 98-01, passed 1-19-1998; Ord. 2014-02, passed 5-5-2014)
§ 90.02 ANIMALS PROHIBITED IN THE VILLAGE.
   It is unlawful to keep any cattle, horses, ponies, swine, sheep, goats,
poultry, bees or other non-household animals in the village.
(Ord. 98-01, passed 1-19-1998; Ord. 2014-02, passed 5-5-2014) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any dog or cat to run at large within the
corporate limits of the village. Any dog or cat found upon any public street,
sidewalk, alley, parkway or any unenclosed place shall be deemed running at
large, unless such dog or cat is on a leash and under the control of its master
or owner.
(Ord. 98-01, passed 1-19-1998; Ord. 2014-02, passed 5-5-2014) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 IMPOUNDING.
   Any dog or cat found running at large shall be impounded by the Grundy
County Animal Control Officer. Treatment of the animal during the period of
impoundment shall be consistent with the Grundy Animal Control ordinance as
amended. Redemption and disposition of impounded animals shall be consistent
with the Grundy County Animal Control ordinance as amended.
(Ord. 98-01, passed 1-19-1998; Ord. 2014-02, passed 5-5-2014)
§ 90.05 DANGEROUS AND VICIOUS ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any dangerous animal or vicious animal of any
kind to run at large within the village. Exhibitions, parades or other public
display of any animal which may be dangerous shall be conducted only upon
securing a permit from the Village Board. The village hereby adopts the
regulations contained in the Grundy County Animal County Ordinance, as amended
from time to time, regarding the determination of whether a dog should be
classified as a “dangerous animal” or a “vicious animal”. Remedies and
penalties for animals determined to fall under one of these classifications
shall be consistent with the Grundy County Animal Control Ordinance.
(Ord. 98-01, passed 1-19-1998; Ord. 2014-02, passed 5-5-2014) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 DISEASED ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No domestic animal afflicted with a contagious or infectious disease shall
be allowed to run at large or to be exposed in any public place where the
health of humans or beasts may be affected, nor shall such diseased animal be
shipped or removed from the premises of the owner thereof except under the
supervision of the Health Officer, Animal Control Warden, or veterinarian. No
diseased animal shall be brought into the village.
(Ord. 98-01, passed 1-19-1998; Ord. 2014-02, passed 5-5-2014) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 AUTHORITY TO DESTROY ANIMALS.
   Any member of the Village Police Department, Grundy County Sheriff’s
Department or Grundy County Animal Control is hereby authorized to kill any
dangerous animal when it is necessary for the protection of persons, other
animals or property.
(Ord. 98-01, passed 1-19-1998; Ord. 2014-02, passed 5-5-2014)
§ 90.08 NUMBER OF DOGS/CATS; LIMITATION; EXEMPTION.
   (A)   No person shall permit more than three dogs or three cat to be or
remain in or about any detached single-family residence, building or lot. In
the event that a person elects to house a dog and a cat in a detached single-
family residence, the total number of animals shall not exceed three. No person
shall permit more than a total of two dogs or cats or any combination of the
two in any single-family unit in any multiple-housing building within the
village. A MULTIPLE-HOUSING BUILDING is defined as any residential structure
other than a detached single-family residence.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply under the following
circumstances:
      (1)   To the keeping of more than three dogs and their litters up to four
months old;
      (2)   To the keeping of more than three cats and their litters up to four
months old;
      (3)   To law enforcement personnel who keep, harbor or maintain any dog
or dogs for law enforcement purposes; and
      (4)   To the keeping, harboring or maintaining of dogs for the use,
training or housing of a service animal.
(Ord. 98-01, passed 1-19-1998; Ord. 2014-02, passed 5-5-2014) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 NOISY ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
    It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor any animal which
disturbs the peace by emitting loud noises. Such animals are declared to be a
public nuisance.
(Ord. 98-01, passed 1-19-1998; Ord. 2014-02, passed 5-5-2014) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 SOLID WASTE REMOVAL.
   It shall be the responsibility of all persons who own, possess or are
otherwise in control of a cat, dog or other domesticated animal to remove any
and all solid waste generated or deposited by said animal within the village
within a reasonable period of time. Any persons who violate provisions hereof
shall be subject to the penalties set forth in §
90.99.
(Ord. 98-01, passed 1-19-1998; Ord. 2014-02, passed 5-5-2014) Penalty, see §
90.99
DANGEROUS AND VICIOUS ANIMALS
§ 90.25 ADOPTION OF COUNTY ORDINANCE.
   The village hereby adopts the regulations contained in the Grundy County
Animal Control ordinance, as amended from time to time, regarding the
determination of whether a dog should be classified as a “dangerous animal” or
a “vicious animal.” Remedies and penalties for animals determined to fall under
one of these classifications shall be consistent with the Grundy County Animal
Control ordinance.
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
90.01 through
90.10 shall be fined as follows:
      (1)   For the first offense, not less than $50 nor more than $750; and
      (2)   For the second or subsequent offense, not less than $100 nor more
than $750.
(Ord. 98-01, passed 1-19-1998; Ord. 2014-02, passed 5-5-2014)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PROTECTION AND REGULATION
Section
Open Burning
   
91.01   Prohibition
   
91.02   Lawful burning
 
   
91.99   Penalty
OPEN BURNING
§ 91.01 PROHIBITION.
   It is unlawful to burn garbage or rubbish within the corporate limits of the
village at any time. GARBAGE OR RUBBISH shall include but shall not be limited
to paper, cardboard, rags, plastic, rubber, leather, tar paper, old batteries,
wet or green leaves, weeds or grass or any materials which emit an offensive
odor or create heavy smoke when burned.
(Ord. 1995-11, passed 6-19-1995) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 LAWFUL BURNING.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provisions to the contrary, it is lawful to
burn wood and dry leaves daily on private property between 10:00 a.m. and 7:00
p.m.
   (B)   Burning leaves on concrete or blacktop roadways is prohibited at all
times.
(Ord. 1995-11, passed 6-19-1995) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
91.01 and
91.02 shall be fined not less than $50, nor more than $500 for each offense.
(Ord. 1995-11, passed 6-19-1995)
CHAPTER 92: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations on Right-of-Way
   
92.01   Specifications for excavation
Installation of Sidewalks
   
92.15   Installation requirements
EXCAVATIONS ON RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 92.01 SPECIFICATIONS FOR EXCAVATION.
   (A)   Except in case of an emergency, the contractor must contact the
Village Maintenance Superintendent 24 hours prior to any excavation on village
property or right-of-way.
   (B)   No excavation shall be made without proper contact with J.U.L.I.E. and
all proper notification of utilities.
   (C)   All excavated materials from under the roadway, or within five feet of
the edge of the roadway, shall be removed from the site and disposed of
properly by the contractor. This material must be replaced by a granular
material of State of Illinois gradation CA-7 or equal. CA-7 granular material
under the roadway shall be placed to within 12 inches of the finish road
surface. Nine inches of CA-6 base aggregate shall be compacted in two lifts,
and bituminous concrete surface course Class I (three inches) shall be placed
in two lifts. In the event the bituminous material is not placed immediately,
the CA-6 shall be placed to the finish road surface until such time as the
bituminous concrete surface course will be placed (in no event shall this be
later than 30 days).
   (D)   On areas outside the road surface (within five feet) CA-7 shall be
placed to within 12 inches of the finish surface. CA-6 shall be placed in the
final 12 inches (fully compacted).
   (E)   This procedure is mandatory unless specified otherwise by the
Maintenance Superintendent.
   (F)   Edges of the roadway surface patch shall be sawed out to a neat clean
edge, and approved by the Superintendent.
   (G)   Any damage to a utility line or main caused by the contractor shall be
repaired with materials approved by the utility, by a contractor approved by
the utilities (or by the utility itself), inspected by the utility prior to
backfilling, and all associated costs shall be the responsibility of the
contractor.
   (H)   A roadway excavation bond shall be secured by the contractor in favor
of the village in an amount specified by the village, prior to commencement of
work. The bond will be held no more than 30 days after completion of the work.
The contractor shall, however, sign and deliver a written one-year guarantee
for failure of any restoration work, to the village prior to the bond being
released.
   (I)   Any person, firm or corporation that fails to comply with the
provisions herein shall be fined a sum equal to twice the amount of any labor
or materials provided by the village.
(Ord. 1996-11, passed 4-15-1996)
INSTALLATION OF SIDEWALKS
§ 92.15 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The construction and installation requirements are codified in §
151.061.
CHAPTER 93: NUISANCES; ENVIRONMENT AND SANITATION
Section
Plants and Weeds
   
93.01   Weeds deemed nuisances
   
93.02   Height limit
   
93.03   Barberry bushes prohibited
   
93.04   Removal; notice
   
93.05   Failure to abate nuisance; action by village
   
93.06   Lien for weed removal; notice
   
93.07   Foreclosure of lien
Dangerous Structures and Inoperable Vehicles
   
93.20   Dangerous structures prohibited
   
93.21   Endangering acts prohibited
   
93.22   Nuisance abatement
   
93.23   Inoperable motor vehicles and trailers prohibited
Nuisances on Private Property
   
93.35   Prohibition
   
93.36   Definitions
   
93.37   Abatement of nuisance
Littering
   
93.50   Violation
   
93.51   Enforcement
 
   
93.99   Penalty
PLANTS AND WEEDS
§ 93.01 WEEDS DEEMED NUISANCES.
   Any weeds such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cockleburr or other
weeds of a like kind found growing in any lot or tract of land in the village
are a nuisance, and it is unlawful to permit any such weeds to grow or remain
in any such place.
(Ord. 2002-6, passed 6-17-2002) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 HEIGHT LIMIT.
   It is unlawful for anyone to permit weeds, grass or plants other than trees,
corn, beans or other agricultural products, bushes, flowers or other ornamental
plants to grow to a height exceeding eight inches anywhere in the village. Any
such plants exceeding such height are a nuisance.
(Ord. 2002-6, passed 6-17-2002) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 BARBERRY BUSHES PROHIBITED.
   It is a nuisance and unlawful to plant or permit the growth of a bush of the
species of tall, common or European barberry, further known as Berberis
vulgaris, or its horticultural varieties within the village.
(Ord. 2002-6, passed 6-17-2002) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 REMOVAL; NOTICE.
   It shall be the duty of the President, village police officer or other
authorized employee to serve or cause to be served a notice in writing upon the
owner, agent, occupant or person in possession or charge of any such premises
on which weeds or plants are permitted to grow in violation of the provisions
of this chapter and to demand the abatement of the nuisance within ten days.
(Ord. 2002-6, passed 6-17-2002)
§ 93.05 FAILURE TO ABATE NUISANCE; ACTION BY VILLAGE.
   If the person so served with a notice as set forth in §
93.04 does not abate the nuisance within ten days after such notice, the
President, village police officer or other authorized employee shall cause the
summary abatement of such nuisance. Summary abatement may be caused by the
employment of private contractors or the use of the village’s equipment and
personnel. If private contractors are utilized for this purpose, the President
or village police officer shall be charged to and paid by such owner or
occupant. If the village’s equipment and personnel are utilized, the President
or village police officer or other authorized employee, shall keep an account
of the expense thereof, with minimum charge of $100 for equipment rental and
the first hour of labor and $25 per hour for each additional hour of labor, and
such expense shall be charged to and paid by such owner or occupant.
(Ord. 2002-6, passed 6-17-2002) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 LIEN FOR WEED REMOVAL; NOTICE.
   (A)   Charges for such weed removal shall be a lien upon the premises.
Whenever a bill for such charges remains unpaid for 60 days after it has been
rendered, the Clerk may file with the Recorder of Deeds of the county a
statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain the legal description of
the premises, the expenses and costs incurred, the date the weeds were cut and
a notice that the village claims a lien for this amount.
   (B)   Notice of such lien claim shall be mailed to the owner of the premises
if his or her address is known; provided, however, that failure of the Clerk to
record such lien claim or to mail such notice, or the failure of the owner to
receive such notice shall not affect the right to foreclose the lien for such
charges as provided in §
93.07.
(Ord. 2002-6, passed 6-17-2002)
§ 93.07 FORECLOSURE OF LIEN.
   (A)   Property subject to a lien for unpaid weed cutting charges shall be
sold for nonpayment of the same and the proceeds of such sale shall be applied
to pay the charges after deducting costs, as is the case with the foreclosure
of statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be in equity in the name of the
village.
   (B)   The Village Attorney is authorized and directed to institute such
proceedings in the name of the village in any court having jurisdiction over
such matter against any property for which such bill has remained unpaid 60
days after it has been rendered, or at such time as he or she may be so
directed by the Village Board.
(Ord. 2002-6, passed 6-17-2002)
DANGEROUS STRUCTURES AND INOPERABLE VEHICLES
§ 93.20 DANGEROUS STRUCTURES PROHIBITED.
    It is unlawful to permit any building, structure or other place to remain
in such a condition as to endanger the public health in any way. Any such
structure, building or other place is hereby declared a nuisance.
(Ord. 1995-19, passed 9-5-1995) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 ENDANGERING ACTS PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful to commit or do any act which endangers the public health.
(Ord. 1995-19, passed 9-5-1995) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.22 NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
   It is unlawful for a person, firm or corporation to permit or maintain the
existence of any nuisance on any property under his, her or its control. The
President and Health Officer of the village are each authorized to abate any
nuisances existing in the village immediately following a 30-day written
notification of any nuisance, whether such nuisance is one specifically
recognized by ordinance or not.
(Ord. 1995-19, passed 9-5-1995) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.23 INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAILERS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   All inoperable motor vehicles and inoperable trailers on public and/or
private property are hereby declared a nuisance.
   (B)   INOPERABLE means any motor vehicle or trailer which has the engine,
wheels or other parts removed, altered or damaged making the vehicle inoperable
for at least 30 days. Upon the village sending to the owner or possessor of the
inoperable motor vehicle or trailer or the owner of record of the real property
upon which the inoperable vehicle is found, indicating that the motor vehicle
or trailer had been inoperable for a period of 30 days or longer, then the
owner or possessor shall remove the inoperable motor vehicle or trailer within
30 days after receipt of said notice.
   (C)   The village shall have the right to tow away and store any inoperable
motor vehicle or trailer which has not been removed within 30 days, and the
owner or possessor shall pay all costs of the towing and storage. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each and every day which a violation
occurs or is permitted to continue.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to body shops, licensed junk yards or to
motor vehicles or trailers which are stored inside buildings.
(Ord. 1995-19, passed 9-5-1995) Penalty, see §
93.99
NUISANCES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
§ 93.35 PROHIBITION.
   No person owning, leasing, occupying or having charge of any premises shall
maintain or keep any nuisance thereon, nor shall any such person keep or
maintain such premises in a manner causing substantial diminution in the value
of the other property in the neighborhood in which such premises are located.
(Ord. passed 8-15-1977) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.36 DEFINITIONS.
   NUISANCES include but are not limited to lumber, junk, trash, debris, dog
pens; and abandoned, discarded or unused objects such as automobiles, old
buildings, furniture, stoves, refrigerators, freezers, cans or containers.
(Ord. passed 8-15-1977)
§ 93.37 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   Persons in violation of this subchapter shall have until 30 days after
notification of violation of this subchapter to abate said nuisance. If not
abated by the specified time, nuisances shall be removed at the expense of the
violator and such violator will be cited.
   (B)   The Village Clerk is hereby directed to file a certified copy of this
subchapter in the office of the County Clerk and to take such other steps
towards the enactment of this subchapter as required by law.
(Ord. passed 8-15-1977) Penalty, see §
93.99
LITTERING
§ 93.50 VIOLATION.
   A person commits a violation if he or she leaves or throws trash, including
waste paper, metal cans, boxes, bottles, paper wrappers or any other form of
refuse such as glass, grass, garbage or other offensive matter on the streets,
public ways and village property of the village.
(Ord. passed 11-10-1970) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.51 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the village police officers to enforce the general
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 11-10-1970) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   In addition to the lien remedy in §
93.07, any person who fails to abate a weed nuisance within ten days of the
notice provided for in §
93.04 shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $500, and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during which said nuisance
remains unabated.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
93.20 through
93.23 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500 for each offense.
   (D)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
93.50 and
93.51 shall be punished upon conviction by a fine of not less than $50 nor more
than $500.
(Ord. passed 11-10-1970; Ord. 1995-19, passed 9-5-1995; Ord. 2002-6, passed 6-
17-2002)
CHAPTER 94: HOUSING DISCRIMINATION
Section
   
94.01   Declaration of policy
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Prohibited acts
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   (A)   In furthering the policy of this state as expressed in its
Constitution and other laws; in order that the safety and general welfare,
peace and health of all the inhabitants of the village may be ensured, it is
hereby declared the policy of the village to assure equal opportunity to all
residents, regardless of race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry,
sex, creed, HIV status, or physical or mental handicap to live in decent,
sanitary, healthful, standard living quarters.
   (B)   It is the policy of the village that no owner, lessee, sublessee,
assignee, managing agent or other person, firm or corporation having the right
to sell, rent, lease (or otherwise control) any housing accommodation and/or
real property within the village, or any agent of these shall refuse to sell,
rent, lease or otherwise deny to or withhold from any person or group of
persons such housing accommodations and/or real property because of race,
color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or physical or mental
handicap of such person or persons or discriminate against any person or
persons because of race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex,
creed, HIV status, or physical or mental handicap in the conditions, terms,
privileges of the sale, rental or lease of any housing accommodation and/or
real property or in the furnishing of facilities and/or services in connection
therewith.
   (C)   Relocation shall be carried out in a manner that will promote maximum
choice within the community’s total housing supply; lessen racial, ethnic and
economic concentrations; and facilitate desegregation and racially inclusive
patterns of occupancy and use of public and private facilities.
(Ord. 1996-9, passed 3-28-1996) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DECENT, SANITARY, HEALTHFUL STANDARD LIVING QUARTERS. Housing which is in
sound, clean and weathertight condition in conformance with applicable local,
state and national codes.
   DISCRIMINATE  or  DISCRIMINATION. Any difference expressed in any way toward
a person or persons in the terms of the sale, exchange, lease, rental or
financing for housing accommodation and/or real property in regard to such
sale, exchange, rental, lease or finance because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, HIV status, or physical or mental
handicap of such person.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. Any person, institution or business entity of any
kind which loans money to persons and receives as security for said loans a
secured interest of any kind in the real property of the borrower.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATION. Any building, structure or portion thereof which is
used or occupied, maintained, arranged or designed to be used or occupied as a
home, residence or sleeping place of one or more human beings, or any real
estate so used, designed or intended for such use.
   OWNER. Any person/persons who holds legal or equitable title to, or owns any
beneficial interest in any real property or who holds legal or equitable title
to shares of, or holds any beneficial interest in any real estate cooperative
which owns any real property and/or housing accommodations.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER. Any person, partnership, association, corporation and/or
agent thereof, who for a fee or other valuable consideration offers, sells,
purchases, exchanges or rents, or negotiates for the sale, purchase, exchange
or rental of a housing accommodation and/or real property of another, or
collects rental for the use of a housing accommodation and/or real property of
another.
   REAL PROPERTY. Any real estate, vacant land, building, structure or housing
accommodations within the corporate limits of the village.
(Ord. 1996-9, passed 3-28-1996)
§ 94.03 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner of real estate, lessee, sublessee,
real estate broker or salesperson, financial institution or employee of the
financial institution, advertiser or agent of any or all of the foregoing, to
discriminate against any person or persons because of their race, color,
religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, HIV status, or physical or
mental handicap with regard to the sale, exchange or rental, or any dealing
concerning any housing accommodation and/or real property.
   (B)   In addition to the foregoing, it shall also be unlawful for any real
estate broker or employee thereof, owner or other person, or financial
institution dealing with housing or real property in the village:
      (1)   To discriminate against any person in the availability of or the
price, terms, conditions or privileges of any kind relating to the sale,
rental, lease or occupancy of any housing accommodation or real property in the
village or in furnishing of any facilities or services in connection therewith;
      (2)   To publish or circulate, or cause to be published or circulated,
any notice, statement or advertisement, or to announce a policy or to use any
form of application for the purchase, lease, rental or financing of real
property, or to make any record of inquiry in connection with the prospective
purchase, rental or lease of such real estate, which expresses directly or
indirectly any discrimination as to race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed, HIV status, or physical or mental handicap of any person;
      (3)   To discriminate in connection with lending money, guaranteeing
loans, accepting mortgages or otherwise obtaining or making available funds for
the purchase, acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair or maintenance
of any housing accommodation and/or real property;
      (4)   To solicit for sale or lease, or listing for the sale or lease, of
any housing accommodation and/or real property on the grounds of loss of value
because of the present or prospective entry into any neighborhood of any person
or persons of any particular race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed, HIV status, or physical or mental handicap;
      (5)   To distribute or cause to be distributed written material or
statements designed to induce any owner or any housing accommodation and/or
real property to sell or lease his or her property because of any present or
prospective change in the race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry,
sex, creed, HIV status, or physical or mental handicap of persons in the
neighborhood;
      (6)   To make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale or
the anticipated listing for sale or the sale of any housing accommodation and/
or real property, for the purpose of inducing or attempting to induce the sale
or listing for sale of any housing accommodation and/or real property by
representing that the presence or anticipated presence of persons of any
particular race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, HIV
status, or physical or mental handicap in the area will or may result in the
lowering of property values in the block, neighborhood or area in which the
property is located;
      (7)   For an owner to solicit any real estate broker to sell, rent or
otherwise deal with such owner’s housing accommodations and/or real property
with any limitation on its sale based on race, color, religion, national origin
or ancestry, sex, creed, HIV status, or physical or mental handicap; or
      (8)   For an owner to refuse to sell, rent or otherwise deal with any
housing accommodation and/or real property because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, HIV status, or physical or mental
handicap of the proposed buyer or tenant.
(Ord. 1996-9, passed 3-28-1996) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Real estate transactions; discrimination prohibited, see 775 ILCS 5/3-1010
et seq.
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $1,500. Each
day a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation. This section
shall in no way abrogate or impair the right of the village to specifically
enforce, by any legal means, any of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1996-9, passed 3-28-1996)
CHAPTER 95: SMOKING
Section
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Smoking prohibited in public places and places of employment
   
95.03   Smoking prohibited in village-owned public parks, buildings and
facilities
   
95.04   Posting of signs and removal of ashtrays
   
95.05   Designation of other no-smoking areas
   
95.06   Exceptions to prohibition on smoking in public places and places of
employment
   
95.07   Enforcement
 
   
95.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Tobacco products, see
Ch. 113
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter shall have
the meanings ascribed to them within this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning.
   BAR. An establishment that is devoted to the serving of alcoholic beverages
for consumption by guests on the premises, and that derives no more than 10% of
its gross revenue from the sale of food consumed on the premises. BAR includes,
but is not limited to, taverns, nightclubs, cocktail lounges, adult
entertainment facilities, and cabarets.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who is employed by an employer in consideration for
direct or indirect monetary wages or profits, or a person who volunteers his or
her services for a non-profit entity.
   EMPLOYER. A person, business, partnership, association or corporation,
including a municipal corporation, trust or non-profit entity, that employs the
services of one or more individual persons.
   ENCLOSED AREA. All space between a floor and a ceiling that is enclosed or
partially enclosed with:
      (1)   Solid walls or windows, exclusive of doorways; or
      (2)   Solid walls with partitions and no windows, exclusive of doorways;
that extend from the floor to the ceiling, including, without limitation,
lobbies and corridors.
   ENCLOSED OR PARTIALLY ENCLOSED SPORTS ARENA. Any sports pavilion, stadium,
gymnasium, health spa, boxing arena, swimming pool, roller rink, ice rink,
bowling alley or other similar place where members of the general public
assemble to engage in physical exercise or participate in athletic competitions
or recreational activities, or to witness sports, cultural, recreational or
other events.
   GAMING EQUIPMENT OR SUPPLIES. As defined in the Illinois Gaming Board Rules
of the Illinois Administrative Code.
   GAMING FACILITY. An establishment utilized primarily for the purposes of
gaming, and where gaming equipment or supplies are operated for the purposes of
accruing business revenue.
   HEALTHCARE FACILITY. An office or institution providing care or treatment of
diseases, whether physical, mental or emotional, or other medical,
physiological or psychological conditions, including, but not limited to,
hospitals, rehabilitation hospitals, weight-control clinics, nursing homes,
homes for the aging or chronically ill, laboratories, and offices of surgeons,
chiropractors, physical therapists, physicians, dentists, and all specialists
within these professions. HEALTHCARE FACILITY includes all waiting rooms,
hallways, private rooms, semi-private rooms, and wards within healthcare
facilities.
   PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT. Any area under the control of a public or private
employer that employees are required to enter, leave or pass through during the
course of employment, including, but not limited to, entrances and exits to
places of employment, including a minimum distance of 15 feet from entrances,
exits, windows that open, and ventilation intakes that serve an enclosed area
where smoking is prohibited; offices and work areas; restrooms; conference and
classrooms; break rooms and cafeterias; and other common areas. A private
residence or home-based business, unless used to provide licensed child care,
foster care, adult care, or other similar social service care on the premises,
is not a PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT; nor are enclosed laboratories, not open to the
public, in an accredited university or government facility, where the activity
of smoking is exclusively conducted for the purpose of medical or scientific,
health-related research.
   PRIVATE CLUB. A not-for-profit association that:
      (1)   Has been in active and continuous existence for at least three
years prior to the effective date of this chapter, whether incorporated or not;
      (2)   Is the owner, lessee or occupant of a building, or portion thereof,
used exclusively for club purposes at all times;
      (3)   Is operated solely for a recreational, fraternal, social,
patriotic, political, benevolent, or athletic purpose, but not for pecuniary
gain; and
      (4)   Only sells alcoholic beverages incidental to its operation.
   For purposes of this definition, PRIVATE CLUB means an organization that is
managed by a board of directors, executive committee, or similar body chosen by
the members at an annual meeting, has established bylaws, a constitution, or
both to govern its activities, and has been granted an exemption from the
payment of federal income tax as a club.
   PRIVATE RESIDENCE. The part of a structure used as a dwelling, including,
without limitation: a private home, townhouse, condominium, apartment, mobile
home, vacation home, cabin, or cottage. For the purposes of this definition, a
hotel, motel, inn, resort, lodge, bed and breakfast or other similar public
accommodation, hospital, nursing home, or assisted living facility shall not be
considered a PRIVATE RESIDENCE.
   PUBLIC PLACE. That portion of any building or vehicle used by and open to
the public, regardless of whether the building or vehicle is owned, in whole or
in part, by private persons or entities, the state, or any other public entity,
and regardless of whether a fee is charged for admission, including a minimum
distance of 15 feet from entrances, exits, windows that open, and ventilation
intakes that serve an enclosed area where smoking is prohibited. A PUBLIC PLACE
does not include a private residence, unless the private residence is used to
provide licensed child care, foster care, or other similar social service care
on the premises. A PUBLIC PLACE includes, but is not limited to, hospitals,
restaurants, retail stores, offices, commercial establishments, elevators,
indoor theaters, libraries, museums, concert halls, public conveyances,
educational facilities, nursing homes, auditoriums, enclosed or partially
enclosed sports arenas, meeting rooms, schools, exhibition halls, convention
facilities, polling places, private clubs, gaming facilities, all government-
owned vehicles and facilities, including buildings and vehicles owned, leased,
or operated by the state or state subcontract, healthcare facilities or
clinics, enclosed shopping centers, retail service  establishments, financial
institutions, educational facilities, ticket areas, public-hearing facilities,
public restrooms, waiting areas, lobbies, bars, taverns, bowling alleys,
skating rinks, reception areas, and no less than 75% of the sleeping quarters
within a hotel, motel, resort, inn, lodge, bed and breakfast, or other similar
public accommodation that are rented to guests, but excludes private
residences.
   RESTAURANT.
      (1)   An eating establishment, including, but not limited to, coffee
shops, cafeterias, sandwich stands, and private and public school cafeterias,
that gives or offers for sale food to the public, guests or employees; and
      (2)   A kitchen or catering facility in which food is prepared on the
premises for serving elsewhere.
   RESTAURANT includes a bar area within the restaurant.
   RETAIL TOBACCO STORE. A retail establishment that derives more than 80% of
its gross revenue from the sale of loose tobacco, plants or herbs, and cigars,
cigarettes, pipes and other smoking devices for burning tobacco, and related
smoking accessories, and in which the sale of other products is merely
incidental. RETAIL TOBACCO STORE includes an enclosed workplace that
manufactures, imports or distributes tobacco or tobacco products, when, as a
necessary and integral part of the process of making, manufacturing, importing
or distributing a tobacco product for the eventual retail sale of that tobacco
or tobacco product, tobacco is heated, burned or smoked, or a lighted tobacco
product is tested, provided that the involved business entity:
      (1)   Maintains a specially designated area or areas within the workplace
for the purpose of the heating, burning, smoking or lighting activities, and
does not create a facility that permits smoking throughout;
      (2)   Satisfies the 80% requirement related to gross sales; and
      (3)   Delivers tobacco products to consumers, retail establishments or
other wholesale establishments as part of its business.
   RETAIL TOBACCO STORE does not include a tobacco department or section of a
larger commercial establishment or any establishment with any type of liquor,
food or restaurant license.
   SMOKE or SMOKING. The carrying, smoking, burning, inhaling or exhaling of
any kind of lighted pipe, cigar, cigarette, hookah, weed, herbs or any other
lighted smoking equipment. SMOKE or SMOKING does not include smoking that is
associated with a native, recognized religious ceremony, ritual or activity by
American Indians that is in accordance with the federal American Indian
Religious Freedom Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 1996 and 1996a.
(Ord. 2018-07, passed 8-6-2018)
§ 95.02 SMOKING PROHIBITED IN PUBLIC PLACES AND PLACES OF EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke in any public place or
place of employment within the village.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke in any place designated
as a no-smoking area, as provided for in this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for an employer to knowingly permit smoking in
any enclosed area in any place of employment.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for an employer, owner, occupant or lessee in
control of a public place to knowingly permit smoking in any enclosed area in
that public place.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for an employer, owner, occupant or lessee in
control of a public place to fail to post signage or to remove ash trays, as
required in this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-07, passed 8-6-2018) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 SMOKING PROHIBITED IN VILLAGE-OWNED PUBLIC PARKS, BUILDINGS AND
FACILITIES.
   (A)   Smoking a nuisance and unlawful.
      (1)   It shall constitute a nuisance and be unlawful for any person to
smoke within a building, facility or vehicle owned, leased or otherwise in the
possession or under the control of the village.
      (2)   It shall constitute a nuisance and be unlawful for any person to
smoke on the premises of any park or other outdoor recreation or outdoor venue
owned by the village, including, without limitation, parks, gazebos, pavilions,
playgrounds, decks, and patios.
      (3)   However, smoking shall be allowed within the paved vehicular
parking areas of any park or other outdoor recreational or other outdoor venue
owned by the village.
   (B)   Placement of signage.
      (1)   No-smoking signs shall be conspicuously placed on the inside of all
buildings owned, operated, leased and maintained by the village.
      (2)   Signage prohibiting smoking shall also be placed within 15 feet of
any playground equipment, and conspicuously at the primary entrance to all
parks and outdoor recreational facilities owned by this village.
(Ord. 2018-07, passed 8-6-2018) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 POSTING OF SIGNS AND REMOVAL OF ASHTRAYS.
   (A)   “No Smoking” signs or the INTERNATIONAL NO SMOKING SYMBOL, consisting
of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a red circle
with a red bar across it, shall be clearly and conspicuously posted in each
public place and place of employment where smoking is prohibited by this
chapter, by the owner, operator, manager or other person in control of that
place.
   (B)   Each public place and place of employment where smoking is prohibited
by this chapter shall have posted at every entrance a conspicuous sign clearly
stating smoking is prohibited.
   (C)   All ashtrays shall be removed from any area where smoking is
prohibited by this chapter, by the owner, operator, manager or other person
having control of the area.
(Ord. 2018-07, passed 8-6-2018) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 DESIGNATION OF OTHER NO-SMOKING AREAS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, any employer, owner,
occupant, lessee, operator, manager or other person in control of any public
place or place of employment may designate a non-enclosed area of that public
place or place of employment, including outdoor areas, as an area where smoking
is also prohibited, provided that the employer, owner, lessee or occupant shall
conspicuously post signs prohibiting smoking in the manner described in this
chapter.
(Ord. 2018-07, passed 8-6-2018)
§ 95.06 EXCEPTIONS TO PROHIBITION ON SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES AND PLACES OF
EMPLOYMENT.
   The prohibitions on smoking set forth in this chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Hotel and motel sleeping rooms rented to guests and designated as
smoking rooms, provided that all smoking rooms on the same floor must be
contiguous, and smoke from these rooms must not infiltrate into nonsmoking
rooms or other areas where smoking is prohibited under the provisions of this
chapter.
      (1)   Not more than 25% of the rooms rented to guests in a hotel or motel
may be designated as rooms where smoking is permitted.
      (2)   The status of rooms as smoking or nonsmoking may not be changed,
except to add additional nonsmoking rooms.
   (B)   Private vehicles, not including public transportation facilities or
government vehicles.
   (C)   Private residences or dwelling places, except when used as a child
care, adult day care, health care facility, or any other home-based business
open to the public.
   (D)   Private and semi-private rooms in nursing homes and long-term care
facilities that are occupied by one or more persons, all of whom are smokers,
and have requested, in writing, placement in a room where smoking is permitted.
   (E)   Any public place or place of employment that is a tobacco dealer,
whose principal business is the retail sale of tobacco and tobacco-related
products, provided that smoke generated by smoking on the premises of the
tobacco dealer does not infiltrate into enclosed areas where smoking is
otherwise prohibited, and no food or liquor license has been granted.
(Ord. 2018-07, passed 8-6-2018)
§ 95.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Notice of the provisions of this chapter shall be given to all
applicants for a business license in the village.
   (B)   An employer, owner, lessee, manager, operator or employee of an
establishment regulated by this chapter shall inform persons violating this
chapter of the appropriate provisions thereof, and request that the violator
cease smoking in a prohibited area and, if the person continues to smoke,
request that the person leave.
(Ord. 2018-07, passed 8-6-2018)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate this chapter shall be subject to a fine
of $100 for a first violation, and $250 for any subsequent violations within
one year. Each day in which a violation occurs constitutes a separate and
distinct violation.
   (B)   In addition to the fines established by this section, violation of
this chapter by a person who owns, manages, operates or otherwise controls a
public place or place of employment may result in the suspension or revocation
of any permit or license issued to the person for the premises on which the
violation occurred.
   (C)   Violation of this chapter is hereby declared to be a public nuisance,
which may be abated by an action in the Circuit Court for injunctive relief, or
other means provided for by law, and the village may take action to recover the
costs of the nuisance abatement.
(Ord. 2018-07, passed 8-6-2018)
CHAPTER 96: CABLE COMMUNICATIONS
Section
   
96.01   Intent
   
96.02   Definitions
   
96.03   Requirement of franchise
   
96.04   Franchise application
   
96.05   Review of franchise applications
   
96.06   Grant of franchise
   
96.07   Authority for use of streets
   
96.08   Conditions of street occupancy
   
96.09   Erection of poles
   
96.10   Undergrounding
   
96.11   Relocation
   
96.12   Movement of buildings
   
96.13   Completion of system construction or upgrade
   
96.14   Removal
   
96.15   Universal service
   
96.16   General capability
   
96.17   Standby power
   
96.18   Emergency alert (EAS) override capability
   
96.19   Interconnection
   
96.20   Technical standards
   
96.21   Public, educational and governmental access
   
96.22   Support for use of access
   
96.23   Availability of public access facilities
   
96.24   Approval of construction by village
   
96.25   Transfers
   
96.26   Security fund
   
96.27   Construction and completion security
   
96.28   Insurance
   
96.29   Indemnification
   
96.30   Liquidated damages
   
96.31   Franchise violation; notice and procedures
   
96.32   Franchise revocation and termination
   
96.33   Other remedies
   
96.34   Rights of individuals
   
96.35   Non-enforcement
   
96.36   Communications with regulatory agencies
   
96.37   Fees
   
96.38   Franchise fee
   
96.39   Interest on delinquent franchise fees
   
96.40   Accounting and standards
   
96.41   Books and records available to grantor
   
96.42   Line extensions; service to franchise area
   
96.43   Cable and Telecommunications Commission
   
96.44   Rights reserved to the village
§ 96.01 INTENT.
   The Village finds that the development and availability of cable
communications systems have the potential for great benefit and impact upon its
residents. Because of the complex and rapidly changing technology associated
with cable communications, the village finds that the public health, safety,
and general welfare can best be served by establishing herein certain
regulatory powers in the village and setting forth the requirements for persons
that desire to obtain franchises to construct, own, operate and maintain cable
television systems within the public streets and ways of the Village of Mazon.
It is the intent of this chapter to provide for the means to attain the best
possible cable communications systems and franchises in the public interests of
the citizens and public institutions of the village.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 96.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and
their derivations shall have the meaning given herein as follows:
   ACT or CABLE ACT. Shall mean the Communications Act of 1934, the Cable
Communications Policy Act of 1984, as amended by the Cable Television Consumer
Protection and Competition Act of 1992 (47 USC 521, et. seq.) and the
Telecommunications Act of 1996 as now or hereinafter amended.
   AFFILIATE. When used in relation to any person, means another person who
owns or controls, is owned or controlled by, or is under common ownership or
control with, such person. Shall mean a contractual agreement entered between
the village and any grantee hereunder which is enforceable by village and said
grantee and which sets forth the rights and obligations between village and
said grantee in connection with the franchise.
   AGREEMENT or FRANCHISE AGREEMENT. Shall mean a contractual agreement entered
into between the village and any grantee hereunder which is enforceable by
village and said grantee and which sets forth the rights and obligations
between village and said grantee in connection with the franchise.
   BASIC CABLE or BASIC SERVICE TIER. Shall mean any tier of service regularly
provided to all subscribers that includes the retransmission of local broadcast
television signals.
   BASIC CABLE EQUIPMENT. Shall mean the equipment used by subscribers to
receive the basic service tier, including, but not limited to, converter boxes,
remote controls, connections for additional television sets and cable home
wiring, except any home wiring not owned by the cable operator.
   CABLE ACT. See definition of ACT.
   CABLE OPERATOR or OPERATOR. Means any person or group of persons: (i) who
provides cable service over a cable system and directly, or through one or more
affiliates, owns a significant interest in such cable system; or (ii) who
otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any arrangement, the
management and operation of such a cable system. As used herein, cable operator
also refers to grantee.
   CABLE SERVICE. Shall mean the total of the following: (i) the one-way
transmission to subscribers of video programming or other lawful communication
service; and (ii) subscriber interaction, if any, which is required for the
selection of such video programming or other lawful communication service.
   CABLE SYSTEM or SYSTEM. Means a facility, consisting of a set of closed
transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception, paid control
equipment or other communications equipment that is designed to provide cable
service and other service to subscribers within the village, but such term does
not include:
      (1)   A facility that serves only to retransmit the television signals of
one or more television broadcast situations; or
      (2)   A facility that serves only subscribers in one or more multiple
unit dwellings under common ownership, control, or management, unless such
facility uses only public right-of-way.
   CHANNEL or CABLE CHANNEL. Means a portion of the electromagnetic frequency
spectrum which is used in a cable system and which is capable of delivering a
television channel as a television channel is defined by the Federal
Communications Commission.
   COMMENCE CONSTRUCTION. Shall mean the time and date when construction of the
cable system is considered to have commenced, which shall be when the first
connection is physically made to a utility pole, or undergrounding of cables is
initiated, after preliminary engineering (strand mapping) and after all
necessary permits and authorizations have been obtained.
   COMMENCE OPERATION. Shall mean that time and date when operation of the
cable system is considered to have commenced which shall be when sufficient
distribution facilities have been installed so as to permit the offering of
full services to a dwelling unit located within the franchise area.
   COMMERCIAL USE CHANNEL(S). Shall mean the channel capacity designated for
commercial use as defined and required by federal law.
   COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION. Shall mean that point in time when all
distribution facilities specified in the franchise agreement have been
installed by the grantee to permit the offering of cable service to all of the
potential subscribers in the franchise area, as well as the provision, in an
operational state, of any facilities required by the franchise agreement.
   CONTROL or CONTROLLING INTEREST. Shall mean actual working control or
ownership of the Mazon Cable System in whatever manner exercised. A rebuttable
presumption of the existence of control or a controlling interest shall arise
from the beneficial ownership, directly or indirectly, by any person (except
underwriters during the period in which they are offering securities to the
public) of 25% or more of a cable system or the franchise under which the
system is operated. A change in the control or controlling interest of a person
that has control or a controlling interest in the grantee shall constitute a
change in the control or controlling interest of the Mazon Cable System under
the same criteria. Control or controlling interest, as used herein, may be held
simultaneously by more than one person.
   CONVERTER. Shall mean an electronic device that converts signal carriers
from one form to another.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES. The Mayor and Village Board of the Village of Mazon.
   DEVELOPED PARCEL. Shall mean any area of the village where there is a
density of at least 20 dwelling units per cable plant mile.
   DWELLING UNIT. Shall mean any single-family dwelling, or any dwelling unit
in multiple family residential place of occupancy, approved by the village for
residential occupancy.
   EDUCATIONAL ACCESS CHANNEL. Shall mean a channel or channels set aside and
so designated for the non-commercial use of schools and educational
institutions.
   FCC. Shall mean the Federal Communications Commission or successor
governmental entity thereto.
   FACILITY or FACILITIES. Shall mean all structures, devices, objects, and
materials, including wires, ducts, cables, fiber optic cable, poles, conduits,
electronic equipment and appurtenances thereto which comprise all or part of
the cable system.
   FAIR MARKET VALUE. Shall mean the price that a willing buyer would pay to a
willing seller for a going concern based on the system valuation and sale
multiples prevailing in the industry, but with no value allocated to the
franchise itself.
   FRANCHISE. Shall mean the non-exclusive rights granted through the authority
of a franchise agreement between the village and any grantee which authorizes
the grantee to own, operate, construct, reconstruct, dismantle, test, use and
maintain a cable system along the public streets and public ways of the
village, or within specified areas in the village for the purpose of offering
cable service to subscribers in accordance with the terms of the franchise
agreement. Franchise does not include any license or permit required for the
privilege of transacting and carrying on a business within the village as may
be required by other laws or ordinances of the village.
   FRANCHISE AREA. Shall mean the corporate limits of the Village of Mazon
including all territory hereafter annexed to the village.
   FRANCHISE FEE. Means the fee that a grantee is required to pay to the
village pursuant to franchise agreement for the right, privilege, and franchise
to construct, install, maintain and operate a cable communications system
within the public streets and public ways of the village for the purpose of
providing cable service to persons in the village. The term FRANCHISE FEE does
not include:
      (1)   Any tax, fee, or assessment of general applicability (including any
such tax, fee or assessment imposed on both utilities and cable operators or
their services), but not including a tax, fee, or assessment which is unduly
discriminatory against cable operators;
      (2)   Capital costs which are required by the franchise to be incurred by
the cable operator for public, educational, or governmental access facilities;
      (3)   Requirements or charges incidental to the awarding or enforcing of
the franchise, including payments for bonds, security funds, letters of credit,
insurance, indemnification, penalties, or liquidated damage; or
      (4)   Any fee imposed under Title 17, United States Code.
   FRANCHISING AUTHORITY. Shall mean the Village Board of the Village of Mazon,
and its Mayor.
   GOVERNMENTAL ACCESS CHANNEL. Shall mean a channel or channels set aside and
so designated for the non-commercial use of units of local government.
   GRANTEE or APPLICANT. Shall mean any person who applies for a franchise
hereunder, or that is granted a franchise hereunder, including its agents,
employees, or subsidiaries.
   GRANTOR or VILLAGE. The Village of Mazon, an Illinois municipal corporation,
or its lawful successor.
   GROSS REVENUES. 
      (1)   Shall mean and include all revenue received by a grantee, or any
affiliate that is a cable operator, derived directly or indirectly from and in
connection with the operation of the grantee's cable system to provide cable
service within the village, including but not limited to revenues, fees,
receipts or charges from or for: basic cable service; any tier of video
programming service other than basic cable service; any optional, premium, per-
channel or per program service; any installation, disconnection, re-connection,
change-in-service or other customer service; rentals of converters, remotes or
other customer premises equipment; commercial leased channels or channel
access; advertising, including a per subscriber share of revenues received for
advertising carried on one or more cable systems in addition to the grantee's
cable system within the village; revenues from home shopping channels; the
sales of programming guides; late or administrative fees charged to
subscribers; and such other revenue sources as may now exist or hereafter
develop, provided that such revenues, fees receipts or charges may lawfully be
included in the gross revenue based on which the village may calculate and
collect franchise fees. Gross revenues shall not include any amounts refunded
to subscribers, any unpaid subscriber or advertiser accounts and any sales tax,
telecommunications tax, utility message tax or other taxes imposed directly
upon any subscriber or user by the village, the state or other governmental
unit and collected by the grantee on behalf of and for remittance to the
village, the state or other governmental unit. As used herein, annual gross
revenues shall mean gross revenues attributable to a 12 month accounting
period, or portion thereof.
      (2)   If, in the future, the Federal Communications Commission and/or
federal law expands the scope of the definition of GROSS REVENUE or CABLE
SERVICE, the village and grantee agree that village may amend this chapter to
include the expanded scope of these terms under federal law as part of the
definition of GROSS REVENUE or CABLE SERVICE.
   INSTALLATION. Shall mean the connection of the system from feeder cable to
potential subscribers, terminals, and the initial provision of service.
   INSTITUTIONAL NETWORK. Shall mean a separate cable and/or an allocation of
capacity on the system with upstream and downstream capability, designed and
constructed to connect the facilities of governmental, educational, and public
service institutions, independent of the regular subscriber network.
   LEASED ACCESS. Shall mean the use of the system by any business enterprises
or other entity, whether profit, non-profit or governmental, to render
programming or other services to the residents of the village, and shall
include, without limitation, all use pursuant to Section 612 of the Cable Act.
   LOCAL ORIGINATION CHANNEL. A channel where the grantee or its designated
agent is the primary programmer.
   MODIFICATION AGREEMENT. Shall mean any agreement of modification and
amendment to the franchise agreement entered into and between the grantee and
the village.
   NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS. Shall mean those hours during which similar
businesses in the village are open to serve customers. In all cases, normal
business hours must include some evening hours at least one night per week, and
or some weekend hours.
   NORMAL OPERATING CONDITIONS. Shall mean those service conditions which are
within the control of the cable operator. Those conditions which are not within
the control of the cable operator include, but are not limited to, natural
disasters, civil disturbances, power outages, telephone network outages and
severe or unusual weather conditions. Those conditions which are ordinarily
within the control of the cable operator include, but are not limited to,
special promotions, pay-per-view events, rate increases, regular peak or
seasonal demand periods and maintenance or upgrade of the cable system.
   PERSON. Shall mean any individual, firm, corporation, cooperative,
partnership, association, joint venture, trust, organization, or other legally
recognized entity.
   PUBLIC ACCESS CHANNEL. A cable television channel or channels specifically
designated as a channel available to the public for the production of non-
commercial television programming on a first-come, non-discriminatory basis.
   PUBLIC ACCESS FACILITIES. Those facilities and equipment utilized for the
production and playback of educational and governmental access programming, and
includes the channel capacity designated for educational and governmental use.
   PUBLIC WAY. Means the surface, the airspace above the surface, and the area
below the surface of any public street, highway, lane, path, alley, sidewalk,
boulevard, drive, bridge, tunnel, parkways, or other public right-of-way now or
hereafter held by the village, which the village may permit grantee to use for
the purpose of installing and maintaining the grantee's cable system. Also
referred to herein as PUBLIC WAYS OF THE VILLAGE.
   SCHOOL. Shall mean all public and private elementary and secondary schools
which have been granted a certificate of recognition by the Illinois State
Board of Education, and which are now or hereafter located within the franchise
area.
   SERVICE INTERRUPTION. Shall mean the loss of picture or sound on one or more
cable channels.
   SERVICE TIER. Shall mean a category of cable service or other services
provided by grantee and for which a separate charge is made by grantee.
   SUBSCRIBER. Shall mean any person who legally receives one or more of the
services as may be provided by the grantee's cable system and does not further
distribute such service(s).
   SUBSCRIBER DROP. A coaxial or fiber cable which connects the feeder portion
of the cable distribution system to the subscriber's premises.
   TRANSFER or FRANCHISE TRANSFER. Means any transactions or series of
transactions which, singularly or collectively, result in the sale, assignment
or transfer of all or a majority of the assets of the grantee, or the cable
system, or a change of 25% or more of the ownership or working control of the
grantee, of the ownership or working control of the franchise, or of the
ownership or working control of affiliates having ownership or working control
of the grantee, the franchise or cable system. Franchise transfers require
village approval as provided herein. Transactions between affiliates of the
grantee are not exempt from village approval, except as specifically provided
in this chapter or in the franchise agreement.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 96.03 REQUIREMENT OF FRANCHISE.
   No person shall construct, install, maintain, or operate a cable system
within the village, or within any public ways of the village, unless a
franchise has been obtained pursuant to this chapter, and unless such franchise
is in full force and effect. Such franchise shall not take the place of any
other license or permit which may be required of the grantee in order to
conduct such a business. Nothing in this chapter or in any franchise agreement
shall be construed as an abrogation by the village of any of its police powers.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 96.04 FRANCHISE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Applications for an initial franchise under this chapter shall include
at a minimum contain the following:
      (1)   A clear description of the identity of the applicant, its parent
and subsidiaries, including but not limited in each case to the name, address,
and nature of the business entity;
      (2)   Plans and specifications relating to all aspects of the applicant's
system as are applicable to the building and zoning laws of the village;
      (3)   A map or maps of a scale or not less the one-inch equaling 1,000
feet showing the precise geographic area for which applicant seeks a franchise;
      (4)   Evidence of applicant's financial responsibility;
      (5)   A non-refundable fee of $7,500 for analysis of the application;
      (6)   Applicant's written agreement to reimburse the village for its
costs in reviewing the application;
      (7)   Detailed plans and specifications for the general system which is
proposed by the applicant, including layout of proposed construction reflected
upon the map(s) provided pursuant to division (3), and a tentative construction
progression schedule;
      (8)   A written plan demonstrating how the applicant will serve the cable
television related needs and interests of the community; and
      (9)   A detailed description of applicant's customer service and
technical support operations.
   (B)   The provisions for applications under this section, with the exception
of division (5), shall apply to applications for renewal of a franchise
pursuant to the Act and this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 96.05 REVIEW OF FRANCHISE APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   For all applications, the village shall:
      (1)   Review the application and all information submitted therewith as
to both completeness and competency;
      (2)   Request and evaluate supplemental documentation which may from time
to time be required as a function of the thorough review of the application and
plans and specifications submitted;
      (3)   Request and review all documentation necessary for verification of
the applicant's compliance with all appropriate laws and village codes and
regulations; and
      (4)   Require any supporting documentation or studies which relate to the
applicant's proposal and applicant's capability for system administration,
particularly demonstrating but not limited to technical capabilities,
applications of new technologies, system performance, financial responsibility
of applicant, programming and services offered and applicable company policies,
as each may be available.
   (B)   After village review of the application and all related materials, the
application shall be referred to the Village Board for action in accordance
with this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 96.06 GRANT OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   The village may grant a non-exclusive franchise to provide cable
service within the village. The franchise area shall be the entire area of the
village, unless otherwise defined in the franchise agreement. The grant shall
require an ordinance adopted by the Village Board in accordance with law.
   (B)   In the event that the village shall grant a non-exclusive, revocable
franchise to construct, operate, maintain, and/or reconstruct a system within
the franchise area, said franchise shall constitute both a right and an
obligation to provide services of a system as required by the provisions of
this chapter and the franchise agreement.
   (C)   No system shall be allowed to occupy or use the public streets or
public ways of the village other than in accordance with this chapter and a
franchise granted pursuant hereto. The requirements for franchises established
by this chapter may be modified from time to time at the village's discretion
to reflect changing conditions.
   (D)   The term of any new franchise and all rights, privileges, obligations,
and restrictions pertaining thereto shall be ten years, unless otherwise
expressly established in the franchise agreement.
   (E)   As provided for under the Act, any franchise granted shall be non-
exclusive. The grantor specifically reserves the right to grant, at any time,
such additional franchises for a system as it deems appropriate, subject to the
requirements set forth in Section 11-42-11 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65
ILCS 5/11-42-11) for the granting of additional cable television franchises.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 96.07 AUTHORITY FOR USE OF STREETS.
   (A)   For the purposes of operating and maintaining a system in the village,
grantee may erect, install, construct, repair, replace, reconstruct and retain
in, on, over, under, upon, across and along the public ways of the village such
lines, cables, conductors, ducts, conduits, vaults, manholes, amplifiers,
appliances, pedestals, attachments and other property and equipment as are
necessary to the operation of the system, provided that all applicable permits
are applied for and granted, all fees paid, all village codes and ordinances
including this chapter are otherwise complied with, and all obsolete or
abandoned equipment must be removed in accordance with procedures set forth
herein. However, no rights granted relating to the use of the public ways may
be transferred or assigned in any manner by grantee without the express written
approval of the village.
   (B)   Prior to construction or alteration of any facilities, grantee shall
in each case file plans with all appropriate village departments and receive
written approval of such plans, which approval shall not be unreasonably
withheld. No construction or alteration of facilities shall commence until
written approval has been received from the village. Grantee shall provide a
monthly progress report to village through the completion of such construction
or alteration.
   (C)   Grantee shall construct and maintain the system so as not to interfere
with other uses of the public ways. Grantee shall make use of existing poles
and other facilities reasonably available to grantee whenever practicable.
Grantee shall individually notify all residents directly affected by proposed
construction prior to the commencement of that work.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the above grant to use the public ways of the village,
no public way shall be used by grantee if village, in its sole opinion,
determines that such use is inconsistent with the conditions or provisions by
which such street or public way was created or dedicated, or is presently used.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 96.08 CONDITIONS OF STREET OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   All facilities erected by grantee within the village shall be so
located as to cause minimum interference with the proper use of public ways of
the village and other public places and the rights and reasonable convenience
of property owners who adjoin any of said public ways or other public places.
   (B)   In case of disturbance of any public way, street or public place, the
grantee shall, at its own cost and expense and in a manner approved by the
Village Engineer or such other official as designated by the village, replace
and restore such area in as good a condition as before the work involving such
disturbance was done.
   (C)   The grantee shall not remove, trim or prune any tree or vegetation
that is located within a public way or street except in accordance with the
most current tree care and maintenance standards set forth in ANSI standard
A300 as published by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI). Each
grantee shall be responsible for, shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless the
village and its officers, agents and employees from and against any and all
damages arising out of or resulting from the removal, trimming, mutilation of
or any injury to any tree or trees caused by the grantee or its officers,
agents, employees, contractors or subcontractors.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 96.09 ERECTION OF POLES.
   No franchise shall be deemed to expressly or by implication authorize the
grantee to construct or install poles or wire-holding structures within any
public ways of the village for the purpose of placing cables, wires, lines or
otherwise without the written consent of the village. Such consent shall be
given upon such terms and conditions as the Village Engineer or the corporate
authorities in their sole discretion may prescribe which shall include a
requirement that the grantee perform, at its sole expense, all tree trimming
required to maintain the poles clear of obstructions in accordance herein.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 96.10 UNDERGROUNDING.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter provided, in all areas of the village where the
cables, wires and other like facilities of all utilities are placed
underground, each grantee shall construct and install its cables, wires and
other facilities underground. Amplifier boxes and pedestal mounted terminal
boxes may be placed above ground if existing technology reasonably requires,
but shall be of such size and design and shall be so located as not to be
unsightly or unsafe. In any area of the village where there are certain cables,
wires and other like facilities of a public utility underground and at least
one operable cable, wire or like facility of a public utility is suspended
above the ground from poles, a grantee may construct and install its cables,
wires and other facilities from the same pole, to the extent permitted by law
or by the owner of the pole. All underground construction shall be performed in
compliance with village codes.
   (B)   With respect to any cables, wires and other like facilities
constructed and installed by a grantee above ground, the grantee shall, at its
expense and under non-discriminatory terms and conditions substantially the
same as imposed on similarly situated public utilities and telecommunications
carriers, reconstruct and reinstall such cables, wires or other facilities
underground pursuant to any project under which the cables, wires or other like
facilities of all utilities within an area are placed underground.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 96.11 RELOCATION.
   If during the term of a franchise the village, a public utility, a sanitary
district or any other similar special district elects to alter, repair,
realign, abandon, improve, vacate, reroute or change the grade of any public
way or street, or to replace, repair, install, maintain, or otherwise alter any
above ground or underground cable, wire, conduit, pipe, line, pole, wire-
holding structure, structure, or other facility utilized for the provision of
utility, drainage, sewage or other services, then grantee, shall, except as
otherwise hereinafter provided, at its sole expense and under non-
discriminatory terms and conditions substantially the same as imposed on
similarly situated public utilities and telecommunications carriers, remove or
relocate as necessary its poles, wires, cables, underground conduits, manholes
and any other facilities that it has installed. If such removal or relocation
is required within a subdivision in which all utility lines, including those
for the system, were installed at the same time, the entities may decide among
themselves who is to bear the cost of relocation; provided that the village
shall not be liable to a grantee for such costs. Regardless of who bears the
costs, a grantee shall take action to remove or relocate at such time or times
as are directed by the agency undertaking the work.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 96.12 MOVEMENT OF BUILDINGS.
   Each grantee shall, upon request by any person holding a building moving
permit or other approval issued by the village, temporarily remove, raise or
lower its wire to permit the movement of buildings. The expense of such
removal, raising or lowering shall be paid by the person requesting same, and a
grantee shall be authorized to require such payment in advance. Except for
emergency situations, a grantee shall be given not less than 45 days written
notice to arrange for such temporary wire changes.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 96.13 COMPLETION OF SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION OR UPGRADE.
   (A)   The construction of a new system, or the rebuild or upgrade of an
existing system, shall be considered complete upon the issuance of a final
order of completion by the Village Engineer. A final order of completion shall
be issued when:
      (1)   Construction of the system — whether new construction, a rebuild or
a mandatory upgrade — has been completed within the entirety of the franchise
area in compliance with applicable design and construction standards and other
requirements of this chapter and the franchise agreement;
      (2)   Cable services have been made available to 100% of the dwelling
units within each developed parcel;
      (3)   Any and all studio facilities, equipment, channels and other
services, resources or benefits required for public, educational, and
governmental access purposes have been completed and made available (with the
exception of items to be completed at a future date);
      (4)   Complete and accurate "as built" plans of the cable system have
been filed by the grantee with the village; and
      (5)   A notice of completion has been filed by the grantee as hereinafter
provided.
   (B)   For purposes of this chapter, cable services as defined in the
franchise agreement shall be deemed to be made available when offered on a non-
discriminatory basis for immediate usage to the owner, or legal representative
of the owner empowered to consent to use, of the property of each dwelling
unit.
   (C)   For the purpose of determining compliance with the provisions of this
chapter and of determining completion under this section, the total number of
dwelling units within each developed parcel shall be deemed to be the actual
number of units available for occupancy as of a date 45 calendar days in
advance of the date of filing by the grantee of the notice of completion;
provided that the grantee files the notice of completion with a good faith
belief that it has achieved completion as of the date of filing.
   (D)   All facilities and components comprising the new construction or
upgraded system shall be subject to inspection by village employees or
authorized agents or representatives thereof for the purpose of determining
whether the system and related facilities comply with the franchise and the
provisions of this chapter. The grantee shall authorize such inspection and
provide such information and cooperation as is required in order to permit an
adequate investigation to determine the existence or nonexistence of such
compliance.
   (E)   The grantee shall offer to install, make operational, and render
service to all developed parcels within the franchise area in accordance with
this chapter and the franchise agreement, within the time period specified in
the franchise agreement.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 96.14 REMOVAL.
   To protect the public health, safety, and welfare, it is in the village's
interest to provide for the removal, if necessary, of the cable system
infrastructure from public and private rights-of-way, should such removal
become necessary for any reason. The grantee, its successor, or any parent
thereof shall be fully responsible for the disposition of franchise-related
property installed in public or private rights-of-way, as follows:
   (A)   Upon termination of a franchise, and if neither the village nor an
assignee purchase the system, the grantee may remove any underground cable from
the skeets which has been installed in such a manner that it can be removed
without trenching or other opening of the streets along the extension of cable
to be removed. The grantee shall not remove any underground cable or conduit
that requires trenching or other opening of the streets along the extension of
cable to be removed, except as approved by the Village Engineer and as
hereinafter provided. The grantee shall remove, at its sole cost and expense,
any above ground or underground cable or conduit by trenching or opening of the
streets along the extension thereof which is ordered to be removed by the
Village Engineer based upon a determination, in the discretion of the Village
Engineer, that removal is required in order to eliminate or prevent a hazardous
condition or promote future utilization of the streets for public purposes. Any
order by the Village Engineer to remove cable or conduit shall be mailed to the
grantee not later than 30 days following the date of termination of the
franchise. A grantee shall file written notice with the Village Engineer not
later than 30 days following the date of expiration or termination of the
franchise of its intention to remove cable intended to be removed and a
schedule for removal by location. The schedule and timing of removal shall be
subject to approval and regulation by the Village Engineer. Removal shall be
completed not later than 12 months following the date of expiration or
termination of the franchise. Underground cable and conduit in the streets not
so removed shall be deemed abandoned and title thereto shall be vested in the
village upon passage of an ordinance by the corporate authorities accepting
title to such facilities.
   (B)   Upon termination of a franchise, and if neither the village nor an
assignee purchase the system, the grantee, at its sole expense, shall, unless
relieved of the obligation by the village, remove from the public ways and
streets all above ground elements of the system, including but not limited to
amplifier boxes, pedestal mounted terminal boxes, and cable attached to or
suspended from poles, which are not purchased by the village or its assignee.
   (C)   The grantee shall apply for and obtain such permits, licenses,
authorizations or other approvals as required by the village, and shall conduct
and complete the work of removal in compliance with all such applicable
ordinances, and shall restore the streets to the same condition they were in
before the work of removal commenced. The work of removal shall be completed
not later than one year following the date of termination of the franchise;
otherwise, the village may complete such work and charge the expense thereof
against the security required herein.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 96.15 UNIVERSAL SERVICE.
   Each grantee under this chapter shall offer cable services, subject only to
a reasonable construction schedule established by the grantee pursuant to this
chapter, to all dwelling unit within the developed parcel. Access to cable
service will not be denied to any particular person merely because the income
of residents in a particular area is lower than in other areas within the
franchise area. Without violating this chapter, a grantee may refuse to provide
service to any resident due to their inability to provide payment for cable
services, to provide any necessary security deposit for customer premises
equipment, or for the failure to comply with other non-discriminatory rules
established by the grantee.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 96.16 GENERAL CAPABILITY.
   Each grantee shall, at minimum:
   (A)   Design, develop, construct and operate a cable system meeting the
community needs and interests ascertained by the Village Board, with the
technological capabilities specified in the applicable franchise agreement;
   (B)   Agree to modify the capabilities referred to herein, in accordance
with industry-accepted changes in cable technology, as may be specified in the
applicable franchise agreement; and
   (C)   Agree to add such system capability provisions to the franchise
agreement as may, from time to time, be permitted by law and agreed to by both
parties.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 96.17 STANDBY POWER.
   Each system shall include the equipment capable of providing standby
powering which is specified in the franchise agreement. The system shall
incorporate safeguards necessary to prevent injury to line workers resulting
from a standby generator powering a "dead" utility line.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 96.18 EMERGENCY ALERT (EAS) OVERRIDE CAPABILITY.
   Each system shall include an emergency alert capability at no charge to
village, which will permit the village, in times of emergency, to override by
remote control the audio and/or video of all analog channels simultaneously,
under the conditions and in the manner specified in the franchise agreement,
and including those capabilities for alternate broadcast so specified therein.
Provision shall be made by grantee to provide emergency alert capability on
digital channels in accordance with applicable state and federal requirements,
and the franchise agreement.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 96.19 INTERCONNECTION.
   The system shall be interconnected with other systems owned or controlled by
an affiliate of the grantee within the village and surrounding jurisdictions as
may be specified in the applicable franchise agreement.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 96.20 TECHNICAL STANDARDS.
   To the extent permitted by law:
   (A)   Each grantee shall construct, install, and maintain its system in a
manner consistent and in compliance with all applicable laws, ordinances,
construction standards, governmental requirements, and technical standards
equivalent to those established by the FCC. Each grantee shall provide to the
village, upon request, written reports of the grantee's annual proof of
performance tests conducted pursuant to FCC standards and requirements.
   (B)   Each grantee shall comply with the National Electrical Safety Code
(Nations) Bureau of Standards); National Electrical Code (National Bureau of
Fire Underwriters); applicable FCC and other federal, state and local
regulations; and codes and other ordinances of the village.
   (C)   In any event, the system shall not endanger or interfere with the
safety of persons or property within the village or other areas where the
grantee may have equipment located.
   (D)   All working facilities, conditions, and procedures, used or occurring
during construction and maintenance of the system shall comply with the
standards of the United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration.
   (E)   Construction, installation, and maintenance of the system shall be
performed in an orderly and workmanlike manner, and in close coordination with
public and private utilities serving the village following accepted
construction procedures and practices.
   (F)   All cable and wires shall be installed, where possible, parallel with
electric and telephone lines, and multiple cable configurations shall be
arranged in parallel and bundled with due respect for engineering
consideration.
   (G)   Any antenna structure used in the system shall comply with
requirements for the construction, marking and lighting of antennae structures
established by the United States Department of Transportation.
   (H)   Any grantee shall check radio frequency leakage at reception locations
for emergency radio services to prove no interference signal combinations are
possible. Radiation shall be measured adjacent to any proposed aeronautical
navigation or communication radio sites to prove no interference to air
navigational reception.
   (I)   The village reserves the fight to enforce any customer equipment
compatibility standards promulgated by the FCC, should franchise authorities be
granted enforcement authority over such standards.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 96.21 PUBLIC, EDUCATIONAL AND GOVERNMENTAL ACCESS.
   Every system franchised pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall
provide for public, educational and governmental access facilities pursuant to
the Act and the applicable franchise agreement.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 96.22 SUPPORT FOR USE OF ACCESS.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to limit the ability of
the grantee to make payments in support of public, educational and/or
governmental access, or the ability of the grantee and the village to include
public access support as a condition of the franchise agreement.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 96.23 AVAILABILITY OF PUBLIC ACCESS FACILITIES.
   Use of facilities for public, educational and governmental access upon the
system shall be made available as provided by law, under the conditions and in
the manner provided by applicable rules of grantee and/or grantor in connection
with the production of public, educational and governmental access programming
cablecast upon the system. The grantee shall accept and cablecast such public,
educational and governmental access programming upon the system as shall be
provided to the grantee by all persons and entities, under terms described in
the franchise agreement.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 96.24 APPROVAL OF CONSTRUCTION BY VILLAGE.
   (A)   Except for individual service drops, the grantee shall not, within the
village, run any line, make any attachment, nor begin construction of any kind
without the prior approval of the village. Such approval shall not be
unreasonably withheld and action shall be taken on any request for approval
within ten business days of receipt of a properly filed request or it shall be
deemed granted. Grantee shall be able to make emergency repairs as needed. The
village shall have and maintain the right to inspect from time to time the
construction, operation and maintenance of the system by the grantee to ensure
the proper performance.
   (B)   In the event the grantee should violate any of the terms of this
chapter or any federal, state, or local law or regulation, or any of the rules
and regulations as may hereafter be from time to time lawfully adopted, or any
provision of the franchise agreement, the village shall, after discovery, give
the grantee written notice of the violation, breach, default or noncompliance.
The grantee shall within 30 days of receipt of written notice from the village
substantially undertake and promptly correct such default, breach, violation or
noncompliance and certify the same to the village. In the event that the
grantee fails to substantially undertake such corrective action within 30 days
of receipt of such written notice and to promptly complete the corrective
action, the village in addition to any other right or remedy provided herein or
by law, may:
      (1)   Make such correction itself and charge the cost of the same to the
grantee, but only to the extent the village is expressly authorized to do so in
this chapter or in the franchise agreement; and/or
      (2)   Secure the proceeds therefor from any bond or letter of credit
posted by the grantee for each day of breach or violation after the cure date
the grantee fails to meet an agreed upon limit for such activity or otherwise
meet its contractual or legal obligations; and/or
      (3)   Employ as applicable the liquidated damages provided for in the
franchise agreement; and/or
      (4)   In the case of a material breach of this chapter or the franchise
agreement, declare the grantee in default and terminate the franchise and
rights granted under the franchise in accordance with the procedure provided
for in this chapter or in the franchise agreement.
   (C)   Upon any termination of the franchise by the village, except in the
case of a franchise transfer, the grantee shall remove its facilities and
equipment in accordance with this chapter, and in the event that the grantee
does not remove such within the time, the village may do so, the removal cost
to be borne in any event by the grantee. Any enforcement action or remedy
provided by this chapter shall not be deemed exclusive but shall be alternative
or cumulative in nature.
   (D)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this chapter, the village
shall not impose any penalty upon the grantee where either the violation or
failure to cure the same results from force majeure, labor dispute, declaration
of war or other hostilities, act of God, or any other cause reasonably beyond
the control of the grantee.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 96.25 TRANSFERS.
   (A)   No system, or integral part or element of a system, or any other
integral real or personal property which is a part of said system shall be
sold, transferred, assigned or conveyed, directly or indirectly, as to
operation, control or otherwise, nor shall title thereto, either legal or
equitable, or any right or interest therein, pass to or vest in any party other
than the grantee without the prior written consent of the village in its sole
discretion.
   (B)   In the absence of extraordinary circumstances, the village will not
approve any transfer prior to substantial completion of construction,
reconstruction or upgrade of a cable system.
   (C)   The recipient of a transferred franchise for said system shall not be
subject to the requirements for applicants for new franchises. The village
reserves the right to impose, prior to approving a transfer, terms and
conditions necessary to cure any current or on-going breaches of the franchise
agreement by the transferor.
   (D)   Any transfer approved by the village shall be made by a bill of sale
or similar document evidencing closing of the transaction in accordance with
the terms and conditions approved by the village. The transferee shall file an
executed copy of such transfer document with the village within 60 days after
any such transfer has been completed.
   (E)   No transfer shall be approved unless the proposed transferee shall
have agreed in writing to comply with all the provisions of this chapter, as
amended, as well as the applicable franchise agreement, and is found by the
village to be, in all respects, legally, technically and financially qualified
rind possessing the operating experience reasonably deemed necessary by the
village in order to hold a village cable system franchise. Furthermore, no such
approval shell be granted unless all moneys accruing to the village as of the
date of transfer, whether by way of fees, penalties, damages or otherwise, have
first been paid in full or is guaranteed to be paid out of the consideration
received by the transferor for such transfer.
   (F)   Any transfer of whatever kind or nature made in violation of the
provisions of this section shall be void. The word “control” as used in this
section is not limited to major stockholders but includes actual working
control in whatever manner exercised.
   (G)   Grantee shall reimburse village for any incidental administrative
expenses of village expended under this section in reviewing and approving or
disapproving a transfer.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 96.26 SECURITY FUND.
   On the effective date of the franchise, the grantee shall establish a
permanent security fund in the amount of $10,000, unless a different sum is
required by the franchise agreement, by depositing with the village cash, an
unconditional stand-by letter of credit, performance bond or other instrument
acceptable to the village, which fund shall be maintained at the sole expense
of the grantee so long as any part of the system is located within the public
ways of the village.
   (A)   The fund shall serve as security for grantee's full and faithful
performance of this chapter, the franchise agreement, permits issued by the
village, and applicable laws in constructing, operating and maintaining the
cable system and providing cable service within the village, including the
payment of any liquidated damages, penalties, judgments, fees or taxes that may
be due the village.
   (B)   At franchise renewal or after completion of any cable system
construction, rebuild or upgrade, the required amount of the security fund may
be reduced to a sum specified in the franchise agreement, or as otherwise
agreed by and between the village and the grantee.
   (C)   In the case of any default or failure of the grantee to pay any
liquidated damages, penalties, judgments, fees, or taxes due the village in
connection with the construction, operation or maintenance of the cable system
and the provision of cable service within the village pursuant to the
franchise, the village may assess the security fund pursuant to the procedures
set forth herein, or in the franchise agreement, if applicable.
   (D)   The grantee shall promptly pay any undisputed liquidated damages,
penalties, judgments, fees or taxes due the village. If the grantee fails to
pay any undisputed amounts due the village within 30 days after written notice
from the village, the village may withdraw the amount hereof, together with
interest at the judgment interest rate specified in Section 2-1303 of the
Illinois Code of Civil Procedure.
   (E)   The grantee shall replenish the security fund to its full amount
within 30 days after written notice from the village that monies have been
withdrawn from the fund.
   (F)   The rights reserved to the village with respect to the security fund
are in addition to all other rights and remedies of the village, whether
reserved by this chapter or authorized by law, and no action or proceeding to
exercise rights with respect to the security fund shall constitute an election
of remedies or a waiver of any other rights the village may have.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 96.27 CONSTRUCTION AND COMPLETION SECURITY.
   (A)   Prior to commencing any work within public ways of the village that
exceed $50,000 in value, the grantee shall furnish the village with a
construction bond written by a corporate surety authorized to do business in
Illinois in the amount of $50,000. Such instrument shall be in a form
acceptable to the village.
   (B)   The construction security shall remain in force until 60 days after
substantial completion of the work, as determined by the Village Engineer,
including restoration of public ways and other public or private property
affected by the construction.
   (C)   The construction security shall guarantee:
      (1)   Construction in compliance with applicable plans, permits,
technical codes and standards;
      (2)   Proper location of the facilities in the public ways of the village
as specified in plans approved by the village;
      (3)   Restoration of the public ways and any other public property
affected by the construction within the public ways.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the construction security provided by the grantee, the
grantee is responsible for completion of all construction work, including
restoration, in accordance with the permit and approved plans for such work,
and the material requirements herein and the franchise agreement. Any default
or breach in performance of such work shall be promptly cured by the grantee.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 96.28 INSURANCE.
   (A)   As a part of the indemnification provided by the provisions of this
section, but without limiting the foregoing, grantee shall upon award of the
franchise and prior to commencement of construction of the system, file with
the Village Clerk, and at all times thereafter maintain in full force and
effect at its sole expense, evidence of a policy or policies for the following:
      (1)   Commercial general liability insurance. Comprehensive or commercial
general liability insurance, including, but not limited to, coverage for bodily
injury, personal injury, and property damage shall be maintained at not less
than the sum(s) of $1,000,000 per occurrence.
      (2)   Business automobile liability. Comprehensive automobile liability
including, but not limited to, non-ownership and hired car coverage as well as
owned vehicles with coverage for bodily injury and property damage, shall be
maintained at not less than the sum(s) of $1,000,000 per accident.
      (3)   Property loss. Fire insurance with coverage for extended perils on
the franchise property used by grantee in the conduct of franchise operations
in an amount adequate to enable grantee to resume franchise operations
following the occurrence of any risk covered by this insurance.
      (4)   Worker's Compensation insurance. In such coverage, with statutory
limits as may be required by the State of Illinois.
   (B)   The policy or policies shall specifically recognize and cover the
indemnification provisions herein. The village and its officers, agents, and
employees shall be named as an additional insured, and the policy or policies
shall contain cross-liability endorsements. Said insurance shall provide that
the insurance provided by the grantee shall be primary and that any provision
of any contract of insurance or other risk protection benefit or self-insurance
policy purchased or in effect or enacted by the village and any other insurance
or benefit shall be in excess thereof.
   (C)   The insurer or insurers shall have Best Insurance Rating of at least
A-, VII or the highest rating attributable to insurance carriers by a
recognized rating agency and shall be authorized to write the required
insurance, and shall be approved by the State of Illinois.
   (D)   The policy or policies of insurance shall be maintained by the grantee
in full force and effect during the entire term of the franchise. All
certificate(s) shall contain the following endorsement: "Should any of the
above-described policies be canceled before the expiration date thereof, the
issuing company will mail 30-day prior written notice to the holder named on
the certificate."
   (E)   In the event of the cancellation of any insurance policy required
herein or upon grantee's failure to procure said insurance, the village shall
have the right to terminate the franchise agreement or, alternatively, to
procure such insurance and charge the cost thereof to the grantee. Such costs
may be paid from the security fund or letter of credit herein or from the
construction bond, or by any other means deemed appropriate by the village.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 96.29 INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   As a condition of any franchise granted pursuant to this chapter, the
grantee shall agree to defend, indemnify and hold the village and its officers,
agents and employees free and harmless from and against any and all claims,
actions, suits, damages, costs, expenses and liabilities, including the
reasonable fees and expenses of their attorneys, expert witnesses and
consultants, court costs and fines, which may be incurred by them, asserted
against them, or sought to be imposed upon them, individually, jointly or
severally, and which arise directly or indirectly out of or are connected in
any way with the construction, installation, maintenance, operation or
condition of the grantee's cable system pursuant to a franchise granted
hereunder except to the extent those damages, claims, awards and judgments
arise from the sole negligence of the village, its officers, agents and
employees, including but not limited to:
      (1)   Any negligent, tortious or wrongful act or omission of the grantee,
and its officers, agents, employees, contractors or subcontractors resulting in
personal injury, bodily injury, sickness or death to any person, or in loss or
damage of any kind to the property of any person including the grantee and its
officers, agents, employees, licensees and invitees;
      (2)   Any negligent, tortious, or wrongful act or omission of the
grantee, and its officers, agents, employees, contractors or subcontractors
resulting in damage to, loss of, destruction or unauthorized use of any
trademark, trade name, copyright, patent or other intangible property rights of
any person including libel, slander and invasion of privacy; or
      (3)   Loss or damage of any kind related to grantee's failure to comply
with the provisions herein, or of the franchise, or of any federal, state or
local law or regulation applicable to the grantee or the cable system.
   (B)   As a condition of any franchise granted pursuant to this chapter, the
grantee shall assume for its officers, agents, employees, contractors, and
subcontractors all risk of dangerous or hazardous conditions in, on or about
any public streets or ways of the village, except for latent conditions
actually caused by the willful or negligent acts of the village or its
employees.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 96.30 LIQUIDATED DAMAGES.
   (B)   Franchise agreement. The grantee's failure to perform certain
obligations under this chapter or the franchise agreement, or its failure to do
so in a timely manner, may result in damage to the village that is difficult to
determine. To the extent that the village and the grantee agree on a liquidated
sum or sums to be reasonably paid in light of the anticipated loss caused by a
breach or failure to perform, such amounts shall be set forth in the franchise
agreement as liquidated damages to be paid by the grantee.
   (B)   Assessment of liquidated damages. Before assessing liquidated damages
against the grantee, the village shall give written notice to the grantee, and
an opportunity to cure the breach or failure to perform as provided in the
franchise agreement. Unless different procedures or time periods are prescribed
in the franchise agreement, the procedures and time periods for imposing
liquidated damages shall be the same as the procedures set forth herein for
determining and remedying franchise violations.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 96.31 FRANCHISE VIOLATION; NOTICE AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   General. The grantee shall comply with the requirements of this
chapter and the franchise agreement at all times during the term of its
franchise.
   (B)   Material violations. If the village has reason to believe that the
grantee has committed a material violation of this chapter or the franchise
agreement, the village may act to remedy the violation in accordance with the
procedures set forth below. A material violation shall include:
      (1)   Construction or operation in the village or in the public ways of
the village without a required permit, license or authorization.
      (2)   Construction or operation at an unauthorized location.
      (3)   Unauthorized franchise transfer.
      (4)   Material misrepresentation by or on behalf of the grantee in any
application to the village or in any report or document required to be filed
with the village.
      (5)   Failure to construct, complete, relocate or remove all or any part
of the cable system as required by this chapter or the franchise agreement.
      (6)   Failure to provide the services, facilities or resources required
by this chapter or the franchise agreement.
      (7)   Failure to pay taxes, franchise fees, costs or penalties when and
as due the village.
      (8)   Failure to file required documents, applications or reports,
including financial reports, with the village.
      (9)   Failure to deliver evidence of grantee's insurance coverage as
specified herein.
      (10)   Failure to file and maintain with the village all required bonds.
      (11)   Failure to establish and maintain the security fund required
herein.
      (12)   Failure to restore any amount withdrawn from the security fund
within the time specified herein.
      (13)   Failure to commence or complete construction within the time
specified in the franchise agreement hereof.
      (14)   Systemic failure to comply with the customer service standards as
required herein.
      (15)   Failure to comply with the material provisions of this chapter.
      (16)   Failure to comply with the material terms of the franchise
agreement.
   (C)   Notice of material violations. Written notice shall be given to the
grantee setting forth the nature of the material violation and a reasonable
period of time for the grantee to correct the violation. Unless the village
determines that the violation is of such a nature that a lesser period of time
is warranted for remedying the violation, the grantee shall be given 30 days
after receipt of such notice to remedy the violation.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 96.32 FRANCHISE REVOCATION AND TERMINATION.
   (A)   A franchise granted by the village pursuant to this chapter is subject
to revocation in the event of any substantial breach of the franchise agreement
or default in performance of the grantee's performance of the franchise. The
following events, acts or omissions on the part of the grantee may be
considered cause for revocation of the franchise and termination of the
franchise agreement:
      (1)   Repeated failure, after notice and an opportunity to cure, to
comply with the material provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Repeated failure, after notice and in opportunity to cure, to
comply with the material terms of the franchise agreement.
      (3)   Repeated failure to cure material violations of this chapter or the
franchise agreement within a reasonable time after notice from the village.
      (4)   Material fraud or misrepresentation in obtaining the franchise.
      (5)   Willful failure to pay taxes, franchise fees, costs, or penalties
when and as due the village.
      (6)   Failure to maintain required insurance coverage.
      (7)   Failure to restore system wide service after 48 consecutive hours
of interrupted service, provided the grantee's failure to restore system wide
service is not caused by circumstances or events beyond the grantee's
reasonable control.
      (8)   Insolvency or bankruptcy of the grantee.
   (B)   Notice of substantial breach shall be given to the grantee setting
forth:
      (1)   The nature of the substantial breach or default by the grantee;
      (2)   A written demand that the grantee correct the violation;
      (3)   Notice that any failure to correct or remedy the substantial breach
or default within 30 days, or such other period of time as may be stipulated in
the franchise agreement, may be cause for revocation of the franchise.
   (C)   Within 30 days after the village's written notice to the grantee, the
grantee shall respond in writing to the village, together with documentation in
support of its response:
      (1)   That it contests the village's notice of substantial breach and
requests an opportunity to be heard as provided herein.
      (2)   That corrective action has been implemented by the grantee and the
substantial breach or default has been cured.
      (3)   That corrective action has been implemented by the grantee and is
being actively and diligently pursued in accordance with a written corrective
action plan to be submitted to the village.
   (D)   If requested by the grantee, or if the village is not satisfied that
sufficient corrective action is being actively and expeditiously pursued by the
grantee to remedy the substantial breach or default, the village shall schedule
a public hearing to hear and determine the issues and to consider whether
sufficient cause exists to revoke the franchise. The village shall give the
grantee not less than 14 days written notice specifying the village's intent to
consider the revocation of the grantee's franchise pursuant to this chapter,
and the date, time and place of the public hearing to be held before the
corporate authorities, or a hearing officer appointed by the corporate
authorities. If a hearing officer has been designated, the hearing officer
shall hear the relevant evidence and shall render a record of the
administrative hearing and recommended findings and decision to the corporate
authorities.
   (E)   After hearing the relevant evidence or considering the administrative
record to the hearing, the corporate authorities shall determine whether or not
a substantial breach or default by the grantee has occurred, whether it has
been cured or a satisfactory corrective action plan has been submitted and is
being actively and diligently pursued, and whether cause exists to revoke the
franchise. The grantee shall be given an opportunity to be heard in connection
with those issues. If the corporate authorities are persuaded that a
substantial breach or default has occurred, the corporate authorities shall
consider the nature, circumstances, extent and gravity of the substantial
breach or default, as reflected the following factors, in considering whether
some lesser sanction or cure, if any, should be imposed:
      (1)   Whether the conduct was egregious.
      (2)   Whether substantial harm resulted.
      (3)   Whether the violation was intentional.
      (4)   Whether there is a history of prior violations of the same or other
requirements.
      (5)   Whether there is a history of overall compliance.
   (F)   If the corporate authorities determine that cause exists to revoke the
franchise, it may by ordinance declare the grantee's franchise to be terminated
and revoked, provided that the village may grant the grantee an additional
period of time to remedy the substantial breach or default before such
ordinance is fully effective.
   (G)   No provision of this section shall be deemed to bar or otherwise limit
the right of either party to seek or obtain judicial relief to enforce the
provisions of this franchise agreement.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 96.33 OTHER REMEDIES.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any judicial
remedies that the village may have, at law or in equity, for enforcement of
this chapter or of any franchise agreement entered into pursuant to this
chapter.
   (B)   Any person convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $750 for each offense. A
separate and distinct offense shall be deemed committed each day on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 96.34 RIGHTS OF INDIVIDUALS.
   (A)   The grantee shall construct, install, maintain and operate its cable
television system so as to protect the privacy rights of each subscriber and
user in accordance with the Cable Act as amended and the FCC rules and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
   (B)   No cable line, wire, amplifier, converter, or other piece of equipment
owned by grantee shall be installed by grantee in the subscriber's premises,
other than in appropriate easements, without first securing any required
consent. If a subscriber requests service, permission to install upon
subscriber's property shall be presumed.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 96.35 NON-ENFORCEMENT.
   Subject to the provisions of the Act, a grantee shall not be relieved of any
obligation to comply with any of the provisions of the franchise agreement or
any rule, regulation, requirement or directive promulgated thereunder by reason
of any failure of the village or its officers, agents or employees to enforce
prompt compliance nor shall such be considered a waiver thereof.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 96.36 COMMUNICATIONS WITH REGULATORY AGENCIES.
   Upon request of the village, grantee shall submit copies of specific
petitions, applications, communications, and reports submitted by a grantee to
the FCC or any other federal or state regulatory commission or agency having
jurisdiction in respect to any matters directly affecting construction or
operation of a system or services provided through such a system, and/or copies
of responses received by the grantee from such agency.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 96.37 FEES.
   (A)   A minimum fee as established herein shall accompany a franchise
application, and shall be filed with the Village Clerk.
   (B)   All applicants requesting a franchise agreement shall either pay
directly to or reimburse the village for its reasonable fees and costs for
engineering, planning, legal or other professional consultants incurred in
connection with preparing, studying, inspecting, reviewing, examining, checking
and processing applicant's request and plans.
   (C)   All bills for engineering, planning, legal and other professional
consultants shall be submitted to the Village Clerk prior to the village
submitting invoices to the applicant for prompt payment by the applicant.
   (D)   All village invoices for such services submitted by the village
related to any such application shall be paid promptly by the applicant, but
not later than 30 days, and the obligation to reimburse the village or pay
those providing services directly is binding whether or not the village
approves the applicant's request.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any other ordinances of the village, no application
shall be deemed to be approved unless or until the applicant has reimbursed the
village or paid to those directly providing services, all fees and costs
incurred for engineering, planning, legal and other professional consultant
fees incurred by the village in connection with the applicant's request and
plans.
   (F)   At the time an applicant files his or her application, the village
shall furnish the applicant with a form which shall read substantially as
follows:
   APPLICANT:
   Date:
   The following firm, representative, agent or individual does hereby state
that it has been fully disclosed to said party that in order for the village to
properly review and evaluate requests for any Franchise Application, the
village must necessarily utilize and engage the services of engineering,
planning, legal and other professional consultants. The undersigned hereby
agrees to pay to the village, either by reimbursement or directly to the
professionals providing services, the reasonable costs incurred by the village
for such services pertaining to the request of the undersigned for such
application. It is further understood and agreed that all invoices for such
services shall be paid promptly when submitted, but not later than 30 days, and
that the obligation to reimburse the village or pay the professionals providing
said services directly is binding whether or not a Franchise Agreement is in
fact approved.
                                             
   Applicant
   (G)   The Village Board shall not be required to take any action on any
application submitted until the applicant has signed the above form and
properly filed an original or true and correct copy with the Village Clerk.
   (H)   At the time an applicant files a franchise application, the applicant
shall deposit with the village the sum of $3,000 as a security deposit for the
payment and satisfaction of the costs, engineering, planning, legal and other
professional fees. Said sum shall be returned to the applicant within 60 days
following the complete payment and satisfaction of all sums due herein. In the
event the applicant fails to satisfy the financial obligations herein, the
village may apply all or any portion of said security deposit against said
obligation. The village may maintain an action at law or in equity to enforce
the provisions of this section and the applicant shall be responsible for all
costs and attorney's fees incurred by the village in the enforcement of the
provisions of this section, whether suit is filed or not. The Building and
Zoning Officer is authorized to issue a stop-work order, if applicable, until
the applicant pays and satisfies his, her or its obligations in full.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 96.38 FRANCHISE FEE.
   For purposes of compensating village for the use of the streets and other
impositions and burdens upon the fiduciary trusts of the village, and for the
purposes of providing revenue with which to defray the costs of administration
and regulation arising out of the granting of franchises under this chapter,
and, to the extent specifically required, for promoting, assisting and
financing public, educational, and governmental access programming, each
grantee shall pay franchise fees to the village as follows:
   (A)   During the term of each franchise, the grantee shall pay to the
village an amount equal to 5% of the grantee's annual gross revenue.
   (B)   Said fees shall be paid on a quarterly basis in accordance with the
franchise agreement. Not later than the date of each payment, each grantee
shall file with the village, a written statement signed by an officer of the
grantee, which identifies the amount of gross revenues received by a grantee
during the period for which payment is made.
   (C)   No acceptance of any payment shall be construed as an accord that the
amount paid is, in fact, the correct amount, nor shall such acceptance of
payment be construed as a release of any claim which the village may have for
further or additional sums payable under the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 96.39 INTEREST ON DELINQUENT FRANCHISE FEES.
   Any franchise fees that remain unpaid after the dates specified shall be
delinquent and shall thereafter accrue interest at the maximum rate permitted
by law for interest upon judgments, until fully paid. Should a payment not be
received within 30 days of the due date, it will be considered a material
breach of this agreement.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 96.40 ACCOUNTING AND STANDARDS.
   The grantee shall annually provide the corporate authorities with a
certification of an independent certified public accountant or auditor
experienced in similar cable television franchises certifying the accuracy of
the franchise fee payments made within the preceding 12 months thereto. Said
certification shall be prepared in accordance with generally accepted
accounting standards as established by the Financial Accounting Standards Board
(FASB).
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 96.41 BOOKS AND RECORDS AVAILABLE TO GRANTOR.
   (A)   The grantee shall maintain records within a local office of all
franchise operations in accordance with a policy that such records shall be
totally open and available to the village's inspection at any time during
normal business hours. Records shall include but not be limited to books,
documents, maps, computer files, plans, income tax returns, financial
statements, service complaint and the resolution of those complaints,
performance test results and other like materials of the grantee relating to
the operation of the franchise. Grantee shall, on request of the village,
notify the village of the names and addresses of the persons owning 5% or more
of any class of said stock, and the names and addresses of the grantee's
current officers and directors.
   (B)   Access to the aforementioned records shall not be denied by the
grantee on the basis that said records contain proprietary information,
provided, however, that grantee's submission of said records shall not be
deemed a waiver of grantee's claims respecting the proprietary nature of such
records. Village shall protect the proprietary rights of grantee in the
inspection of such records.
   (C)   During the term of each franchise, the village may, not more
frequently than once each year, conduct a review of the books, records and
accounts of the grantee for the purpose of determining whether the grantee has
paid franchise fees in the amounts prescribed herein. The review may be
conducted by the Finance Director of the village or his or her designee, or by
an independent certified public accounting firm retained by the village, and
shall be conducted at the expense of the village. The report shall be filed
with the village, and mailed to the village and grantee. If such review
determines that the total of the gross revenues received by the grantee from
the operation of the system is in error by a margin of 5% or more, the cost of
such review shall be borne by the grantee.
   (D)   Each grantee shall make available for inspection by authorized
representatives of the village, its books, accounts, and all other records
pertaining to the cable system within the franchise area, at reasonable times
and upon reasonable advance notice for the purpose of permitting exercise of
the authorities conferred by this section.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 96.42 LINE EXTENSIONS; SERVICE TO FRANCHISE AREA.
   (A)   Franchise area. The franchise area shall be the corporate limits of
the village as they exist now and throughout the term of the franchise. Any
subsequently annexed or areas already being served by the grantee shall
continue to be provided service under the franchise pertaining to the annexed
area. The grantee shall make all reasonable efforts, in accordance with this
chapter to provide common services to the annexed area as soon as practical.
   (B)   Extension of cable system: line extension to residences. In areas of
the franchise territory not included in the initial franchise service area, the
grantee shall be required to extend its cable system pursuant to the following
density and proximity requirements, as well as in accordance with the
additional provisions with this section:
      (1)   The grantee shall extend and make cable service available to every
dwelling unit in all unserved, developing areas having at least 20 occupied
dwelling units per cable mile, as measured from the existing system
simultaneously with the installation of utility lines to the extent practical.
      (2)   The grantee shall extend and make cable service available to any
isolated resident outside the initial franchise service area requesting
connection at the standard connection charge, if the connection to the isolated
resident would require no more than a standard 125 foot drop line.
   (C)   Early extension. In areas not meeting the requirements for mandatory
extension of service, the grantee shall provide, upon the request of a
potential subscriber an estimate of the grantee's costs required to extend
service and if the potential subscriber agrees to pay such costs, the grantee
shall extend service to the potential subscriber.
   (D)   New development undergrounding. In cases of new construction or
property development where utilities are to be placed underground, the
developer or property owner and village shall give the grantee advanced notice
at the time of notice to the utilities of such construction or development, and
of the particular date on which open drenching will be available for the
grantee's installation of conduit, pedestals, and/or vaults and laterals to be
provided at the grantee's expense. The grantee shall also provide
specifications as needed for drenching. Costs of trenching and easements
required to bring service to the development shall be borne by the developer or
property owner; except that if the grantee fails to install its conduit,
pedestals and/or vaults and laterals within ten working days of the date the
trenches are available, as designated in the notice given by the property owner
or developer to the grantee, then should the trenches be closed after the ten
day period, the cost is to be borne by the grantee.
   (E)   Special agreements. Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent the
grantee from serving geographical areas not covered under this section upon
agreement with developers, property owners, residents, or businesses.
   (F)   Notice to grantee. The village shall notify the grantee of any and all
planned developments in its franchise area or those located in areas expected
to be annexed within the next 36 months. Such notices shall be provided at the
time of notice to all other utilities or like occupants of the village's
rights-of-way. The village shall provide quarterly summaries of all planned
developments in the village or the areas expected to be annexed. Said notice is
to allow the grantee sufficient foresight into the future demands on its
design, engineering, construction and capital resources. Should the village
fail to provide advance notice of such developments the grantee shall be
allowed an adequate time to prepare, plan and provide a detailed report as to
the timeframe for it to construct its facilities and provide the services
required under this franchise.
   (G)   Non-residential service. Company will make every effort to offer cable
service to the commercial establishments within the franchise area table
service, provided that the installation is economically reasonable. The
commercial establishment shall be responsible for the total cost of
installation as determined by the company.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 96.43 CABLE AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION.
   The Village Board reserves the right to establish a cable and
telecommunications advisory commission (the "Commission") to exercise such
duties and powers as may be provided herein and from time to time as determined
by the Village Board. With the advice and consent of the Village Board, the
Commission shall oversee this chapter and any cable franchise agreements
created herein. The Commission shall report to the Village Board as necessary
in order that the village may enforce these regulations.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 96.44 RIGHTS RESERVED TO THE VILLAGE.
   (A)   Eminent domain. Nothing herein shall be deemed or construed to impair
or affect, in any way or to any extent, the right of the village to acquire the
property of the grantee, either by purchase or through the exercise of the
right of eminent domain, at a fair and just value; and nothing herein contained
shall be construed to contract away or to modify or abridge, whether for a term
or in perpetuity, the village's right of eminent domain.
   (B)   Police powers. Grantee's rights are subject to the police powers of
the village to adopt and enforce ordinances as the corporate authorities may
deem necessary for the protection of the health, safety and welfare of the
public. Grantee shall comply with all applicable general laws and ordinances
enacted pursuant to that power.
   (C)   Other legal rights and powers. In addition to any rights specifically
reserved to the village by this chapter, the village reserves to itself every
right and power which is required to be reserved by a provision of this chapter
or the franchise.
   (D)   Right to make rules and regulations. There is hereby reserved to the
village the right to adopt rules and regulations as it shall find necessary or
appropriate to implement the terms and conditions of this chapter; provided,
however, that such rules and regulations are within the scope of the
obligations imposed by this chapter and franchise agreements granted pursuant
to this chapter, and do not conflict with the provisions of applicable state
and federal laws and regulations. Before any such rules and regulations are
adopted, the village shall give notice to the grantee and afford the grantee an
opportunity to be heard.
   (E)   Variance. The village reserves the right to grant variances from the
strict application of any provision of this chapter, except those required by
federal of state law, if the village determines: (i) that it is in the public
interest to do so; and (ii) that the strict enforcement of such provision will
impose an undue hardship on the grantee. To be effective, such variance shall
be evidenced by writing signed by a duly authorized representative of the
village. A variance of any provision in one instance shall not be deemed a
variance of such provision subsequent such instance, nor shrill it be deemed a
variance or waiver of any other provision herein.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-27-2023)
CHAPTER 97: CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN THE RIGHTS-OF-WAY
Section
   
97.01   Purpose and scope
   
97.02   Definitions
   
97.03   Annual registration required
   
97.04   Permit required; applications and fees
   
97.05   Action on permit applications
   
97.06   Effect of permit
   
97.07   Revised permit drawings
   
97.08   Insurance
   
97.09   Indemnification
   
97.10   Security
   
97.11   Permit suspension and revocation
   
97.12   Change of ownership or owner’s identity or legal status
   
97.13   General construction standards
   
97.14   Traffic control
   
97.15   Location of facilities
   
97.16   Construction methods and materials
   
97.17   Vegetation control
   
97.18   Removal, relocation, or modification of utility facilities
   
97.19   Clean-up and restoration
   
97.20   Maintenance and emergency maintenance
   
97.21   Variances
   
97.22   Fees
 
   
97.99   Penalties
§ 97.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights-of-way within the village's
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage, and visual qualities of the village
rights-of-way and the village as a whole.
   (B)   Intent. In enacting this chapter, the village intends to exercise its
authority over the rights-of-way in the village and, in particular, the use of
the public ways and property by utilities, by establishing uniform standards to
address issues presented by utility facilities, including without limitation:
      (1)   Prevent interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parkways and other public ways and places;
      (2)   Prevent the creation of visual and physical obstructions and other
conditions that are hazardous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
      (3)   Prevent interference with the facilities and operations of the
village's utilities and of other utilities lawfully located in rights-of-way or
public property;
      (4)   Protect against environmental damage, including damage to trees,
from the installation of utility facilities;
      (5)   Protect against increased stormwater run-off due to structures and
materials that increase impermeable surfaces;
      (6)   Preserve the character of the neighborhoods in which facilities are
installed;
      (7)   Preserve open space, particularly the tree-lined parkways that
characterize the village's residential neighborhoods;
      (8)   Prevent visual blight from the proliferation of facilities in the
rights-of-way; and
      (9)   Assure the continued safe use and enjoyment of private properties
adjacent to utility facilities locations.
   (C)   Facilities subject to this chapter. This chapter applies to all
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights-
of-way within the jurisdiction of the village. A facility lawfully established
prior to the effective date of this chapter may continue to be maintained,
repaired, and operated by the utility as presently constructed and located,
except as may be otherwise provided in any applicable franchise, license or
similar agreement.
   (D)   Franchises, licenses, or similar agreements. The village, in its
discretion and as limited by law, may require utilities to enter into a
franchise, license or similar agreement for the privilege of locating their
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the village
rights-of-way. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the village enter into such an agreement.
   (E)   Effect of franchises, licenses, or similar agreements.
      (1)   Utilities other than telecommunications providers. In the event
that a utility other than a telecommunications provider has a franchise,
license, or similar agreement with the village, such franchise, license, or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
      (2)   Telecommunications providers. In the event of any conflict with, or
inconsistency between, the provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any
franchise, license or similar agreement between the village and any
telecommunications provider, the provisions of such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
   (F)   Conflicts with state and federal laws. In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the utility shall comply with the requirements of this chapter to the
maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws or regulations.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-13-2023)
§ 97.02 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter and unless the context clearly requires otherwise,
the words and terms listed shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section. Any term not defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed
to it in 92 Ill. Adm. Code § 530.30, unless the context clearly requires
otherwise.
   AASHTO. American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
   ANSI. American National Standards Institute.
   APPLICANT. A person applying for a permit under this chapter.
   ASTM. American Society for Testing and Materials.
   BACKFILL. The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a
trench or pit.
   BORE or BORING. To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the
insertion of a pipe or electrical conductor.
   CABLE OPERATOR. That term as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(5).
   CABLE SERVICE. That term as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(6).
   CABLE SYSTEM. That term as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(7).
   CARRIER PIPE.  The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas, or slurry to be
transported.
   CASING. A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as:
carrier pipes, electrical conductors, and fiber optic devices.
   CLEAR ZONE. The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a non-recoverable slope, and a clear run-out
area. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and
on the roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO Roadside Design
Guide.
   COATING. Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
   CODE. The Municipal Code of the Village of Mazon.
   CONDUCTOR. Wire carrying electrical current.
   CONDUIT. A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
   CONSTRUCTION or CONSTRUCT. The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification, or abandonment in place of
facilities.
   COVER. The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
   CROSSING FACILITY. A facility that crosses one or more right-of-way lines of
a right-of-way.
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS. The Village Director of Public Works or his or her
designee.
   DISRUPT THE RIGHT-OF-WAY. For the purposes of this chapter, any work that
obstructs the right-of-way or causes a material adverse effect on the use of
the right-of-way for its intended use. Such work may include, without
limitation, the following: excavating or other cutting; placement (whether
temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment, devices, or structures; damage
to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of the soil, and shall not include
the parking of vehicles or equipment in a manner that does not materially
obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
   EMERGENCY. Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety
of the public using or in the vicinity of the right-of-way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
   ENCASEMENT. Provision of a protective casing.
   ENGINEER. The Village Engineer or his or her designee.
   EQUIPMENT. Materials, tools, implements, supplies, and/or other items used
to facilitate construction of facilities.
   EXCAVATION. The making of a hole or cavity by removing material, or laying
bare by digging.
   EXTRA HEAVY PIPE. Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
   FACILITY. All structures, devices, objects, and materials (including, but
not limited to, track and rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, antennas,
vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, cabinets, pedestals, poles, conduits,
grates, covers, pipes, cables, and appurtenances thereto) located on, over,
above, along, upon, under, across, or within rights-of-way under this chapter.
For purposes of this chapter, the term FACILITY shall not include any facility
owned or operated by the village.
   FREESTANDING FACILITY. A facility that is not a crossing facility or a
parallel facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump, or meter station.
   FRONTAGE ROAD. Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent
to the highway where it is precluded by control of access to a highway.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location, or other characteristics, is determined by the
Village Director of Public Works to pose an unreasonable and imminent risk to
the life, health or safety of persons or property or to the ecological balance
of the environment, including, but not limited to explosives, radioactive
materials, petroleum or petroleum products or gases, poisons, etiology
(biological) agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance determined to be
hazardous or toxic under any federal or state law, statute or regulation.
   HIGHWAY. A specific type of right-of-way used for vehicular traffic
including rural or urban roads or streets. HIGHWAY includes all highway land
and improvements, including roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges,
drainage structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures, and
appurtenances necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
   HIGHWAY CODE. The Illinois Highway Code, 605 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq., as
amended from time to time.
   HOLDER. A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or
provide cable or video service from the ICC pursuant to the Illinois Cable and
Video Competition Law, 220 ILCS 5/21-401.
   IDOT. Illinois Department of Transportation.
   ICC.  Illinois Commerce Commission.
   JACKING. Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means
with or without boring.
   JETTING. Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to
create a cavity ahead of the pipe.
   JOINT USE. The use of pole lines, trenches, or other facilities by two or
more utilities.
   J.U.L.I.E. The Joint Utility Locating Information for Excavators utility
notification program.
   MAJOR INTERSECTION. The intersection of two or more major arterial highways.
   OCCUPANCY. The presence of facilities on, over or under right-of-way.
   PARALLEL FACILITY. A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to
the centerline of a right-of-way.
   PARKWAY. Any portion of the right-of-way not improved by street or sidewalk.
   PAVEMENT CUT. The removal of an area of pavement for access to facility or
for the construction of a facility.
   PERMITTEE. That entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to this
chapter.
   PRACTICABLE. That which is performable, feasible, or possible, rather than
that which is simply convenient.
   PRESSURE. The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
   PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES. Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane, or coalslurry.
   PROMPT. That which is done within a period of time specified by the village.
If no time period is specified, the period shall be 30 days.
   PUBLIC ENTITY. A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, state, or federal level.
   RESTORATION. The repair of a right-of-way, highway, roadway, or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHTS-OF-WAY. Any street, alley, other land, or waterway,
dedicated or commonly used for pedestrian or vehicular traffic or other similar
purposes, including utility easements, in which the village has the right and
authority to authorize, regulate or permit the location of facilities other
than those of the village. RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHTS-OF-WAY shall not include any
real or personal village property that is not specifically described in the
previous two sentences and shall not include village buildings, fixtures and
other structures or improvements, regardless of whether they are situated in
the right-of-way.
   ROADWAY. That part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
   SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL. The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
   SECURITY FUND. That amount of security required pursuant to this chapter.
   SHOULDER. A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
   SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGEMENT. A decision(s) consistent with generally
accepted engineering principles, practices, and experience.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. This term includes, but is not limited to, messages or
information transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone
service, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer
exchange service, private line services, mobile radio services, cellular mobile
telecommunications services, stationary two-way radio, paging service and any
other form of mobile or portable one-way or two-way communications, and any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. PRIVATE LINE means a dedicated non-traffic
sensitive service for a single customer that entitles the customer to exclusive
or priority use of a communications channel, or a group of such channels, from
one or more specified locations to one or more other specified locations.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include value added services in which computer
processing applications are used to act on the form, content, code, and
protocol of the information for purposes other than transmission.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a
telecommunications service provider for use as a component part of the service
provided by such provider to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or
terminates the end-to-end communications. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include
the provision of cable services through a cable system as defined in the Cable
Communications Act of 1984 (47 U.S.C. Sections 521 and following), as now or
hereafter amended, or cable or other programming services subject to an open
video system fee payable to the village through an open video system as defined
in the Rules of the Federal Communications Commission (47 C.F.R. § 76.1500 and
following), as now or hereafter amended.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER. Means any person that installs, owns, operates,
or controls facilities in the right-of-way used or designed to be used to
transmit telecommunications in any form.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER. Means and includes every person engaged in
making sales of telecommunications at retail as defined herein.
   TRENCH. A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
   UTILITY. The individual or entity owning or operating any facility as
defined in this chapter.
   VENT. A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
   VIDEO SERVICE. That term as defined in section 21-201(v) of the Illinois
Cable and Video Competition Law of 2007, 220 ILCS 21-201(v).
   VILLAGE. The Village of Mazon.
   WATER LINES. Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
   WET BORING. Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-13-2023)
§ 97.03 ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   Every utility that occupies right-of-way within the village shall register
on January 1 of each year with the Director of Public Works, providing the
utility's name, address and regular business telephone and telecopy numbers,
the name of one or more contact persons who can act on behalf of the utility in
connection with emergencies involving the utility's facilities in the right-of-
way and a 24-hour telephone number for each such person, and evidence of
insurance as required in this chapter, in the form of a certificate of
insurance.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-13-2023) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.04 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATIONS AND FEES.
   (A)   Permit required. No person shall construct any facility on, over,
above, along, upon, under, across, or within any village right-of-way which:
(i) changes the location of the facility; (ii) adds a new facility; (iii)
disrupts the right-of-way; or (iv) materially increases the amount of area or
space occupied by the facility on, over, above, along, under across or within
the right-of-way, without first filing an application with the Director of
Public Works and obtaining a permit from the village therefor, except as
otherwise provided in this chapter. No permit shall be required for
installation and maintenance of service connections to customers' premises
where there will be no disruption of the right-of-way.
   (B)   Permit application. All applications for permits pursuant to this
chapter shall be filed on a form provided by the village and shall be filed in
such number of duplicate copies as the village may designate. The applicant may
designate those portions of its application materials that it reasonably
believes contain proprietary or confidential information as "proprietary" or
"confidential" by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly.
   (C)   Minimum general application requirements. The application shall be
made by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at
a minimum, the following:
      (1)   The utility's name and address and telephone and telecopy numbers;
      (2)   The applicant's name and address, if different than the utility,
its telephone, telecopy numbers, e-mail address, and its interest in the work;
      (3)   The names, addresses and telephone and telecopy numbers and e-mail
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application;
      (4)   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
      (5)   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the village:
         (a)   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the Illinois Manual
on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
         (b)   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the village and shall
promote protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with
ICC regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with
this section unless the village finds that additional information or assurances
are needed;
      (6)   Drawings, plans, and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of an engineer that such drawings, plans, and
specifications comply with applicable codes, rules, and regulations;
      (7)   Evidence of insurance as required in this chapter;
      (8)   Evidence of posting of the security fund as required in this
chapter;
      (9)   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
chapter; and
      (10)   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
village.
   (D)   Supplemental application requirements for specific types of utilities.
In addition to the requirements of division (C) of this section, the permit
application shall include the following items, as applicable to the specific
utility that is the subject of the permit application:
      (1)   In the case of the installation of a new electric power,
communications, telecommunications, cable television service, video service or
natural gas distribution system, evidence that any "Certificate of Public
Convenience and Necessity" or other regulatory authorization that the applicant
is required by law to obtain, or that the applicant has elected to obtain, has
been issued by the ICC or other jurisdictional authority;
      (2)   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class, and operating pressures;
      (3)   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, Division of Public Water Supplies,
have been satisfied;
      (4)   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency,
Division of Water Pollution Control and the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District [other local or state entities with jurisdiction], have been
satisfied; or
      (5)   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or
types of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure, and the
design standard to be followed.
   (E)   Applicant's duty to update information. Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility in writing to the village within 30 days after the
change necessitating the amendment.
   (F)   Application fees. Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license, or
similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant to this chapter shall
be accompanied by a fee in the amount described herein.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-13-2023)
§ 97.05 ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   Village review of permit applications. Completed permit applications,
containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the Village
Engineer and the Director of Public Works within a reasonable time after
filing. If the application does not conform to the requirements of applicable
ordinances, codes, laws, rules, and regulations, the application shall be
rejected, in writing, stating the reasons therefor. If the Village Engineer and
the Director of Public Works is satisfied that the proposed work conforms to
the requirements of this chapter and applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules,
and regulations, the Director of Public Works shall issue a permit therefor as
soon as practicable. In all instances, it shall be the duty of the applicant to
demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Village Engineer and the Director of
Public Works, that the construction proposed under the application shall be in
full compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-13-2023)
§ 97.06 EFFECT OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Authority granted; no property right or other interest created. A
permit from the village authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this chapter on village rights-of-way, and does
not create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon
the rights of others who may have an interest in the rights-of-way.
   (B)   Duration. No permit issued under this chapter shall be valid for a
period longer than six months unless construction is actually begun within that
period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion.
   (C)   Pre-construction meeting required. No construction shall begin
pursuant to a permit issued under this chapter prior to attendance by the
permittee and all major contractors and subcontractors who will perform any
work under the permit at a pre-construction meeting. The pre-construction
meeting shall be held at a date, time and place designated by the village with
such village representatives in attendance as the village deems necessary. The
meeting shall be for the purpose of reviewing the work under the permit, and
reviewing special considerations necessary in the areas where work will occur,
including, without limitation, presence, or absence of other utility facilities
in the area and their locations, procedures to avoid disruption of other
utilities, use of rights-of-way by the public during construction, and access
and egress by adjacent property owners.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-13-2023)
§ 97.07 REVISED PERMIT DRAWINGS.
   In the event that the actual locations of any facilities deviate in any
material respect from the locations identified in the plans, drawings and
specifications submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall
submit a revised set of drawings or plans to the village within 90 days after
the completion of the permitted work. The revised drawings or plans shall
specifically identify where the locations of the actual facilities deviate from
the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation from the permit also
deviates from the requirements of this chapter, it shall be treated as a
request for variance in accordance with this chapter. If the village denies the
request for a variance, then the permittee shall either remove the facility
from the right-of-way or modify the facility so that it conforms to the permit
and submit revised drawings or plans therefor.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-13-2023)
§ 97.08 INSURANCE.
   (A)   Required coverages and limits. Unless otherwise provided by franchise,
license, or similar agreement, each utility occupying right-of-way or
constructing any facility in the right-of-way shall secure and maintain the
following liability insurance policies insuring the utility as named insured
and naming the village, and its elected and appointed officers, officials,
agents, and employees as additional insureds on the policies listed in
divisions (1) and (2) below:
      (1)   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse, and underground hazard (commonly referred to
as "X," "C," and "U" coverages) and products-completed operations coverage with
limits not less than:
         (a)   Five million dollars for bodily injury or death to each person;
         (b)   Five million dollars for property damage resulting from any one
accident; and
         (c)   Five million dollars for all other types of liability.
      (2)   Automobile liability for owned, non-owned and hired vehicles with a
combined single limit of $1,000,000 for personal injury and property damage for
each accident;
      (3)   Worker's compensation with statutory limits; and
      (4)   Employer's liability insurance with limits of not less than
$1,000,000 per employee and per accident. If the utility is not providing such
insurance to protect the contractors and subcontractors performing the work,
then such contractors and subcontractors shall comply with this section.
   (B)   Excess or umbrella policies. The coverages required by this section
may be in any combination of primary, excess, and umbrella policies. Any excess
or umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following-form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   (C)   Copies required. The utility shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this section to the village within ten days following
receipt of a written request therefor from the village.
   (D)   Self-insurance. A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by division (A) of this
section. A utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such
self-insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional
insureds under division (A), or the requirements of divisions (B), (C) and (D).
A utility that elects to self-insure shall provide to the village evidence
sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure the insurance
coverage and limit requirements required under division (A) of this section,
such as evidence that the utility is a "private selfinsurer" under the Workers
Compensation Act.
   (E)   Effect of insurance and self-insurance on utility's liability. The
legal liability of the utility to the village and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
   (F)   Insurance companies. All insurance provided pursuant to this section
shall be affected under valid and enforceable policies, issued by insurers
legally able to conduct business with the licensee in the State of Illinois.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-13-2023) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.09 INDEMNIFICATION.
   By occupying or constructing facilities in the right-of-way, a utility shall
be deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the village and its elected
and appointed officials and officers, employees, agents and representatives
harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims, demands, judgments,
damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney's fees and costs of
suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise out of or
result from the negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to
act or misconduct of the utility or its affiliates, officers, employees,
agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction of facilities or
occupancy of the rights-of-way, and in providing or offering service over the
facilities, whether such acts or omissions are authorized, allowed or
prohibited by this chapter or by a franchise, license, or similar agreement;
provided, however, that the utility's indemnity obligations hereunder shall not
apply to any injuries, claims, demands, judgments, damages, losses or expenses
arising out of or resulting from the negligence, misconduct or breach of this
chapter by the village, its officials, officers, employees, agents or
representatives.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-13-2023)
§ 97.10 SECURITY.
   (A)   Purpose. The permittee shall establish a security fund in a form and
in an amount as set forth in this section. The security fund shall be
continuously maintained in accordance with this section at the permittee's sole
cost and expense until the completion of the work authorized under the permit.
The security fund shall serve as security for:
      (1)   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements
of this chapter;
      (2)   Any expenditure, damage, or loss incurred by the village occasioned
by the permittee's failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations,
orders, permits and other directives of the village issued pursuant to this
chapter; and
      (3)   The payment by permittee of all liens and all damages, claims,
costs, or expenses that the village may pay or incur by reason of any action or
non-performance by permittee in violation of this chapter including, without
limitation, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this chapter to perform that the village must perform itself or
have completed as a consequence solely of the permittee's failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the village from the permittee pursuant to
this chapter or any other applicable law.
   (B)   Form. The permittee shall provide the security fund to the village in
the form, at the permittee's election, of cash, a surety bond in a form
acceptable to the village, or an unconditional letter of credit in a form
acceptable to the village. Any surety bond or letter of credit provided
pursuant to this division shall, at a minimum:
      (1)   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
village and the permittee;
      (2)   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by
the village of any amounts covered by it; and
      (3)   Shall provide a location convenient to the village and within the
State of Illinois at which it can be drawn.
   (C)   Amount. The dollar amount of the security fund shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right-of-way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the Village Engineer and may also include reasonable,
directly related costs that the village estimates are likely to be incurred if
the permittee fails to perform such restoration. Where the construction of
facilities proposed under the permit will be performed in phases in multiple
locations in the village, with each phase consisting of construction of
facilities in one location or a related group of locations, and where
construction in another phase will not be undertaken prior to substantial
completion of restoration in the previous phase or phases, the Village Engineer
may, in the exercise of sound discretion, allow the permittee to post a single
amount of security which shall be applicable to each phase of the construction
under the permit. The amount of the security fund for phased construction shall
be equal to the greatest amount that would have been required under the
provisions of this division (C) for any single phase.
   (D)   Withdrawals. The village upon 14 days' advance written notice clearly
stating the reason for, and its intention to exercise withdrawal rights under
this division, may withdraw an amount from the security fund, provided that the
permittee has not reimbursed the village for such amount within the 14 day
notice period. Withdrawals may be made if the permittee:
      (1)   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
      (2)   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due and
unpaid;
      (3)   Fails to reimburse the village for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the village has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or non-performance by the permittee; or
      (4)   Fails to comply with any provision of this chapter that the village
determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the security fund.
   (E)   Replenishment. Within 14 days after receipt of written notice from the
village that any amount has been withdrawn from the security fund, the
permittee shall restore the security fund to the amount specified in division
(C) of this section.
   (F)   Closing and return of security fund. Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the security fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the village for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
chapter or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the permit,
the security fund, and any and all accrued interest therein, shall become the
property of the village to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable costs,
loss or damage incurred by the village as a result of said revocation, provided
that any amounts in excess of said costs, loss or damage shall be refunded to
the permittee.
   (G)   Rights not limited. The rights reserved to the village with respect to
the security fund are in addition to all other rights of the village, whether
reserved by this chapter or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to said security fund shall affect
any other right the village may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
village shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any
of its rights which may be infringed or otherwise violated.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-13-2023) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.11 PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Village right to revoke permit. The village may revoke or suspend a
permit issued pursuant to this chapter for one or more of the following
reasons:
      (1)   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting, or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      (2)   Non-compliance with this chapter;
      (3)   Permittee's physical presence or presence of permittee's facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights-of-way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety, or welfare;
or
      (4)   Permittee's failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   (B)   Notice of revocation or suspension. The village shall send written
notice of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the
alternatives available to pursuant to the section.
   (C)   Permittee alternatives upon receipt of notice of revocation or
suspension. 
      (1)   Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the village, the permittee shall have the following options:
         (a)   Immediately provide the village with evidence that no cause
exists for the revocation or suspension;
         (b)   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the village, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the village within five working days after receipt of the written
notice of revocation; or
         (c)   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above,
along, upon, under, across, or within the rights-of-way and restore the rights-
of-way to the satisfaction of the village providing written proof of such
removal to the village within ten days after receipt of the written notice of
revocation.
      (2)   The village may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend
the time periods provided in this section.
   (D)   Stop work order. In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the village may issue a stop work order immediately upon
discovery of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within division (A) of
this section.
   (E)   Failure or refusal of the permittee to comply. If the permittee fails
to comply with the provisions of division (C) of this section, the village or
its designee may, at the option of the village: (i) correct the deficiencies;
(ii) upon not less than 20 days notice to the permittee, remove the subject
facilities or equipment; or (iii) after not less than 30 days notice to the
permittee of failure to cure the non-compliance, deem them abandoned and
property of the village. The permittee shall be liable in all events to the
village for all costs of removal.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-13-2023)
§ 97.12 CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OR OWNER’S IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS.
   A utility shall notify the village no less than 30 days prior to the
transfer of ownership of any facility in the right-of-way or change in identity
of the utility. The new owner of the utility or the facility shall have all the
obligations and privileges enjoyed by the former owner under the permit, if
any, and applicable laws, ordinances, rules and regulations, including this
chapter, with respect to the work and facilities in the right-of-way.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-13-2023) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.13 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Standards and principles. All construction in the right-of-way shall
be consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws rules and regulations,
and commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction
principles, sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the principles
and standards set forth in the following IDOT publications, as amended from
time to time:
      (1)   Standard specifications for road and bridge construction;
      (2)   Supplemental specifications and recurring special provisions;
      (3)   Highway design manual;
      (4)   Highway standards manual;
      (5)   Standard specifications for traffic control items;
      (6)   Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (92 Ill. Adm.
Code § 545);
      (7)   Flagger's handbook; and
      (8)   Work site protection manual for daylight maintenance operations.
   (B)   Interpretation of municipal standards and principles. If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
chapter, the Village Engineer shall determine, in the exercise of sound
engineering judgment, which principles apply and such decision shall be final.
If requested, the Village Engineer shall state which standard or principle will
apply to the construction, maintenance, or operation of a facility in the
future.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-13-2023) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.14 TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   (A)   Minimum requirements. The village's minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT's Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices and this code.
   (B)   Warning signs, protective devices, and flaggers. The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting applicable federal, state, and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility's workers when
performing any work on the rights-of-way.
   (C)   Interference with traffic. All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Notice when access is blocked. At least 48 hours prior to beginning
work that will partially or completely block access to any residence, business
or institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business or institution
of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work; provided, however,
that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to this chapter, the utility
shall provide such notice as is practicable under the circumstances.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-13-2023) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.15 LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   General requirements. In addition to location requirements applicable
to specific types of utility facilities, all utility facilities, regardless of
type, shall be subject to the general location requirements of this section.
      (1)   No interference with village facilities. No utility facilities
shall be placed in any location if the Director of Public Works determines that
the proposed location will require the relocation or displacement of any of the
villages utility facilities or will otherwise interfere with the operation or
maintenance of any of the village's utility facilities.
      (2)   Minimum interference and impact. The proposed location shall cause
only the minimum possible interference with the use of the right-of-way and
shall cause only the minimum possible impact upon, and interference with the
rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin said right-of-
way.
      (3)   No interference with travel. No utility facility shall be placed in
any location that interferes with the usual travel on such right-of-way.
      (4)   No limitations on visibility. No utility facility shall be placed
in any location so as to limit visibility of or by users of the right-of-way.
      (5)   Size of utility facilities. The proposed installation shall use the
smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals, and/or
cabinets then in use by the facility owner, regardless of location, for the
particular application.
   (B)   Parallel facilities located within highways.
      (1)   Overhead parallel facilities. An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         (a)   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right-of-way
line and as nearly parallel to the right-of-way line as reasonable pole
alignment will permit;
         (b)   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable
from the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (0.6 m) behind the face of
the curb, where available;
         (c)   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement
edge as practicable with minimum distance of four feet (1.2 m) outside the
outer shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
         (d)   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
         (e)   Any ground-mounted appurtenance is located within one foot (0.3
m) of the right-of-way line or as near as possible to the right-of-way line.
      (2)   Underground parallel facilities. An underground parallel facility
may be located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         (a)   The facility is located as near the right-of-way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet (2.4 m) from and parallel to the
right-of-way line;
         (b)   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
highway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
         (c)   In the case of an underground power or communications line, the
facility shall be located as near the right-of-way line as practicable and not
more than five feet (1.5 m) from the right-of-way line and any above-grounded
appurtenance shall be located within one foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way line
or as near as practicable.
   (C)   Facilities crossing highways.
      (1)   No future disruption. The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of village highways
may require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement
or additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      (2)   Cattle passes, culverts, or drainage facilities. Crossing
facilities shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts, or drainage
facilities.
      (3)   Ninety degree crossing required. Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a 90 degree angle to the centerline as practicable.
      (4)   Overhead power or communication facility. An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         (a)   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ICC's
rules entitled, "Construction of Electric Power and Communication Lines" (83
Ill. Adm. Code 305);
         (b)   Poles are located within one foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way
line of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
         (c)   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
      (5)   Underground power or communication facility. An underground power
or communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         (a)   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance-free service life; and
         (b)   Capacity for the utility's foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
      (6)   Markers. The village may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right-of-way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility, and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current federal regulations.
   (D)   Facilities to be located within particular rights-of-way. The village
may require that facilities be located within particular rights-of-way that are
not highways, rather than within particular highways.
   (E)   Facilities installed above ground. Above ground facilities may be
installed only if:
      (1)   No other existing facilities in the area are located underground;
      (2)   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
      (3)   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting
armless, single-pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and
cable. Existing utility poles and light standards shall be used wherever
practicable; the installation of additional utility poles is strongly
discouraged.
   (F)   Appearance standards.
      (1)   The village may prohibit the installation of facilities in
particular locations in order to preserve visual quality.
      (2)   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the right-of-way user or to adjacent residents and property owners, and if it
does not impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-13-2023) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.16 CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS.
   (A)   Standards and requirements for particular types of construction.
      (1)   Boring or jacking.
         (a)   Pits and shoring. Boring or jacking under rights-of-way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the Village
Engineer from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring or jacking shall be
excavated no more than 48 hours in advance of boring or jacking operations and
backfilled within 48 hours after boring or jacking operations are completed.
While pits are open, they shall be clearly marked and protected by barricades.
Shoring shall be designed, erected, supported, braced, and maintained so that
it will safely support all vertical and lateral loads that may be imposed upon
it during the boring or jacking operation.
         (b)   Wet boring or jetting. Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
         (c)   Borings with diameters greater than six inches. Borings over six
inches (0.15 m) in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and following
pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside diameter of
the following pipe by more than one inch (25 mm).
         (d)   Borings with diameters six inches or less. Borings of six inches
or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with auger,
or auger and following pipe method.
         (e)   Tree preservation. Any facility located within the drip line of
any tree designated by the village to be preserved or protected shall be bored
under or around the root system.
      (2)   Trenching. Trenching for facility installation, repair, or
maintenance on rights-of-way shall be done in accord with the applicable
portions of Section 603 of IDOT's "Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction."
         (a)   Length. The length of open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipe-line testing. Only
one-half of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless special
permission is obtained from the Director of Public Works.
         (b)   Open trench and excavated material. Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by Chapter 6 of the Illinois
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where right-of-way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off-road location.
         (c)   Drip line of trees. The utility shall not trench within the drip
line of any tree designated by the village to be preserved.
      (3)   Backfilling.
         (a)   Any pit, trench, or excavation created during the installation
of facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth, and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT's "Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction." When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
         (b)   For a period of three years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore
any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the Director of Public Works, the utility, at its expense, shall
remove any pavement and backfill material to the top of the installed facility,
place and properly compact new backfill material, and restore new pavement,
sidewalk, curbs, and driveways to the proper grades, as determined by the
Director of Public Works.
      (4)   Pavement cuts. Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall be permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed
to traffic.
      (5)   Encasement.
         (a)   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one-piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
village.
         (b)   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way line. No above-ground vent pipes shall be
located in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of
the highway.
         (c)   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall
be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or village approved
jointed pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is
installed prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or
mechanical joints are of a type approved by the village. Bell and spigot type
pipe shall be encased regardless of installation method.
         (d)   In the case of gas pipelines of 60 psig or less, encasement may
be eliminated.
         (e)   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines
with installations of more than 60 psig, encasement may be eliminated only if:
(i) extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or repair; and
(2) cathodic protection of the pipe is provided.
         (f)   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right-of-way.
      (6)   Minimum cover of underground facilities. Cover shall be provided
and maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for
minimum cover for the type of facility:
 
TYPE OF FACILITY                      MINIMUM COVER
Electric lines                        30 inches (0.8 m)
Communication, cable or video service 18 to 24 inches (0.6 m, as determined by
lines                                 village)
Gas or petroleum products             30 inches (0.8 m)
Water line                            Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                      protection
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer, or       Sufficient cover to provide freeze
drainage line                         protection
 
   (B)   Standards and requirements for particular types of facilities.
      (1)   Electric power or communication lines.
         (a)   Code compliance. Electric power or communications facilities
within village rights-of-way shall be constructed, operated, and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Ill. Adm. Code Part 305 (formerly General
Order 160 of the Illinois Commerce Commission) entitled "Rules for Construction
of Electric Power and Communications Lines," and the National Electrical Safety
Code.
         (b)   Overhead facilities. Overhead power or communication facilities
shall use single pole construction and, where practicable, joint use of poles
shall be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the
installation so guys and braces will not be needed. Variances may be allowed if
there is no feasible alternative and if guy wires are equipped with guy guards
for maximum visibility.
         (c)   Underground facilities.
            1.   Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing, provided that
special consideration is given to boring in order to minimize damage when
crossing improved entrances and side roads.
            2.   If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement
shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated
only if:
               a.   The crossing is installed by the use of "moles," "whip
augers," or other approved method which compress the earth to make the opening
for cable installation; or
               b.   The installation is by the open trench method which is only
permitted prior to roadway construction.
            3.   Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the National
Electrical Safety Code.
         (d)   Burial of drops. All temporary service drops placed between
November 1 of the prior year and March 15 of the current year, also known as
snowdrops, shall be buried by May 31 of the current year, weather permitting,
unless otherwise permitted by the village. Weather permitting, utilities shall
bury all temporary drops, excluding snowdrops, within ten business days after
placement.
      (2)   Underground facilities other than electric power or communication
lines. Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         (a)   The use of "moles," "whip augers," or other approved methods
which compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         (b)   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
         (c)   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines
or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
         (d)   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is
not possible by other means.
      (3)   Gas transmission, distribution and service. Gas pipelines within
rights-of-way shall be constructed, maintained, and operated in a village
approved manner and in conformance with the Federal Code of the Office of
Pipeline Safety Operations, Department of Transportation, Part 192 -
Transportation of Natural and Other Gas by Pipeline: Minimum Federal Safety
Standards (49 CFR § 192), IDOT's "Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction," and all other applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
      (4)   Petroleum products pipelines. Petroleum products pipelines within
rights-of-way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI Standard Code
for Pressure Piping. (Liquid Petroleum Transportation Piping Systems ANSI-
B 31.4).
      (5)   Waterlines, sanitary sewer lines, storm water sewer lines or
drainage lines. Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines, and
drainage lines within rights-of-way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of
the current "Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in
Illinois."
      (6)   Ground mounted appurtenances. Ground mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right-of-way, shall
be provided with a vegetation-free area extending one foot (305 mm) in width
beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation-free area may be
provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or
similar material approved by the Director of Public Works. With the approval of
the Director of Public Works, shrubbery surrounding the appurtenance may be
used in place of vegetation-free area. The housing for ground-mounted
appurtenances shall be painted a neutral color to blend with the surroundings.
   (C)   Materials.
      (1)   General standards. The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights-of-way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT's "Standards
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction," the requirements of the
Illinois Commerce Commission, or the standards established by other official
regulatory agencies for the appropriate industry.
      (2)   Material storage on right-of-way. No material shall be stored on
the right-of-way without the prior written approval of the Village Engineer.
When such storage is permitted, all pipe, conduit, wire, poles, cross arms, or
other materials shall be distributed along the right-of-way prior to and during
installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public or an obstacle to
right-of-way maintenance or damage to the right-of-way and other property. If
material is to be stored on right-of-way, prior approval must be obtained from
the village.
         (3)   Hazardous materials. The plans submitted by the utility to the
village shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the
construction of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
   (D)   Operational restrictions.
      (1)   Construction operations on rights-of-way may, at the discretion of
the village, be required to be discontinued when such operations would create
hazards to traffic or the public health, safety, and welfare. Such operations
may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when conditions are such
that construction would result in extensive damage to the right-of-way or other
property.
      (2)   These restrictions may be waived by the Engineer when emergency
work is required to restore vital utility services.
      (3)   Unless otherwise permitted by the village, the hours of
construction are those set forth in this chapter.
   (E)   Location of existing facilities. Any utility proposing to construct
facilities in the village shall contact J.U.L.I.E. and ascertain the presence
and location of existing above-ground and underground facilities within the
rights-of-way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The village will make
its permit records available to a utility for the purpose of identifying
possible facilities. When notified of an excavation or when requested by the
village or by J.U.L.I.E., a utility shall locate and physically mark its
underground facilities within 48 hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in
accordance with the Illinois Underground Facilities Damage Prevention Act (220
ILCS 50/1 et seq.)
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-13-2023) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.17 VEGETATION CONTROL.
   An electric utility shall conduct all tree-trimming and vegetation control
activities in the right-of-way in accordance with applicable Illinois laws and
regulations, and additionally, with such local franchise or other agreement
with the village as permitted by law.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-13-2023) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.18 REMOVAL, RELOCATION, OR MODIFICATIONS OF UTILITY FACILITIES.
   (A)   Notice. Within 90 days following written notice from the village, a
utility shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or permanently
disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any utility
facilities within the rights-of-way whenever the corporate authorities have
determined that such removal, relocation, change or alteration, is reasonably
necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance, or installation of any
village improvement in or upon, or the operations of the village in or upon,
the rights-of-way.
   (B)   Removal of unauthorized facilities. Within 30 days following written
notice from the village, any utility that owns, controls, or maintains any
unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the rights-of-way shall,
at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or appurtenances
from the rights-of-way. A facility is unauthorized and subject to removal in
the following circumstances:
      (1)   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee's license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      (2)   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior
grant of a license or franchise, if required;
      (3)   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this chapter; or
      (4)   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee's license or franchise.
   (C)   Emergency removal or relocation of facilities. The village retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights-of-
way of the village, as the village may determine to be necessary, appropriate
or useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If
circumstances permit, the municipality shall attempt to notify the utility, if
known, prior to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if
known, after cutting or removing a facility.
   (D)   Abandonment of facilities. Upon abandonment of a facility within the
rights-of-way of the village, the utility shall notify the village within 90
days. Following receipt of such notice the village may direct the utility to
remove all or any portion of the facility if the Director of Public Works
determines that such removal will be in the best interest of the public health,
safety and welfare. In the event that the village does not direct the utility
that abandoned the facility to remove it, by giving notice of abandonment to
the village, the abandoning utility shall be deemed to consent to the
alteration or removal of all or any portion of the facility by another utility
or person.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-13-2023)
§ 97.19 CLEAN-UP AND RESTORATION.
   The utility shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and
terrain and other property within ten days after any portion of the rights-of-
way are disturbed, damaged, or destroyed due to construction or maintenance by
the utility, all to the satisfaction of the village. This includes restoration
of entrances and side roads. Restoration of roadway surfaces shall be made
using materials and methods approved by the Director of Public Works. Such
cleanup and repair may be required to consist of backfilling, regrading,
reseeding, resodding, or any other requirement to restore the right-of-way to a
condition substantially equivalent to that which existed prior to the
commencement of the project. The time period provided in this section may be
extended by the Director of Public Works for good cause shown.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-13-2023) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.20 MAINTENANCE AND EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   General. Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or
within rights-of-way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the village and at the utility's expense.
   (B)   Emergency maintenance procedures. Emergencies may justify non-
compliance with normal procedures for securing a permit:
      (1)   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right-of-way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right-of-way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades, or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
      (2)   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
Director of Public Works or his or her duly authorized agent of the emergency,
informing him or her as to what steps have been taken for protection of the
traveling public and what will be required to make the necessary repairs. If
the nature of the emergency is such as to interfere with the free movement of
traffic, the village police shall be notified immediately.
      (3)   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to
complete repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to
the traveling public.
   (C)   Emergency repairs. The utility must file in writing with the village a
description of the repairs undertaken in the right-of-way within 48 hours after
an emergency repair.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-13-2023) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.21 VARIANCES.
   A utility requesting a variance from one or more of the provisions of this
chapter must do so in writing to the Director of Public Works as a part of the
permit application. The request shall identify each provision of this chapter
from which a variance is requested and the reasons why a variance should be
granted. The Director of Public Works shall decide whether a variance is
authorized for each provision of this chapter identified in the variance
request on an individual basis.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-13-2023)
§ 97.22 FEES.
   (A)   A minimum fee of $1,000 shall accompany a Permit Application, and
shall be filed with the Village Clerk by or on behalf of the owner or owners of
the property affected.
   (B)   All applicants requesting a permit shall either pay directly to or
reimburse the village for its reasonable fees and costs for engineering,
planning, legal or other professional consultants incurred in connection with
preparing, studying, inspecting, reviewing, examining, checking and processing
applicant's request and plans.
   (C)   All bills for engineering, planning, legal and other professional
consultants shall be submitted to the Village Clerk prior to the village
submitting invoices to the applicant for prompt payment by the applicant.
   (D)   All village invoices for such services submitted by the village
related to any such application shall be paid promptly by the applicant, but
not later than 30 days, and the obligation to reimburse the village or pay
those providing services directly is binding whether or not the village
approves the applicant's permit request.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any other ordinances of the village, no permit shall
be deemed to be approved unless or until the applicant has reimbursed the
village or paid to those directly providing services, all fees and costs
incurred for engineering, planning, legal and other professional consultant
fees incurred by the village in connection with the applicant's request.
   (F)   At the time an applicant files a permit application, the village shall
furnish the applicant with a form which shall read substantially as follows:
   APPLICANT:
   Date:
   The following firm, representative, agent or individual does hereby state
that it has been fully disclosed to said party that in order for the village to
properly review and evaluate requests for a Right-of- Way Permit, the village
must necessarily utilize and engage the services of engineering, planning,
legal and other professional consultants. The undersigned hereby agrees to pay
to the village, either by reimbursement or directly to the professionals
providing services, the reasonable costs incurred by the village for such
services pertaining to the request of the undersigned for Permit Application.
It is further understood and agreed that all invoices for such services shall
be paid promptly when submitted, but not later than 30 days, and that the
obligation to reimburse the village or pay the professionals providing said
services directly is binding whether or not a Permit is in fact approved.
   Applicant
   (G)   The Village Board shall not be required to take any action on any
application submitted until the applicant has signed the above form and
properly filed an original or true and correct copy with the Village Clerk.
   (H)   At the time an applicant files his or her application for permit
application, the applicant shall deposit with the village the sum of $3,000 as
a security deposit for the payment and satisfaction of the costs, engineering,
planning, legal and other professional fees. Said sum shall be returned to the
applicant within 60 days following the complete payment and satisfaction of all
sums due herein. In the event the applicant fails to satisfy the financial
obligations herein, the village may apply all or any portion of said security
deposit against said obligation. The village may maintain an action at law or
in equity to enforce the provisions of this section and the applicant shall be
responsible for all costs and attorney's fees incurred by the village in the
enforcement of the provisions of this section, whether suit is filed or not.
The Building and Zoning Officer is authorized to issue a stop-work order, if
applicable, until the applicant pays and satisfies his, her or its obligations
in full.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-13-2023)
§ 97.99 PENALTIES.
   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, or refuses to comply
with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to fine in
accordance with the penalty provisions of this code. There may be times when
the village will incur delay or other costs, including third party claims,
because the utility will not or cannot perform its duties under its permit and
this chapter. Unless the utility shows that another allocation of the cost of
undertaking the requested action is appropriate, the utility shall bear the
village's costs of damages and its costs of installing, maintaining, modifying,
relocating, or removing the facility that is the subject of the permit. No
other administrative agency or commission may review or overrule a permit
related cost apportionment of the village. Sanctions may be imposed upon a
utility that does not pay the costs apportioned to it.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-13-2023)
CHAPTER 98: UNSCHEDULED BUSES
Section
   
98.01   Unscheduled buses
§ 98.01 UNSCHEDULED BUSES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purposes of this chapter and regulations these
definitions shall apply.
      APPLICATION. A form that the Village of Mazon Police Department makes
available for receiving and reviewing proposed bus operations.
      APPROVAL. Written notice that the Chief of Police has received, reviewed
and determined that an application satisfies the requirements of the village
and this policy.
      CHIEF OF POLICE. The Village of Mazon Chief of Police.
      REGULARLY SCHEDULED SERVICE. Bus service that operates trips on a
predictable and recurring basis, following a schedule that is published in
advance and available to the general public, and provides service in exchange
for paying a fare.
      UNSCHEDULED BUS. Any bus used for the transportation of persons between
the Village of Mazon and locations outside of the Chicago- Naperville-Joliet
area that is not operating pursuant to authorization of the Chief of Police
authorization via: (i) an approved letter of permission; or (ii) an approved
schedule and/or approved pick up/drop-off zone, as of the effective date of
this chapter.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Mazon, Illinois.
   (B)   Applicability. These rules and regulations, preexisting application,
review and approval process for buses, as may be amended from time to time
shall not apply to: (i) applicants for regularly scheduled service; and (ii)
operators with an approved letter of permission schedule and/or approved pick
up/drop off zone as of the effective date of this chapter.
   (C)   Notice and application required. 
      (1)   The operator of any unscheduled bus must make application for an
approval to arrive and load/unload passengers in the village on the appropriate
form made available by the Village of Mazon Police Department. A copy of said
form is attached as Exhibit A to Ord. 2024-02.
      (2)   All applications for unscheduled bus service must be received by
the Village of Mazon Police Department a minimum of five full business days
prior to the requested date of arrival in the application. All applications
shall include the proposed passenger list, and the operator shall be required
to perform background checks on each passenger over the age of 18 and shall
provide copies of the same to the Chief of Police as part of the application.
      (3)   Each application for an unscheduled bus drop off must include an
order authorizing the drop off executed by the head of the public body
originating the transfer of such passengers.
   (D)   Processing and approval of applications. Applications for unscheduled
buses will be reviewed on a first-come, first-serve basis. No more than one
application, regardless of operator, shall be approved by the Chief of Police
for a given date, time, and location.
   (E)   Days and hours of operation. Unscheduled buses shall load/unload
passengers within the village only between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 4:00
p.m. Monday through Friday, and not at any time on Saturdays, Sundays, or
designated village holidays.
   (F)   Passenger pick-up/drop-off locations. Unscheduled buses shall only
load/unload passengers at locations designated by the Chief of Police which
shall be listed on the approved application.
   (G)   Punctuality. For any given approval, unscheduled buses must arrive no
sooner than and no later than 30 minutes after, the approved arrival time.
Otherwise, the application shall be considered invalidated. Any loading/
unloading of passengers outside of this scheduled window shall result in a $750
fine per passenger to the operator.
   (H)   Application proof of and approval. Operators of unscheduled buses must
carry a physical or electronic copy of an approved application and present it
for inspection at the place of loading/unloading upon request by any employee
or designee of the village.
   (I)   Penalty. Any operator of an unscheduled bus that attempts to or does
in fact load/unload passengers without an approved application shall be subject
to a $750 fine per passenger upon the bus operator.
   (J)   Criminal charges. The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to pursue
criminal charges against any: (i) unscheduled bus operator; (ii) unscheduled
bus driver; or (iii) third-party employees who are charged with the oversight
of the passengers, when such individual attempts to or does discharge
passengers where such actions endanger the health, safety or welfare of
passengers. The Chief of Police shall consider the following when determining
whether to pursue criminal charges:
      (1)   The location of the discharge or attempted discharge of passenger;
      (2)   Extreme weather conditions, including temperatures below freezing,
snowfall, severe rain, or other inclement weather which poses a risk to
passengers;
      (3)   Whether any of the passengers are minors; and
      (4)   The time of day and access to shelter or transportation for
passenger.
   (K)   Civil remedies. The village's attorneys are hereby authorized and
directed to pursue any and all civil remedies against bus operators that fail
to or refuse to comply with this chapter or these rules and regulations. Such
civil remedies include, but are not limited to, injunctive relief, declaratory
judgements, and debt collection actions.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 2-12-2024)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS REGISTRATION AND LICENSING
      
111.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR; SALES
      
113.   TOBACCO PRODUCTS
      
114.   FIREWORKS; SALES
      
115.   POULTRY HOUSING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS REGISTRATION AND LICENSING
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Businesses subject to license
   
110.02   Application
   
110.03   Application form
   
110.04   Fees
   
110.05   Term of business license
   
110.06   Inspection
   
110.07   Revocation or suspension of registration
   
110.08   New licenses
   
110.09   License not assignable; change of location
   
110.10   Posting license
   
110.11   Alteration of license
   
110.12   General liability insurance
Contractors
   
110.25   Registration required
   
110.26   Definitions
   
110.27   Application
   
110.28   Certificate of registration
   
110.29   Proration of fees
   
110.30   Fees
   
110.31   [Reserved]
   
110.32   Proof of insurance
   
110.33   Revocation of registration
   
110.34   Licensing by state
Distribution of Advertising Materials
   
110.45   Regulations on distribution/posting
   
110.46   License; application; fee
   
110.47   Effective date
   
Appendix A: License Application Form
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 BUSINESSES SUBJECT TO LICENSE.
   Except as may otherwise be exclusively regulated or preempted by state law,
all persons conducting any type of business from commercial establishments
within the village shall obtain a license to operate said business. The word
PERSON as used in this subchapter means any individual person, firm,
corporation, partnership or association which operates or maintains any type of
business within the village.
(Ord. 2010-04, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 110.02 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Applications for all licenses shall be made to the village in writing
on the form provided for that purpose. Each application shall contain, at a
minimum, the following:
      (1)   Business name;
      (2)   A description of the type of business;
      (3)   Address of proposed business;
      (4)   Business phone number; and
      (5)   Identification of the business owner, manager, operator or
responsible person, including residential address and telephone number.
   (B)   Any person desiring a business license shall file an application with
the village not less than 30 days prior to the time said person desires to
commence the business operation.
(Ord. 2010-04, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 110.03 APPLICATION FORM.
   The form of the application for said license (see Appendix A) shall be
obtained from the village and shall be executed in triplicate under oath by
said applicant. All information requested on said form shall be filled in by
applicant.
(Ord. 2010-04, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 110.04 FEES.
   (A)   (1)   The fee for a business license shall be $25 and shall be paid in
advance to the Village Clerk at the time of application.
      (2)   The registration fee as set forth therein is nonrefundable.
   (B)   Provisions concerning the business license application are as follows.
      (1)   A fee of $25 is a onetime fee for new applicants in the village.
Current business would be asked to fill out the application for village records
but no fee charged.
      (2)   A business license is good for the life of the business or until
change of ownership.
      (3)   All businesses would be issued a business license certificate to be
displayed within the business in an easily seen location.
      (4)   An ordinance (this subchapter) has been passed authorizing the
issuance of business licenses.
      (5)   Inspection would be done for new business at the time of
application. The inspector is appointed by the President of the village.
(Ord. 2010-04, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 110.05 TERM OF BUSINESS LICENSE.
   A business license shall be valid from the date of issuance for the life of
the business, provided the business maintains the same ownership. The business
license is not transferable.
(Ord. 2010-04, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 110.06 INSPECTION.
   Prior to issuance of a business license, the village may conduct an
inspection of the business premises and make a determination as to whether the
business premises complies with the provisions of all applicable building
codes, zoning ordinances and other regulations in force from time to time in
the village. Following the inspection, the village shall provide the applicant
with a written report listing any code violations and establishing a timetable
for compliance and correction of each violation. No license shall be issued
unless and until any code violations that constitute a danger to the public
health, safety and general welfare are corrected. Licenses may be issued if
minor code violations exist and a timetable for their correction is in place,
which is acceptable to the village. If the timetable established for correction
of code violations has expired without the corrections as determined by the
village during a follow-up inspection, the respective business license shall be
subject to suspension or revocation.
(Ord. 2010-04, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 110.07 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF REGISTRATION.
   A business license may be suspended or revoked by the Village Board for any
of the following reasons:
   (A)   Fraud, misrepresentation or incorrect statement contained in the
application for business license;
   (B)   Conducting business activity in such manner as to constitute a breach
of the peace, or menace to the health, safety or welfare of the public or a
disturbance of the peace or comfort of residents of the village;
   (C)   Expiration or cancellation of any required bond or insurance;
   (D)   Actions unauthorized or beyond the scope of the license or permit
granted;
   (E)   Violation of regulation or provisions of this code applicable to the
activity for which the license or permit has been granted, or of any state
regulation or law; or
   (F)   Failure to continuously comply with all conditions required as
precedent to the approval of the license, including correction of code
violations.
(Ord. 2010-04, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 110.08 NEW LICENSES.
   No new license shall be issued to a business or person who has previously
had his, her or its license revoked without the prior approval of the Village
Board.
(Ord. 2010-04, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 110.09 LICENSE NOT ASSIGNABLE; CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   (A)   No business license may be assigned, sold, loaned, transferred, used
as collateral or otherwise encumbered.
   (B)   The location of any licensed business may be changed, provided ten
days’ notice thereof is given to the Village Clerk and in the absence of any
provisions to the contrary. However, the business premises must comply with the
provisions of the Building Code, zoning ordinance and other applicable
ordinances and regulations of the village.
(Ord. 2010-04, passed 4-19-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.10 POSTING LICENSE.
   It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the
village to keep said business license posted in a prominent place on the
premises used for such business at all times.
(Ord. 2010-04, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 110.11 ALTERATION OF LICENSE.
   No person shall alter, deface, forge or counterfeit any business license
issued by the village.
(Ord. 2010-04, passed 4-19-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.12 GENERAL LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   Prior to issuance of any business license, the applicant shall file with the
Village Clerk proof of general liability insurance listing the village as the
certificate holder in the following amounts:
 
Insurance                 Amount
Bodily injury liability   $100,000
Business auto (if applicable):
   Bodily injury       $100,000
   Property damage     $50,000
Property damage liability $100,000
Workers’ compensation   As required by statute
 
(Ord. 2010-04, passed 4-19-2010)
CONTRACTORS
§ 110.25 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of contracting
within the village without being registered as a contractor in the manner set
forth in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2005-9, passed 8-15-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.26 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTRACTOR.   
      (1)   Any person engaged in the business of constructing, altering or
repairing buildings or other structures or sidewalks or street pavements,
including but not limited to general building contractors; cement or concrete
contractors; masonry contractors; carpentry contractors; acoustical
contractors; electrical contractors; drywall contractors; excavating
contractors; fencing contractors; garage contractors; heating, air conditioning
and refrigeration contractors; plastering contractors; plumbing contractors;
porch and deck contractors; roofing contractors; sewer and drain layers; sheet
metal contractors; tuck pointing and cleaning contractors; window contractors;
wrecking contractors; insulation contractors; sign contractors; but does not
include any person performing as a contractor for or on behalf of a
governmental entity.
      (2)   An owner of property may perform work on property that he or she
will occupy or has occupied continuously for a period of at least six months
and shall not be considered a CONTRACTOR as set forth in this subchapter.
However, any person hired by such owner to perform work on such property shall
be considered a CONTRACTOR.
   PERSON. Any person or individual, partnership, firm, association,
corporation, trust or other legal entity.
(Ord. 2005-9, passed 8-15-2005)
§ 110.27 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to engage in the business of contracting within
the village shall file an application for registration with the Building and
Zoning Officer.
   (B)   Upon the filing of such application on the proper form and inclusion
of any insurance certificates along with the payment or the registration fees
set out of §
110.30, the Building and Zoning Officer shall register the applicant as a
contractor and classify the applicant into the proper category as outlined in §
110.30. The registration of any and all contractors upon filing of the
appropriate application and applicable contingencies, and compliance thereof
shall be within the sole discretion of the Building and Zoning Officer of the
village.
(Ord. 2005-9, passed 8-15-2005; Ord. 2024-07, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 110.28 CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   Upon verification of the applicant’s application, references, and insurance,
the Building and Zoning Officer shall issue a certificate of registration which
will authorize the applicant to engage in such business for the applicable
fiscal year, being May 1 through April 30 for the year within which it was
issued.
(Ord. 2005-9, passed 8-15-2005; Ord. 2024-07, passed 10-14-2024)
§ 110.29 PRORATION OF FEES.
   The fee for the registration of contractors who register between May 1 and
October 31 of each year shall be as provided in §
110.30. The fee for the registration of contractors who register between
November 1 and April 30 of each year shall be 50% of the amount set forth in §
110.30. The fee shall be an annual fee which shall be paid by the applicant to
the village in advance of filing of the application. The certificate of
registration issued thereunder shall expire on April 30 of the then current
fiscal year.
(Ord. 2005-9, passed 8-15-2005)
§ 110.30 FEES
Class Fee
Class                      Fee
Carpentry contractor       $100
Concrete contractor        $100
Drywall/plaster contractor $100
Electrical contractor      $100
Excavation contractor      $100
Fence contractor           $100
General contractor         $200
HVAC contractor            $100
Insulation contractor      $100
Masonry contractor         $100
Plumbing contractor        $100
Roofing contractor         $100
Sewer contractor           $100
Sign contractor            $100
Steel erection contractor  $100
Wrecking contractor        $100
All other contractors      $100
 
(Ord. 2005-9, passed 8-15-2005; Ord. 2024-07, 10-14-2024)
§ 110.31 [RESERVED].
§ 110.32 PROOF OF INSURANCE.
   Every person registered as a contractor by the village shall show proof of
insurance at the time of application to the Building and Zoning Officer in the
following amounts and conditioned upon the applicant faithfully observing all
of the provisions of the Building Code and other ordinances and regulations of
the village relating to the business conducted by the contractor; and
conditioned further to indemnify and hold harmless the village against any
cause or act upon it may suffer or which may occur against it or any cause of
action that may be charged to or recovered by the village from or by reason of
any act by any such person or by any agent or employee thereof:
 
Insurance                    Amount
Bodily injury liability      $300,000
Business auto:
   Bodily injury liability$300,000
   Property damage liabili$50,000
Property damage liability    $100,000
Workers’ compensation      as required by the state
 
(Ord. 2005-9, passed 8-15-2005; Ord. 2024-07, passed 10-14-2024) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.33 REVOCATION OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   The Building and Zoning Officer in his or her discretion may revoke a
contractor’s registration if the contractor violates the Building Codes or
other applicable ordinances of the village. The contractor must be notified of
the intent to revoke the contractor’s registration and of the alleged
violations, and the contractor will then be given ten days from the date that
notice is given to correct said violations, to show cause why there is no
violation or to otherwise appeal in writing to the Village President and the
Village Board who shall conduct a hearing on such revocation.
   (B)   Notice shall be given by any of the following means:
      (1)   Certified mail at the address provided on the contractor’s
registration;
      (2)   Personal delivery; or
      (3)   Posting on the site within which the contractor is working.
(Ord. 2005-9, passed 8-15-2005)
§ 110.34 LICENSING BY STATE.
   All plumbing contractors and roofing contractors shall be duly licensed by
this state.
(Ord. 2005-9, passed 8-15-2005)
DISTRIBUTION OF ADVERTISING MATERIALS
§ 110.45 REGULATIONS ON DISTRIBUTION/POSTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or unincorporated
association to post or distribute indiscriminately to the public any handbills,
cards, circulars, posters, samples of merchandise or any other advertising
materials whatsoever on any public street or sidewalk or other public place in
the village without an appropriate license. Further, it shall be unlawful to
distribute or post any materials set forth in this section on any private
property without the written consent of the owner thereof. This section shall
not be construed to prohibit the peddling or sale of any article or publication
that may carry or be accompanied by advertising matter where a charge is made
or a price paid for such article or publication.
(Ord. 1993-5, passed 7-6-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.46 LICENSE; APPLICATION; FEE.
   (A)   Applications for such licenses shall be made to the Village Clerk, and
shall contain a statement of the amount, number, content and nature of the
article, cards or advertisement to be distributed or posted, and the name of
the applicant. Additionally, the name of the manufacturer or distributor of any
article or service advertised shall also be provided.
   (B)   The fee for such licenses to distribute materials in person shall be
$5 per day. The fee for such licenses to post or otherwise attach advertising
materials on public property shall be $20, all of which may be returned to the
applicant if the posted materials are removed within five days following the
advertised event or within 30 days from the date of posting, whichever occurs
first. Commercial entities maintaining a legitimate business within the village
corporate limits who post commercial materials or otherwise advertise on an
ongoing basis may be assessed an annual fee of $20. Any and all materials or
advertisements shall not be posted for in excess of 30 days at any one time.
   (C)   Any license granted herein shall be revocable at any time for cause.
After notice of revocation, the licensee shall be given ten days to appeal in
writing to the Village President and the Village Board who shall conduct a
hearing on such revocation. Upon the revocation of said license, the
application fee shall be forfeited and/or subject to the penalties prescribed
herein for violating the provisions hereof. The Village Board President or
Police Chief may make or cause to be made a background check of each applicant
and shall report the results of any background check to the Village Clerk
before any such license shall be issued.
(Ord. 1993-5, passed 7-6-1993)
§ 110.47 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective ten days following the date of
publication.
(Ord. 1993-5, passed 7-6-1993)
APPENDIX A: LICENSE APPLICATION FORM
VILLAGE OF MAZON
Application for Business License
Date:                                         
   The undersigned hereby makes application for a local business license under
the ordinances of the Village of Mazon and makes the following statements of
facts and representations in support of such application. This application is
made on behalf of                                               and the place
of
                                    (Name of Business)
   business to be                                              .
                  Mazon, Illinois
   1.   Applicant’s full name:
                                                          Date of birth:
                            
      Address of applicant:
                                                                                                              
      Driver’s license number:
                                                                                                         
      Corporate FEIN# (if applicable)                                     
Telephone number:                              
   2.   Full names of other partner(s) if applicable:
                                                                               
   3.   The character of my business is:
                                                                                              
   4.   Length of time applicant has been engaged in this business is:
                                                     
   5.   Have you been convicted of a felony within the last ten years?
              yes               no
   6.   I certify that I have reviewed the licensing requirements and am not
disqualified from receiving a license for any reason.               yes
              no
   7.   Has a previous license issued by the State of Illinois or by the
Federal Government ever been revoked?               yes               no
      If yes, give reason:
                                                                                                                
   8.   Do you state you will not violate any of the laws of the State of
Illinois, the United States and of the Ordinances of the Village of Mazon,
Illinois, in the conduct of your business?
                    yes               no
   9.   Is the business to be conducted by a manager or agent?              
yes               no
      If yes, supply name and address:
                                                                                             
      Phone number:
                                                       cell:
                                                     
   10.   Do you own the premises wherein the business will be operated under
the license applied for here?                 yes               no
      If no, attach a copy of the lease and answer the following:
      Name and address of landlord:
                                                                                                 
      Phone number of landlord:                                             
cell:                                                   
      Expiration date of lease:
                                                                                                         
   11.   Business License Fee: $25             Date fee paid:
                                                            
DO NOT WRITE BELOW THIS LINE
* Was an inspection done on the location?             yes               no
* If yes, by whom?
                                                                      Date:
                                             
Inspection notes:
                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                          
*   Does the business listed above fit the description of a permitted use in
the zoning classification for that location?             yes               no
*   If NO, does it fall under a special use?             yes               no
   (Inform zoning board of proper classification)
{'{'}{'}'}Application Accepted
{'{'}{'}'}Application Rejected. Why
                                                            
Zoning Officer Signature:
                                                                   
{'{'}{'}'}Special Use Permit Required                     Date
                              
{'{'}{'}'}Special Use Permit Obtained
NOTES:
                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                          
(Ord. 2010-04, passed 4-19-2010)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Permit required
   
111.03   Permit application
   
111.04   Permit types; fees
   
111.05   Permit issuance
   
111.06   Permit exhibition
   
111.07   Fraud; permit revocation
   
111.08   Permitted hours for soliciting
   
111.09   Revocation of permit
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter SOLICITING means and includes any one or
more of the following activities:
   (A)   Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares,
merchandise, foodstuffs, services of any kind, character or description
whatever, for any kind of consideration whatever;
   (B)   Seeking to obtain prospective customers for application or purchase of
insurance of any type, kind or character;
   (C)   Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals,
newspapers and every other type or kind of publication;
   (D)   Seeking to obtain gifts or contributions of money, clothing or any
other valuable thing for the support or benefit of any charitable or nonprofit
association, organization, corporation or project; or
   (E)   Peddling or hawking any merchandise, article or thing.
(Ord. 1993-9, passed 11-1-1993)
§ 111.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to engage in soliciting
from persons in residences within the village without having first obtained a
permit therefor. RESIDENCE means and includes every separate living unit
occupied for residential purposes contained within any type of building or
structure.
(Ord. 1993-9, passed 11-1-1993) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to secure such a solicitor’s permit shall apply
therefor in writing over his or her signature to the Village Hall and Police
Department located at 520 Depot Street on forms provided by the village, and
such application shall state:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   Name, address and phone number of the person, firm or corporation
by whom employed;
      (3)   The number of years the person, firm or corporation by whom the
applicant is employed has been in business;
      (4)   The nature or character of the goods, wares or merchandise to be
offered by the applicant;
      (5)   The name, address, date of birth and driver’s license number of the
applicant;
      (6)   The name, addresses, dates of birth and driver’s license numbers of
any additional solicitors; and
      (7)   The models and license plate numbers of the vehicles to be used by
the applicants or additional solicitors.
   (B)   Such application shall be accompanied by such credentials and other
evidence of the identity, honesty and good character of the applicant as may
reasonably be required by the President and Board of Trustees of the village as
enforced by the Police Chief or representative of the Village Police
Department. Such applicant shall pay to the village the fee as stated herein to
cover the expense of granting and policing such permit.
(Ord. 1993-9, passed 11-1-1993; Ord. 2002-3, passed 3-4-2002)
§ 111.04 PERMIT TYPES; FEES.
   (A)   There shall be two types of permits:
      (1)   A 12-day permit; and
      (2)   An annual permit.
   (B)   A fee of $10 per solicitor shall be charged and paid in advance for
each 12-day permit before a license shall issue. A 12-day license shall expire
at 5:00 p.m. on the twelfth day after issuance.
   (C)   A fee of $25 per year per solicitor shall be charged and paid in
advance before an annual permit shall issue. An annual permit shall expire at
5:00 p.m. 365 days after the date of issuance.
(Ord. 1993-9, passed 11-1-1993)
§ 111.05 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
    If the municipal authority determines, after reasonable investigation, that
the applicant has presented reasonable evidence of his or her honesty and good
character, and intends to engage in a lawful and legitimate commercial or
professional enterprise, the municipal authorities may then issue the permit
applied for.
(Ord. 1993-9, passed 11-1-1993; Ord. 2002-3, passed 3-4-2002)
§ 111.06 PERMIT EXHIBITION.
   The solicitor to whom such permit was issued shall carry at all times the
permit when soliciting, and he or she shall exhibit the permit whenever he or
she is requested to do so by any agent or resident of the village.
(Ord. 1993-9, passed 11-1-1993; Ord. 2002-3, passed 3-4-2002)
§ 111.07 FRAUD; PERMIT REVOCATION.
   Any licensed solicitor who is guilty of fraud, cheating or
misrepresentation, whether through himself, herself or through an employee,
while acting as a solicitor in the village or who solicits any goods, wares or
merchandise other than those specified in his or her application for a permit,
shall be fined in accordance with the provisions of this code, and the
President, Police Chief or authorized agent of either, may revoke his or her
permit.
(Ord. 1993-9, passed 11-1-1993) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.08 PERMITTED HOURS FOR SOLICITING.
   It is unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any person, whether
registered under this chapter or not, to go upon any premises and ring the
doorbell upon or near any door of a residence located thereon, or rap or knock
upon any door, or create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the
attention of the occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an
audience with the occupant thereof and engage in soliciting prior to 9:00 a.m.
or after 7:00 p.m. of any day Monday through Saturday inclusive, or any time on
Sunday, or on a state or national holiday.
(Ord. 1993-9, passed 11-1-1993) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.09 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   Any permit shall be revoked by the President, Police Chief or authorized
agent of either, if the holder of the permit violates any of the provisions of
this chapter or has made a false material statement in the application or
ceases to possess the character and qualifications required by this chapter for
the issuance of the permit under the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 1993-9, passed 11-1-1993) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not less than $50 and not more than
$500 for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each
day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 1993-9, passed 11-1-1993)
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR; SALES
Section
Licenses Generally
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License required
   
112.03   Liquor Commission
   
112.04   Applications
   
112.05   Restrictions on license
   
112.06   Examination of applicant for local license
   
112.07   Term of licenses
   
112.08   Classification of licenses; fees
   
112.09   Number of licenses
   
112.10   Disposition of fees
   
112.11   Hours of operation
   
112.12   Class C-1 and Class C-2 license conditions
   
112.13   Transfer of license
   
112.14   Change of location
   
112.15   Peddling
Business Premises
   
112.30   Sanitary conditions
   
112.31   Employees
   
112.32   View from street
Display of License
   
112.45   Display of license
   
112.46   Entry powers
   
112.47   Revocation/suspension
   
112.48   License list to be kept
   
112.49   License renewal
   
112.50   Location restrictions
Sales; Possession
   
112.65   Sale to persons under 21 years of age
   
112.66   Sale to intoxicated persons; habitual drunkards
   
112.67   Purchase or acceptance of gift of liquor by person of non-age;
identification cards
   
112.68   Consumption on premises
   
112.69   Sale of business
 
   
112.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Consumption of alcohol in public, see
Ch. 133
LICENSES GENERALLY
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Includes alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and every liquid
containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, containing over 0.5% of alcohol by
volume, and capable of being consumed as a beverage.
   LICENSEE. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, limited liability
company or club holding a license under the provisions of this chapter.
   RETAIL SALE. The sale for use or consumption and not for resale.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 6-2-2008)
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail in the village any
alcoholic liquor without having a retail liquor dealer’s license, or in
violation of the terms of such license.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 6-2-2008) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 LIQUOR COMMISSION.
   The President of the Village Board of Trustees shall be the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner, and as such Commissioner, he or she shall appoint two
members of the Village Board of Trustees as Assistant Liquor Control
Commissioners and members of the Liquor Commission. Said appointments shall be
made annually on May 1 of each year. The Liquor Control Commissioner and the
Assistant Liquor Control Commissioners shall receive annual salaries of $150
and $125, respectively.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 6-2-2008)
§ 112.04 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Applications for retail liquor dealer’s licenses shall be made to the
Liquor Control Commission in writing. An application for Class C-1 and C-
2 licenses shall be submitted to the Liquor Control Commission at least 30 days
prior to its proposed effective date.
   (B)   All applications shall be signed by the applicant, if an individual,
or by a duly authorized agent thereof, if a club, corporation, partnership or
limited liability company verified by oath or affidavit, and shall contain the
following information and statements:
      (1)   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual, in the case of a partnership, the persons entitled to share in the
profits thereof, and in the case of a corporation or a limited liability
company (LLC) for profit or a club, the date of incorporation, or creation, the
purpose for which it was organized, the names and addresses of the members,
officers and directors, and if a majority in interest of the ownership of such
corporation or limited liability company is owned by one person or his or her
nominees, the name and address of such person;
      (2)   The citizenship of the applicant, his or her place of birth and if
a naturalized citizen, the time and place of his or her naturalization;
      (3)   The character of a business of the applicant; in case of a
corporation or limited liability company, the date on which its charter was
approved;
      (4)   The length of time that said applicant has been in business of that
character, or in the case of a corporation or limited liability company, the
date on which the charter was issued;
      (5)   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license;
      (6)   A statement whether the applicant has made application for a liquor
license other than described in this application, and the disposition of such
application;
      (7)   A verified statement that the applicant has never been convicted of
a felony and is not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter
or thing contained in this chapter, or the laws of this state or of the United
States;
      (8)   Whether a previous license by any municipality, county, state or
subdivision thereof, or by the federal government has been revoked, and the
reasons therefor;
      (9)   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of
this state or of the United States, or any village ordinance in the conduct of
such place of business; and
      (10)   Applications for a Class C-1 license shall be submitted with proof
of not-for-profit status as set forth in §
112.08(B)(3), and with proof of dram shop insurance and liability insurance.
      (11)   Included with the application for the issuance of a C-1 license,
the applicant must submit a map which clearly identifies the boundaries and
location of the desired premises to operate said license.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 6-2-2008; Ord. 2017-09, passed 7-17-2017)
§ 112.05 RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSE.
   No such license shall be issued to:
   (A)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he or she resides;
   (B)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
   (C)   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or state
law;
   (D)   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper or is keeping a
house of ill fame;
   (E)   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality;
   (F)   A person whose license issued under this chapter has previously been
revoked for cause, or a person who fails to comply with each and every
requirement of this chapter;
   (G)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder would not be eligible for such license upon first application;
   (H)   A partnership, unless all of the members of such partnership shall be
qualified to obtain a license;
   (I)   A corporation or limited liability company, if any officer, manager,
member or any stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than 5%
of the stock of such corporation would not be eligible to receive a license
hereunder for any reason other than citizenship;
   (J)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless said manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required of the
licensee and if said manager is a full-time employee of the licensee. For
purposes of this section, FULL-TIME shall be defined as working a minimum of 35
hours per work week;
   (K)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcohol liquor, or shall
have forfeited his or her bond to appear in court to answer charges for any
such violation;
   (L)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is sought,
or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the license is
to be issued;
   (M)   (1)   Any law-enforcing public official, including members of Local
Liquor Control Commissions, any mayor, alderman or member of the city council
or commission, any President of the Village Board of Trustees, any member of a
Village Board of Trustees, or any President or member of a County Board; and no
such official shall have a direct interest in the manufacture, sale or
distribution of alcoholic liquor, except that a license may be granted to such
official in relation to premises that are not located within the territory
subject to the jurisdiction of that official if the issuance of such license is
approved by the State Liquor Control Commission, and except that a license may
be granted in a city or village with a population of 50,000 or less, to any
alderman, member of a city council, or member of a Village Board of Trustees in
relation to premises that are located within the territory subject to the
jurisdiction of that official if:
         (a)   The sale of alcoholic liquor pursuant to the license is
incidental to the selling of food;
         (b)   The issuance of the license is approved by the State Commission;
         (c)   The issuance of the license is in accordance with all applicable
local ordinances in effect where the premises are located; and
         (d)   The official granted a license does not vote on alcoholic liquor
issues pending before the Board or council to which the license holder is
elected.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any provision of this division (M) to the contrary,
an alderman or member of a city council or commission, a member of a Village
Board of Trustees other than the President of the Village Board of Trustees or
a member of a County Board other than the President of the County Board may
have a direct interest in the manufacture, sale or distribution of alcoholic
liquor as long as he or she is not a law-enforcing public official, a mayor, a
Village Board President, or a President of a County Board. To prevent any
conflict of interest, the elected official with the direct interest in the
manufacture, sale, or distribution of alcoholic liquor cannot participate in
any meetings, hearings or decisions on matters impacting the manufacture, sale
or distribution of alcoholic liquor.
   (N)   Any person, club, association, partnership, limited liability company
or corporation not eligible for a state retail liquor dealer’s license;
   (O)   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be operated
by the licensee; and
   (P)   A corporation or limited liability company, unless it is incorporated
in this state or unless it is a foreign corporation which is qualified under
the State Business Corporation Act or State Limited Liability Company Act to
transact business in this state.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 6-2-2008)
§ 112.06 EXAMINATION OF APPLICANT FOR LOCAL LICENSE.
   The Local Liquor Commissioner shall have the right to examine, or cause to
be examined, under oath, any applicant for a local license or for a renewal
thereof, or any licensee upon whom notice of revocation or suspension has been
served as provided by statute, or to examine or cause to be examined, the books
and records of any such applicant or licensee; to hear testimony and take
proofs for his or her information in the performance of his or her duties and
for such purpose to issue subpoenas which shall be effective in any part of
this state. For the purpose of obtaining any of the information desired by the
Local Liquor Commissioner under this section, he or she may authorize his or
her agent to act on his or her behalf, as provided by statute.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 6-2-2008)
§ 112.07 TERM OF LICENSES.
   Class A and B licenses shall terminate May 1 next following the date of
issuance. The fee to be paid shall be reduced in proportion to the full
calendar months which have expired in the year prior to the issuance of the
license. Class C-1 and C-2 licenses shall be effective for a period of three
consecutive days, not to exceed eight hours each day, and shall terminate no
later than 12:00 midnight following their effective date, subject to the 7:00
p.m. limitation for Sundays contained in §
112.11.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 6-2-2008)
§ 112.08 CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES; FEES.
   (A)   Every person, firm, corporation or club engaged in the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor in the village shall pay any required annual license fee.
   (B)   Such licenses shall be divided into the following classes.
      (1)   Class A license shall authorize the retail sale on the specified
premises of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises. The annual fee
for such license shall be $500.
      (2)   Class B license shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic liquor
in packages only on the specified premises, and not for consumption where it is
sold. The annual fee for such license shall be $500.
      (3)   Class C-l license shall authorize the retail sale of beer and wine
only for consumption on the premises described in the application and license,
subject to §
112.14, regarding a change of location. Class C-1 licensees shall serve beer
and wine in plastic containers only. The Class C-1 license shall be issued only
to chartered organizations, nonprofit corporations or other non-profit entity,
which can present proof of not-for-profit status through its corporate charter,
State of Illinois tax exempt identification number or other documentation duly
issued by either the state or federal government. Only two Class C-l licenses
shall be issued to any qualified entity per year, and its issuance shall be
subject to the conditions set forth in §
112.12. The fee for such a license shall be $100, and only one Class C-
l license shall be issued per calendar week.
      (4)   Class C-2 license shall authorize the retail sale of beer and wine
only. Class C-2 licensees shall serve beer and wine in plastic containers only.
The Class C-2 license shall be issued only to chartered organizations,
corporations or other entities which operate for profit. Only two Class C-
2 licenses shall be issued to any qualified entity per year, and its issuance
shall be subject to the conditions set forth in §
112.12. The fee for such license shall be $250.
      (5)   Class D license shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic liquor
in packages for consumption off the premises, and shall include the retail sale
of beer and wine only for consumption on the specified premises.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for on-site
consumption shall be limited to an area not to exceed 300 square feet, which
space shall be partitioned from the general retail area in a manner approved by
the Village Building and Zoning Office. Any such partition, however, shall not
obstruct the view of the area in which the retail sale for on-site beer and
wine consumption occurs. The annual fee for such license shall be $500.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 6-2-2008; Ord. 2014-12, passed 11-17-2014; Ord. 2017-09,
passed 7-17-2017)
§ 112.09 NUMBER OF LICENSES.
   There shall be issued no more than two Class A licenses to be in effect at
any one time, no more than three Class B licenses to be in effect at any one
time, no more than one Class C-1 license to be in effect at any one time and no
more than one Class C-2 license to be in effect at any one time.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 6-2-2008; Ord. 2017-09, passed 7-17-2017)
§ 112.10 DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   All such fees shall be paid to the Village Clerk at the time application is
made and shall be forthwith turned over to the Treasurer. In the event the
license applied for is denied, the fee shall be returned to the applicant. If
the license is granted, then the fee shall be deposited in the General
Corporate Fund or in such other fund as has been designated by the Village
Board by proper action.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 6-2-2008)
§ 112.11 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for a licensee to give, sell or offer for sale any
alcoholic liquor except during the following hours:
   (A)   Class A. Each day of the week, Monday through and including Sunday
from 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.;
   (B)   Class B. Each day of the week, Monday through and including Sunday
from 5:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m.;
   (C)   Class C-1. For a period not to exceed three consecutive days for eight
hours on each effective date of the license; however, in no event shall the
licensee give, sell or offer for sale any alcoholic liquor on Monday through
Saturday beyond 12:00 midnight and beyond 7:00 p.m. on Sunday; and
   (D)   Class C-2.  For a period not to exceed three consecutive days for
eight hours on each effective date of the license; however, in no event shall
the licensee give, sell or offer for sale any alcoholic liquor on Monday
through Saturday beyond 12:00 midnight the following day, and beyond 7:00 p.m.
on Sunday.
   (E)   Class D. The sale of alcoholic liquor shall be authorized seven days
per week from 9:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 6-2-2008; Ord. 2014-12, passed 11-17-2014; Ord. 2017-09,
passed 7-17-2017) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.12 CLASS C-1 AND CLASS C-2 LICENSE CONDITIONS.
   Every Class C-1 and C-2 license issued in accordance with this chapter shall
be subject to the following conditions.
   (A)   Every application for a Class C-1 and C-2 license shall be submitted
to the Liquor Control Commission at least 30 days prior to its proposed
effective date with supporting documentation as set forth in §
112.08(B)(3) and (4). The Liquor Commissioner reserves the right to determine
the length of each Class C-1 and C-2 license, up to the three-day limit and the
eight-hour maximum for each effective day of the license, and may consult with
the Liquor Commission in that regard before the issuance of a Class C-1 and C-
2 license.
   (B)   Class C-1 and C-2 licenses shall be issued solely for the retail sale
of beer and wine to be served in plastic containers only. All other alcoholic
liquor as defined in §
112.01 is prohibited on the licensed premises.
   (C)   Class C-1 licenses shall be effective only upon the premises described
in the application and license, subject to §
112.14, regarding a change of location, and in compliance with the Village
Vode, and the laws of the State of Illinois,
   (D)   At all times during the effective period of a Class C-1 and C-
2 license, the licensee shall:
      (1)   Maintain two separate fences of at least three feet in height each,
completely surrounding the beer and wine service area with a distance
maintained between the fences of not less than six feet;
      (2)   Maintain at the expense of the licensee, a minimum of three
uniformed police officers on the premises during the course of the license;
      (3)   Maintain an adequate number of personnel of not less than two
adults to check identification of persons entering the enclosed beer and wine
service area. Persons over the age of 21 years shall be issued a high
visibility wristband which shall be worn at all times;
      (4)   Maintain at least two portable toilets in the immediate vicinity of
the enclosed beer and wine service area;
      (5)   Maintain and be responsible for any and all damage which occurs to
property owned by the village, whether real or personal; and
      (6)   Terminate the giving, sale or offering for sale of any beer and
wine on the premises at least 30 minutes prior to the permitted hours of
operation of Class C-1 or C-2 licenses.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 6-2-2008; Ord. 2017-09, passed 7-17-2017)
§ 112.13 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A license shall be purely a personal privilege, and shall not constitute
property, nor shall it be subject to attachment, garnishment or execution, nor
shall it be alienable or transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject
to being encumbered or hypothecated. Such license shall not descend by the laws
of testate or intestate devolution, but it shall cease of the estate of any
deceased licensee, and the trustee of any insolvent or bankrupt licensee; when
such estate consists in part of alcoholic liquor, may continue the business of
the sale of alcoholic liquor under order of the appropriate court, and may
exercise the privileges of the deceased or insolvent or bankrupt licensee after
the death of such decedent, or such insolvency or bankruptcy until the
expiration of such license but not longer than six months after the death,
bankruptcy or insolvency of such licensee. A refund shall be made of that
portion of the license fees paid for any period in which the licensee shall be
prevented from operating under such license in accordance with the provisions
of this section.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 6-2-2008)
§ 112.14 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   A retail liquor dealer’s license shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor
only in the premises described in the application and license. Such location
may be changed only upon the written permit to make such change issued by the
Liquor Control Commissioner. No change of location shall be permitted unless
the proposed new location is a proper one for the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor under the law of this state and this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 6-2-2008)
§ 112.15 PEDDLING.
   It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquors in the village.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 6-2-2008) Penalty, see §
112.99
BUSINESS PREMISES
§ 112.30 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor, or for the
storage of such liquor for such sale, shall be kept in a clean and sanitary
condition.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 6-2-2008)
§ 112.31 EMPLOYEES.
   It shall be unlawful to employ in any premises used for the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor any person who is afflicted with, or who is a carrier of, any
contagious, infectious or venereal disease; and it shall be unlawful for any
person who is afflicted with, or who is a carrier of an such disease to work in
or about any premises or to engage in any way in handling, preparation or
distribution of such liquor.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 6-2-2008) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.32 VIEW FROM STREET.
   In the premises upon which the sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption upon
the premises is licensed, no screen, blind, curtain, partition, article or
thing shall be permitted in the windows or upon the doors of such licensed
premises or inside such licensed premises which shall prevent a clear view into
the interior of such licensed premises from the street, road or sidewalk, and
said premises must be so located that there shall be a full view of the entire
interior of such premises from the street, road or sidewalk. All rooms where
liquor is sold for consumption upon the premises shall be continuously lighted
during business hours by natural light or artificial white light so that all
parts of the interior of the premises shall be clearly visible. In case the
view into any such licensed premises required by the foregoing provisions,
shall be willfully obscured by the licensee or by him or her willfully suffered
to be obscured or any manner obstructed, then such license shall be subject to
revocation in the manner herein provided. In order to enforce the provisions of
this section, the Liquor Control Commissioner shall have the right to require
the filing with it of plans, drawings and photographs showing the clearance of
the view as above required.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 6-2-2008) Penalty, see §
112.99
DISPLAY OF LICENSE
§ 112.45 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee shall cause his or her license to be displayed in plain view
in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 6-2-2008)
§ 112.46 ENTRY POWERS.
   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner is hereby given the power to enter or
to authorize any law enforcing officer to enter at any time upon any premises
licensed hereunder to determine whether any of the provisions of the Liquor
Control Act (Ill. Rev. Stat., Chapter 43) or any rules or regulations adopted
by him or her or by the State Liquor Commission have been or are being
violated, and at such time to examine the premises of said licensee in
connection therewith.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 6-2-2008)
§ 112.47 REVOCATION/SUSPENSION.
   The Liquor Control Commissioner may revoke or suspend up to 30 days any
license issued pursuant to this chapter if he or she determines that the
licensee has violated any of the provisions of this chapter or of the Liquor
Control Act (Ill. Rev. Stat., Chapter 43).
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 6-2-2008)
§ 112.48 LICENSE LIST TO BE KEPT.
   The Liquor Control Commissioner shall keep or cause to be kept a complete
record of all such licenses issued by him or her and shall furnish to the
Clerk, Treasurer and Chief of Police a copy thereof. Upon the issuance of any
new license or the revocation of an old license, the Liquor Control
Commissioner shall give written notice of such action to each of these officers
within 48 hours of such action.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 6-2-2008)
§ 112.49 LICENSE RENEWAL.
   Any licensee may renew his or her license by making written application for
renewal not less than ten days before the expiration thereof; provided that he
or she is then qualified to receive a license and the premises for which such
renewal license is sought are suitable for the purpose; provided further that
the renewal privilege provided for in this section shall not be construed as a
vested right which shall in any case prevent the village from decreasing the
number of licenses to be issued within its jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 6-2-2008)
§ 112.50 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business, purpose, or
activity if the premises or building, to be used for the purpose does not fully
comply with all applicable ordinances and regulations of the village and the
laws of the State of Illinois.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 6-2-2008; Ord. 2017-09, passed 7-17-2017) Penalty, see §
112.99
SALES; POSSESSION
§ 112.65 SALE TO PERSONS UNDER 21 YEARS OF AGE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to purchase or
obtain any alcoholic liquor in any place in the village where alcoholic liquor
is sold. It is unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to
misrepresent his or her age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining
alcoholic liquor. There shall be displayed at all times in a prominent place a
printed card which shall be supplied by the Village Clerk and which shall read
substantially as follows:
      WARNING TO PERSONS UNDER
      21 YEARS OF AGE
      You are subject to a fine of up to $500 under the Ordinances of the
Village of Mazon, if you purchase alcoholic liquor or misrepresent your age for
the purpose of purchasing or obtaining alcoholic liquor.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any holder of a retail liquor dealer’s license, or
his or her agent or employee, to allow or permit any minor to be or remain in
any room or compartment adjoining or adjacent to or situated in the room or
place where such licensed premises is located; provided, that this section
shall not apply to any minor who is accompanied by his or her parent or
guardian, or to any licensed premises which derives its principal business from
the sale or service of commodities other than alcoholic liquor. In addition to
all other fines and penalties, the Liquor Commissioner may suspend or revoke
the retail liquor dealer’s license for any violation of this section. It is
unlawful for any parent or guardian to permit any minor child of which he or
she may be the parent or guardian to violate any provisions of this section. It
is unlawful to sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to any minor, except in
the performance of a religious ceremony or service. It is unlawful for any
person under the age of 21 years to attend any bar to draw, pour or mix any
alcoholic liquor in any licensed retail premises.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 6-2-2008) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.66 SALE TO INTOXICATED PERSONS; HABITUAL DRUNKARDS.
   It is unlawful for the holder of a license to sell, deliver or give any
alcoholic liquor to any intoxicated person known to him or her to be a habitual
drunkard, spendthrift, insane, feeble-minded or distracted person.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 6-2-2008) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.67 PURCHASE OR ACCEPTANCE OF GIFT OF LIQUOR BY PERSON OF NON-AGE;
IDENTIFICATION CARDS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to whom the sale, gift or delivery
of alcoholic liquor is prohibited because of age, to purchase or accept a gift
of alcoholic liquor or to have alcoholic liquor in his or her possession. If a
licensee or his or her agents or employees believes or has reason to believe
that a sale or delivery of alcoholic liquor is prohibited because of the non-
age of the prospective recipient, he or she shall, before making such sale or
delivery, demand presentation of some form of positive identification,
containing proof of age, issued by a public officer in the performance of his
or her official duties.
   (B)   No person shall transfer, alter or deface such an identification card;
use the identification card of another; carry or use a false or forged
identification card; or obtain an identification card by means of false
information. No person shall purchase, accept delivery of or have possession of
alcoholic liquor in violation of this section.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 6-2-2008) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.68 CONSUMPTION ON PREMISES.
   It is unlawful for anyone not having a license providing for consumption on
the premises where sold to offer for sale or sell any alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises or to permit the same to be consumed on the
premises where sold.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 6-2-2008) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.69 SALE OF BUSINESS.
   While a license shall not be transferable as a matter of right, any licensee
desiring to sell his or her business and to transfer his or her license may
make application in writing for such transfer, accompanied by an application
for license by the proposed new owner or owners setting forth all of the
information required by §
112.04 and also accompanied by a fee of $100 for such transfer. If the Liquor
Control Commissioner finds that the proposed new owner or owners are
satisfactory and proper persons to receive a license, the Liquor Control
Commissioner may, in his or her discretion, order a transfer of such license.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 6-2-2008)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $500 for each offense, and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 6-2-2008; Ord. 2017-09, passed 7-17-2017)
CHAPTER 113: TOBACCO PRODUCTS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Sale to minors prohibited
   
113.03   Signs required
   
113.04   Minimum age for sale
   
113.05   Purchase by minors prohibited
   
113.06   Possession by minors prohibited
   
113.07   Free distribution prohibited
   
113.08   Responsibility for agents and employees
 
   
113.99   Penalty; codes adopted
Cross-reference:
   Smoking, see
Ch. 113
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and phrases shall be defined as set forth below.
   ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT. A product or device not consisting of or
containing tobacco that provides for the ingestion of nicotine into the body,
whether by chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling, snorting,
sniffing or any other means.
   ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT does not include:
      (1)   Cigarettes as defined in Section 1 of the Cigarette Tax Act;
      (2)   Tobacco products as defined in Section 10-5 of the Tobacco Products
Tax Act of 1995;
      (3)   A TOBACCO PRODUCT and ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE as defined in this
section; or
      (4)   Any product approved by the United States Food and Drug
Administration for sale as a tobacco-cessation product, as a tobacco-dependence
product, or for other medical purposes, and is being marketed and sold solely
for that approved purpose.
   ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE.
      (1)   Any device that employs a battery or other mechanism to heat a
solution or substance to produce a vapor or aerosol intended for inhalation;
      (2)   Any cartridge or container of a solution or substance intended to
be used with or in the device, or to refill the device;
      (3)   Any solution or substance, whether or not it contains nicotine,
intended for use in the device; or
      (4)   Any electronic nicotine delivery system, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, electronic hookah, vape pen, or similar
product or device, and any components or parts that can be used to build the
product or device.
   ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE does not include:
      (1)   Cigarettes as defined in Section 1 of the Cigarette Tax Act;
      (2)   Tobacco products as defined in Section 10-5 of the Tobacco Products
Tax Act of 1995;
      (3)   A TOBACCO PRODUCT and ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT as defined in
this section;
      (4)   Any product approved by the United States Food and Drug
Administration for sale as a tobacco-cessation product, as a tobacco-dependence
product, or for other medical purposes, and is being marketed and sold solely
for that approved purpose;
      (5)   Any asthma inhaler prescribed by a physician for that condition and
is being marketed and sold solely for that approved purpose; or
      (6)   Any therapeutic product approved for use under the Compassionate
Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act.
   NICOTINE. Any form of the chemical nicotine, including any salt or complex,
regardless of whether the chemical is naturally or synthetically derived.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any product containing or made from tobacco that is
intended for human consumption, whether smoked, heated, chewed, absorbed,
dissolved, inhaled, snorted, sniffed or ingested by any other means, including,
but not limited to, cigarettes, cigars, little cigars, chewing tobacco, pipe
tobacco, snuff, snus, and any other smokeless tobacco product containing
tobacco that is finely cut, ground, powdered or leaf, and intended to be placed
in the oral cavity. TOBACCO PRODUCT includes any component, part or accessory
of a tobacco product, whether or not sold separately.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT does not include: an ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE and ALTERNATIVE
NICOTINE PRODUCT as defined in this section; or any product that has been
approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration for sale as a
tobacco-cessation product, as a tobacco-dependence product, or for other
medical purposes, and is being marketed and sold solely for that approved
purpose.
(Ord. 2019-07, passed 8-19-2019)
§ 113.02 SALE TO MINORS PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person, including any licensee, to sell, offer for
sale, give away or deliver tobacco products, electronic cigarettes or
alternative nicotine products to any person under the age of 21 years.
(Ord. 1995-17, passed 8-7-1995; Ord. 2019-07, passed 8-19-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03 SIGNS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Signs informing the public of the age restrictions provided for herein
shall be posted at or near every display of tobacco products, and on or upon
every vending machine that offers tobacco products for sale.
   (B)   (1)   Each such sign shall be plainly visible and shall state:
         THE SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS, ELECTRONIC CIGARETTES OR ALTERNATIVE
NICOTINE PRODUCTS TO PERSONS UNDER 21 YEARS OF AGE IS PROHIBITED BY LAW.
      (2)   The text of such signs shall be in red letters, at least one inch
high, on a white background.
(Ord. 1995-17, passed 8-7-1995; Ord. 2019-07, passed 8-19-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 MINIMUM AGE FOR SALE.
   (A)   No person under 16 years of age may sell any tobacco product,
electronic cigarette or alternative nicotine product at a retail establishment
selling tobacco products, electronic cigarettes or alternative nicotine
products. This division does not apply to a sales clerk in a family-owned
business that can prove that the sales clerk is in fact a son or daughter of
the owner.
   (B)   Before selling, offering for sale, giving or furnishing a tobacco
product, electronic cigarette or alternative nicotine product to another
person, the person selling, offering for sale, giving or furnishing the tobacco
product, electronic cigarette or alternative nicotine product shall verify that
the person is at least 21 years of age by:
      (1)   Examining from any person that appears to be under 30 years of age
a government-issued photographic identification that establishes the person to
be 21 years of age or older; or
      (2)   For sales of tobacco products, electronic cigarettes or alternative
nicotine products made through the Internet or other remote sales methods,
performing an age verification through an independent, third-party, age-
verification service that compares information available from public records to
the personal information entered by the person during the ordering process that
establishes the person is 21 years of age or older.
(Ord. 1995-17, passed 8-7-1995; Ord. 2019-07, passed 8-19-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.05 PURCHASE BY MINORS PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to purchase tobacco
products, electronic cigarettes or alternative nicotine products as a result of
misrepresenting their identity or age, or using any false or altered
identification for the purpose of purchasing tobacco products, electronic
cigarettes or alternative nicotine products.
(Ord. 1995-17, passed 8-7-1995; Ord. 2019-07, passed 8-19-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.06 POSSESSION BY MINORS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to
possess any tobacco products of any kind.
   (B)   No person shall violate the provisions of this chapter, or the
Prevention of Tobacco Use by Persons Under 21 Years of Age and Sale of
Distribution of Tobacco Products Act, as may be amended, 720 ILCS 675/0.01 et
seq., and the same is hereby restated and incorporated herein.
(Ord. 1995-17, passed 8-7-1995; Ord. 2019-07, passed 8-19-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.07 FREE DISTRIBUTION PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any licensee or any person in the business of selling or
otherwise distributing, promoting or advertising tobacco products, electronic
cigarettes or alternative nicotine products, or any employee or agent of any
such licensee or person, in the course of the licensee’s or the person’s
business, to distribute, give away or deliver tobacco products, electronic
cigarettes or alternative nicotine products, free of charge, to any person on
any right-of-way, park, playground or other property owned by the city, any
school district, any park district or any public library.
(Ord. 1995-17, passed 8-7-1995; Ord. 2019-07, passed 8-19-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.08 RESPONSIBILITY FOR AGENTS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature, constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter by any officer, director, manager or other
agent or employee of any licensee shall be deemed and held to be the act of the
licensee; and the licensee shall be punishable in the same manner as if the act
or omission had been done or omitted by the licensee personally.
(Ord. 1995-17, passed 8-7-1995; Ord. 2019-07, passed 8-19-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY; CODES ADOPTED.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating this chapter shall be fined
not less than $100, nor more than $750, for the first offense, and shall be
fined for a second or any subsequent offense, not less than $150, nor more than
$750. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each and every day on
which a violation occurs or is permitted to continue. Whenever a monetary fine
is assessed by the court pursuant to this chapter, the court is further
expressly authorized by the village to use dispositions, including, but not
limited to, court supervision, deferred judgment, conditional discharge, and
suspended sentence.
   (B)   No person shall violate the provisions of this chapter, or the
Prevention of Tobacco Use by Persons Under 21 Years of Age and Sale and
Distribution of Tobacco Products Act, as may be amended, (720 ILCS 675/0.01 et
seq.), and the same is hereby restated and incorporated herein.
(Ord. 1995-17, passed 8-7-1995; Ord. 2019-07, passed 8-19-2019)
CHAPTER 114: FIREWORKS; SALES
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Permits
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREWORKS. Includes any and all devices defined as FIREWORKS under the
Fireworks Regulation Act of Illinois (425 ILCS 30 et seq.)
§ 114.02 PERMITS.
   No public display of fireworks shall occur unless a permit is issued by the
village. Such permit application shall require at a minimum, a copy of the
pyrotechnic operator’s license and proof of an insurance policy with the
village and property owners listed as additional insured. The minimum amount of
coverage for such a policy shall be $1,000,000.
Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever fails to comply with or violates any provision of this chapter shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished by a fine of
not less than $100 nor more than $750.
CHAPTER 115: POULTRY HOUSING REGULATIONS
Section
   
115.01   Exotic animals prohibited
   
115.02   Farm animals prohibited
   
115.03   Poultry housing subject to license
   
115.04   Application for housing of poultry
   
115.05   Fees for poultry housing
   
115.06   Restrictions and conditions of poultry housing
   
115.07   Slaughtering of poultry
   
115.08   Expiration of approval, non- assignment and change of location
   
115.09   Suspension and revocation of license
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 EXOTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No resident shall own, harbor or care for an exotic animal within the
village limits. EXOTIC ANIMAL is defined as any non-domesticated canine, non-
domesticated feline, non-domesticated rodent, any reptile which may pose a
threat to human safety, any wildlife, non-human primates, and any animal
requiring special state or federal permits.
(Ord. 2021-05, passed 9-13-2021) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.02 FARM ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No resident shall own, harbor, or care for a farm animal within the village
limits. Farm animal is defined as any domestic species of cattle, sheep, swine,
goat, llama, horse, pony, waterfowl, or bees.
(Ord. 2021-05, passed 9-13-2021) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.03 POULTRY HOUSING SUBJECT TO LICENSE.
   All persons wishing to house poultry within the Village of Mazon shall
obtain a license. The word person as used in this chapter means any individual
who is the owner of the property in which the poultry housing, which includes a
chicken coop and chicken run as defined herein, is to be established. Poultry
shall be defined as female domesticated chickens.
(Ord. 2021-05, passed 9-13-2021) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.04 APPLICATION FOR HOUSING OF POULTRY.
   (A)   Applications for a poultry housing license shall be made to the
village in writing on a license application form provided by the village. Each
application shall include a non-refundable application fee of $150, and shall
as include the following:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the individual;
      (2)   A description of the material that will be utilized for chicken
coop, and chicken run;
      (3)   The location where the chicken coop and chicken run will be
located; and
      (4)   Identify if electricity will be utilized for either the chicken
coop or chicken run.
   (B)   Any person desiring a poultry housing upon their property shall file
an application with the village not less than 45 days prior to the time said
person is wishing to establish poultry housing.
(Ord. 2021-05, passed 9-13-2021) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.05 FEES FOR POULTRY HOUSING.
   (A)   A non-refundable application fee of $150 shall be included with any
application submitted to the village for a poultry housing license.
   (B)   A permit fee of $50 shall be required prior to the construction of the
poultry house; or a permit fee of $150 shall be required prior to the
construction of the poultry house, if the chicken coop or chicken run will
utilized electricity.
(Ord. 2021-05, passed 9-13-2021) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.06 RESTRICTIONS AND CONDITIONS OF POULTRY HOUSING.
   For the purposes of this chapter, poultry housing is defined as the chicken
coop poultry house used to house one or more poultry, and chicken run which is
the enclosure surrounding the chicken coop to so as to contain the poultry. The
minimum requirements for poultry housing are the following:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to maintain in the village any poultry housing
within 30 feet of any building used as a residential property by anyone other
than the one maintaining the poultry house or his or her immediate family.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to allow any poultry free range within the
village limits.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to maintain more than eight poultry within the
village limits at any time.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to maintain any male chickens, or roosters,
within the village limits at any time.
   (E)   Only one poultry housing license shall be allowed on a residentially
zoned lot.
   (F)   Any electricity that is utilized for either the chicken coop or
chicken run shall comply with any applicable building code regulations, and
shall be installed underground.
   (G)   Chicken runs shall be fully enclosed with chicken wire or fencing to a
height of six feet.
   (H)   Poultry housing shall be located a minimum of three feet from the
subject property, side and rear yard property lines.
   (I)   Poultry housing shall only be located within the rear yard of the
subject property.
   (J)   Poultry housing shall be keep clean and sanitary at all time. Any
refuse or other by-product resulting from the poultry shall be disposed of in a
clean and sanitary manner.
   (K)   Poultry housing shall be maintained so as to eliminate any noxious or
offensive odors, and offensive noise.
   (L)   Poultry housing shall be adequately maintained to be impenetrable by
rats or other rodents.
   (M)   The presence of any rats in chicken coop or chicken run shall be prima
facie evidence that the poultry housing is not maintained to the standards of
the provisions of this chapter.
   (N)   All poultry housing shall conform to the maximum rear yard coverage as
established in §
155.048.
   (O)   Chicken runs shall be constructed with fencing comprised of one inch
or smaller openings.
   (P)   Chicken coop shall not exceed 15 feet in height has measured from the
then existing grade to the highest point of the chicken coop.
   (Q)   All access doors, or windows shall be shut and remained locked. All
points of access shall be predator proof so as to deter and prohibit the entry
of any predator.
   (R)   All chicken feed shall be stored and maintained in a rodent proof
container.
(Ord. 2021-05, passed 9-13-2021) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.07 SLAUGHTERING OF POULTRY.
   A poultry housing license holder may slaughter poultry, that are granted
pursuant to said license, when the license holder deems the poultry no longer
useful or necessary. Any poultry slaughter that is granted pursuant to this
chapter, shall be done in an enclosed area, away from the view of the general
public, and completed in a humane manner.
(Ord. 2021-05, passed 9-13-2021) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.08 EXPIRATION OF APPROVAL, NON-ASSIGNMENT AND CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   (A)   An approved poultry housing license will expire and have no validity
90 days after it is approved, if inspection and approval of the same is not
given by the Village Building and Zoning Officer.
   (B)   No poultry housing license may be assigned, sold, or transferred.
   (C)   The location of the poultry housing, as identified within the
application, shall be not changed or modified.
(Ord. 2021-05, passed 9-13-2021) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.09 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   When the conduct or operation of any poultry housing shall constitute
a nuisance in fact and a clear and present danger to the public health, safety,
or general welfare, the Village President shall be authorized to summarily
order the suspension of any license for a period not to exceed ten days.
   (B)   Within eight days after he or she has so acted, the Village President
shall call a hearing for the purpose of determining whether the license should
be suspended for an additional period of time or revoked.
   (C)   Licenses issued under this chapter, unless otherwise provided, may be
suspended for up to 30 days or revoked by the Village Board after notice and
hearing as provided below for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in the
application for the license;
      (2)   Any violation by the licensee of ordinance provisions relating to
the license, the subject matter of the license, or the premises occupied;
      (3)   Failure of the licensee to pay any fine;
      (4)   Refusal to permit an inspection or sampling, or any interference
with a duly authorized village officer or employee while in the performance of
his or her duties in making such inspections, as provided in this chapter; or
      (5)   Any other violation of any village ordinances, resolutions, or
regulations.
   (D)   Such suspension or revocation, if ordered, shall not preclude
prosecution and imposition of any other penalties provided for the violation of
other applicable ordinances of the village.
   (E)   Notice of the hearing for suspension or revocation of a license shall
be given in writing setting forth specifically the grounds of the violation and
the time and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be sent by certified mail
(return receipt requested) to the licensee at his or her last known address at
least five days prior to the date set for the hearing.
   (F)   At the hearing, the Village Attorney shall present the complaint and
shall represent the village. The licensee shall be permitted counsel and shall
have the right to submit evidence and cross-examine witnesses. The Village
President shall preside and shall render the decision within a reasonable time
after the conclusion of the hearing, but not later than 30 days thereafter. The
decision shall be in writing and shall summarize the evidence and state the
reasons for the decision.
   (G)   Any licensee whose license is suspended or revoked shall pay to the
costs of the hearing. The Village President shall determine the costs incurred
for the hearing, including, but not limited to, court reporter fees, the costs
of transcripts or records, attorneys' fees, the cost of preparing and mailing
notices and orders, and all other miscellaneous expenses incurred or such
lesser sum as the Village President may allow.
   (H)   The licensee shall pay said costs within 30 days of notification.
Failure to pay these costs within 30 days of notification is a violation of
this section and may be cause for license suspension or revocation or the levy
of a fine.
(Ord. 2021-05, passed 9-13-2021) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or
refuses to comply with, or resists enforcement of any provisions of this
chapter, or the conditions and restrictions imposed upon the same through the
issuance of the license shall be subject to the following:
   (A)   A person in violation of this chapter shall be provided a written
notification of said violation, and given a specific timeframe to correct the
same.
   (B)   A person in violation of this chapter for a second time shall be
subject to a fine of $25, as established pursuant to
Chapter 35 of the Village Municipal Code.
   (C)   A person in violation of this chapter for a third time shall be
subject to license suspension or revocation.
   (D)   A person in violation of this chapter shall also be subject to the
penalties contained in §
10.99.
(Ord. 2021-05, passed 9-13-2021)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST THE PEACE
      
131.   GAMBLING AND GAMING
      
132.   OFFENSES PERTAINING TO MINORS
      
133.   CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST THE PEACE
Section
   
130.01   Loitering
   
130.02   Unlawful assembly
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 LOITERING.
   (A)   General provisions. A person commits a violation if he or she loiters
or prowls in a place, at a time or in a manner not usual for law-abiding
individuals under circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or
property in the vicinity. Among the circumstances which may be considered in
determining whether such alarm is warranted is the fact that the actor takes
flight upon appearance of a peace officer, refuses to identify himself or
herself or manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object.
Unless flight by the actor or other circumstance makes it impracticable, a
peace officer shall prior to any arrest for an offense under this section
afford the actor an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would otherwise be
warranted, by requesting him or her to identify himself or herself and explain
his or her presence and conduct. No person shall be convicted of an offense
under this section if the peace officer did not comply with the preceding
sentence, or if it appears at trial that the explanation given by the actor was
true and, if believed by the peace officer at the time, would have dispelled
the alarm.
   (B)   Enforcement. It shall be the duty of the village police officer to
enforce the general provisions of this section.
(Ord. passed 11-10-1970) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   (A)   General prohibition. It shall be unlawful to collect together or be a
member of any disorderly crowd, or any crowds gathered together for any
unlawful purposes.
   (B)   Enumeration. The commission by anyone of the following acts shall be
unlawful and constitute unlawful assemblage: the collecting in crowds for
unlawful purposes, or for any purpose to the annoyance or disturbance of other
persons; loitering continuously in public places or being idle or dissolute or
going about begging; assembling with two or more persons for the purpose of
using force or violence to disturb the public peace; failing to obey a lawful
order of dispersal by a person known to be a peace officer where three or more
persons are committing acts of disorderly conduct in the immediate vicinity,
which acts are likely to cause substantial harm or serious inconvenience,
annoyance or alarm to other persons.
(Ord. passed 9-6-1977) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §
130.01 shall be punished upon conviction by a fine of not less than $50 nor
more than $500.
   (C)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §
130.02 shall be punished upon conviction by a fine not less than $50 nor more
than $500.
(Ord. passed 11-10-1970; Ord. passed 9-7-1977)
CHAPTER 131: GAMBLING AND GAMING
Section
General Provisions
   
131.01   Gaming devices defined; confiscation
   
131.02   Unlawful to use
   
131.03   Places of operation declared public nuisance
   
131.04   Sale or lease of machines prohibited
   
131.05   Gaming
   
131.06   Video gaming allowed
   
131.07   Duty of officers to enforce
   
131.08   Raffles exempted from regulations
Video Gaming Terminals
   
131.20   Recitals incorporated
   
131.21   Purpose of terminals
   
131.22   Definitions
   
131.23   License required
   
131.24   State licensure
   
131.25   License fee
   
131.26   License
Raffles
   
131.30   Regulation of raffles
 
   
131.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 131.01 GAMING DEVICES DEFINED; CONFISCATION.
   Every tape machine, slot machine or other machines, tables, punch boards or
devices for the reception of money on chance, or upon the action of which money
is staked, hazarded, bet, won or lost, is hereby declared a gaming device and
shall be subject to seizure, confiscation and destruction by the municipal or
the local authority within whose jurisdiction the same may be found.
(Ord. 2012-06-02, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 131.02 UNLAWFUL TO USE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in any room, saloon, inn, tavern, shed,
barbershop, store, booth or building or enclosure or any part thereof, to
operate, keep, own, rent or use any billiard table, pool table, bagatelle
table, pigeon hole table, tape or slot machine, punch board or any other device
upon which money is staked or hazarded or into which money is played or paid
upon chance, or upon the result of the action of which money or other valuable
thing is staked, bet, hazarded, won or lost.
(Ord. 2012-06-02, passed 6-4-2012) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 PLACES OF OPERATION DECLARED PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   All places where slot machines and other gambling devices described or
mentioned in this subchapter are held or operated shall be taken and declared
to be common and public nuisance, and whoever shall keep any such place by
himself or herself or his or her agents or servants, shall be fined as set
forth in §
131.99.
(Ord. 2012-06-02, passed 6-4-2012) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 SALE OR LEASE OF MACHINES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to bargain for the sale or lease of any gambling device
described in this subchapter, to collect money, to take compensation for such
sale or lease, or to take or accept money from any person or from any such
machine as a share or royalty, compensation for such lease or sale. Proof of
such machine or device when seized has not been used or is out of repair shall
not constitute a defense to a prosecution under this subchapter.
(Ord. 2012-06-02, passed 6-4-2012) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05 GAMING.
   Whoever shall pay for money, or other valuable thing, at any game with
cards, dice or at billiards, or with any other article, instrument or thing
whatsoever, or which may be used for the purpose of playing or betting upon, or
winning or losing money, or any other thing or article of value, or shall be on
any game others may be playing, shall be fined as set forth in §
131.99.
(Ord. 2012-06-02, passed 6-4-2012) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.06 VIDEO GAMING ALLOWED.
   Nothing contained within this subchapter shall prohibit video gaming
terminals which are licensed and authorized through the State Video Gaming Act
(230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.) and the village.
(Ord. 2012-06-02, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 131.07 DUTY OF OFFICERS TO ENFORCE.
   It shall be the duty of every member of the police force to see that the
provisions of this subchapter are strictly complied with and enforced.
(Ord. 2012-06-02, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 131.08 RAFFLES EXEMPTED FROM REGULATIONS.
   The prohibitions provided for in this chapter and any other chapter of this
code that may reference or govern participation in raffles shall not apply to
any person, firm or corporation conducting a raffle in full compliance with §
131.30 and the Illinois Raffles and Poker Runs Act (230 ILCS 15/0.001 et seq.).
(Ord. 2017-10, passed 9-18-2017)
VIDEO GAMING TERMINALS
§ 131.20 RECITALS INCORPORATED.
   (A)   The state has passed the State Video Gaming Act (230 ILCS 4/01 et
seq.) regulating video gaming within the state;
   (B)   A non-home rule municipality may charge a licensing fee pursuant to
the State Video Gaming Act (230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.);
   (C)   The Village Board having considered the matter has determined that the
village should adopt an annual licensing fee for video gaming terminals; and
   (D)   The Village Board has determined that the adoption of such a licensing
fee will be in the best interest of the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the village.
(Ord. 2012-07, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 131.21 PURPOSE OF TERMINALS.
   This chapter shall regulate the licensing of video gaming terminals pursuant
to the State Video Gaming Act (230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.).
(Ord. 2012-07, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 131.22 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The State Gaming Board.
   COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLES. The same meaning as defined in § 18b-101 of the
State Vehicle Code.
   CREDIT. An amount of $0.01, $0.05, $0.10 or $0.25 either won or purchased by
a player.
   DISTRIBUTOR. An individual, partnership, corporation or limited liability
company licensed under this Act to buy, sell, lease or distribute video gaming
terminals or major components or parts of video gaming terminals to or from
terminal operators.
   LICENSED ESTABLISHMENT.  Any licensed retail establishment where alcoholic
liquor is drawn, poured, mixed or otherwise served for consumption on the
premises and includes any such establishment that has a contractual
relationship with an inter-track wagering location licensee licensed under the
State Horse Racing Act of 1975, being 230 ILCS 5/1 et seq., provided any
contractual relationship shall not include any transfer or offer of revenue
from the operation of video gaming under this Act to any licensee licensed
under the State Horse Racing Act; provided, however, that the licensed
establishment that has such a contractual relationship with an inter-track
wagering location licensee may not, itself, be either an inter-track wagering
location licensee, or the corporate parent or subsidiary of any licensee
licensed under the State Horse Racing Act of 1975. LICENSED ESTABLISHMENT does
not include a facility operated by an organization licensee, an inter-track
wagering licensee or an inter-track wagering location licensee licensed under
the State Horse Racing Act of 1975 or a riverboat licensed under the Riverboat
Gambling Act, except as provided in this definition.
   LICENSED FRATERNAL ESTABLISHMENT. The location where a qualified fraternal
organization that derives its charter from a national fraternal organization
regularly meets.
   LICENSED TRUCK STOP ESTABLISHMENT.
      (1)   A facility:
         (a)   That is at least a three-acre facility with a convenience store;
         (b)   With separate diesel islands for fueling commercial motor
vehicles;
         (c)   That sells at retail more than 10,000 gallons of diesel or
biodiesel fuel per month; and
         (d)   With parking spaces for commercial motor vehicles.
      (2)   The requirement of division (1)(c) of this definition may be met by
showing that estimated future sales or past sales average at least 10,000
gallons per month.
   LICENSED VETERAN’S ESTABLISHMENT. The location where a qualified veteran’s
organization that derives its charter from a national veteran’s organization
regularly meets.
   NET TERMINAL INCOME. Money put into a video gaming terminal minus credits
paid out to players.
   TERMINAL OPERATOR. An individual, partnership, corporation or limited
liability company that is licensed under this Act and that owns, services and
maintains video gaming terminals for placement in licensed establishments,
licensed truck stop establishments, licensed fraternal establishments or
licensed veteran’s establishments.
   VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL. Any electronic video game machine that, upon
insertion of cash, is available to play or simulate the play of a video game,
including but not limited to video poker, line up and blackjack, as authorized
by the Board, utilizing a video display and microprocessors in which the player
may receive free games or credits that can be redeemed for cash. The term does
not include a machine that directly dispenses coins, cash or tokens or is for
amusement purposes only.
(Ord. 2012-07, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 131.23 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person or business shall operate or allow on the premises a video gaming
terminal without having a video gaming license therefor as is provided in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2012-07, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 131.24 STATE LICENSURE.
   No video gaming license shall be issued by the village unless the video
gaming terminal has been approved and licensed by the State Gaming Board.
(Ord. 2012-07, passed 6-4-2012) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.25 LICENSE FEE.
   A video gaming license is required for each video gaming terminal. The
annual fee for such a license shall be $25 payable to the village.
(Ord. 2012-07, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 131.26 LICENSE.
   A license shall be purely a personal privilege good for up to one year from
the date of issuance unless revoked. It shall not constitute property. It shall
not be subject to attachment, garnishment or execution; nor shall it be
alienable or transferable, voluntary or involuntary, or subject to be
encumbered or hypothecated.
(Ord. 2012-07, passed 6-4-2012)
RAFFLES
§ 131.30 REGULATION OF RAFFLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this subchapter the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BUSINESS. A voluntary organization composed of individuals and/or
businesses who have joined together to advance commercial, financial
industrial, and civic interests.
      CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION. An organization or institution organized and
operated to benefit an indefinite number of the public. The service rendered to
those eligible for benefits must also confer some benefit upon the public.
      EDUCATIONAL ORGANIZATION. An organization or institution organized and
operated to provide systematic instruction in useful branches of learning by
methods common to schools and institutions of learning which compare favorably
in their scope and intensity with the course of study presented in tax-
supported schools.
      FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION. An organization of persons having a common
interest, the primary interest of which is both to promote the welfare of its
members and to provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to
lessen the burdens of government by caring for those who otherwise would be
cared for by the government.
      LABOR ORGANIZATION. An organization composed of workers organized with
the objective of betterment of the conditions of those engaged in such pursuit
in the development of a higher degree of efficiency in their respective
occupations.
      LICENSEE. An organization which has been issued a license to operate a
raffle.
      NET PROCEEDS. The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less
reasonable sums expended for prizes, local license fees, and other reasonable
operating expenses incurred as a result of operating a raffle.
      NONPROFIT. Organized, operated, and conducted on a not-for-profit basis
with no personal profit inuring to anyone as a result of said operation.
      PERSON. An individual, firm, organization, public, or private
corporation, government, partnership, or unincorporated association.
      RAFFLE. A form of lottery, as defined in 720 ILCS 5/28-2(b), conducted by
an organization licensed under this section in which:
         (a)   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a chance
represented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of numbers or by
some other means, one or more of which chances is to be designated as a winning
chance; and
         (b)   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by
some other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the
part of persons conducting or connected with the lottery except that the
winning chance shall not be determined by the outcome of the publicly exhibited
sporting contest.
      RAFFLE ADMINISTRATOR(S). The Village Clerk or a member of a committee
lawfully established by the Village Board.
      RAFFLE EVENT. An event at which at least one raffle is conducted by an
organization that holds a raffle issued under this section.
      RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION. Any church, congregation, society, or
organization founded for the purpose of religious worship.
      VETERAN'S ORGANIZATION. An organization or association comprised of
members of which substantially all are individuals who are veteran's, veteran's
spouses, widows or widowers of veterans, the primary purpose of which is to
promote the welfare of its members and to provide assistance to the general
public in such a way as to confer a public benefit.
   (B)   Classification of licenses; Class A: Annual Raffle License. An annual
raffle license permits an organization, a not-for-profit fund-raising
organization, a group which is organized for the sole purpose of providing
financial hardship assistance to an identified individual or group of
individuals suffering severe financial hardship as a result of an injury,
disability, accident, or disaster to conduct raffle(s) as defined herein within
12 consecutive calendar months. Such license shall permit no more than 52
raffle events per year.
   (C)   License required. 
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or operate a raffle,
or to sell, offer for sale, convey, issue, or otherwise transfer for value a
chance on a raffle, unless conducted pursuant to a license duly issued by the
village and in accordance with the provisions of this section.
      (2)   Such license, when issued, is effective for all areas within the
village; however, such license is not effective outside the village.
   (D)   Raffle application. Any person seeking to conduct or operate a raffle
shall file an application with the Village Clerk on forms provided by the
village. Such application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, address, and type of organization;
      (2)   The length of existence of the organization and, if incorporated,
the date and state of incorporation;
      (3)   The name, address, telephone number, and date of birth of the
organization's presiding officer, secretary, raffles manager, and any other
members responsible for the conduct and operation of the raffle;
      (4)   The aggregate retail value of all prizes to be awarded in the
raffle;
      (5)   The maximum retail value of each prize to be awarded in the raffle;
      (6)   The maximum price charged for each raffle chance issued or sold;
      (7)   The maximum number of raffle chances to be issued;
      (8)   The area in which raffle chances will be sold or issued;
      (9)   The time period during which raffle chances will be issued or sold;
      (10)   The date, time, and location at which winning chances will be
determined;
      (11)   A sworn statement attesting to the not-for-profit character of the
applicant organization, signed by its presiding officer and secretary;
      (12)   A certificate signed by the presiding officer of the applicant
organization attesting to the fact that the information contained in the
application is true and correct; and
      (13)   A fidelity bond in an amount equal to the aggregate retail value
of all prizes to be awarded shall accompany such application.
   (E)   Licensee qualifications. Raffle licenses shall be issued only to a
bona fide religious, charitable, labor, business, fraternal, educational, or
veterans' organizations that operate without profit to their members and which
have been in existence continuously for a period of five years immediately
before making application for a license and which have had, during that entire
five-year period, a bona fide membership engaged in carrying out their
objectives or to a nonprofit fundraising organization that the licensing
authority determines is organized for the sole purpose of providing financial
assistance to an identified individual or group of individuals suffering
extreme financial hardship as the result of an illness, disability, accident,
or disaster. The following are ineligible for any raffle license:
      (1)   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
      (2)   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler, or gambling
promoter;
      (3)   Any person who is not of good moral character;
      (4)   Any organization in which a person defined in divisions (E)(1),
(2), or (3) above has a proprietary, equitable, or credit interest or in which
such person is active or employed;
      (5)   Any organization in which a person defined in divisions (E)(1),
(2), or (3) above is an officer, director, or employee, whether compensated or
not; and
      (6)   Any organization in which a person defined in divisions (E)(1),
(2), or (3) above is to participate in the management or operation of a raffle
as defined in this section.
   (F)   License issuance.
      (1)   The Village Clerk shall receive all license applications. If an
application is approved, the Village Clerk shall forthwith issue a raffle
license to the applicant.
      (2)   A Class A license shall be valid for no more than one year,
commencing immediately after issuance of the raffle license by the village.
      (3)   A raffle license shall contain the following:
         (a)   The area in which raffle chances will be sold or issued;
         (b)   The period of time during which raffle chances will be sold or
issued;
         (c)   The date, time, and location on or at which the winning chances
will be determined.
      (4)   Such license shall be prominently displayed at the time and
location of the detennination of the winning chances.
      (5)   A license may be suspended or revoked for any violation of this
code.
   (G)   Licensing fees. A license fee of $5 shall be payable to the village
upon submission of a Class A raffle license application. When application for a
raffle license is filed, such application fee is nonrefundable, even if the
application is denied, or in the event the raffle is cancelled for any reason.
   (H)   Conduct of raffles. The operation and conduct of raffles are subject
to the following restrictions:
      (1)   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted
to the lawful purpose of the licensee.
      (2)   No person, except a bona fide member of the licensee may
participate in the management or operation of the raffle.
      (3)   No person may receive remuneration or profit for participating in
the management or operation of the raffle.
      (4)   A licensee may rent a premises in which to determine the winning
chances in a raffle only from an organization which is also licensed under this
section.
      (5)   Raffle chances may be sold, offered for sale, conveyed, issued, or
otherwise transferred for value only within the area specified on the license;
and the winning chances may be determined only at the location specified on the
license.
      (6)   No person under the age of 18 years may participate in the
conducting of raffles or chances. A person under the age of 18 years may be
within the area where winning chances are being determined only when
accompanied by his or her parent or guardian.
      (7)   The aggregate retail value of all prizes awarded in a single raffle
shall not exceed $1,000,000 and the retail value of any one prize awarded in a
single raffle shall not exceed $1,000,000.
      (8)   The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance sold,
offered for sale, conveyed, issued, or otherwise transferred for value shall
not exceed $1,000.
   (I)   Raffles manager; fidelity bond. The operation and conduct of a raffle
shall be under the supervision of at least one raffle manager designated by the
licensee. The manager(s) shall give a fidelity bond equal in the amount to the
aggregate retail value of all prizes to be awarded in favor of the licensee
conditioned upon his honesty in the performance of his or her duties. The terms
of the bond shall provide that notice shall be given in writing to the village
not less than 30 days prior to its cancellation.
   (J)   Records to be kept.
      (1)   Each licensee shall keep records of its gross receipts, expenses, a
list of names of prize winners, and net proceeds for each raffle event at which
winning chances are determined. All deductions or other records indicating the
amount, a description of the purchased item or service or other reason for the
deduction, and the recipient. The distribution of net proceeds shall be
itemized as to payee, purpose, amount, and date of payment.
      (2)   Each licensee shall file its records and report with the Village
Clerk within 30 days following the conclusion of the raffle.
      (3)   Gross receipts from the operation of raffles shall be segregated
from other revenues of the licensee including bingo gross receipts, if bingo
games are also conducted by the same nonprofit organization pursuant to license
issued by the Department of Revenue of the State of Illinois, and placed in a
separate account. Each licensee shall keep separate records of its raffles. The
person who accounts for gross receipts, expenses, and net proceeds from the
operation of raffles shall not be the same person who accounts for the other
revenues of the licensee.
      (4)   Each licensee shall report to its membership and to the village its
gross receipts, expenses, and net proceeds from the raffle and the distribution
of net proceeds itemized as required herein. If a license is valid for more
than 30 days, the report shall be made monthly.
      (5)   Raffle records shall be preserved by each licensee for three years,
and organizations shall make their records available relating to the operation
of raffles for public inspection at the reasonable times and places.
   (K)   Penalty. Failure to comply with any of the requirements of this
section shall constitute a violation, and any person shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined no less than $75 or more than $750 for each offense. Each day
the violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 2017-10, passed 9-18-2017)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation, who by himself, herself or
another, his or her principal, agent or otherwise shall violate the provisions
of §§
131.01 through
131.07, shall be fined for the first offense not less than $10 nor more than
$25, and for the second offense not less than $25 nor more than $50.
      (2)   Violators of §
131.03 shall for the first offense be fined not less than $10 nor more than $25
nor more than $50.
      (3)    Violators of §
131.05 shall be fined not exceeding $25 and not less than $3.
   (C)   Any person or persons violating any provision of §§
131.20 through
131.26 shall be punished by a fine in the amount of not less than $75, nor more
than $750 for each offense; a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day that a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2012-06-02, passed 6-4-2012; Ord. 2012-07, passed 6-4-2012)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES PERTAINING TO MINORS
Section
Truancy
   
132.01   Definitions
   
132.02   Truancy prohibited
Curfew
   
132.15   Minor between 16 and 19
   
132.16   Minor under 16
   
132.17   Responsibility of parent or guardian
 
   
132.99   Penalty
TRUANCY
§ 132.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARENTAL PERMISSION. Includes permission from a person in loco parentis and
shall be given for reasons only of personal illness, serious family illness,
death in the family, serious home emergencies, necessary and lawful family
support, employment, valid religious justification, school districts providing
appropriate evidence of home schooling and/or compelling family reasons.
   TRUANT. A child subject to compulsory school attendance and who is absent
without parental/guardian permission from such attendance for a school day or a
portion thereof.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 1-20-2003)
§ 132.02 TRUANCY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits
of the village, or enrolled in a school within the corporate limits of the
village, and enrolled in grades 1 through 12 who is any of the following
divisions (A)(1)(a) through (c), to absent himself or herself from attendance
at school without parental or guardian school permission:
         (a)   Required by law to attend school;
         (b)   Subject to the compulsory attendance requirements of the State
School Code as it may be amended from time to time; or
         (c)   Enrolled in a public, private or parochial school (hereinafter
referred to as “student”).
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any parent or legal guardian of any such
child to allow a child to violate this subchapter.
   (B)   It shall further be unlawful for any student enrolled in public,
private or parochial school to absent himself or herself from attendance at
said school without parental/guardian permission. Any person who shall so
absent himself or herself shall be guilty of the offense of truancy and
students and/or those who have custody shall be subject to a fine as set forth
hereafter. Emergency or unforeseen absences due to illness or other causes
beyond the control of the person so absenting himself or herself from school
without parental permission shall not constitute truancy if permission is
submitted in writing to the proper school authorities within 24 hours after
such absence.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person who has custody or control of a
student to permit such child not to attend some pubic, private or parochial
school in the district wherein the child resides during the entire time it is
in the session during the regular school term, without reasonable and adequate
excuse, such excuse including personal illness, serious family illness, death
in family, serious home emergency, necessary and lawful family support,
employment, valid religious justification or providing evidence of satisfactory
participating in home schooling, or compelling family reason. Any person
violating this section is guilty of the offense of truancy and shall be subject
to a fine as set forth in §
132.99.
   (D)   It shall be an offense under this section for a parent or other
individual to knowingly submit to the proper school authorities a written
excuse under any of the provisions herein that contains false information,
including falsification of a signature. A person convicted of an offense under
this section shall be subject to a fine set forth in §
132.99.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 1-20-2003) Penalty, see §
132.99
CURFEW
§ 132.15 MINOR BETWEEN 16 AND 19.
   It is unlawful for a person 16 years of age but less than 19 years of age to
be present at or upon any public assembly, building, place, street or highway
unless accompanied and supervised by a parent or legal guardian unless engaged
in a business or occupation which the laws of the state authorize a person less
than 19 years of age to perform or unless in attendance at, or while traveling
directly home from a school, church or a not-for-profit community organization
sponsored activity between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. seven days a week.
(Ord. 1995-18, passed 8-21-1995) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.16 MINOR UNDER 16.
   It is unlawful for a person less than 16 years of age to be present at or
upon any public assembly, building, place, street or highway at the following
times unless accompanied and supervised by a parent or legal guardian unless
engaged in a business or occupation which the laws of the state authorize a
person less than 16 years of age to perform or unless in attendance at, or
while traveling directly home from a school, church or a not-for-profit
community organization sponsored activity between 9:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. seven
days a week.
(Ord. 1995-18, passed 8-21-1995) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.17 RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENT OR GUARDIAN.
   Any parent, legal guardian or other person in loco parentis is prohibited
from knowingly permitting a child in his or her custody or control to violate
any of the provisions contained in §
132.15 or §
132.16.
(Ord. 1995-18, passed 8-21-1995) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any student who violates §§
132.01 and
132.02 and/or any persons, including but not limited to a person having custody
of a student hereunder who violates §§
132.01 and
132.02, shall be subject to a fine of not less than $50 and
not more than $750.
   (C)   Any person who violates §§
132.15 through
132.17 shall be guilty of a petty offense and shall be fined not less than $25
nor more than $250 for each offense.
(Ord. 1995-18, passed 8-21-1995; Ord. 2003-2, passed 1-20-2003)
CHAPTER 133: CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES
Section
Consumption of Alcohol in Public
   
133.01   Definitions
   
133.02   Consumption
   
133.03   Open container
   
133.04   Municipal parks
   
133.05   License not to permit removal of open container
Chemicals Producing Altered State
   
133.20   Inhaling, breathing or drinking substances
   
133.21   Sale, delivery or gift to minors
 
   
133.99   Penalty
CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOL IN PUBLIC
§ 133.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Includes alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and every liquid
containing alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and containing over 0.5% of alcohol
by volume, and capable of being consumed as a beverage.
(Ord. 1985-2, passed 7-1-1985)
§ 133.02 CONSUMPTION.
   No person shall consume any alcoholic liquor while in or upon public
streets, alleys, sidewalks or other public ways.
(Ord. 1985-2, passed 7-1-1985) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.03 OPEN CONTAINER.
   No person shall be in possession of any open container containing alcoholic
liquor on any public street, alley, sidewalk or other public way.
(Ord. 1985-2, passed 7-1-1985) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.04 MUNICIPAL PARKS.
   No person shall consume or have in his or her possession any alcoholic
liquor while in any municipal park in the village except as provided hereunder.
Possession or consumption of alcoholic liquor within any municipal park shall
be permitted only upon issuance of a permit therefor by the Liquor Control
Commission. Such permit shall contain the signatures of two members of the
Liquor Control Commission. Application for such permit must be made not less
than ten days in advance of the date for which the permit is requested. No
permit shall be issued for any day on which a community sponsored family
activity is scheduled to be held in the municipal park.
(Ord. 1985-2, passed 7-1-1985) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.05 LICENSEE NOT TO PERMIT REMOVAL OF OPEN CONTAINER.
   No person, firm or corporation licensed to sell alcoholic liquor, or his or
her employees or agents, shall permit any person to remove from the licensed
premises any alcoholic liquor in any open container.
(Ord. 1985-2, passed 7-1-1985) Penalty, see §
133.99
CHEMICALS PRODUCING ALTERED STATE
§ 133.20 INHALING, BREATHING OR DRINKING SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to inhale, breathe or drink any
compound liquid or chemical containing toluol, hexane, trichloroethylene,
acetone, toluene, ethyl acetate, methyl ethyl ketone, trichloroathane,
isopropanol, methyl isobutyl ketone, methyl cellosolve acetate, cyclohexanone
or any other substance for the purpose of inducing symptoms of intoxication,
elation, dizziness, paralysis, irrational behavior or in any manner change,
distort or disturb the audio, visual or mental processes.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, any such condition so induced shall
be deemed to be an intoxicated condition; provided, however, that the
provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Any person who inhales, breathes or drinks such material or
substance pursuant to the direction or prescription of any doctor, physician,
surgeon, dentist or podiatrist authorized to so direct or prescribe; or
      (2)   Any person who inhales, breathes, drinks or otherwise in any manner
uses any narcotic, dangerous drug or other material or substance or combination
thereof, which material or substance or combination thereof is defined by, and
the use of which is prohibited or regulated by, any law of this state.
(Ord. passed 9-6-1967) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.21 SALE, DELIVERY OR GIFT TO MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly sell or offer for sale,
deliver or give away to any person under 17 years of age, unless upon the
written order of parent or guardian, any substances containing any of the
following volatile solvents, where the seller, offeror or deliverer knows or
has reason to believe that the substance will be used for the purpose of
inducing symptoms of intoxication, elation, dizziness, paralysis, irrational
behavior or in any manner change, distort or disturb the audio, visual or
mental processes: toluol, hexane, trichloroethylene, acetone, toluene, ethyl
acetate, methyl ethyl ketone, trichloroathane, isopropanol, methyl isobutyl
ketone, methyl cellosolve acetate, cyclohexanone or any other substance which
will induce symptoms of intoxication, elation, dizziness, paralysis, irrational
behavior or in any manner change, distort or disturb the audio, visual or
mental processes.
(Ord. passed 9-6-1967) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §
133.01 through
133.05 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500 for each offense,
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
133.20 and
133.21 shall be fined not less than $150 nor more than $200 for each offense.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1967; Ord. 1985-2, passed 7-1-1985)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
152.   TRAILERS AND TRAILER PARKS
      
153.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
154.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
155.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
150.01   Comprehensive plan adopted, as amended
   
150.02   Adopting county land-cash ordinance
Cross-reference:
   Other land-cash materials, see
Ch. 154
§ 150.01 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED, AS AMENDED.
   (A)   The amended Comprehensive Plan attached to Ordinance 2007-03 is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in full herein. Copies are available through
village offices.
   (B)   The amendments shall become effective upon the expiration of ten days
after the filing of the noticed of the adoption of an amendment to the
Comprehensive Plan with the County Recorder.
(Ord. 2007-03, passed 2-20-2007)
§ 150.02 ADOPTING COUNTY LAND-CASH ORDINANCE.
   The ordinance adopted by the County Board entitled “Grundy County Land-Cash
Ordinance” is hereby adopted in total. A true and correct copy of said
ordinance is attached to Ordinance 1995-4 and incorporated herein by reference
as if set out in full herein.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 3-20-1995)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Occupancy bond requirements for new construction
   
151.002   Residential anti-displacement and relocation assistance plan
Demolition Permits
   
151.015   Issuance; notification to utilities
   
151.016   Demolition permit fee
   
151.017   Enforcement; fee collection
Building Code
   
151.030   Adoption of BOCA National Fire Prevention Code
   
151.031   Adoption of International Building, Residential, Energy and Existing
Building Codes
   
151.032   Adoption of State Plumbing Code
   
151.033   Adoption of National Electrical Code
   
151.034   Foundation elevation
   
151.035   Violation
Building Permits, Occupancy Permits and Fees
   
151.050   Building permits
   
151.051   Occupancy permits
   
151.052   Building permit fees
   
151.053   Building inspection fee
   
151.054   Plumbing inspection fee
   
151.055   Electrical inspection fee
   
151.056   Water impact fee
   
151.057   Sewer impact fee
   
151.058   Water tap-on fee
   
151.059   Sewer tap-on fee
   
151.060   Water tower fee
   
151.061   Sidewalk installation/security
   
151.062   School site land-cash donation requirement
   
151.063   Park site land-cash donation requirement
   
151.064   Electrical upgrade fee
   
151.065   Water service line upgrade fee
   
151.066   Building roof permit
Public Buildings
   
151.075   Person responsible for maintenance
   
151.076   Inspections
   
151.077   Fire appliances; adoption
   
151.078   Removal of fire apparatus unlawful
   
151.079   Doors to open outward
   
151.080   Exit lights
Fences
   
151.095   Definitions
   
151.096   Permit
   
151.097   Responsibility of applicant
   
151.098   Fence installation
   
151.099   Fences required in commercial/ manufacturing districts
   
151.100   Maintenance of fences
   
151.101   Existing fences
   
151.102   Prohibited fences
   
151.103   Certain fences permitted without a permit
   
151.104   Animal enclosures
   
151.105   Recreational facilities
   
151.106   Violations
   
151.107   Administration and appeals
Stormwater Management
   
151.200   Purpose
   
151.201   Definitions
   
151.202   General stormwater requirements
   
151.203   Erosion and sediment control planning
   
151.204   Development within special management areas
   
151.205   Applicable developments requiring detention
   
151.206   Site runoff requirements for detention
   
151.207   Site runoff storage requirements for detention
   
151.208   Floodplain, BFE and regulatory floodway locations
   
151.209   General performance standards in regulatory floodplain
   
151.210   Lowest opening
   
151.211   Development in the floodway
   
151.212   Riverine floodplain without a delineated floodway
   
151.213   Compensatory storage volume standards in regulatory floodplains and
floodways
   
151.214   Bridge and culvert standards
   
151.215   Requirements for wetland delineation
   
151.216   Wetland preservation during development
   
151.217   Buffer requirements for wetlands
   
151.218   Wetland impacts and mitigation
   
151.219   Immitigable wetlands; exceptions
   
151.220   Wetland mitigation required
   
151.221   Wetland mitigation plan
   
151.222   Buffer requirements for wetland mitigation facilities
   
151.223   Wetland mitigation performance standards
   
151.224   Required submittals for stormwater management permits
   
151.225   Duration and revision of permits
   
151.226   Modified submittals for stormwater management permits
   
151.227   Stormwater management permit application and project overview
   
151.228   Stormwater management permit plan set submittal
   
151.229   Stormwater submittal
   
151.230   Floodplain submittal
   
151.231   Wetland submittal
   
151.232   Record drawings
   
151.233   Stormwater management permit approval, denial and appeal
   
151.234   Long-term maintenance
   
151.235   Inspection and maintenance authority
   
151.236   Required inspections
   
151.237   Interpretation
   
151.238   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
151.239   Variances
   
151.240   Performance security
   
151.241   Disclaimer
   
151.242   Nonconforming structures
   
151.243   Offenses
 
   
151.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Development regulations for special flood hazard areas, see
Ch. 153
   Provisions for stormwater and floodwater runoff required for subdivisions,
see §
154.057
   Stormwater drainage, see §§
51.030 through
51.040
   Storm sewers required for subdivisions, see §
154.114
Editor’s note:
   Ordinance 1999-2 adopted a comprehensive building, subdivision and zoning
code, split into
Chs. 151,
154 and
155.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 OCCUPANCY BOND REQUIREMENTS FOR NEW CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   An occupancy bond shall be required on all new construction within the
village following the effective date of this section in the amount of $500.
   (B)   Said fee shall be required to be paid prior to the issuance of a
building permit.
   (C)   Upon successful completion of the construction, a final inspection by
the Village Building Inspector approving the construction and the issuance of
an occupancy permit, the applicant shall be entitled to a return of the
occupancy bond. The village shall return said bond within 30 days following the
issuance of an occupancy permit.
   (D)   In the event that the structure is occupied prior to the issuance of
an occupancy permit, the occupancy bond shall be forfeited and retained by the
village, and the applicant waives any right to the return of said occupancy
bond and forever releases the village in connection with said forfeiture.
   (E)   In addition to the above forfeiture, there shall be an additional $50
reinspection fee payable to the village in addition to any other fees or fines
incurred due to any violation found during the process of any inspection or
reinspection of the premises.
(Ord. 1998-7, passed 11-2-1998)
§ 151.002 RESIDENTIAL ANTI-DISPLACEMENT AND RELOCATION ASSISTANCE PLAN.
   (A)   The village will replace all occupied and vacant occupiable low-to-
moderate income dwelling units demolished or converted to a use other than as
low-to-moderate income housing as a direct result of activities assisted with
funds provided under the Housing Development Act, being 20 ILCS 3805/1 et seq.,
as amended.
   (B)   All replacement housing will be provided within three years of the
commencement of the demolition or rehabilitation relating to conversion. Before
obligating or expending funds that will directly result in such demolition or
conversion, the village will make public and submit to DCCA the following
information in writing:
      (1)   A description of the proposed assisted activity;
      (2)   The general location on a map and approximate number of dwelling
units by size (number of bedrooms) that will be demolished or converted to a
use other than as low-to-moderate income dwelling units as a direct result of
the assisted activity;
      (3)   A time schedule for the commencement and completion of the
demolition or conversion;
      (4)   The general location on a map and approximate number of dwelling
units by size (number of bedrooms) that will be provided as replacement
dwelling units;
      (5)   The source of funding and a time schedule for the provision of
replacement dwelling units; and
      (6)   The basis for concluding that each replacement dwelling unit will
remain a low-to-moderate income dwelling unit for at least ten years from the
date of initial occupancy.
   (C)   The village will provide relocation assistance, as described in the
Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, to each low-to-
moderate income household displaced by the demolition of housing or by the
conversion of a low-to-moderate income dwelling to another use as a direct
result of assisted activities.
   (D)   Consistent with the goals and objectives of activities assisted under
the Act, the village will take the following steps to minimize the displacement
of persons from their homes:
      (1)   Will minimize or eliminate any activities such as acquisition or
demolition which could be expected to result in the displacement of low-to-
moderate income persons; and
      (2)   Will advocate and seek funds for housing rehabilitation, as opposed
to demolition, especially for occupied housing.
(Res. 1995-15, passed 7-17-1995; Res. 1996-7, passed 3-28-1996)
DEMOLITION PERMITS
§ 151.015 ISSUANCE; NOTIFICATION TO UTILITIES.
   Before a building can be demolished or removed, the owner or agent shall
notify all utilities having service connections within the building, such as
water, electric, gas, sewer and other connections. A permit to demolish or
remove a building shall not be issued until a release is obtained from the
utilities stating that their respective service connections and appurtenant
equipment, such as meters and regulators, have been removed or sealed and
plugged in a safe manner.
(Ord. 1999-2, Building § 1, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 151.016 DEMOLITION PERMIT FEE.
   (A)   The fee for a permit for the demolition of a building or structure
permit shall be $100. The demolition permit shall only be valid for a period of
two months following its issuance. Upon the expiration of two months, then the
demolition permit shall expire and be of no force and effect. The fee shall
include two inspections, and each additional inspection shall be $50.
   (B)   Prior to the issuance of any permit, the applicant shall deposit with
the Village Clerk a bond or such other security in an amount equal to one and
one-half times the estimated demolition and removal costs. This bond or such
other security shall be held as security by the village, and the village shall
have the right to use the bond or other such security check to pay for any
damage to the village and/or public utilities or property or otherwise to
ensure proper completion of all required work.
(Ord. 1999-2, Building § 1, subs. .020, passed 2-15-1999; Ord. 2018-06, passed
10-1-2018)
§ 151.017 ENFORCEMENT; FEE COLLECTION.
   The Building and Zoning Officer of the village is charged with the
enforcement of this chapter and is authorized to issue permits or stop-work
orders and to collect fees provided herein on behalf of the village.
(Ord. 1999-2, Building § 1, subs. .030, passed 2-15-1999)
BUILDING CODE
§ 151.030 ADOPTION OF BOCA NATIONAL FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   (A)   There is adopted in whole in the village for the purpose of protecting
the public health, safety and welfare that certain building code known as the
BOCA National Fire Prevention Code and all subsequent editions and amendments
thereto, except such portions as are deleted, modified or amended in this
chapter, and the same is adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at
length in this section.
   (B)   The Office of Fire Inspector is hereby created to enforce the
provisions hereof.
(Ord. 1999-2, Building § 2, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 151.031 ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL BUILDING, RESIDENTIAL, ENERGY AND EXISTING
BUILDING CODES.
   (A)   For the purpose of protecting the public health, safety and welfare of
the citizens of the village, the International Building Code, 2003 Edition, as
published by the International Code Council, is hereby adopted as the Building
Code of the village and is hereby adopted in its entirety and incorporated into
the village code as though fully set forth herein.
   (B)   For the purpose of protecting the public health, safety and welfare of
the citizens of the village, the International Residential Code, 2003 Edition,
as published by the International Code Council, is hereby adopted as the
Residential Code of the village and is hereby adopted in its entirety and
incorporated into the village code as though fully set forth herein.
   (C)   For the purpose of protecting the public health, safety and welfare of
the citizens of the village, the International Energy Conservation Code
published by the Illinois Capital Development Board, January 1, 2024 edition,
is hereby adopted as the Energy Conservation Code of the village and is hereby
adopted in its entirety and incorporated into the village code as though fully
set forth herein.
   (D)   For the purpose of protecting the public health, safety and welfare of
the citizens of the village, the International Existing Building Code, 2003
Edition, as published by the International Code Council, is hereby adopted as
the Existing Building Code of the village and is hereby adopted in its entirety
and incorporated into the village code as though fully set forth herein.
   (E)   For the purpose of protecting the public health, safety and welfare of
the citizens of the village, the Illinois Accessibility Code published by the
Illinois Capital Development Board, October 23, 2018 edition, is hereby adopted
as the Accessibility Code of the village and is hereby adopted in its entirety
and incorporated into the village code as though fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 4-2-2012; Ord. 2024-05, passed 6-24-2024) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.032 ADOPTION OF STATE PLUMBING CODE.
   For the purpose of protecting the public health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the village, the State Plumbing Code (77 Ill. Adm. Code 890), as
published in the State Administrative Code and is hereby adopted as the
Plumbing Code of the village and is hereby adopted in its entirety and
incorporated into the village code as though fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 4-2-2012) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.033 ADOPTION OF NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE.
   (A)   There is adopted in whole in the village for the purpose of protecting
the public health, safety and welfare that certain building code known as the
National Electrical Code and all subsequent editions and amendments thereto
except such portions as are deleted, modified or amended in this chapter and
the same is adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length in this
section.
   (B)   The Office of Electrical Inspector is hereby created to enforce the
provisions hereof.
(Ord. 1999-2, Building § 2, subs. .030, passed 2-15-1999) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.034 FOUNDATION ELEVATION.
   The top of the concrete foundation of all single-family dwellings and semi-
detached dwellings and multi-family detached dwellings which are constructed
after the adoption hereof shall be at least 18 inches but not greater than 30
inches above the height of the curb in front of the dwelling or the centerline
of the roadway if no curb exists, unless this height requirement is waived by
the Building Officer. Prior to the issuance of a building permit, the applicant
shall submit a site plan showing the drainage around the dwelling which does
not divert water onto the neighbor’s property and does not obstruct the natural
flow of water. The applicant and owner shall prepare the site in accordance
with this site plan.
(Ord. 1999-2, Building § 2, subs. .040, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 151.035 VIOLATION.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter or any of the
provisions of the aforesaid BOCA National Fire Prevention Code, International
Building, Residential, Energy and Existing Building Codes, or National
Electrical Code, as may be amended, from time to time, shall upon conviction
thereof be punished by a fine as set forth in §
151.999.
(Ord. 1999-2, Building § 2, subs. .050, passed 2-15-1999) Penalty, see §
151.999
BUILDING PERMITS, OCCUPANCY PERMITS AND FEES
§ 151.050 BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   A building permit shall be required for all construction within the
village. No building permit shall be issued by the village unless a completed
application has been received, examined and approved by the Zoning Officer. Any
building permit issued in conflict with the provisions of this chapter shall be
null and void.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to ensure that the
application is complete and to submit surveys, floor plans, performance
standards or other documents as may be deemed necessary by the Zoning Officer
to complete his or her examination of the application.
   (C)   Upon the issuance of a building permit, the applicant must initiate
construction within six months, and shall thereafter complete construction
within 18 months from the construction inception date. The Village Board may,
in its sole discretion, extend the above initiation date and/or completion date
for a period of time not to exceed six months, but only upon a showing of good
cause. In the event that the applicant or his or her designated agent has not
initiated construction within six months, and no extension of time has been
allowed, then the building permit shall expire, and immediately become null and
void. Upon the expiration of the building permit, all fees paid by the
applicant shall be forfeited. In the event that the applicant or his or her
designated agent has not completed construction as required herein and no
extension of time has been allowed, then a penalty of $50 per day shall be
imposed upon the applicant.
(Ord. 1999-2, Building § 3, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 151.051 OCCUPANCY PERMITS.
   (A)   Occupancy permits shall be applied for coincidentally with
applications for zoning certificates, and shall be issued after completion of
construction and within ten working days after the premises have been inspected
by the Zoning Officer. Occupancy permits shall be issued by the Zoning Officer
to authorize occupancy of the premises in accordance with the zoning
certificate. Pending the issuance of the permanent occupancy permit, a
temporary permit may be issued, to be valid for a period not to exceed six
months from its date, during the completion of any addition or during partial
occupancy of the premises. If the issuance of an occupancy permit is denied,
the Zoning Officer shall notify the applicant in writing within ten working
days, stating the reasons why a permit cannot be issued.
   (B)   No occupancy permit shall be issued until the premises have been
inspected by the Zoning Officer and found to be in compliance with applicable
requirements for the zoning district in which it is located and in compliance
with this chapter.
   (C)   No land, building or structure shall be occupied in whole or in part
for any purpose whatsoever until an occupancy permit has been issued in
conformity herewith. This regulation shall specifically prohibit the occupancy
of any unit or units within a multi-family structure prior to the time in which
an occupancy permit has been issued for either all units within said structure
or the entire building.
   (D)   A record of occupancy permits shall be kept on file in the office of
the Zoning Officer and copies shall be furnished, on request, to any person
having proprietary or tenancy interest in the land or structure affected.
(Ord. 1999-2, Building § 3, subs. .020, passed 2-15-1999; Ord. 2005-10, passed
9-19-2005) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.052 BUILDING PERMIT FEES.
   All applicants for a building permit shall pay and the Building Officer
shall charge and collect the building fees with respect to applications for,
the issuance of permits for, and the inspection and supervision of, the
construction, alteration and repair of buildings and other structures, in
accordance with the following schedule.
   (A)   Residential construction (single-family only).
      (1)   For new construction, including wiring and plumbing, the building
permit fee shall be $100.
      (2)   For additions, incidental or accessory buildings and/or structures,
including wiring and building, the building permit fee shall be $100.
      (3)   For additions, incidental or accessory buildings and/or structures,
the building permit fee shall be $50.
      (4)   For alterations, remodeling or other structures, not including any
addition to existing buildings, which will add to the ground area thereof, the
building permit fee shall be $100 plus $0.30 per square foot. The fee shall
include four inspections, and each additional inspection shall be $50.
   (B)   Residential (multi-family).
      (1)   For new construction, including wiring and plumbing, the building
permit fee shall be $100.
      (2)   For additions, incidental or accessory buildings and/or structures,
including wiring and plumbing, the building permit fee shall be $100.
      (3)   For additions, incidental or accessory buildings and/or structures,
the building permit fee shall be $50.
      (4)   For alterations, remodeling or other structures, not including any
additions to existing buildings which will add to the ground area thereof, the
building permit fee shall be $100 plus $0.30 per square foot. The fee shall
include four inspections, and each additional inspection shall be $50.
   (C)   Commercial, industrial, storage and institutional buildings. All new
construction, including grading, foundations, buildings, pipe plumbing/water
supply, electrical/communications, waste disposal systems, all industrial-type
facilities, and all other items required for the project, when shown on the
initial or supplemental application for permit and/or the data attached
thereto.
      (1)   New construction. A fee of $5 per 100 square feet, or portion
thereof, for all floor area, including basements, additions to buildings, and/
or other structures and improvements, with a minimum fee of $50.
      (2)   Changes of existing buildings. For alterations, remodeling and
changes to existing facilities, but not including additions to existing
buildings that increase the floor area, the building permit fee shall be $5 per
100 square feet altered, with a minimum fee of $50.
      (3)   Separate construction. When items or facilities are installed or
major repairs are made separately and are not included in either division (C)
(1) or (C)(2) above, then the building permit fee shall be $1 for each $1,000
of estimated total cost, with a minimum fee of $50.
(Ord. 1999-2, Building § 3, subs. .030, passed 2-15-1999; Ord. 2018-06, passed
10-1-2018) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.053 BUILDING INSPECTION FEE.
   A building inspection fee shall be required in the amount of $500 per unit
on all residential structures constructed in the village. The fee shall be
required prior to the issuance of a building permit. The fee shall include four
inspections, and each additional inspection shall be $50. The building
inspection fee on commercial and industrial structures shall be determined on a
case-by-case basis as estimated by the Village Zoning Officer.
(Ord. 1999-2, Building § 3, subs. .040, passed 2-15-1999; Ord. 2005-3, passed
2-7-2005; Ord. 2018-06, passed 10-1-2018)
§ 151.054 PLUMBING INSPECTION FEE.
   A plumbing inspection fee shall be required in the amount of $200 per unit
on all residential structures constructed in the village. The fee shall be
required prior to the issuance of a building permit. The fee shall include four
inspections, and each additional inspection shall be $50. The plumbing
inspection fee on commercial and industrial structures shall be determined on a
case-by-case basis as estimated by the Village Zoning Officer.
(Ord. 1999-2, Building § 3, subs. .050, passed 2-15-1999; Ord. 2005-3, passed
2-7-2005; Ord. 2018-06, passed 10-1-2018)
§ 151.055 ELECTRICAL INSPECTION FEE.
   (A)   An electrical inspection fee shall be required in the amount of $200
per unit on all residential structures constructed in the village. The fee
shall be required prior to the issuance of a building permit. The fee shall
include four inspections, and each additional inspection shall be $50. The
electrical inspection fee on commercial and industrial structures shall be
determined on a case-by-case basis as estimated by the Village Zoning Officer.
   (B)   An electrical inspection fee of $100 shall be required for any updated
or new service to all residential structures in the village that have
previously obtained an electrical inspection fee prior to the issuance of a
building permit. The electrical inspection fee includes two inspections, and
each additional inspection, as needed, is $50.
(Ord. 1999-2, Building § 3, subs. .060, passed 2-15-1999; Ord. 2003-3, passed
3-17-2003; Ord. 2005-3, passed 2-7-2005; Ord. 2018-06, passed 10-1-2018; Ord.
2020-05, passed 9-21-2020)
§ 151.056 WATER IMPACT FEE.
   A water impact fee in the amount of $1,000 shall be required on all
residential, commercial and industrial structures. The sum shall be imposed on
a per-unit basis, and shall be payable prior to the issuance of a building
permit. The fee shall be separate, distinct and in addition to any water tap-on
fee, water tower fee or other fees which may be required from time to time by
the village authorities, and shall be imposed on all new construction initiated
in the village.
(Ord. 1999-2, Building § 3, subs. .070, passed 2-15-1999; Ord. 2005-3, passed
2-7-2005; Ord. 2018-06, passed 10-1-2018)
§ 151.057 SEWER IMPACT FEE.
   A sewer impact fee in the amount of $1,000 shall be required on all
residential, commercial and industrial structures. The sum shall be imposed on
a per-unit basis, and shall be payable prior to the issuance of a building
permit. The fee shall be separate, distinct and in addition to any sewer tap-on
fee which may be required from time to time by the village authorities, and
shall be imposed on all new construction initiated in the village.
(Ord. 1999-2, Building § 3, subs. .080, passed 2-15-1999; Ord. 2005-3, passed
2-7-2005; Ord. 2018-06, passed 10-1-2018)
§ 151.058 WATER TAP-ON FEE.
   A water tap-on fee shall be required in the amount of $900 per unit. The sum
shall be due and payable prior to the issuance of a building permit on new
construction within the village. The fee shall be considered separate, distinct
and in addition to a water impact fee, water tower fee or other fees required
herein. The water tap-on fee shall include the cost of a water meter.
(Ord. 1999-2, Building § 3, subs. .090, passed 2-15-1999; Ord. 2005-3, passed
2-7-2005; Ord. 2018-06, passed 10-1-2018)
§ 151.059 SEWER TAP-ON FEE.
   A sewer tap-on fee shall be required in the amount of $800 per unit. The sum
shall be due and payable prior to the issuance of a building permit on new
construction within the village. The fee shall be considered separate, distinct
and in addition to a sewer impact fee or other fees required herein.
(Ord. 1999-2, Building § 3, subs. .100, passed 2-15-1999; Ord. 2005-3, passed
2-7-2005; Ord. 2018-06, passed 10-1-2018)
§ 151.060 WATER TOWER FEE.
   A water tower fee shall be required in the amount of $250 per unit. The sum
shall be due and payable prior to the issuance of a building permit on new
construction within the village. The fee shall be considered separate, distinct
and in addition to a water tap-on fees, water impact fees or other fees
required herein.
(Ord. 1999-2, Building § 3, subs. .110, passed 2-15-1999; Ord. 2005-3, passed
2-7-2005; Ord. 2018-06, passed 10-1-2018)
§ 151.061 SIDEWALK INSTALLATION/SECURITY.
   Sidewalks shall be installed on every lot within the village by every person
who erects a building or structure on the lot, unless the Village Board exempts
the person because of facts and circumstances as determined by the Village
Board that create an undue hardship, or otherwise do not require the
installation of a sidewalk.
   (A)   Building permit issuance/plans for sidewalk required. No building
permit as required by the Building Code shall be issued by any governing
official for the construction of any building or structure on any lot within
the village until such time as a satisfactory plan for the construction of a
public sidewalk together with a deposit of cash, or other security or guaranty
in an amount satisfactory to the Building Officer shall be filed with the
Village Clerk.
   (B)   Location/construction specifications. Sidewalks shall be located
immediately adjacent to the right-of-way line, except that sidewalks in all
subdivisions approved on or after January 1, 1996 shall be located 12 inches
from the street right-of-way line. The Village Zoning Officer shall have the
authority to unilaterally grant a variance to the requirements hereof in order
to allow existing and new sidewalks to line up. All sidewalks shall be
constructed in accordance with the following.
      (1)   All sidewalks shall be constructed of Portland cement with 28-day
compression strength of 3,000 pounds at a grade to be designated and approved
by the Village Engineer; but no less than five-bag mix with fiber mesh (see
division (B)(6) below). Minimum slump shall be three inches. All concrete shall
be air-entrained. The Village Engineer shall approve other admixtures.
      (2)   For residential districts, the minimum width shall be four feet;
minimum thickness shall be four inches.
      (3)   For commercial districts, the minimum width shall be five feet;
minimum thickness shall be five inches.
      (4)   All sidewalks which cross anticipated driveways or other areas
designated for vehicular travel shall consist of a minimum thickness of an
additional 50% over and above the requirements herein.
      (5)   The subgrade of the sidewalk must be mechanically compacted to the
satisfaction of the Village Engineer, Public Works Director or Building
Officer. Areas where subgrade must be raised shall be filled with fine
aggregate or course aggregate. Fine aggregate shall consist of sand having
clean, hard, insoluble, durable gravel or broken stone. It shall contain no
soft, flat or elongated pieces. The subgrade shall be dampened just before
concrete is placed.
      (6)   All sidewalks shall be constructed with concrete containing fiber
mesh concrete.
      (7)   All sidewalks shall be divided into blocks by transverse cuts,
every five feet in walks four feet wide. Wider walks shall be divided as
directed by the Building Officer or Public Works Director. These cuts shall not
be less than one inch deep. One inch around all sides of each block or section
shall be finished smooth and all edges of each block shall be rounded All
concrete shall be finished in accordance with industry standards.
      (8)   Expansion joints shall consist of a strip of asphalt felt at least
one-quarter inch in thickness and shall be placed entirely across and entirely
through the depth of the sidewalk. Expansion joints shall be made between the
ends of old and new sidewalks, and between the sidewalk and any street curbs
against which it abuts. Expansion joints shall be placed a minimum of every 50
feet on a continuous length of sidewalk.
      (9)   All sidewalks shall be constructed to the exact grade and elevation
given by the village. All sidewalks shall have a transverse slope of one-
quarter inch per one foot of width from the property side down to the street
side.
      (10)   All forms shall be carefully aligned and braced during
construction, and the finished walk shall have an even surface.
      (11)   The installer is responsible for restoring all adjacent areas of
completed sidewalk to its original condition, including bituminous pavement, if
necessary.
   (C)   Inspections required. All sidewalks constructed within the village
shall be inspected by the Village Building Officer or Director of Public Works
as follows:
      (1)   An inspection shall be performed upon completion of construction of
the forms and before any concrete is poured. Said inspections shall include but
not be limited to adequate base, proper construction of forms, elevation of
sidewalk and slope of sidewalk. At least 48 hours’ notice shall be given to the
village before an inspection Monday through Friday only. No concrete shall be
poured until inspection is completed;
      (2)   At least 48 hours following the completion of the concrete
finishing. Said inspection shall include but not be limited to elevation, slope
and all aspects related to the concrete finishing; and
      (3)   The installation of any sidewalk which does not comply herewith
shall be condemned by the village and shall be promptly removed and replaced
within 30 days at the homeowner’s expense.
   (D)   Security; bond required when. The deposit of cash or other security
required hereby shall be returned to the party posting the same, upon the
completion of the sidewalk in accordance with the specifications set forth
herein.
   (E)   Completion; time limit. The public sidewalk provided for herein shall
be completed within six months after the building or structure for which the
building permit was issued is completed or occupied. After the expiration of
the time limit above, if the sidewalks are not completed, the village may
complete or cause the sidewalks to be completed and apply the proceeds of the
deposit of cash or other security towards the costs thereof, refunding any
excess.
   (F)   The requirements of this section shall not be applicable to lots that
are located within the M-2 Manufacturing District.
(Ord. 1999-2, Building § 3, subs. .120, passed 2-15-1999; Ord. 2019-01, passed
1-7-2019)
§ 151.062 SCHOOL SITE LAND-CASH DONATION REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Policy determination by Village Board. The Village Board has
determined that a dedication of land for school sites or a cash contribution in
lieu of actual land dedication (where the latter is deemed impractical) or a
combination of both, shall be required of each residential subdivider or
developer.
   (B)   Criteria for requiring school site dedication. The ultimate number of
students to be generated by a subdivision, planned unit development and/or
special use permit shall bear directly upon the amount of land required to be
dedicated for school sites. The land dedication requirement shall be determined
consistent with the ratios as established by the minimum acreage requirements
and the maximum number of students for each school classification in the table
set forth in division (C) below.
   (C)   School classification and size of school site. School classifications
and size of school sites within the village’s jurisdiction shall be determined
in accordance with the following criteria:
 
School Classification By Maximum Number of Students Minimum Number of Acres of
Grades                   for Each School            Land for Each School Site
                         Classification             Classification
Elementary schools,
grades Kindergarten      400 students               15 acres
through 5 (K-5)
Junior high schools,     500 students               25 acres
grades 6 through 8 (6-8)
Senior high schools,
grades 9 through 12 (9-  1,000 students             80 acres
12)
 
   (D)   Criteria for requiring a contribution in lieu of school sites.
      (1)   Cash contribution criteria. Where the development is limited in
size and the resulting site is too small to be practical for a school site or
when the available land is inappropriate for a school site, the village, with
the recommendation of the Board of Education of the school districts affected,
shall require the subdivider or developer to pay a cash contribution in lieu of
the land dedication required. The formula for determining the required cash
contribution in lieu of a land dedication shall be as follows: minimum number
of acres of land for each school site divided by maximum number of students for
each school classification X estimated student population per dwelling unit X
fair market value of improved land = cash contribution. By way of example, the
following is provided for future reference.
 
Table A: (Example Only) 3-Bedroom Single-Family Detached Home
                                                 Estimated
               Minimum Acres    Maximum          Student      Fair Market   Contribution
School         of Land for    ÷Students for   X Population X Value of    = for Each
Classification Each School      Each School      Per          Improved      School
               Classification   Classification   Dwelling     Acre          Classification
                                                 Unit
Elementary     15             ÷400            X .369       X $55,000.00* = $761.06
Jr. High       25             ÷500            X .173       X $55,000.00* = $475.75
High School    80             ÷1,000          X .184       X $55,000.00* = $809.60
* The fair market value is only an example. Actual values
shall remain subject to an annual increase and subsequent     TOTAL       = $2,046.41
amendments by the Village Board.
 
      (2)   Collection of fees.
         (a)   The total cash contribution to be required shall be determined
prior to the issuance of a residential building permit and paid to the village
designee prior to issuance of a building permit. Receipt of payment shall be
proof of said payment. The cash contribution required for a residential unit
not part of a platted subdivision shall be determined in the same manner as for
other residential developments and shall be determined prior to the issuance of
a building permit and collected prior to the issuance of a building permit.
This section does not apply to renovations, additions or reconstructions of
existing residential structures.
         (b)   The cash contributions in lieu of school sites shall be held in
trust by the village or other public body designated by the village for use in
the acquisition of land for a school site to serve the immediate or future
needs of children from that subdivision or development or for the improvement
to any existing school site which already serves such needs, or for use in the
acquisition of land for a school site or for the improvement or construction of
any existing school buildings or site made necessary by the additional children
from that subdivision or development in the school district.
      (3)   Refund. If any portion of a cash contribution in lieu of a school
site dedication is not expended for the purposes set forth herein within ten
years from the date of receipt, it shall be refunded with accrued interest to
the lot owner or owners of those lots for which the contribution was made. The
owner or owners shall be determined at the time the date of refund is
established.
      (4)   Criteria for requiring land dedication and a fee. There will be
situations in subdivisions or planned unit developments when a combination of
land dedication and a contribution in lieu of land are both necessary; these
occasions will arise when:
         (a)   Only a portion of the land to be developed is proposed as the
location for a school site. The portion of the land within the subdivision
falling within the school location shall be dedicated as a site as stated
earlier, and a cash contribution in lieu thereof shall be required for any
additional land that would have been required to be dedicated; and/or
         (b)   A major part of the school site has already been acquired and
only a small portion of land is needed from the development to complete the
site. The remaining portions shall be required by dedication and a cash
contribution in lieu thereof shall be required.
      (5)   Fair market value. The cash contributions in lieu of land shall be
based on the fair market value of the acres of land in the area improved as
specified in this section, that otherwise would have been dedicated as school
sites. The Village Board shall conduct, or may direct the Village Planning and
Zoning Board to conduct, a public hearing based upon statutory notice for the
purpose of receiving evidence concerning the fair market value of such improved
land. The Village Board shall determine the fair market value based upon the
evidence at said public hearing. The village, on its own motion or at the
request of an affected school district, may from time to time amend this
provision to provide for a different fair market value.
      (6)   Dual district - cash distribution. Dual districts will be treated
as they are affected by the impact of the subdivision or development within
their territories. Elementary school contributions shall go to the elementary
district, junior high school contributions shall go to the junior high
district, and high school contributions shall go to the high school district.
   (E)   Conveyance of land. In the event the subdivider or developer shall be
required to convey land to each or any of the respective school districts, the
subdivider or developer shall convey to the respective school district the
lands required under this agreement within 90 days after final plat approval by
the village.
   (F)   Density formula.
      (1)   The following table of estimated ultimate population per dwelling
unit is generally indicative of current and short range projected trends in
family size for new construction and shall be used in calculating the amount of
required dedication of acres of land or the cash contributions in lieu thereof
unless a written objection is filed thereto by the subdivider or developer:
Table of Estimated Ultimate Population per Dwelling Unit
Type of Unit Elementary Junior High Total K-8 High School Total/Unit
Detached Single-Family
Table of Estimated Ultimate Population per Dwelling Unit
Type of Unit Elementary Junior High Total K-8 High School Total/Unit
Detached Single-Family
2 bedroom    0.136      0.048       0.184     0.020       0.204
3 bedroom    0.369      0.173       0.542     0.184       0.726
4 bedroom    0.530      0.298       0.828     0.360       1.188
5 bedroom    0.345      0.248       0.593     0.300       0.893
Attached Single-Family
1 bedroom    -0-        -0-         -0-       -0-         -0-
2 bedroom    0.088      0.048       0.136     0.038       0.174
3 bedroom    0.234      0.058       0.292     0.059       0.351
4 bedroom    0.322      0.154       0.476     0.173       0.649
Apartments
Efficiency   -0-        -0-         -0-       -0-         -0-
1 bedroom    0.002      0.001       0.003     0.001       0.004
2 bedroom    0.086      0.042       0.128     0.046       0.172
3 bedroom    0.234      0.123       0.357     0.118       0.475
 
      (2)   In the event a subdivider or developer files a written objection to
the table of estimated ultimate population per dwelling unit above, said
subdivider or developer shall submit his or her own demographic study showing
the estimated additional population to be generated from the subdivision or
planned unit development, and in that event final determination of the density
formula to be used in such calculations shall be made by the Village Board,
based upon such demographic information submitted by the subdivider or
developer and from other sources which may be submitted to the Village Board by
the school district or others. It is recognized that population density, age
distribution and local conditions change over the years, and the specific
formula components for the dedication of land, or the payment of fees in lieu
thereof, as stated herein is subject to periodic review and amendment upon
verification of current data by the Village Board or its designee.
   (G)   Site condition. The slope, topography and geology of the dedicated
site as well as its surroundings must be suitable for its intended purposes.
Grading and seeding on sites to be dedicated for school uses will be performed
according to plans and specifications provided by the school district.
   (H)   Improved sites. All sites shall be improved with water, sewer and
streets (including enclosed drainage and curb and gutter), and have available
to them utilities as applicable to the location of the site, or acceptable
provision made therefor. Sidewalks shall be excluded. In addition, school sites
shall be fine graded, provided with a minimum of four inches of topsoil and
seeded as part of the required land improvements unless otherwise permitted by
the Village Board.
   (I)   Real estate conveyance requirements. The subdivider or developer shall
be responsible for conveying good, merchantable title to such sites, and shall
be responsible for payment of all real estate taxes to the date of conveyance,
including any agricultural roll-back taxes which might be extended or levied
against such sites, for any tax years or periods prior to the time of
conveyance. After payment of the taxes, evidence of such payment shall be
furnished to the village and the grantee. The amount of any general real estate
taxes for the year of conveyance shall be prorated to the date of delivery of
deed. The amount of the general real estate taxes shall be based on the
assessor’s latest known rate, value and equalizer, if any, for the land being
conveyed. The subdivider or developer shall furnish the village and the grantee
with a survey of the land to be conveyed. A commitment for title insurance
issued by a company authorized to do business in this state in the amount of
the fair market value of the land shall be required as evidence of clear title.
If within 30 days of receipt of the commitment, the village or grantee objects
in writing to defects in the title, the subdivider or developer shall have 30
additional days from the date of delivery of such written objections to cure
such defects. Conveyance shall occur only after or simultaneously with the
passage of an ordinance by the village in which it indicates that the property
will be accepted by the village for school purposes.
      (1)   All sites to be dedicated shall be conveyed to the school district
either by warranty to trustee’s deed, or such form of conveyance as the school
district shall require subject only to the following:
         (a)   Acts done or suffered by, or judgments against the school
district, its successors and assigns;
         (b)   General taxes for the year of conveyance and subsequent years;
         (c)   Zoning and building laws and/or ordinances;
         (d)   Public and utility easements of record which are reasonably
acceptable to the village and school district;
         (e)   Conditions and covenants of record as contained only in plats of
subdivision approved by the village;
         (f)   Rights-of-way for drainage ditches, feeders, laterals and
underground tile, pipe or other conduit; and
         (g)   Such other exceptions to title that village and school district
shall find acceptable.
      (2)   Each conveyance shall be accompanied by an appropriate affidavit of
title. All deeds of conveyance pursuant to this section shall be recorded, at
the subdivider or developer’s sole expense, in the office of the Recorder of
Deeds of the county.
   (J)   Dedication of land; condition for annexation. The dedications of land
or cash contributions in lieu thereof required by this chapter shall also be
required as a condition to the annexation of any land to the village, and
provisions therefor shall be incorporated in any pre-annexation agreement
governing such land.
   (K)   Use of school lands for park purposes. The village shall have the
right to elect to use for park purposes, without charge, any land dedicated to
the schools under this chapter upon written notice to the school districts
affected. Upon electing to use the land, the village shall furnish evidence of
public liability insurance covering the village and school district in an
amount equal to that carried by the school district.
   (L)   Review of provisions. The Planning and Zoning Board shall review the
entire school site donation ordinance not less than every five years, except
that its failure to do so shall not in any way modify or affect the validity or
enforceability of the existing ordinance.
   (M)   Indemnification. Any public body designated by the village to receive
the cash contribution required under this chapter, or to be the grantee of any
conveyance required under this chapter, and the actual receipt and acceptance
of said land or said funds shall obligate said entity to indemnify and hold the
village harmless from any cash payments or land conveyances required by any
court of competent jurisdiction if any part of this chapter is held invalid.
(Ord. 1999-2, Building § 3, subs. .130, passed 2-15-1999; Ord. 2007-01, passed
1-2-2007)
§ 151.063 PARK SITE LAND-CASH DONATION REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Policy determination by Village Board. The Village Board has
determined that a dedication of land for park and recreation sites or cash
contribution in lieu of actual land dedication (where the latter is deemed
impractical) or a combination of both, shall be required of each residential
subdivider or developer.
   (B)   Dedication of park lands or for payment of cash in lieu thereof. As a
condition of approval of all final plats of residential subdivisions, or of
final plat of other residential developments, both within the corporate limits
and within one and one-half miles of the corporate limits of the village, each
subdivider or developer will be required to dedicate land for park and
recreational purposes to serve the immediate and future needs of the residents
of the development, or cash contribution in lieu of actual land dedication, or
a combination of both, at the option of the village, in accordance with the
requirements of division (C) below.
   (C)   Criteria for requiring park and recreational land dedication.
      (1)   Amount of land required.
         (a)   The ultimate population density to be generated by a subdivision
or development shall bear directly on the amount of land required to be
dedicated for park and recreation sites. The acreage of land dedication
requirement shall be determined by obtaining the total population of the
development times the number of required acres per 1,000 population.
         (b)   The total requirement shall be 3.75 acres of park or
recreational land, or cash in lieu of land, per 1,000 of ultimate population.
Table I below shall be a guideline for park and recreational land distribution.
Table I
Types of Recreation Area Size Range Minimum Acres per 1,000 People
Table I
Types of Recreation Area  Size Range                   Minimum Acres per 1,000
                                                       People
(a) Play lot              Min. 8,000 sq. ft.           NA
(b) School-park           Min. park of 5 acres         NA
(Neighborhood playground) (To be included within school donation ordinance)
(c) Neighborhood park     Min. 3-1/2 acres             1.00
(d) District-wide park    Min. 4 acres up to 30 acre   1.25
(e) Community-wide        Min. 12 acres up to 30 acres 1.50
recreation
TOTAL: 3.75 acres per 1,000 people                     3.75
 
         (c)   Example: Development of 100 detached single-family three-bedroom
homes with 2.865 people per household (source: Table II under division (C)(2)
below):
 
Total Ultimate Population = Number of Lots x Ultimate Population for detached
                            single-family three-bedroom homes
                          = 100
                            The Required Acreage    Total acres
Total Population          x for the 1,000 population = required
   287                 x 3.75 acres              = 1.07625 acres
                            1,000
 
      (2)   Population.
         (a)   Table II shall be the estimated ultimate population per dwelling
unit.
         (b)   On property zoned for the construction of single-family detached
units, it shall be presumed that 70% of the units shall contain three bedrooms
and 30% of all units shall contain four bedrooms. All fractions shall be
rounded to the nearest unit. These presumptions may be overcome by the
subdivider or developer specifying the units which shall be constructed.
Table II: Table of Estimated Ultimate
Population per Dwelling Unit
Type of Unit Total per Unit
Detached Single-Family:
Table II: Table of Estimated Ultimate
Population per Dwelling Unit
Type of Unit Total per Unit
Detached Single-Family:
2 bedroom    1.979
3 bedroom    2.865
4 bedroom    3.673
5 bedroom    3.597
Attached Single-Family (Townhouse, Row House, Quadriplex and the like):
1 bedroom    1.068
2 bedroom    2.074
3 bedroom    2.380
4 bedroom    3.336
Apartments:
1 bedroom    1.360
2 bedroom    1.734
3 bedroom    1.752
4 bedroom    2.786
 
   (D)   Density formula.  
      (1)   The above table of population density is generally indicative of
current and short range projected trends in family size for new construction
and shall be used in calculating the amount of required dedication of acres of
land or the cash contributions in lieu thereof unless a written objection is
filed thereto by the subdivider or developer.
      (2)   In the event a subdivider or developer files a written objection to
the table of estimated ultimate population listed herein, he or she shall
submit his or her own demographic study showing the estimated additional
population to be generated from the subdivision or development and in that
event, final determination of the density formula to be used in such
calculations shall be made by the village based upon such demographic
information submitted by the subdivider or developer and from other sources
which may be submitted to the Planning and Zoning Board by others. It is
recognized that population density, age distribution and local conditions
change over the years, and the specific formula for the dedication of land, or
the payment of fees in lieu thereof, as stated herein, is subject to periodic
review and amendment if necessary.
   (E)   Location and ownership. Comprehensive park ordinance plans,
appropriate standards adopted by affected park districts and adopted municipal
and county plans shall be used as a guideline in locating sites. A central
location which will serve equally the entire development is most desirable. In
a large development, these sites can be located throughout the development
according to established standards for park area distances from residential
areas. Each park site should have at least 66-foot frontage on dedicated public
roads. Full fee simple title to the dedicated park land shall be held by the
village of as determined and/or assigned by the Village Board. When necessary,
operation and maintenance may be done by a homeowners’ association with the
execution of the appropriate legal documents.
   (F)   Time of conveyance or payment. The subdivider or developer shall
convey to the village the land required under this chapter within 30 days after
any subdivision plat or final plat of a planned unit development is recorded in
the Recorder’s office of the county. All improvements shall be completed within
such time as required by the village. A subdivider or developer shall make any
cash contribution required under this chapter upon the issuance of a building
permit. The money shall be paid to the Zoning Officer of the village.
   (G)   Criteria for requiring a cash contribution in lieu of park and
recreation sites. Where the development is small and the resulting site is too
small to be practical or when the available land is geologically and
topographically inappropriate for park and recreational purposes as determined
by the village, the village shall require the subdivider or developer to pay a
cash contribution in lieu of the land dedication required. The cash
contribution in lieu of park and recreation land, as hereinbefore classified,
will be available to serve the immediate or future needs of the residents of
that subdivision or development or for the improvement of other existing local
park and recreation land needs and not, however, to include operational
expenses. The village shall hold the donation plus all accumulated interest in
a separate account specifically for the acquisition or improvement of park and
recreational land and/or acquisition of equipment and buildings for park and
recreational land.
   (H)   Fair market value. The cash contribution in lieu of land shall be
based on the fair market value of the acres of fully improved park land in the
area after development. The fair market value for land shall be recommended by
the Village Planning and Zoning Board. This valuation recommended by the
Planning and Zoning Board shall be used unless any subdivider, developer or
public body files a written objection thereto. In the event of any such
objection, the subdivider, developer or public body shall submit evidence
showing the fair market value of such improved land in the area of development.
Final determination of said fair market value per acre of such improved land
shall be made by the Village Board based on such information submitted by the
subdivider or developer and from other sources as may be submitted to the
Planning and Zoning Board.
   (I)   Criteria for requiring land dedication and cash contribution. There
will be situations in subdivisions or developments when a combination of land
dedication and a contribution in lieu of land are both necessary. These
occasions will arise when:
      (1)   Only a portion of the land to be developed is proposed as the
location for a park site. The portion shall be dedicated as a site as
aforesaid, and a cash contribution in lieu thereof shall be dedicated; and
      (2)   A major part of the local park or recreation site has already been
acquired and only a small portion of land is needed from the development to
complete the site, the remaining portions shall be required by dedication, and
a cash contribution in lieu thereof shall be required.
   (J)   Credit for private open space and recreation areas.
      (1)   When subdividers or developers provide their own open space for
recreation areas and facilities, it has the effect of reducing the demand for
local public recreational services. Depending on the size of development, a
portion of the park and recreation areas in subdivisions or developments may at
the option of the village be provided in the form of “private” open space in
lieu of dedicated “public” open space. The extent of same shall be determined
by the village, based on the type of recreational needs of the projected
residents and in conformance to the total park and recreational land
requirements for the general area pursuant to Table I above.
      (2)   In general, a substitution of private open space for dedication
parks will imply a substantially higher degree of improvement and the
installation of recreational facilities, including equipment by the developer
as part of his or her obligation. Detailed plans of such areas, including
specifications of facilities to be installed, must be approved by the village,
and before any credit is given for private recreation areas, the subdivider or
developer must establish a permanent system of maintenance with the execution
of the appropriate legal documents. When an adjustment for private recreation
areas is warranted, it will be necessary to compute the total park land
dedication that would have been required from the subdivision or planned unit
development and then subtract the credit to be given.
   (K)   Reservation of additional land. Where the Comprehensive Plan or the
standards of the village call for a larger amount of park and recreational land
in a particular subdivision or planned unit development than the developer is
required to dedicate, the land needed beyond the developer’s contribution shall
be reserved and designated for subsequent purchase by the village or other
public body designed by the village; provided that within one year from the
approval of the final plat, the designated public body signs a contract to
purchase the land or files a condemnation suit in pursuit thereof.
   (L)   Combining with adjoining development. Where the subdivision or
development is less than 40 acres, public open space which is to be dedicated
should, where possible, be combined with dedications from adjoining
developments in order to produce useable recreation areas without hardship on a
particular developer.
   (M)   Improved sites. All sites shall be dedicated with access to full
service of electricity, gas, water, sewer, streets, storm drainage and curb and
gutter as applicable and in conformance with the location of the site or
acceptable provision made therefor.
   (N)   Shape, topography and grading.  
      (1)   The shape, topography and geology of the dedicated site as well as
its surrounding must be suitable for its intended purposes. The bulk of the
intensive park or recreation area should have a width/depth ratio of 1 to 2-1/
2, unless otherwise accepted by the village.
      (2)   As a general rule, at least 50% of the dedicated land shall be
buildable for permanent structures as determined through the appropriate
topographical studies and soil tests.
      (3)   All land required for dedication for park purposes shall be in
addition to these required by other ordinances or regulations.
   (O)   Severability. If any provisions of this chapter, or the application
thereof to any person or circumstances, is declared invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, such partial invalidity shall not affect the valid
provisions or application thereof, and to this extent the provisions of this
subchapter are declared to be severable.
(Ord. 1999-2, Building § 3, subs. .140, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 151.064 ELECTRICAL UPGRADE FEE. 
   A electrical upgrade fee shall be required in the amount of $150 per unit.
The sum shall be due and payable prior to the issuance of the permit herein
required. The permit shall be required for improvements to a unit’s meter
socket and electrical entrance wire. The fee shall be considered separate,
distinct, and in addition to any and all required permits. The fee shall
include one inspection.
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 10-1-2018)
§ 151.065 WATER SERVICE LINE UPGRADE FEE.
   A water service line upgrade fee shall be required in the amount of $1,500
per unit. The sum shall be due and payable prior to the issuance of the permit
herein required. The permit shall be required for improvements or replacement
to a unit's water service line, from the village water main to the unit’s B-
Box. The fee shall be considered separate, distinct, and in addition to any and
all required permits. The fee shall include one inspection.
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 10-1-2018)
§ 151.066 BUILDING ROOF PERMIT.
   A building roof permit shall be required in the amount of $25. The sum shall
be due and payable prior to the issuance of the permit herein required. The
permit shall be required for any and all improvements consisting of the
installation or replacement of a building’s roof lay-over, complete tear-off,
or the installation of a new roof. The fee shall be considered separate,
distinct, and in addition to any and all required permits. The fee shall
include one inspection.
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 10-1-2018)
PUBLIC BUILDINGS
§ 151.075 PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR MAINTENANCE.
   The owner, agent, occupant or person charged with the custody of any public
building, auditorium, hotel, theater, lodge hall or church, and in the case of
schools, the president of the Board of Education, or the person in charge
thereof and owning the same shall be held liable for the equipment and
maintenance of such apparatus as is required in this chapter for the
maintenance and safety of all exits, doors, windows or passageways.
(Ord. 1999-2, Building § 4, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 151.076 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief or his or her assistants to inspect
all apparatus to be installed and its location, and to make or cause to be made
periodic inspections concerning the operation and accessibility of regular and
emergency exits in all such public places, unless and until the building is
equipped with an adequate sprinkler system or is connected with a public fire
alarm system.
(Ord. 1999-2, Building § 4, subs. .020, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 151.077 FIRE APPLIANCES; ADOPTION.
   The BOCA National Fire Prevention Code, and all subsequent editions and
amendments thereto, shall govern and regulate all provisions related to fire
appliances in all public buildings located in the village.
(Ord. 1999-2, Building § 4, subs. .030, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 151.078 REMOVAL OF FIRE APPARATUS UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful to remove from its proper place any fire apparatus or
appliances except for inspection or in case of emergency.
(Ord. 1999-2, Building § 4, subs. .040, passed 2-15-1999) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.079 DOORS TO OPEN OUTWARD.
   All public buildings which may be or are used for church, school, lecture
room, public meeting places or similar purposes or which may be or are used for
the collection of people for worship, amusement or instruction, and all
buildings used for stores to which the public is invited, shall be so built
that all doors leading from the main hall or place of assembly shall open
outward and all means of egress for persons within such buildings shall be by
means of doors which shall be open outward from the main hall or area and from
the building.
(Ord. 1999-2, Building § 4, subs. .050, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 151.080 EXIT LIGHTS.
   In all public meeting places, a red light illuminating the word “Exit” shall
be kept burning over each regular and emergency exit while such place is
occupied by patrons.
(Ord. 1999-2, Building § 4, subs. .060, passed 2-15-1999)
FENCES
§ 151.095 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL ENCLOSURE. Any outdoor structure or enclosure used to restrict
animals to a contained yard area.
   BERM. A mound of earth higher than the final elevation of a lot.
   BUILDING AND ZONING OFFICER. The Building and Zoning Officer of the village
or his or her designees thereof.
   DEPARTMENT. The Village Building and Zoning Department.
   DOWNTOWN COMMERCIAL DISTRICT. Depot Street from Grand Ridge Road to the
railroad tracks.
   FENCE. A structure including gates, trees or shrub hedge or other vertical
screen device used to provide privacy, visual or otherwise, or for containment.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, corporation, association or other legal entity.
   PRIVATE SWIMMING POOL. A receptacle for water, or an artificial pool of
water, having a depth of any point or more than 36 inches, intended for the
purpose of immersion or partial immersion therein of human beings, and
including all appurtenant equipment, constructed, installed or maintained in or
above the ground outside of a building used for a single-family dwelling unit,
and maintained by an individual primarily for the sole use of the household and
guests and not for the purpose or profit or in connection of a business
operated for profit.
   PROPERTY OWNER. A person that owns, controls or is in lawful possession
(tenant) of any real property situated in the village.
   VISUAL CLEARANCE AREA. Twenty-five feet from the intersection of the
property lot lines for all lots located at the intersection of two streets or a
street and driveway/alley and sidewalk or other point of vehicular access to a
public right-of-way or to a railroad.
   YARDS. Shall be defined as follows.
      (1)   FRONT YARD. A yard extending along the full length of front lot
line between the side lot lines (and not side yard lines).
      (2)   REAR YARD. A yard extending along the full length of the rear lot
line between the side lot lines (and not the side yard lines).
      (3)   SIDE YARD.  A yard extending along the side lot line from the front
to the rear yard.
(Ord. 2008-09, passed 7-21-2008)
§ 151.096 PERMIT.
   (A)   Permit required. No person shall install a fence or deck in the
village without first obtaining a permit and complying in all respects with the
terms and conditions of the village municipal code. A fence or deck permit
shall be valid only for the term of issuance, unless sooner suspended or
revoked. A permit is not required for painting, maintenance or repair of any
existing deck or fence, or for the replacement of less than 30 lineal feet of a
fence.
   (B)   Permit application. A permit application shall be filed with the
village, consisting of the following:
      (1)   A fully completed permit application form and payment of full
permit fee;
      (2)   A drawing, site plan or survey, displaying property boundaries, the
location of the buildings and structures on the property, the proposed
location, its distances from the existing structures on the property, and its
distances from all adjacent rights-of-way;
      (3)   If the fence or deck is proposed to be installed on rented or
leased property, the written consent of the owner(s) of the property; and
      (4)   Other information as may be required by the village to assist in
the review of the application.
   (C)   Permit fee. A permit fee shall be paid upon submittal of the permit
application in the amount of $25 or such other amount which shall be
established, from time to time, by the Village Board.
   (D)   Application review and approval required, permit issuance.  The
Building and Zoning Officer shall review and approve the fence permit
application and shall issue a fence permit within 30 days of the filing of a
fence permit application, provided that the application is in compliance with
this subchapter. The fence permit may contain reasonable conditions stated in
the permit as determined by the Building and Zoning Officer.
   (E)   Completion of installation. A fence authorized by a fence permit shall
be constructed and fully installed in accordance with this subchapter and
permit conditions within 12 months of the date of permit issuance. A fence
permit shall expire 12 months after the date of issuance. After a fence permit
expires, no work shall be commenced, resumed or undertaken until a new permit
is issued or the original permit is extended.
   (F)   Extension. The permit applicant may file a written request with the
Village Board for an extension of the fence permit, stating the reason for the
request, for up to 180 additional days to complete the fence installation. The
Village Board, in administering this code, may grant the request if good cause
is shown.
(Ord. 2008-09, passed 7-21-2008; Ord. 2018-06, passed 10-1-2018)
§ 151.097 RESPONSIBILITY OF APPLICANT.
   The applicant is solely responsible for installing the fence:
   (A)   Within the boundaries of his or her property determined by a drawing,
site plan or survey, in compliance with this subchapter and the permit,
including but not limited to proper materials, height, setback and visual
clearance;
   (B)   In compliance with any subdivision covenants, conditions and
restrictions, deed restrictions, utility easement restrictions and land use
restrictions of record, if any;
   (C)   In a manner as will not obstruct stormwater drainage or unreasonably
divert stormwater onto the property of another; and
   (D)   In compliance with the village’s floodplain ordinance (see
Chapter 153).
(Ord. 2008-09, passed 7-21-2008)
§ 151.098 FENCE INSTALLATION.
   (A)   General requirements. No fence shall be installed, except in strict
compliance with this subchapter, site-specific permit conditions and the
following requirements:
      (1)   Structural and support components of a fence shall face away from
adjacent properties and public rights-of-way;
      (2)   Fences shall be installed with the finished side facing the
adjacent property or public right-of-way, and the fence posts must be located
on the inside of the fence facing the property on which the fence is located;
      (3)   Fences shall follow the contour of the ground to the extent
practical. Adjustments for grade shall occur at the bottom of the fence;
      (4)   The height of the fence shall be controlled by the applicable
provisions of this subchapter for the district in which the fence will be
located. Fence height shall be measured from the surface of the ground
immediately below the fence. Raising the finished grade by placing fill solely
for the purpose of adding height to a fence is prohibited. Berms, retaining
walls or other methods to raise the elevation of the site in excess of the
fence height restrictions contained herein shall require a zoning variance
prior to installation;
      (5)   The project site shall be marked by J.U.L.I.E. before commencing
construction or digging holes for fence installation; and
      (6)   No fence in the visual clearance area shall exceed three feet in
height above the mean street grade.
   (B)   Fences in front yards. Fences in front yards shall be allowed in
residentially zoned areas. Fences shall not exceed three feet in height and
shall be allowed within required front yard setback areas. No fence over three
feet in height shall be permitted within residentially required front yard
setback areas.
   (C)   Fences in rear/side yard. Fences in rear and side yards shall meet the
following requirements:
      (1)   In residentially zoned areas, no fence shall exceed six feet in
height in any side or rear yard. Fences not greater than six feet in height are
permitted in side or rear yards, except that said fence shall not extend beyond
the front of the principal structure or the required building setback line,
whichever is furthest from the road right-of-way. All fences located in a side
yard beyond the front of the principal structure or the required building
setback line (whichever is greater) shall be treated as a fence in a front yard
pursuant to §
151.097(B), and shall not exceed three feet in height; and
      (2)   Fences which exceed three feet in height in side or rear yards
shall not encroach within visual clearance areas.
   (D)   Fences on corner lots. No fence over three feet in height shall be
permitted within a visual clearance area of any portion of the lot.
   (E)   Approved fence materials; residential.  All fences shall meet the
following material requirements:
      (1)   Fences in side and/or rear residential yards shall be constructed
using materials suitable for residential-style fencing, including but not
limited to brick, fieldstone, wrought iron, vinyl, stockade, board-on-board or
wood. Chain link fences shall be a minimum of nine gauge and shall have a top
rail support and shall have the knuckle portion of the fence at the top with no
barbs exposed at the top; and
      (2)   Residential front yard fences shall be 50% open (see-through) and
be of split rail, wrought iron or picket design. Chain link fencing is only
permitted in residential front yards when the fencing remains open (see-
through) and no slats or other visual barriers are attached to the fence.
   (F)   Approved fence materials; commercial and manufacturing. All fences
shall meet the following material requirements: fences in commercial and
manufacturing areas shall be constructed using materials suitable for
commercial-style fencing, including but not limited to brick, fieldstone,
wrought iron, vinyl, stockade, board-on-board or wood. Chain link fences shall
be a minimum of nine gauge and shall have a top rail support.
(Ord. 2008-09, passed 7-21-2008)
§ 151.099 FENCES REQUIRED IN COMMERCIAL/MANUFACTURING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Fences are required in the rear and side yards of all commercial or
manufacturing zoning districts.
   (B)   All fences in a commercial or manufacturing district shall meet the
following requirements:
      (1)   All fences must be eight feet in height for the rear and side yards
in a commercial or manufacturing zoning district;
      (2)   If chain link fencing material is used, slats or visual barriers of
a neutral color must be used within the fence; and
      (3)   Chain link fencing may not be installed within the village’s
downtown commercial district.
(Ord. 2008-09, passed 7-21-2008)
§ 151.100 MAINTENANCE OF FENCES.
   Fences shall be maintained in a manner as to prevent rust, corrosion and
deterioration, so as not to become a public or private nuisance, and so as not
be dilapidated or a danger to adjoining property owners or the public. Fences
shall not create an appearance of patchwork, which is indicative of a nuisance
and state of disrepair. Every fence installed shall be maintained by the owner
in such a way that it will remain in good repair.
(Ord. 2008-09, passed 7-21-2008)
§ 151.101 EXISTING FENCES.
   Any fence existing upon the effective date of this subchapter shall not be
enlarged or extended, or have 50% or more of its structure replaced, except in
strict compliance with all of the requirements of this subchapter. Any fence
that exists contrary to the required visual clearance area requirements are
hereby deemed as nonconforming, and shall be brought into compliance within 12
months of the effective date of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2008-09, passed 7-21-2008)
§ 151.102 PROHIBITED FENCES.
   No person shall install:
   (A)   An electric or razor wire fence;
   (B)   Barbed wire may not be installed on fences, except that barbed wire
may be installed above the top line of an eight-foot fence located in a
nonresidential zoning district;
   (C)   Any wire or chain link type fence with the cut or salvage end (barbs)
of the fence exposed at the top;
   (D)   A fence which creates a hazard to users of the street, sidewalk or to
nearby property;
   (E)   A fence composed solely of fence posts;
   (F)   An incomplete fence, consisting only of posts and supporting members;
or
   (G)   Fences constructed of used or discarded materials in disrepair,
including but not limited to pallets, tree trunks, debris, tires, junk or other
similar items.
(Ord. 2008-09, passed 7-21-2008)
§ 151.103 CERTAIN FENCES PERMITTED WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   The following types of fences are permitted, as specified, without a permit,
subject to the following restrictions and provided that said fence does not in
any way interfere with traffic visibility or block, redirect or cause a
drainage problem for the adjacent or downstream properties:
   (A)   Snow fencing shall be allowed without a fence permit in all districts
not exceeding four feet in height, provided it is removed between April 1 and
November 1 of each year. No snow fence shall extend into the street right-of-
way line unless installed by the village or a contractor having a permit from
the village;
   (B)   Decorative fences not exceeding two feet in height shall be allowed
without a fence permit in all districts. Such fences shall not be placed in any
manner which presents a hazard to pedestrians on any public or private
sidewalk; and
   (C)   Underground electrical animal fences are permitted without a fence
permit in all districts.
(Ord. 2008-09, passed 7-21-2008)
§ 151.104 ANIMAL ENCLOSURES.
   Animal enclosures shall be permitted in residential districts subject to the
issuance of a fence permit and subject to the following criteria.
   (A)   No animal enclosure shall be installed on a lot unless approved by the
village and a permit is issued.
   (B)   Animal enclosures shall be obscured from view from neighboring
properties at grade and adjacent streets. Existing structures (i.e., sheds,
garages) may be used to obscure view.
   (C)   Animal enclosures must be located within the buildable area directly
behind and adjacent to the principal building. In no event shall an animal
enclosure encroach into a required setback or be located closer to a corner or
interior side property line than the principal building.
   (D)   No animal enclosure shall be in excess of 250 square feet in area, nor
more than six feet in height above the surface of the ground.
   (E)   Animal enclosures may be constructed of any material permitted for a
residential fence.
   (F)   No animal enclosure shall be constructed contrary to required visual
clearance area requirements.
(Ord. 2008-09, passed 7-21-2008)
§ 151.105 RECREATIONAL FACILITIES.
   All fences erected for purposes of providing fencing around recreational
facilities, parks or sports parks shall be subject to the following height
limitations:
   (A)   Tennis courts, 12 feet;
   (B)   Baseball/softball backstops, 16 feet; and
   (C)   Public swimming pools, eight feet.
(Ord. 2008-09, passed 7-21-2008)
§ 151.106 VIOLATIONS.
   When the Building and Zoning Officer has determined that a violation of this
subchapter exists, the Building and Zoning Officer shall, in writing, notify
the property owner, tenant, operator or other party responsible for managing
and/or maintaining the offending property of the specific violation and that
compliance with this subchapter must be established or restored within 15 days
from the date of the written notice. The notice shall further provide that the
notified party or agent shall have the opportunity to be personally heard by
the Building and Zoning Officer within said period, and failure to request a
hearing shall waive the opportunity to be heard. The failure of the owner,
operator or other responsible party to comply with the notice and the
provisions of this subchapter within the time prescribed shall authorize the
Building and Zoning Officer to do or to cause such work to be done and to bill
the owner, operator or other responsible party for the actual costs of the
service rendered, and demand payment be made within 30 days of the billing
date. The failure of the owner, operator or other responsible party to pay said
bill shall be a lien upon the real estate until paid in full.
(Ord. 2008-09, passed 7-21-2008) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.107 ADMINISTRATION AND APPEALS.
   (A)   Administration. It shall be the duty of the Building and Zoning
Officer to administer and enforce this subchapter.
   (B)   Appeals. An aggrieved person adversely affected by the denial of a
permit or decision, determination or interpretation under this subchapter by
the Building and Zoning Officer may appeal such denial, decision, determination
or interpretation to the Planning and Zoning Board within 15 days following
receipts of a written notice set forth in §
151.106. Additionally, an applicant whose property is located within a
commercial or manufacturing zoning district may file an application for a
variance from the requirements of this subchapter and appear before the
Planning and Zoning Board by completing an application form in writing,
producing information and documents as may be required and paying the
prescribed fee as set by the village.
(Ord. 2008-09, passed 7-21-2008)
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
§ 151.200 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to promote effective, equitable,
acceptable and legal stormwater management measures by establishing reasonable
rules and regulations for developments. This subchapter recognizes the
integrated nature of the watershed system and the need to study certain flood
control alternatives and other stormwater management functions on a watershed-
wide-basis.
   (B)   Individual watershed plans or interim watershed plans that recognize
the unique attributes of each watershed may be prepared and periodically
updated for the major watersheds to identify management projects and establish
criteria for development. These plans may also recommend changes to this
subchapter as amendments to the watershed plans occur.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 151.201 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Abbreviations. The following abbreviations when used within this
subchapter shall have the following designated meanings:
      BFE. Base flood elevation.
      CLOMR. Conditional Letter of Map Revision.
      COE. United States Army Corps of Engineers.
      FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      FIS.  Flood Insurance Study.
      FPE. Flood protection elevation.
      FQI. Floristic Quality Index.
      IDNR-OWR. Illinois Department of Natural Resources, Office of Water
Resources.
      IEPA. Illinois Environmental Protection Agency
      NRCS. Natural Resources Conservation Service.
   (B)   Words and terms. This subchapter contains specific words and terms
that shall have the following meanings as set forth, except where otherwise
specifically indicated. Words and terms not defined shall have the meanings
that are indicated in a common dictionary definition.
      ADMINISTRATOR.  The Village of Mazon Building and Zoning Officer.
      AGRICULTURAL LAND. Land and property defined as agriculture under the
zoning code.
      AGRICULTURAL SUBSURFACE DRAINAGE. A water management technique driven by
economic and safety concerns, where the rate at which surplus ground water
should be removed is determined primarily by the moisture/air requirements of
the vegetation, and through the use of farm tiles throughout the property.
      APPLICABLE ENGINEERING PRACTICE. Procedures, methods or materials
recommended in standard engineering textbooks or references as suitable for the
intended purpose.
      APPLICANT. Any person who submits an application for a permit under this
subchapter.
      BFE or BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation in relation to mean sea level
of the crest of the base flood.
      BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or
exceeded in a given year calculated during a 100-year rain event.
      BASEMENT. That portion of a building having its floor subgrade (below
ground level) on all sides.
      BUFFER. An area of predominantly deep-rooted, native-vegetated land
adjacent to channels, wetlands, lakes or ponds for the purpose of stabilizing
banks, increasing infiltration, and reducing contaminants (including
sediments), in stormwater that flows into such areas.
      BUILDING.  A walled and roofed structure, including a gas or liquid
storage tank that is principally above ground, including manufactured homes,
prefabricated buildings and gas or liquid storage tanks. The term also includes
recreational vehicles and travel trailers installed on a site from more than
180 days per year.
      BULLETIN 70. “Frequency Distributions and Hydroclimatic Characteristics
of Heavy Rainstorms in Illinois”, by Floyd Huff and James Angel of the Illinois
State Water Survey (1989).
      BYPASS FLOWS. Stormwater runoff from upstream properties tributary to a
property’s drainage system, but not under its control.
      CHROMA. The relative purity, strength or saturation of a color; directly
related to the dominance of the determining wavelength of the light and
inversely related to the grayness; one of the three variables of color.
      CLOMA or CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT. FEMA’s comment on a
proposed structure or group of structures that would, upon construction, be
located on existing natural ground above the base (1%-annual-chance) flood
elevation on a portion of a legally defined parcel of land that is partially
inundated by the base flood.
      CLOMR or CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISIONS. FEMA’s comment on a
proposed project that would, upon construction, affect the hydrologic or
hydraulic characteristics of a flooding  source and thus result in the
modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the effective base flood
elevations, or the special flood hazard area (SFHA).
      COE.  The United States Army Corps of Engineers.
      CHANNEL.  Any river, stream, creek, brook, branch, flowage, slough,
ditch, conduit, culvert, gully, ravine, wash, or natural or manmade drainage
way that has a definite bed and bank or shoreline, in or into which surface,
ground water, effluent, or industrial discharges flow either perennially or
intermittently.
      CHANNEL MODIFICATION.  Alteration of a channel by changing the physical
dimensions or materials of its bed or banks, and includes damming, rip rapping
(or other armoring), widening, deepening, straightening, relocating, lining,
and significant removal of bottom or woody rooted vegetation, but does not
include the clearing of debris or removal of trash or dredging to previously-
documented thalweg elevations and side slopes.
      COMMERCIAL. Having the qualities associated with the transaction of
business with the public at large, where the traffic generated warrants
construction of site improvements.
      COMMUNITY. The Village of Mazon, Illinois.
      COMPENSATORY STORAGE. An excavated, hydrologically and hydraulically
equivalent volume of storage created to offset the loss of existing flood
storage.
      CONTROL STRUCTURE. A structure designed to control the rate of flow that
passes through the structure, given a specific upstream and downstream water
surface elevation.
      COUNTY. Grundy County, Illinois.
      CRITICAL DURATION. The duration of a storm event that results in the
greatest peak runoff.
      CRITICAL FACILITY. Any facility critical to the health and welfare of a
population, and that, if flooded, would create an added dimension to a
disaster. Damage to these CRITICAL FACILITIES can impact the delivery of vital
services, can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or can
put special populations at risk. Examples of CRITICAL FACILITIES where flood
protection should be required include: emergency services facilities (such as
fire and police stations), schools, hospitals, retirement homes and senior care
facilities, major roads and bridges, critical utility sites (telephone-
switching stations or electrical transformers, and hazardous-material-storage
facilities (chemicals, petrochemicals, hazardous or toxic substances).
      DAM. Any obstruction, wall embankment or barrier, together with any
abutments and appurtenant works, constructed to store or divert water, or to
create a pond (not including underground water storage tanks).
      DEPRESSIONAL STORAGE. The volume contained below a closed contour on a
one-foot-contour-interval topographical map, the upper elevation of which is
determined by the invert of a surface gravity outlet.
      DESIGN WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The high water level elevation of a site
runoff control facility for a selected storm event, described in terms of the
probability of occurring once within a given number of years, for which site
runoff control facilities are designed.
      DETENTION BASIN. A facility constructed to provide for the temporary
storage of stormwater runoff with a controlled release rate.
      DEVELOPER. A person who creates or causes a development.
      DEVELOPMENT.  Any manmade change to the land that includes:
         (a)   The construction, reconstruction or replacement of a building or
an addition to a building;
         (b)   The installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges or
similar projects;
         (c)   Drilling and mining;
         (d)   The construction or erection of levees, walls, fences, dams or
culverts;
         (e)   Channel modifications, filling, dredging, grading, clearing,
excavating, paving, or other nonagricultural alterations of the ground surface;
         (f)   The storage of materials and the deposit of solid or liquid
waste;
         (g)   The installation of a mobile home on a site, the preparation of
a site for a mobile home, or the installation of a recreational vehicle on a
site for more than 180 days;
         (h)   Any wetland impact; and
         (i)   Any other activity of man that might change the direction,
height or velocity of stormwater flowing through and from a property.
      DEVELOPMENT, however, does not include:
         (a)   Maintenance and repair of existing buildings or facilities that
is not considered a substantial improvement;
         (b)   Repair or replacement of an existing parking lot outside the
floodplain, provided that no new impervious surfaces are added, there is no
increase in peak flows, and there is no change in the location of the
stormwater discharge;
         (c)   Resurfacing of streets and highways outside the floodplain;
         (d)   Resurfacing of publicly-owned streets and highways within the
floodplain, provided the difference between the elevation of the road surface
after resurfacing and the elevation of the road surface on the effective date
hereof is not more than two inches;
         (e)   For agricultural uses, maintenance of existing drainage systems
for the limited purpose of maintaining cultivated areas and crop production; or
         (f)   For agricultural uses and/or improvements undertaken pursuant to
a written NRCS conservation plan, not located in a floodplain or floodway.
      DRAINABLE WATER. Water that readily drains from soil under the influence
of gravity.
      DRAINAGE AREA. The land area above a given point that may contribute
runoff flow at that point from rainfall.
      DWELLING. A building, or portion thereof, designed or used exclusively
for residential purposes, including single-family, two-family and multiple-
family dwellings, but not including mobile homes or other trailers, or lodging
rooms in hotels, motels or lodging houses.
      DWELLING, ATTACHED. A dwelling that is joined to another dwelling by any
means.
      DWELLING, DETACHED. A dwelling surrounded on all sides by open space on
the same lot.
      DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A dwelling containing three or more dwelling
units.
      DWELLING, SEMI-DETACHED. A dwelling joined to one other dwelling by a
party wall or vertical cavity wall, and aboveground, physically-unifying,
horizontal structural elements.
      DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A dwelling containing one dwelling unit.
      DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY, DETACHED. A dwelling containing two dwelling units
only, one above the other.
      DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms arranged, designed or used as living
quarters for one family only. Individual bathrooms and complete single kitchen
facilities, permanently installed to serve the entire family, shall always be
included within each dwelling unit.
      ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A form published by FEMA, used to certify the base
flood elevation and the lowest elevation of usable space to which a building
has been constructed.
      EPHEMERAL STREAM. A stream whose bed elevation does not intersect the
ground water table and carries flow only during and immediately after a runoff-
producing rainfall event.
      EROSION. The process whereby soil is detached by the action of water or
wind.
      EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park
or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots
on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed, or buildings to be
constructed (including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the
construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of
concrete pads) is completed before the effective date of the floodplain
management regulations adopted by a community.
      EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed  (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
      FARMED WETLANDS. Wetlands that have been identified as fanned wetlands as
part of a certified wetland determination performed by the applicant’s
engineers according to National Food Security Act Manual methodology.
      FEMA. The federal emergency management agency and its regulations at 44
C.F.R. § 9-79, effective September 29, 1989, as amended.
      FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from overflow of inland or tidal waves or
the unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from any source.
      FLOOD FREQUENCY. A frequency normally expressed as a period of years,
based upon a percent chance of occurrence in any given year from statistical
analysis during which a flood of a stated magnitude may be expected to be
equaled or exceeded, as in the two-year flood frequency has a 50% chance of
occurrence in any given year, and the 100-year flood frequency has one percent
1% chance of occurrence in any given year.
      FLOOD FRINGE. That portion of the floodplain outside of the designated
floodway.
      FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP. A map prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area
(SFHA) within a community. This map includes insurance rate zones, and may or
may not depict floodways and show base flood elevations.
      FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. An examination, evaluation and determination of
flood hazards and, if applicable, corresponding water surface elevations.
      FPE or FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The BFE plus two feet of freeboard or
100-year-design water surface elevation of any adjacent stormwater facility
plus two feet of freeboard, whichever is higher.
      FLOODPLAIN and SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). These two terms are
synonymous.
      FLOODPROOF. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures or property that reduce or eliminate flood
damage to real estate, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their
contents.
      FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form published by FEMA that is issued to
certify that a building has been designed and constructed to be structurally
dry floodproofed to the FPE.
      FLOODWAY. That portion of the floodplain required to store and conveys
the base flood.
      FLOODWAY CONVEYANCE. The measure of the flow-carrying capacity of the
floodway section and is defined using Manning’s equation:
         K = (1.486 x (AR) )/n
         Where:
         n = Manning’s roughness factor
         A = the effective area of the cross
              section
         R = the ratio of the wetted area to the
              wetted perimeter
      FQI or FLORISTIC QUALITY INDEX. The parameter related to the number of
native plant species present, as defined by Floyd Swink and Gerald Wilhelm in
Plants of the Chicago Region, 4th edition (1994), or by Gerald Wilhelm and
Linda Masters in “Floristic Quality Assessment and Application  Computer
Programs for the 22-County Chicago Region”, conservation design forum (2000).
      FREEBOARD. An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed
development, unknown localized conditions, wave actions and unpredictable
effects such as those caused by ice or debris jams.
      FUNCTIONAL. Means that a facility performs its primary purpose but may
not be completed.
      GROUNDWATER. Water that is located within soil or rock below the surface
of the earth.
      GROUNDWATER CONTROL SYSTEM.  A designed system that may consist of tiles,
underdrains, French drains or other appropriate stormwater facilities whose
purpose is to lower the ground water table to a predictable elevation
throughout the year.
      HEMI-MARSH. An isolated wetland dominated on the edges by tall, emergent
vegetation with an interior area of shallow open water.
      HISTORIC STRUCTURE. A structure or site that is:
         (a)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places,
or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing in the national register;
         (b)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to a historic district or a district determined by the
Secretary to qualify as registered historic district;
         (c)   Individually listed on the State Inventory of Historic Places by
the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency; or
         (d)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that
has been certified by the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency.
      HYDRAULICALLY CONNECTED IMPERVIOUS AREAS.  Those areas of concrete,
asphalt and gravel that, along with building roof surfaces, convey flows
directly to an improved drainage system consisting of storm sewers or paved
channels. They include roadways drained by curb and gutter and storm sewers,
and driveways hydraulically connected to those roadways. However, they do not
include roof surfaces discharging to unpaved surfaces that absorb and filter
stormwater runoff, or roadways whose primary conveyance is through open ditches
and swales.
      HYDRAULICALLY EQUIVALENT COMPENSATORY STORAGE.  Compensatory storage,
either adjacent to the floodplain fill or not located adjacent to the
development, but which can be shown by hydrologic and hydraulic analysis to be
equivalent to compensatory storage located adjacent to the development.
      HYDRAULICS. The science and study of the mechanical behavior of water in
physical systems and processes.
      HYDROGRAPH. A graph or tabulation showing flow rate with respect to time
for a given location on a channel or conduit.
      HYDROLOGICALLY DISTURBED. An area where the land surface has been
cleared, grubbed, compacted or otherwise modified that changes runoff, volumes,
rates or direction.
      HYDROLOGY. The science of the behavior of water, including its dynamics,
composition and distribution in the atmosphere, on the surface of the earth and
underground.
      IDNR-OWR. The Illinois Department of Natural Resources, Office of Water
Resources, or its duly authorized designee.
      IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Any manmade, hard-surfaced area that does not readily
permit the infiltration and absorption of stormwater runoff, including, but not
limited to, roofs, roads, drives, parking lots, sidewalks, path and graveled
areas.
      INFILTRATION. The passage or movement of water into the soil surface.
      INTERIM WATERSHED PLAN. A regional study of a specific watershed that
does not address the entire range of purposes, goals and objectives outlined in
the plan.
      INTERMITTENT STREAM. A stream whose bed intersects the ground water table
for only a portion of the year on average, or any stream that flows
continuously for at least one month out of the year, but not the entire year.
      ISOLATED WETLAND.  A wetland that does not have an identifiable surface
water connection to other waters of the U.S.
      LOMA or LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT.  The official determination by FEMA that
a specific structure is not in a regulatory floodplain and amends the effective
FIRM.
      LOMR or LETTER OF MAP REVISION. FEMA’s modification to an effective Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM). LOMRs are generally based on the implementation of
physical measures that affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a
flooding source, and thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory
floodway, the effective base flood elevations, or the SFHA. The LOMR officially
revises the FIRM, and sometimes the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) report, and,
when appropriate, includes a description of the modifications. The LOMR is
generally accompanied by an annotated copy of the affected portions of the FIRM
or FIS report.
      LAKE. A body of water, two or more acres in size, that retains water
throughout the year.
      LINEAL WATERS OF THE U.S.  Wetlands along creeks, streams, rivers, ponds,
lakes or impoundments that are hydraulically connected to surface water.
      LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a basement area,
is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of this subchapter.
      MAJOR STORMWATER SYSTEM. That portion of a stormwater facility needed to
store and convey runoff at the 100-year frequency.
      MASS GRADING. Development in which the primary activity is a change in
topography affected by the movement of earth materials.
      MINOR STORMWATER SYSTEM. All infrastructure, including curbs and gutters,
storm sewers, culverts, roadside ditches, subsurface drainage systems, intended
to convey stormwater runoff at the 100-year frequency.
      MITIGATION. Measures taken to offset negative impacts from development in
waters of the U.S., including wetlands or the floodplain.
      MOBILE HOME (also recognized as a MANUFACTURED HOME). A structure
designed for permanent habitation, and so constructed as to permit its
transport on wheels, temporarily or permanently attached to its frame, from the
place of construction to the location, or subsequent locations, at which it is
intended to be a permanent home, and designed to permit the occupancy thereof
as a dwelling place for one or more persons.
      MOBILE HOME PARK. A lot, parcel or tract of land developed with
facilities for
accommodating two or more mobile homes, provided each mobile home contains a
kitchen, flush toilet, and shower or bath; and such park shall be for use only
by nontransient dwellers remaining continuously for more than one month,
whether or not a charge is made. It shall not include a sales lot in which
automobiles or unoccupied mobile homes or other trailers are parked for the
purpose of inspection or sale, except mobile homes located on a site in the
mobile home park that are occupied or vacant for not more than 90 days after
occupancy may be sold or offered for sale.
      MOTTLED ZONE.  A layer that is marked with spots or blotches of different
color or shades of color. The pattern of mottling and the size, abundance and
color contrast of the mottles may vary considerably and should be specified in
soil description.
      MUNSELL COLOR SYSTEM.  A color designation system that specifies the
relative degrees of the three simple variables of color: hue, value and chroma.
For example: 10YR is a color of soil with a hue of 10YR, value = 6 and chroma =
4.
      NFIP or NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM. The federal program codified in
Title 44 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
      NRCS. The United States Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources
Conservation Service.
      NET BENEFIT IN WATER QUALITY.  The institution of best management
practices as part of a development that, when compared to the pre-development
condition, can be judged to reduce downstream sediment of pollutant loadings.
      NET WATERSHED BENEFIT.  A finding that, when compared to the existing
condition, the development will substantially reduce (more than 10%) downstream
peak discharges, will reduce downstream flood stages (more than 0.1 feet), or
will reduce downstream damage to structures occurring in  the pre-development
condition. This finding must be demonstrated by detailed hydrologic and
hydraulic analysis of watersheds on a regional scale, as approved by the
Administrator.
      NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction
commenced after the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted
by a community, and includes any subsequent improvements of such structures.
      NON-RIVERINE. Areas such as isolated depressional storage areas, ponds
and lakes.
      NUISANCE FLOW.  Primarily a dry-weather flow resulting from ground water
pumped by individual sump pumps and other human activities not directly related
to rainfall events and surface runoff.
      OHWM or ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK. The point on the bank or shore up to
which the presence and action of surface water is so continuous as to leave a
distinctive mark such as by erosion, destruction or prevention of terrestrial
vegetation, predominance of aquatic vegetation, or other easily recognized
characteristic.
      OBSERVATION STRUCTURES. Structures built on a field tile where the pipe
inflow and outflow is visible upon removal of a lid.
      OPEN CHANNEL. A conveyance system with a definable bed and banks carrying
the discharge from field tiles and surface drainage, but does not include
grassed swales within farm fields under agricultural production that are
ephemeral in nature.
      OPEN WATER.  Surface water in lakes, ponds, impoundments and wetlands
devoid of vegetative cover.
      OVERLAND FLOW PATH. A design feature of the major stormwater system that
carries flow in excess of the minor stormwater system design  capacity in an
open channel or swale, or as sheet flow or weir flow over a feature designed to
withstand the particular erosive forces involved.
      PARCEL. A separate tract of land identified by its own legal description.
      PERENNIAL STREAM. A riverine watercourse whose thalweg intersects the
groundwater table continuously and flows throughout the year.
      PERSON. An individual, partnership, corporation, limited liability
company, unincorporated association, trust, municipal corporation, unit of
local government or other government agency or authority, or any combination of
any of the foregoing.
      PLANT COMMUNITIES.  Groups of plants with similar habitat requirements
and planting regimes.
      POND.  A body of water, less than two acres in size, that retains a
normal water level year round.
      PRIMARY GRAVITY OUTLET. The outlet structure designed to meet the release
rate requirements of this subchapter, the invert (lowest elevation) of which
shall be considered the high water elevation for required stormwater retention.
      PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. An engineer registered in the State of Illinois
under the Illinois Professional Engineering Practice Act of 1989, 225 ILCS 325/
1 et seq.
      PROFESSIONAL LAND SURVEYOR.  A land surveyor registered in the State of
Illinois under the Illinois Professional Land Surveyors Act of 1989, 225 ILCS
330/1 et seq.
      PUBLIC FLOOD EASEMENT. An easement acceptable to the appropriate
jurisdictional body that meets the regulations of IDNR-OWR, the  department and
the community, and provides legal assurances that all areas subject to flooding
in the created backwater of the development will remain open to allow flooding.
      RECORD DRAWINGS.  Drawings prepared, signed and sealed by a professional
engineer or professional land surveyor, representing the final record of the
actual in-place elevations, locations of structures and topography.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicle that is:
         (a)   Built on a single chassis;
         (b)   Four hundred square feet or less in size;
         (c)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck; and
         (d)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
      REDEVELOPMENT. Development on a developed site devoted to an existing
urban land use from which stormwater either discharges into an existing
stormwater facility owned or maintained by a unit of local government, or
discharges directly onto a regulatory floodplain. REDEVELOPMENT includes the
widening of an existing street or highway owned by a unit of local government.
      REGISTERED STRUCTURAL ENGINEER. An engineer licensed under the Illinois
Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989, 225 ILCS 340/1 et seq.
      REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each flood event, on the  average, equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
      RESTRICTIVE BRIDGE OR CULVERT. A bridge or culvert that crosses a
floodplain and cannot convey the base flood without causing increases in the
upstream flood profile.
      RETENTION FACILITY. A facility that stores stormwater runoff without a
gravity release.
      RIVERINE. Related to, formed by or resembling a channel, including creeks
and rivers.
      RUNOFF. The waters derived from melting snow or rain falling within a
tributary drainage basin that exceeds the infiltration capacity of the soils of
that basin.
      SEASONAL HIGH GROUND WATER TABLE. The upper limits of the soil
temporarily saturated with water, being usually associated with spring wetness
conditions that may be indicated by soil mottles with a Munsell color of two
chroma or less.
      SEDIMENTATION. The process that deposits hydraulically moved soils,
debris and other materials on other ground surfaces or in bodies of water or
stormwater drainage systems.
      SEDIMENTATION TRAP. A structure or area that allows for the temporary
deposit and removal or disposal of sediment materials from stormwater runoff.
      SEEPAGE. The movement of drainable water through soil and rock.
      SITE. All of the land contemplated to be part of a coordinated
development of one or more parcels.
      SITE RUNOFF STORAGE FACILITY. A manmade structure for the temporary
storage of  stormwater runoff (detention) with a controlled release rate.
      SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREA.  An area that consists of a floodplain,
regulatory floodplain, wetland, wetlands mitigation area, stream, river or
other water body.
      START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement and means the
date the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or other
improvement, was within 180 days of the permit date. The ACTUAL START means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation or
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. For a substantial
improvement, ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alternation affects the external dimensions of the building.
      STORMWATER FACILITY. All ditches, channels, conduits, bridges, culverts,
levees, ponds, natural and manmade impoundments, wetlands, riparian
environment, tiles, swales, sewers or other natural or artificial structures or
measures that serve as a means of draining or storing surface water and ground
water from land.
      STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PERMIT.  The permit issued under this subchapter
      STRUCTURE. A manmade change to the land, constructed on or below the
ground, including the construction, reconstruction or placement of a building
or any addition to a building.
      SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cumulative percentage of damage equals or exceeds 50% of the  market value
of the structure before the damage occurred, regardless of actual repair work
performed. Volunteer labor and materials must be included in this
determination. This term includes structures that have incurred repetitive-loss
damages.
      SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
improvement of a structure taking place subsequent to the adoption of this
subchapter, in which the cumulative percentage of improvements:
         (a)   Equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure
before the improvement or repair is started, or
         (b)   Increases the floor area by more than 20%.
      SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Considered to occur when the first alteration of
any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building commences,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the
structure. This term includes structures that have incurred repetitive loss or
substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work done. The term does
not include:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications that are
solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or the Illinois Register of Historic Places, provided that the
alteration does not preclude the structure’s continued historic designation.
      SUBSURFACE DRAINAGE. The removal of excess soil water to control water
table levels at predetermined elevations, for structural, environmental or
other reasons, in areas already developed or being developed for agricultural,
residential, industrial, commercial or recreational uses.
      SURFACE GRAVITY OUTLET. The point at which stormwater runoff is let out
of a basin or depression by flowing via gravity over the surface of the ground
or through a conduit that has a direct and open connection to the surface.
      THALWEG or VALLEY LINE. The line that is drawn to join the lowest points
along the entire length of a streambed or valley in its downward slope,
defining its deepest channel.
      TOPSOIL. The uppermost part of the soil ordinarily moved in tillage, or
its equivalent in uncultivated soils.
      TRANSITION SECTION. The reaches of the stream or floodway where water
flows from a narrow cross section, or where a narrow cross vice versa.
      USABLE SPACE. Space used for dwelling, storage, utilities or other
beneficial purposes, including basements.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Mazon, Illinois.
      VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be in full
compliance with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as
that documentation is provided.
      WATER TABLE. The upper limit of a free water surface in a saturated soil
or underlying material.
      WATERS OF THE U.S. All interstate and intrastate waters and their
tributaries, including lakes, rivers, streams, including intermittent streams,
mudflows, sandflats, wetlands, sloughs, prairie potholes, wet meadows, lakes,
natural ponds, and all impoundments of the foregoing.
      WATERSHED.  All land drained by, or contributing water to, the same
stream, lake, stormwater facility or draining to a point.
      WATERSHED CHARACTERISTICS. The land use, physiology, habitat, climate,
drainage system and community profile of a watershed.
      WATERSHED PLAN. A study and evaluation of an individual drainage basin’s
stormwater management, floodplain management, water quality and flood control
needs and capabilities adopted by the county.
      WETLAND. As defined by COE in the 1988 Corps of Engineers Wetland
Delineation Manual, Technical Report Y-87-1, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers,
Waterways Experiment Station, Vicksburg, Mississippi (the “1987 Manual”), or
other federally recognized methodology.
      WETLAND IMPACT.
         (a)   The dredging or filling of any wetland having an FQI greater
than 25; or
         (b)   The dredging or filling of any other wetland if:
            1.   The effect would be that cumulatively, since the effective
date hereof, one-tenth acre (4,356 square feet) or more of the wetlands on the
site have been dredged or filled, and taking into account all prior dredging or
filling of such wetland; and
            2.   The wetland is not then regulated by COE; or
            3.   The dredging or filling is not an approved impact under a
conservation plan administered by any federal agency under the Food Security
Act, as amended (16 U.S.C. § 3801 et seq.).
      WETLAND MITIGATION. The creation and long-term maintenance of wetlands to
offset wetland impacts from development.
      WETLAND MITIGATION BANK. One or more parcels in the county either
approved by COE or the Administrator of this plan, where wetlands and/or other
aquatic resources are restored, created, enhanced, or in exceptional
circumstances, preserved expressly for the purpose of providing compensatory
mitigation in advance of authorized impacts to similar resources.
      WETLAND MITIGATION FACILITY. A parcel in the county specifically
dedicated for the creation and long term maintenance of wetlands and other
aquatic resources including any area designated as a compensatory storage
facility when such area is used for wetland mitigation.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 151.202 GENERAL STORMWATER REQUIREMENTS.
   No development shall result in any new or additional expense to any person
other than the developer for flood protection; or increase flood elevations or
decrease flood-conveyance capacity upstream or downstream of the area under the
ownership or control of the developer. This requirement shall not prohibit the
removal or reduction of built obstructions to flow, such as increasing culvert
capacity or lowering roadway elevations.
   (A)   Analysis and design. Analysis and design of all stormwater facilities
for the development shall comply with the standards and criteria established in
any applicable watershed plan or interim watershed plan.
   (B)   Building permits. Stormwater facilities shall be functional before
building permits are issued for residential or nonresidential subdivisions. The
village may make the determination that building permits may be granted prior
to the facilities being functional based on sound engineering.
   (C)   Overland flow paths.  The development shall have an overland flow path
at the downstream limit of the site that will pass the base-flood flow without
increasing flood damage. If the upstream drainage area is less than 20 acres, a
storm sewer pipe and inlet sized for the base flood may be constructed in lieu
of providing an overland flow path. Overland flow paths internal to the site
shall be considered as part of the major stormwater system, and shall be
designed for conveyance of the base flood (critical duration), without use of
storm sewer capacity, at a minimum of one cubic foot per second per tributary
acre, and without damage to structures.
   (D)   Protection of buildings.  All usable space in new buildings or
additions to existing buildings hydraulically connected to a major stormwater
system, site runoff storage facility or overland flow path shall be elevated,
floodproofed or otherwise protected to the FPE.
   (E)   Depressional storage. The function of existing onsite depressional
storage shall be preserved for both onsite and offsite tributary flows in
addition to required detention. When depressional storage is removed, it must
be compensated for in the site runoff storage facility at a one-to-one ratio,
provided that offsite areas tributary to the existing depressional storage are
routed through the site runoff storage facility. This requirement is in
addition to the site runoff storage requirements as identified in this
subchapter. The village may allow the function of depressional storage to be
preserved if the applicant performs detailed pre- and post-project hydrologic
and hydraulic modeling to identify the effect of the depressional storage on
discharges, using a two-year through 100-year critical duration analysis.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 151.203 EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLANNING.
   (A)   Erosion and sediment control planning shall be part of the initial
site planning process. In the planning process, the applicant shall also
address the following:
      (1)   For projects that involve phased construction, existing land cover
for those areas not under current development shall be addressed. If existing
land cover does not consist of appropriate dense vegetation, then these phases
shall be planted temporarily to reduce erosion from idle land.
      (2)   In planning the erosion and sediment control strategy, preference
shall be given to reducing erosion rather than controlling sediment. In order
to accomplish this, details need to be provided that include the construction
sequence of the phases such that the amount of land area exposed to erosive
forces is the minimum for the completion of the project. Standards and
specifications for erosion and sediment control measures shall be in accordance
with the latest edition of the Illinois Urban Manual.
   (B)   Erosion and sediment control plans shall be in accordance with this
subchapter and shall include the following:
      (1)   Detailed construction phasing plan, identifying erosion and
sediment control measures to be in place for each phase, shall be provided.
      (2)   Erosion and sediment control measures are to be installed initially
prior to stripping existing vegetation or mass grading. Details of this shall
be provided on the plans.
      (3)   Permanent stabilization measures shall be identified as such.
      (4)   The expected two-year and ten-year runoff rates from all offsite
areas draining into the site shall be identified on the plan.
      (5)   Methods for conveying flows through the site during construction
shall be indicated. These methods shall include the temporary and permanent
stabilization measures to be used to reduce velocity and erosion from flow
through the construction zone.
      (6)   A maintenance schedule of each measure used shall be indicated on
the plan. As a minimum, all erosion and sediment control measures on site shall
be inspected weekly by the applicant, or the applicant’s onsite representative,
or after a one-half inch or greater rainfall event, and any required repairs
shall be made to keep these measures functional as designed.
   (C)   Special management areas and any required buffers shall be indicated
on the erosion and sediment control plan.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 151.204 DEVELOPMENT WITHIN SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREAS.
   All development with special management areas shall follow current IDNR-OWR
and FEMA requirements.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 151.205 APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENTS REQUIRING DETENTION.
   All developments shall obtain a stormwater management permit, requiring
compliance with §§ 151.206 and 151.207 of this subchapter, after the effective
date hereof, if one of the following scenarios apply:
   (A)   Two or more single-family, detached dwellings are to be constructed on
a site having five or more acres;
   (B)   A two-family attached, multi-family attached dwelling, condominium,
apartment or other residential building comprised of more than two units is to
be constructed on a site one acre or more in size;
   (C)   Any nonresidential development on a site one acre or more in size,
unless the development consists solely of the installation, repair or
replacement of the underground or overhead lines of a public utility within a
public right-of-way.
   (D)   Redevelopment on a site one acre or more in size, resulting in 25,000
square feet or more of additional impervious area in aggregate, from the
effective date of this subchapter; or
   (E)   Road development after the effective date hereof in rights-of-way
under the ownership or control of a unit of local government, resulting in two
acres or more of additional impervious area; or
   (F)   The repair or replacement of an existing parking lot or privately-
owned road within the floodplain results in any additional impervious surface,
an increase in peak flows, a change in the location of the stormwater
discharge, or an increase in the elevation of the parking or driving surface.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 151.206 SITE RUNOFF REQUIREMENTS FOR DETENTION.
   (A)   Stormwater facilities shall be required and designed so that runoff
exits the site at the point whereit exited prior to development (unless a
change is required and approved in writing by the village), and in a manner so
as not to increase flood damage downstream. Concentrated discharges from new
developments must enter conveyance systems capable of carrying the design flow
rate without increasing flood damage, erosion or maintenance costs downstream.
   (B)   Minor stormwater systems shall be sized to convey runoff from the
tributary watershed under fully developed conditions consistent with the design
requirement of the permitting authority.
   (C)   Major stormwater systems shall be sized to carry the base flood
without causing additional flood damage.
   (D)   Stormwater systems shall properly incorporate and be compatible with
existing subsurface and surface discharge systems, including agricultural
systems. Designs shall not cause new or increased damage to existing drainage
systems, or to existing adjacent or tributary agricultural land uses.
      (1)   Offsite outfall. Agricultural subsurface and surface drainage
systems shall be evaluated with regard to their capacity and capability to
properly convey low-flow ground water and site runoff storage facility release
without new or increased damage to downstream structures and land uses. If the
outfall drain tile and surface drainage systems prove to be inadequate to
handle the design release rate, one of the following solutions shall be used:
         (a)   The site stormwater system and offsite outfall shall be designed
so that it does not exceed the existing capacity of the downstream drainage
system; or
         (b)   Modify the existing systems or construct new systems that will
not conflict with the existing systems and will not impact existing land uses;
or
         (c)   Alternate solutions may be submitted to the Administrator for
approval.
      (2)   Onsite. Agricultural drainage systems shall be located and
evaluated. All existing onsite agricultural drain tiles not serving a
beneficial use shall be abandoned by trench removal prior to other development,
and recorded on engineering details for the project. If any existing drain
tiles continue to drain upland watersheds, the developer must maintain drainage
service during construction until new storm sewers can be installed for a
permanent connection.
      (3)   Offsite tributary. Existing drainage systems shall be evaluated
with regard to existing capabilities and reasonable future expansion
capacities. All existing tributary drain tiles shall be incorporated into the
new stormwater system that includes observation structures located at the
limits of the site and shall provide a free flow discharge. Agricultural
tributary surface conveyance shall be accepted by the new development, with
consideration given to the water quality and the ability to filter out
sediment.
      (4)   Preservation of existing systems. New roadway construction shall
preserve existing subsurface systems within the right-of-way. Inspection wells
shall be placed in the right-of-way. Tiles found not to be flowing between
inspection wells at the end of construction shall be replaced.
   (E)   Design runoff rates shall be calculated using event hydrograph
methods. Design runoff rates for minor stormwater systems may be calculated
using the rational method if the design watershed is less than 20 acres.
   (F)   Any design runoff rate calculation method shall use Bulletin 70,
“Northeast Sectional Rainfall Statistics”, and shall calculate flow from all
tributary areas upstream of the point of design. Peak discharges for conveyance
design purposes shall be based on the critical duration considering the
appropriate rainfall distribution.
   (G)   Major and minor stormwater systems shall be located within easements
or rights-of-way, explicitly providing for government access or maintenance of
such facilities by the grantee.
   (H)   Maximum flow depths for new transverse stream crossing shall not
exceed one foot at the crown of the road during the base flood condition. The
maximum longitudinal flow depth on a roadway shall not exceed six inches at the
crown for flow depth (in feet) and velocity (in feet per second) shall not
exceed four feet per second for the base flood condition.
   (I)   Transfers of waters between watersheds (diversions) shall be
prohibited, except when such transfers will not violate this subchapter and are
otherwise lawful.
   (J)   Developments shall incorporate best management practices in accordance
with the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., as amended), and as
required by the IEPA’s National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES)
permit program.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 151.207 SITE RUNOFF STORAGE REQUIREMENTS FOR DETENTION.
   (A)   The area of hydrological disturbance on the site shall be used to
calculate the required site runoff storage volume. The tributary area of the
site at the point of discharge shall be used to calculate the allowable release
rates of the primary restrictor for the site runoff storage facility.
   (B)   The site runoff storage volume required shall be calculated based on
maximum release rates of 0.15 cubic feet per second per acre for the 100-year,
24-hour storm event, and 0.04 cubic feet per second per acre for the two-year,
24-hour storm event, according to the methods identified in division (C) below.
   (C)   Event hydrograph routing methods, such as HEC-1, HEC-HMS, and TR-20 or
TR-55 tabular method, using SCS curve number methodology, shall be used to
calculate design runoff volumes for site runoff storage facilities. Event
methods shall incorporate the following assumptions:
      (1)   Antecedent moisture condition equals two;
      (2)   Appropriate Huff rainfall distribution, except that SCS type II
distribution is acceptable with TR-55 tabular method only; and
      (3)   Twenty-four-hour duration storm, with a 1% probability (100-year)
of occurrence in any one year as specified by Bulletin 70, “Northeast Sectional
Rainfall Statistics”.
   (D)   For sites where the undeveloped release rate is less than the maximum
release rate of this section, the developed release rate and corresponding site
runoff storage volume shall be based on the existing undeveloped release rate
for the development site.
   (E)   Hydraulic computations for the release structure must assume backwater
conditions up to the ten-year flood elevation on the adjacent receiving
watercourse.
   (F)   Retention requirement.
      (1)   The runoff from a three-quarter-inch rainfall event over the
hydraulically connected impervious area of a new industrial, commercial or
multi-family development shall be stored below the elevation of the primary
gravity outlet (retention) of the site runoff storage facility. The facility
may be designed to allow for evapotranspiration or infiltration of this volume
into a subsurface drainage system, and shall not be conveyed through a direct
positive connection to downstream areas.
      (2)   The hydraulically connected impervious area used in the calculation
of required retention volume may be reduced by the village if the soils are
undisturbed in situ or prepared to maximize infiltration and deep-rooted
grasses or other plants that assist in the promotion of infiltration and
transpiration are planted in areas appropriately dedicated. The reduction in
hydraulically connected impervious area used in the calculation shall be equal
to the area of the development meeting the above soils/planting requirement.
      (3)   Subsurface drainage systems may be designed as a component of the
retention portion of the site runoff storage basin to assist in infiltration in
accordance with the following criteria:
         (a)   No such subsurface drainage pipe shall be located within ten
feet of drainage pipes directly connected to the site runoff storage basin; and
         (b)   For purposes of meeting the maximum subsurface drainage
requirements, flow control orifices and weirs may be incorporated into the
design.
   (G)   Site runoff storage facilities shall be designed and constructed with
the following characteristics.
      (1)   At least one foot of freeboard above the 100-year design water
surface elevation shall be required within the storage facility.
      (2)   Storage facilities shall be accessible and easily maintained.
      (3)   All design site runoff storage volume shall be provided above the
seasonal high ground water table or the invert elevation of the ground water
control system.
      (4)   Storage facilities shall be designed to control sediment and
floating debris. Unless specifically approved by the Administrator, concrete-
lined, low-flow ditches shall not be used in site runoff storage basins.
      (5)   Storage facilities shall minimize the negative impacts of
stormwater runoff into the waterquality by incorporating best management
practices in the design of the facilities.
      (6)   Storage facilities shall maximize the distance between site runoff
storage inlets and outlets to the extent possible.
      (7)   Storage facilities shall be designed so as not to exceed the
existing pre-development peak runoff rate of the 100-year, critical-duration
rainfall, when the primary restrictor is assumed to be blocked.
      (8)   Storage facilities with single-pipe outlets shall have a minimum
inside diameter of 12 inches. If design release rates necessitate a smaller
outlet to be constructed, perforated risers or flow control orifices shall be
used to prevent smaller openings from clogging.
   (H)   Storage facilities located within the regulatory floodplain shall:
      (1)   Comply with this subchapter; and
      (2)   Store the required amount of site runoff to meet the release rate
requirement under all stream flow and backwater conditions, up to the ten-year
flood elevation on the adjacent receiving watercourse. The village may approve
designs that can be substantiated through hydrologic and hydraulic engineering
analysis to provide a new watershed benefit not otherwise realized by strict
application of the requirements set forth in this division.
   (I)   Storage facilities located within the regulatory floodway will be
allowed only as a variance and shall:
      (1)   Meet the requirements for locating storage facilities in the
regulatory floodplain; and
      (2)   Be evaluated by performing hydrologic and hydraulic analysis
consistent with the standards and requirements for watershed plans; and
      (3)   Provide a net watershed benefit.
   (J)   Site run-off facilities may be located offsite if:
      (1)   The offsite storage facility meets all of the requirements of this
article; and
      (2)   Adequate storage capacity in the offsite facility is dedicated to
the development; and
      (3)   The development includes a means to convey stormwater within an
easement to the offsite storage facility.
   (K)   Site runoff storage volume provided by enlarging existing regulatory
floodplain storage (on stream runoff storage) will be allowed only as a
variance. The applicant must demonstrate that flood damage will not be
increased, and the development will not increase flood flows for both the two-
year and 100-year floods.
   (L)   Structures built across the channel to impound water to meet site
runoff storage requirements shall be prohibited on any perennial stream, unless
part of a public flood control project with a net watershed benefit. Those
streams appearing as blue on a USGS quadrangle map shall be assumed to be
perennial, unless better data is provided by the developer. In all cases, it
must be demonstrated that all such structures will not cause short-term or
long-term instability, and that they are permitted under a joint application to
the IDNR, COE and IEPA. Where such facilities are approved, the applicant must
also comply with division (F) of this section.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 151.208 FLOODPLAIN, BFE AND REGULATORY FLOODWAY LOCATIONS.
   (A)   The BFE shall be delineated on the site topography to establish the
regulatory floodplain limits for regulation under this subchapter, using the
Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) and Flood Insurance Study (FIS) of Grundy
County, dated August 2, 2012, by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, in
accordance with this subchapter.
   (B)   The BFE shall be:
      (1)   In the case of AE Zones on the FIRM, the 1% annual chance flood
profile elevation in the FIS; or
      (2)   In the case of AH Zones on the FIRM, that elevation delineated on
the FIRM; or
      (3)   In the case of a AO Zones on the FIRM, that depth delineated on the
FIRM added to the highest adjacent grade or at least two feet above the highest
adjacent grade if no depth number is provided; or
      (4)   For each of the remaining floodplains delineated as A Zones on the
FIRM, according to the best data available from federal, state or other
sources.
         (a)   Should no other data exist, the BFE should be determined by an
engineering study financed by the applicant, and conducted by a professional
engineer using appropriate hydrologic and hydraulic models as follows:
            1.   Hydrologic models: TR-20, HEC-1, HEC-HMS;
            2.   Hydraulic models: HEC-2, HEC-RAS, WSP-2; or
            3.   A technique approved by the Administrator and IDNR-OWR.
         (b)   Where a channel has a tributary drainage area of 640 acres or
more, the above analysis shall be submitted to IDNR-OWR for approval.
   (C)   Floodway delineation and elevations.
      (1)   The location of the regulatory floodway shall be as delineated on
the FIRM. Where an interpretation is needed to determine the exact location of
the regulatory floodway boundary, IDNR-OWR shall be contacted.
      (2)   General criteria for analysis of flood elevations in the regulatory
floodway are as follows:
         (a)   The flood profiles, flows and data from the current applicable
regulatory map must be used for analysis of the base conditions. If the study
data appears to be in error or conditions have changed, FEMA and IDNR-OWR shall
be contacted for approval and concurrence on the appropriate base conditions
data to use. The same Manning’s “n” value shall be used for both existing and
proposed conditions, unless a recorded maintenance agreement obligates a public
entity to maintain the proposed conditions, or the land cover is changing from
vegetative to non-vegetative. The Administrator shall be copied on all related
correspondence.
         (b)   If the BFE at the site is affected by backwater from a
downstream receiving stream with a larger drainage area, the proposed
development shall be shown to meet the requirements of this section with the
receiving stream at both the normal water elevation and the BFE.
         (c)   If the applicant is informed by IDNR-OWR, a local government or
private owner that a downstream or upstream restrictive bridge or culvert is
scheduled to be removed, reconstructed or modified, or a regional flood control
project is scheduled to be built, removed, constructed or modified within the
next five years, the proposed development shall be analyzed and shown to meet
the requirements of this section for both the existing conditions and the
expected flood profile conditions when the bridge, culvert or flood control
project is built, removed or modified.
         (d)   If the use will result in a change in the location of the
regulatory floodway or a change in the BFE, then no development shall take
place until a CLOMR has been issued by FEMA. Filling, grading, dredging or
excavating may take place upon issuance of a CLOMR by FEMA. No further
development activities shall take place or building permit issued in existing
or proposed floodplain until a LOMR is issued by FEMA. The Administrator shall
be copied on all related correspondence.
         (e)   In the circumstances listed below and located in a regulatory
floodway, at a minimum, the information set forth below shall be submitted to
IDNR-OWR for its review and approval.
            1.   Analysis of the flood profile due to a proposed bridge,
culvert crossing or roadway approach.
            2.   An engineer’s determination that an existing bridge, culvert
crossing or roadway approach is not a source of flood damage, and the analysis
indicating the proposed flood profile.
            3.   Alternative transition sections and hydraulically equivalent
compensatory storage.
            4.   Stormwater management permits issued to local units of
government for regulatory floodway and floodplain development.
            5.   IDNR-OWR will issue permits for any IDNR-OWR, state, federal
or community projects for activities or developments that are located within
the floodway.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 151.209 GENERAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS IN REGULATORY FLOODPLAIN.
   The following general performance standards are applicable to all
development in a regulatory floodplain. The standards of this section apply
except when superseded by more stringent requirements in the following
sections.
   (A)   All development in the regulatory floodplain shall comply with the
compensatory storage volume standards of this subchapter.
   (B)   For all projects involving a channel modification, fill, stream
maintenance or a levee, the flood conveyance and storage capacity of the
regulatory floodplain shall not be reduced.
   (C)   If the proposed development would result in a change in the regulatory
floodplain or BFE, the applicant shall obtain a CLOMR from FEMA prior to
development, followed by a LOMR from FEMA following development. No buildings
may be built in the existing or proposed regulatory floodplain unless the
building meets all the building protection standards identified within this
subchapter. Proposed changes to the regulatory floodway delineation and the BFE
must also be submitted to the IDNR-OWR for its approval.
   (D)   Prior to the commencement of any construction, modification or removal
of a dam, the developer shall obtain an IDNR-OWR dam safety permit or a letter
from the IDNR-OWR stating that a permit is not required.
   (E)   For public flood control projects, the requirements will be deemed met
if the applicant demonstrates to IDNR-OWR and the Stormwater Committee:
      (1)   By hydraulic and hydrologic modeling, that the proposed project
will not singularly or cumulatively result in increased flood heights outside
the project site, or that any increases will be contained in easements for all
flood events, up to and including the base flood event;
      (2)   That the project will be operated and maintained by a public
entity;
      (3)   That the project will reduce flood damage to an existing building
or structure.
   (F)   Nothing in this section precludes the design, engineering,
construction or financing, in whole or in part, of a public flood control
project by persons who are not public entities.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 151.210 LOWEST OPENING.
   For proposed structures located outside the regulatory floodplain, the
lowest opening shall be above the FPE (unless allowed in accordance with the
regulations stated in this subchapter), including doors, access ways and window
wells, as depicted on the building plans reviewed and enforced by the Building
and Zoning Official.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 151.211 DEVELOPMENT IN THE FLOODWAY.
   Only development meeting the requirements of this subchapter shall be
permitted in a regulatory floodway and shall also comply with all other
applicable provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 151.212 RIVERINE FLOODPLAIN WITHOUT A DELINEATED FLOODWAY.
   These standards apply to riverine regulatory floodplains without a
delineated floodway.
   (A)   The applicant shall obtain approval from IDNR-OWR for development of
more than five acres or subdivisions of more than 50 lots located, entirely or
partly, within the regulatory floodplain (without a delineated regulatory
floodway).
   (B)   The development shall not singularly or cumulatively result in an
obstruction of flood flows or potential flood damages outside the site due to
an increase in flood heights, velocities or loss of floodplain area storage.
   (C)   If the riverine floodplain without a delineated floodway is in a Zone
A with no BFEs shown, then a professional engineer shall submit a study that:
      (1)   Determines a BFE and demonstrates that the proposed development
will maintain the existing conditions conveyance, will not increase flood
velocities, will not increase flood profiles and will compensate for any lost
floodplain storage in accordance with this subchapter; or
      (2)   Shows that the proposed development will meet the requirements for
regulatory floodplains within this subchapter.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 151.213 COMPENSATORY STORAGE VOLUME STANDARDS IN REGULATORY FLOODPLAINS AND
FLOODWAYS.
   The following standards apply within the regulatory floodplain.
   (A)   Hydraulically equivalent compensatory storage volume will be required
for development in a riverine regulatory floodplain, and shall be at least
equal to the regulatory floodplain flood storage volume displaced, multiplied
by one, within the incorporated areas. The storage volume displaced below the
existing ten-year-frequency-flood elevation must be replaced below the proposed
ten-year-frequency-flood elevation. The storage volume displaced above the
existing ten-year-frequency flood elevation must be replaced above the proposed
ten-year-frequency-flood elevation.
   (B)   Compensatory storage volume for development in a non-riverine
regulatory floodplain area that is also adjacent to a lake shall be equal to
the storage volume displaced.
   (C)   Compensatory storage volume requirements for development in a non-
riverine regulatory floodplain that is not adjacent to a lake shall be replaced
in accordance with the requirements for the loss of depressional storage as
identified within this subchapter.
   (D)   Compensatory storage areas shall be designed to drain freely and
openly to the channel, and shall be located adjacent to the development. This
standard does not apply to non-riverine regulatory floodplain or the
replacement of depressional storage.
   (E)   A recorded covenant running with the land shall be required to
maintain the compensatory storage volume in areas modified to provide
compensatory storage volume.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 151.214 BRIDGE AND CULVERT STANDARDS.
   These standards are for the reconstruction, modification or new construction
of bridges, culvert crossings and roadway approaches that are located within
the regulatory floodplain.
   (A)   A proposed new structure shall not result in an increase of upstream
flood stages greater than one-tenth foot, when compared to the existing
conditions for all flood events, up to and including the base flood event,
unless contained within the channel banks or recorded easements. The evaluation
must be submitted to IDNR-OWR for review and issuance of a permit.
   (B)   If the proposed new structure will increase upstream flood stages
greater than one-tenth foot, the applicant must contact IDNR-OWR for a dam
safety permit or waiver. The Administrator shall be copied on all related
correspondence.
   (C)   A restrictive bridge or culvert may be altered to increase the
conveyance of the base flood, if an impact analysis is completed and approved
in writing by the Administrator, and all other required regulatory approvals
are obtained.
   (D)   Velocity increases must be mitigated by use of appropriate measures to
avoid scour, erosion and sedimentation at the structure.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 151.215 REQUIREMENTS FOR WETLAND DELINEATION.
   (A)   Before any development in or near waters of the U.S., or in or near a
wetland delineated on the NRCS Wetland Inventory Maps, U.S. Fish and Wildlife
Service National Wetland Inventory Map, or if the Administrator considers that
a wetland is present through visual inspection, a written report identifying
and evaluating the boundaries, location, limits, area and quality of all onsite
wetlands shall be submitted. The presence and limits of wetland areas shall be
determined by a wetland delineation conducted in accordance with the 1987 Corps
of Engineers Wetland Delineation Manual. Before any development on agricultural
land, in addition to the onsite delineation required under the provisions
listed herein above, a farmed wetland delineation conducted in accordance with
the National Food Security Act Manual methodology must be performed.
   (B)   The quality of the wetlands shall be evaluated based upon the Flora
Quality Index (FQI).
   (C)   The approximate location, extent and relative quality of wetlands
within 50 feet of the site shall be identified and included in the written
report, if the wetland is downstream of the development such that the run off
could negatively affect the quality or health of the wetland. The location and
extent of such offsite wetlands shall be determined by using the first of the
following documents or procedures pertaining to such wetlands at the time of
development:
      (1)   Site-specific delineation;
      (2)   Wetlands identified in watershed plans or ADID studies. If such
plans are not available, then;
      (3)   Wetlands identified in interim watershed plans. If such plans are
not available, then;
      (4)   Wetlands identified on NRCS wetlands inventory maps. If such maps
are not available, then;
      (5)   Wetlands identified on the United States Fish and Wildlife Service
National Wetlands Inventory maps.
   (D)   Final FQI assessments made before June 1 or after October 15, unless
allowed at the discretion of the Administrator, shall be considered to be
preliminary. Buffer requirements shall be based upon such assessments.
   (E)   All wetland mitigation required under a COE Section 404 permit for
wetland disturbances in the village, shall be provided for. All wetland
mitigation required under this subchapter for wetland impacts in the village
shall be provided for in the same watershed where the wetland disturbances
occurred.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 151.216 WETLAND PRESERVATION DURING DEVELOPMENT.
   Preserved wetlands shall be protected during development such that an FQI
calculated upon completion of the project or two years after the commencement
of development, whichever is later, will not be more than two points less than
the FQI originally calculated. The developer shall mitigate for any wetland not
so preserved at the ratio required for in the FQI originally calculated.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 151.217 BUFFER REQUIREMENTS FOR WETLANDS.
   The requirements of this section are not applicable to wetlands or waters of
the U.S. that, in either case, are below the threshold-size limitations for
mitigation requirements under the COE 404 permit program.
   (A)    Buffers shall be identified on development plans for all areas
defined as waters of the U.S. Buffer areas are divided into two types: linear
buffers and water body buffers.
      (1)   Buffer areas, including the protected waters of the U.S., shall be
shown to be within appropriate easements on all new plats. Additionally, the
maintenance requirements for the buffer shall be noted on the plat or included
as a covenant running with the land in any deed conveying any portion of a
buffer area.
      (2)   Buffer widths required as a part of a COE permit supersede the
widths required in this section, unless the width required herein is greater.
If a COE permit is obtained to permanently fill a portion of a wetland and no
buffer is required, the buffer width required by this subchapter immediately
adjacent to the area of impact does not apply. IMMEDIATELY ADJACENT refers to
the area within 15 feet of the area of impact. In no case shall additional
wetland area be filled to provide buffer required by this subchapter.
      (3)   Jurisdictional waters of the U.S. or wetlands may not constitute a
buffer. Buffer widths are to be 25 feet unless otherwise determined using the
criteria specified below. Buffer width averaging is acceptable at the
discretion of the Administrator. When using buffer width averaging, the width
may not be more than 20% less, at the narrowest point, than the specified
width. The buffer width may never be less than 15 feet, except in the case of
waters of the U.S. or wetlands with a calculated FQI of less than seven, where
the buffer at its narrowest point may not be less than 12 feet in width.
         (a)   Linear buffers shall be designated along waters of the U.S. and
wetlands associated with water courses, i.e., swales, creeks, streams, rivers,
and the like. Refer to division (A)(3)(b) below in cases where wetlands are
adjacent to and not part of the main channel, i.e., floodplain wetland,
backwater slough, oxbow, bordering wetland complex.
            1.   When the lineal waters of the U.S. have a drainage area
greater than 640 acres, measured at the downstream property line, or is
designated as ADID because of high habitat value or an adjacent wetland has a
calculated FQI greater than 16, the buffer shall be 50 feet.
            2.   When the lineal waters of the U.S. have a drainage area less
than 640 acres, measured at the downstream property line, the buffer width
shall be determined utilizing the formula,
               X = (A*0.0547)+ 15
               Where X equals the buffer width in feet, and A equals the
drainage area in acres.
The width calculated by this formula shall be rounded up to the nearest
multiple of five.
            3.   If protective measures are installed along the perimeter of a
buffer, the width may be reduced by up to 10% immediately adjacent to the
protective measure. The reduction in width that may be applied due to
installation of protective measures may not be applied where buffer width
averaging has been used and the buffer would be more than 20% less than
originally specified. Protective measures may consist of fencing, sediment
basins, biological filter strips or other methods approved by the
Administrator.
            4.    If lineal waters of the U.S. are completely or partially
relocated, the newly created portion must be constructed in a manner that will
allow naturalizing to occur; for example, meandering, pools, riffles and the
like. Additionally, all disturbed areas must be replanted for stability with
native vegetation where appropriate, appropriately managed and maintained and
protected by an appropriately-sized buffer.
         (b)   Water body buffers shall encompass non-linear bodies of water
meeting the definition of the waters of the U.S., including wetlands.
            1.   If protective measures are installed along the perimeter of a
buffer, the width may be reduced by up to 10% immediately adjacent to the
protective measure. The reduction in width that may be applied due to
installation of protective measures may not be applied where buffer width
averaging has been used and the buffer would be more than 20% less than
originally specified. Protective measures may consist of fencing, sediment
basins, biological filter strips or other methods approved by the
Administrator.
            2.   For all non-lineal water bodies or waters of the U.S.
designated as ADID or wetlands with an FQI greater than 16, a minimum buffer
width must be established in accordance with Table 1.
            3.   For non-ADID wetlands with an FQI of 7 to 16, a minimum buffer
width must be established in accordance with Table 2.
            4.    For non-ADID wetlands with an FQI of less than 7, a minimum
buffer width must be established in accordance with Table 3.
   (B)   Buffers shall be replanted or reseeded using appropriate
predominately-native, deep-rooted vegetation, appropriately managed and
maintained following disturbance.
   (C)   The buffer area for all lineal and non-lineal waters of the U.S.,
except wetlands, shall extend from the jurisdictional limits of the waters of
the U.S. ordinary high water mark. The buffer area for wetlands shall extend
from the edge of the approved delineated wetland boundary. A site may contain a
buffer that originates from a waters of the U.S. or wetland located on another
property.
   (D)   Constructed stormwater management features shall not require a buffer
and may constitute as a buffer. The total width of the buffer required may not
be reduced by the installation of a stormwater management facility unless the
facility can be considered a protective measure. If the facility can be
considered to be a protective measure, then the width of the buffer may be
reduced as specified in this subchapter.
   (E)   If a buffer area is disturbed by permitted activities during
construction, the buffer strip shall be stabilized in accordance with this
subchapter.
   (F)   Access through buffer areas shall be allowed when necessary for
maintenance purposes only. Unless otherwise dedicated for a public purpose,
buffer areas shall remain private property and are not generally accessible to
the public.
   (G)   Unrestrained stormwater that has not passed through a site runoff
storage facility shall discharge through an area or structure meeting the
definition of best management practices or buffer before entering the
jurisdictional waters of the U.S. or a wetland.
      (1)   Once established, all buffer areas shall be maintained free from
development, except as described below:
         (a)   A buffer area may be used for passive recreation (e.g., bird
watching, walking, jogging, bicycling, horseback riding and picnicking), and it
may contain pedestrian, bicycle or equestrian trails, provided that the created
path is no wider than ten feet. To help prevent erosion, paths leading to a
wetland must be winding.
         (b)   Utility maintenance, maintenance of drainage facilities and
drainage easements shall be allowed, provided the maintenance activity meets
all other federal, state and local regulations.
         (c)   Anchoring and placement of boat docks and piers shall be
allowed, provided the structure meets all other federal, state and local
regulations.
   TABLE 1 – HIGH QUALITY WETLANDS – FQI > 16
Buffer Ratio Wetland Area (Acres) Buffer Area (Acres) Buffer Width (Feet)
0.5          0.25                 0.125               15.0
0.5          0.5                  0.25                20.0
0.5          0.75                 0.375               25.0
0.5          1.0                  0.5                 30.0
0.5          1.25                 0.625               30.0
0.5          1.5                  0.75                35.0
0.5          1.75                 0.875               35.0
0.5          2.0                  1.0                 40.0
0.5          2.25                 1.125               40.0
0.5          2.5                  1.25                45.0
0.5          2.75                 1.375               45.0
0.5          3.0                  1.5                 50.0
0.5          3.25                 1.625               50.0
0.5          3.5                  1.75                50.0
0.5          3.75                 1.875               50.0
0.5          4.0                  2.0                 50.0
0.5          4.25                 2.125               50.0
0.5          4.5                  2.25                50.0
0.5          4.75                 2.375               50.0
0.5          5.0 or more          2.5                 50.0
 
      Buffer ratio = % of total wetland area
      Wetland Area = Total onsite and offsite area of the wetland
      Buffer Area = Wetland Area x Buffer Ratio
      Buffer Width = [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
2df39c1fa0092d856acbc8a71a7a33ec61d10b47/IMAGES/0-0-0-2221.png]
   TABLE 2 – MEDIUM QUALITY WETLANDS – 7 < FQI < 16
Buffer Ratio Wetland Area (Acres) Buffer Area (Acres) Buffer Width (Feet)
0.4          0.25                 0.1                 15.0
0.4          0.5                  0.2                 15.0
0.4          0.75                 0.3                 20.0
0.4          1.0                  0.4                 25.0
0.4          1.25                 0.5                 25.0
0.4          1.5                  0.6                 30.0
0.4          1.75                 0.7                 30.0
0.4          2.0                  0.8                 30.0
0.4          2.25                 0.9                 35.0
0.4          2.5                  1.0                 35.0
0.4          2.75                 1.1                 35.0
0.4          3.0                  1.2                 40.0
0.4          3.25                 1.3                 40.0
0.4          3.5                  1.4                 40.0
0.4          3.75                 1.5                 45.0
0.4          4.0                  1.6                 45.0
0.4          4.25                 1.7                 45.0
0.4          4.5                  1.8                 45.0
0.4          4.75                 1.9                 50.0
0.4          5.0 or more          2.0                 50.0
 
      Buffer ratio = % of total wetland area
      Wetland Area = Total onsite and offsite area of the wetland
      Buffer Area = Wetland Area x Buffer Ratio
      Buffer Width =[https://export.amlegal.com/media/
2df39c1fa0092d856acbc8a71a7a33ec61d10b47/IMAGES/0-0-0-2223.png]
   TABLE 3 – LOW QUALITY WETLANDS – FQI < 7
Buffer Ratio Wetland Area (Acres) Buffer Area (Acres) Buffer Width (Feet)
0.3          0.25                 0.075               15.0
0.3          0.5                  0.15                15.0
0.3          0.75                 0.225               15.0
0.3          1.0                  0.3                 20.0
0.3          1.25                 0.375               20.0
0.3          1.5                  0.45                20.0
0.3          1.75                 0.525               25.0
0.3          2.0                  0.6                 25.0
0.3          2.25                 0.675               25.0
0.3          2.5                  0.75                25.0
0.3          2.75                 0.825               30.0
0.3          3.0                  0.9                 30.0
0.3          3.25                 0.975               30.0
0.3          3.5                  1.05                30.0
0.3          3.75                 1.125               35.0
0.3          4.0                  1.2                 35.0
0.3          4.25                 1.275               35.0
0.3          4.5                  1.35                35.0
0.3          4.75                 1.425               35.0
0.3          5.0                  1.5                 35.0
 
      Buffer ratio = % of total wetland area
      Wetland Area = Total onsite and offsite area of the wetland
      Buffer Area = Wetland Area x Buffer Ratio
      Buffer Width = [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
2df39c1fa0092d856acbc8a71a7a33ec61d10b47/IMAGES/0-0-0-2225.png]
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 151.218 WETLAND IMPACTS AND MITIGATION.
   All developments having a wetland impact shall comply with this section. A
permit for any wetland impact shall be obtained from the Village Administrator.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 151.219 IMMITIGABLE WETLANDS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)    Wetlands identified as having a Flora Quality Index (FQI) greater
than or equal to 25 shall not be filled or dredged as part of any development.
The FQI shall be based solely on the wetland vegetation. Buffers and adjacent
plant communities shall not be included in the calculation.
   (B)   If the application of this section would:
      (1)   Have the effect of depriving the owner of all economically
beneficial or productive use of the land; or
      (2)   Make the construction or installation of an essential public
improvement by a public entity impossible or highly impractical;
the applicant may apply for a variance from the requirements of this
subchapter. If such variance is granted, mitigation for the wetland impact
allowed shall be made pursuant to this subchapter.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 151.220 WETLAND MITIGATION REQUIRED.
   All mitigable wetland impacts shall be mitigated as required under the COE
404 permit program.
   (A)   For all mitigable wetland impacts:
      (1)   Mitigation may be made within a wetland mitigation facility;
      (2)   Mitigation may be made by the purchase of credits from a wetland
mitigation bank; and
      (3)   Mitigation may be made by the payment of a fee-in-lieu of
mitigation pursuant to this subchapter.
   (B)   Wetland impacts upon wetlands with an FQI of 7 or more, but less than
16, shall be mitigated at a ratio of 2:1.
   (C)   Wetland impacts upon wetlands with an FQI of 16 or more, but less than
25, shall be mitigated at a ratio of 3:1.
   (D)   Wetland impacts upon wetlands with an FQI of more than 25 shall be
mitigated at a minimum ratio of 10:1, plus one half for each point by which the
FQI exceeds 25, rounded up to the nearest whole number.
   (E)   Wetland impacts upon wetlands that are inhabited by a threatened or
endangered species shall be mitigated at a ratio of 3:1.
   (F)   Mitigation for wetland impacts upon more than one wetland within a
site shall meet the standards applicable to each individual wetland that is
impacted.
   (G)   FQI assessments made before June 1 or after October 15 shall be
considered to be preliminary. Mitigation requirements based upon such a
preliminary assessments shall not be considered to be final until a proper
final FQI assessment is made, unless an FQI of at least 16 is applied to the
mitigation. Preliminary FQI assessments that exceed 16 will require final FQI
assessments.
   (H)   The applicant may propose an alternative mitigation plan combining
wetland creation, purchase of credits from a wetland mitigation bank, payment
of a fee-in-lieu of wetland mitigation and/or enhancing existing wetlands,
either onsite or offsite. The Administrator shall determine if a proposed
alternative mitigation plan meets the requirements of this section and his or
her decision shall be final.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 151.221 WETLAND MITIGATION PLAN.
   (A)    In addition to the requirements of this subchapter, if wetland
mitigation is required, a wetland mitigation plan shall be submitted and
contain the following information:
      (1)   A narrative of the proposed plan, including a description of the
proposed hydrologic regime, soils and site geomorphology, where applicable;
      (2)   Drawings depicting each wetland impacted and each wetland
mitigation facility, together with an individual listing contained in a summary
table;
      (3)   Specifications for rough and final grading, soil types, soil
placement, plant procurement, water control structures, and a planting plan
that lists the plant materials by scientific and common name, seeding rate or
spacing distance, and special planting provisions; and
      (4)   Maintenance and monitoring provisions, including an annual work
schedule describing each task in detail and the time of year when it will be
performed.
   (B)   The wetland mitigation plan shall be designed to provide the following
information:
      (1)   Every wetland mitigation facility shall contain at least two
wetland plant communities (for example, wet prairie, emergent, submergent,
floating vascular, forested wetland, sedge meadow, or hemi-march); and
      (2)   Open water shall not constitute more than 20% of the entire wetland
mitigation facility, except for hemi-marshes.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 151.222 BUFFER REQUIREMENTS FOR WETLAND MITIGATION FACILITIES.
   Wetland mitigation facilities shall be buffered according to the
requirements of this subchapter. Reductions are allowed in accordance with §
151.217. No buffer is required for that portion of a wetland mitigation
facility adjacent to an existing preserved wetland.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 151.223 WETLAND MITIGATION PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   All wetland mitigation facilities shall meet the following performance
standards:
      (1)   They shall meet the definition of a wetland set forth in §
151.201;
      (2)   All vegetated zones within any wetland mitigation facility shall
achieve 85% cover;
      (3)   The emergent community shall achieve 60% aerial coverage;
      (4)   The floating vascular community shall meet 25% aerial coverage; and
      (5)   Open water shall have 0% vegetative coverage.
   (B)   A wetland mitigation facility designed to mitigate for impacts upon
wetlands with a FQI of less than 7 shall achieve a minimum FQI three points
greater than the FQI of the wetland impacted within the five-year monitoring
period.
   (C)   A wetland mitigation facility designed to mitigate for impacts upon
wetlands with an FQI of 7 or more but less than 25 shall achieve a minimum FQI
five points greater than the FQI of the wetland impacted within the five-year
monitoring period.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 151.224 REQUIRED SUBMITTALS FOR STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PERMITS.
   (A)   A stormwater management permit is required if:
      (1)   The development is located in the regulatory floodplain;
      (2)   A substantial improvement is to be located in the regulatory
floodplain;
      (3)   There is any regulatory floodplain within the site; or
      (4)   The development disturbs more than 10,000 square feet of ground or
500 cubic yards of soil, unless the development consists solely of:
         (a)   The installation, renovation or replacement of a septic system,
potable water service line or other utility serving an existing structure;
         (b)   The maintenance, repair or at-grade replacement of existing lawn
areas not otherwise requiring a stormwater permit under this subchapter;
         (c)   The maintenance of an existing stormwater facility, not
requiring other state or federal permits or approvals;
         (d)   Construction of a dwelling or development within a subdivision
in which the village approved a final subdivision plat.
   (B)   All appropriate stormwater management related approvals and permits,
including, without limitation, an IDNR-OWR floodway/floodplain construction
permit, a COE 404 permit and an IDNR-OWR dam safety permit, if required, shall
be obtained from all federal, state and regional authorities prior to the
issuance of a stormwater management permit.
   (C)   At the time an applicant files his or her application for a stormwater
management permit, site plan review, subdivision, planned unit development or
annexation, the applicant shall deposit with the village the sum of $3,000 as a
security deposit for the payment and satisfaction of the costs, engineering,
planning, legal and other professional fees. This sum shall be returned to the
applicant within 60 days following the complete payment and satisfaction of all
sums due herein. In the event the applicant fails to satisfy the financial
obligations herein, the village may apply all or any portion of the security
deposit against the obligation. The village may maintain an action at law or in
equity to enforce the provisions of this section. The applicant shall be
responsible for all costs and attorney’s fees incurred by the village in the
enforcement of the provisions of this section, whether or not suit is filed.
The Building and Zoning Officer is authorized to issue a stop-work order, if
applicable, until the applicant pays and satisfies his or her obligations in
full.
   (D)   At the time an applicant files his or her application for the issuance
of a stormwater management permit, the village shall furnish the applicant with
a form that shall read substantially as follows:
APPLICANT:
Date:
The following firm, representative, agent or individual does hereby state that
it has been fully disclosed to said party that, in order for the village to
properly review and evaluate requests for a stormwater management permit, the
village must necessarily utilize and engage the services of engineering,
planning, legal and other professional consultants. The undersigned hereby
agrees to pay to the village, either by reimbursement or directly to the
professionals providing services, the reasonable costs incurred by the village
for such services pertaining to the request of a stormwater management permit.
It is further understood and agreed that all invoices for such services shall
be paid promptly when submitted, but not later than 30 days, and that the
obligation to reimburse the village or pay the professionals providing said
services directly is binding, whether or not a stormwater management permit is
in fact approved.
Applicant                                
   (E)   A topographical map of the site, record drawings and other required
drawings shall be prepared, signed and sealed by a professional land surveyor
or professional engineer, and shall include the following documentation.
      (1)   The design of stormwater facilities, calculations for the
determination of the regulatory floodplain, and calculations of the impacts of
development shall meet the standards of this subchapter, and shall be prepared,
signed and sealed by a professional engineer. The signature and seal of the
professional engineer shall stand as his or her opinion that the submittals
that accompany the permit application meet the requirements of this subchapter.
      (2)   Differential water pressure for the stormwater management project
shall conform to IDNR-OWR Part 3702, Construction and Maintenance of Dams, for
classification and permitting.
   (F)   No person, firm, corporation or governmental body not exempted by law
shall commence any development in the floodplain without first obtaining a
development permit from the village. The application for a development permit
shall be accompanied by:
      (1)   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale, showing property line
dimensions;
      (2)   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from
excavation or filling;
      (3)   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to the
buildings;
      (4)   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject; and
      (5)   The cost of the project or improvements, as estimated by a licensed
engineer or architect registered in the State of Illinois. A signed estimate by
a contractor may also meet this requirement.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 151.225 DURATION AND REVISION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Permits expire on December 31 of the third year following the original
issuance date.
   (B)   If a permitted project has achieved start of construction, but is not
complete by the expiration date of the permit, the permitee may submit in
writing a request for an extension to the Administrator. Upon receipt of such
request, the Administrator may extend the expiration date for a maximum of
three years for permitted activities that are outside of the special management
areas. Expiration dates for permitted activities within the special management
areas may also be extended for a maximum of three years, if the activity is in
compliance with the current requirements of this subchapter.
   (C)   If a permitted project has not received start of construction within
one year of the date of the permit, then the development shall comply with any
new floodplain management regulations, including updated FIRM, FIS and LOMR,
that took effect after the issuance date.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 151.226 MODIFIED SUBMITTALS FOR STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PERMITS.
   The Administrator may, at his or her discretion, modify the submittal
requirements on a case-by-case basis, considering the size, complexity and
likelihood that the development will affect the discharge of stormwater.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 151.227 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PERMIT APPLICATION AND PROJECT OVERVIEW.
   (A)   The applicant shall, at a minimum, provide the following information
on forms or in a format approved by the Administrator:
      (1)   The names and legal addresses of all owners of the site;
      (2)   The names and legal addresses of the developer or developers
responsible for completing the development according to the plans submitted,
the terms and conditions of the permit, and the requirements of this
subchapter;
      (3)   The common address, legal description and parcel identification
number (PIN) of all parcels that comprise the site;
      (4)   The name of the project, the area of the site in acres, and the
type of development;
      (5)   A general narrative description of the development, existing and
proposed conditions, and project planning principles considered, including best
management practices used;
      (6)   Copies of all other permits or permit applications as required; and
      (7)   An engineer’s estimate of the probable construction cost of the
stormwater facilities and the installation and maintenance of soil erosion and
sediment control measures.
   (B)   The application shall be signed by all owners and developers
identified in division (A)(1) and (2) above, and shall contain their
attestation that they have read and understand the provisions of this
subchapter, and agree to bind themselves to the permitting authority to comply
therewith. If at any time prior to completion, final inspection and approval of
the development, the identity of the persons required to be disclosed in
division (A)(1) and (2) above changes, an amended application containing the
current information shall be filed and the permit shall be amended accordingly.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 151.228 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PERMIT PLAN SET SUBMITTAL.
   All applicants for a stormwater permit shall provide the following basic
plan exhibits. Each exhibit may be no more than one drawing for clarity. The
specific information to be included on each exhibit shall be as noted below.
   (A)   All elevations shall be referenced to NAVD-88.
   (B)   Site topographical map.
      (1)   Map scales as 1 inch = 50 feet (or less) and accurate to +/- 0.5
feet;
      (2)   Existing and proposed contours onsite (one-foot-maximum contour
interval) and within 100 feet of the site;
      (3)   Existing and proposed drainage patterns and watershed boundaries;
      (4)   Delineation of pre-development regulatory floodplain and floodway
limits;
      (5)   Delineation of post-development regulatory floodplain and floodway
limits;
      (6)   Location of cross sections and any other hydrologic or hydraulic
computer-modeled features;
      (7)   Location of all onsite drain tiles;
      (8)   Boundaries of all wetlands, lakes, ponds, and the like, with normal
water elevation noted, showing all areas of wetlands to be impacted, regardless
of whether under a permit or if a permit is not required;
      (9)   Location of all existing buildings and those to remain on the site
noted;
      (10)   Nearest base flood elevations;
      (11)   FEMA and/or reference benchmarks used; and
      (12)   All contours used in the calculation of depressional storage
highlighted.
   (C)   General plan view drawing.
      (1)   Drawing at the same scale as the site topographical map;
      (2)    Existing major and minor stormwater systems;
      (3)   Proposed major and minor stormwater systems;
      (4)   Design details for stormwater facilities (i.e., structure and
outlet work detail drawings, and the like);
      (5)   Scheduled maintenance program for permanent stormwater facilities,
including BMPs;
      (6)   Planned maintenance tasks and schedule for those tasks;
      (7)   Identification of persons who will be responsible for maintenance;
      (8)   Permanent government access maintenance easements granted or
dedicated to, and accepted by, a government entity;
      (9)   Proposed regulatory floodplain and floodway location, with the base
flood and flood protection elevations noted;
      (10)   Existing waters of the U.S. including wetlands, a certified
wetland determination obtained from NRCS if the development occurs on
agricultural land, wetlands and aquatic resources identified in ADID, and
required buffers
      (11)   Directly-connected impervious areas and any offsetting landscaped
areas;
      (12)   All plan areas at elevations below the 100-year, high-water
elevation of site runoff storage facilities highlighted; and
      (13)   Where a critical facility is proposed, the plan shall include the
limits of the 500-year floodplain.
   (D)   Sediment and erosion control plan.
      (1)   Drawings at the same scale as the site topographical map;
      (2)   Sediment and erosion control installation measures and schedule;
      (3)   Existing and proposed roadways, structures, parking lots,
driveways, sidewalks and other impervious surfaces;
      (4)   Limits of clearing and grading;
      (5)   Special management areas located;
      (6)   Proposed buffer locations, existing soil types, vegetation, and
land cover conditions;
      (7)   List of maintenance tasks and schedule for sediment and erosion
control measures;
      (8)   The name, address and phone number at which the person responsible
for erosion and sediment control may be reached on a 24-hour basis;
      (9)   The expected two-year and ten-year runoff rates from all offsite
areas draining into the site;
      (10)   Methods for conveying flows through the site during construction.
These methods shall include the temporary and permanent stabilization measures
to be used to reduce velocity and erosion from flow through the construction
zone.
   (E)    Wetland mitigation plan, if applicable, in accordance with this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 151.229 STORMWATER SUBMITTAL.
   The stormwater submittal shall include a narrative discussion and
calculations to support a finding by the qualified review specialist that the
proposed development complies with the technical requirements of this
subchapter. The submittal shall consist, at a minimum, of the following
material.
   (A)   Narrative description of the existing and proposed site drainage
patterns and conditions, including description of offsite conditions that help
to identify stormwater issues considered in the design.
   (B)   Schedule for implementation of the site stormwater plan.
   (C)   Onsite and offsite runoff calculations that address the following:
      (1)   Documentation of the procedures and assumptions used to calculate
hydrologic and hydraulic conditions for sizing major and minor systems;
      (2)   Cross-section data for open channels;
      (3)   Hydraulic grade line and water surface elevations under design flow
conditions; and
      (4)   Hydraulic grade line and water surface elevations under base-flood-
flow conditions.
   (D)   Site runoff storage calculations that address the following:
      (1)   Calculation of hydraulically connected impervious area and
corresponding retention volume;
      (2)   Documentation of the procedures and assumptions used to calculate
hydrologic and hydraulic conditions for determining the allowable release rate;
      (3)   Documentation of the procedures and assumptions used to calculate
hydrologic and hydraulic conditions for determining the storage volume;
      (4)   Elevation-area-storage data and calculations for site runoff
storage; and
      (5)   Elevation-discharge data and calculations specifically related to
the outlet control structure depicted in the plan exhibits.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 151.230 FLOODPLAIN SUBMITTAL.
   The applicant shall obtain approval from IDNR-OWR and FEMA, when required,
for all new base flood and floodway determinations or as required in this
subchapter. Documentation supporting a finding by the qualified review
specialist that the proposed development is in compliance with this subchapter,
and shall be submitted with the application. At a minimum, the following
material shall be submitted for approval with the application.
   (A)   Regulatory floodplain boundary determina-tion.
      (1)   Provide source of flood profile information; and
      (2)   Provide all hydrologic and hydraulic study information for site-
specific floodplain studies, unnumbered Zone A area elevation determinations,
and floodplain map revisions.
   (B)   Floodplain fill and compensatory storage calculations. Floodplain fill
and compensatory storage calculations for below and above ten-year flood
elevation, up to the base flood elevation.
      (1)   Tabular summary for below and above ten-year flood elevation of
fill, compensatory storage and compensatory storage ratios provided in proposed
plan; and
      (2)   Cross sections used for the above calculations.
   (C)   Floodproofing measures.
      (1)   Narrative discussion of floodproofing measures including material
specifications, calculations, design details and operation summary; and
      (2)   Flood easements, when required by this subchapter.
   (D)   Current statewide permits. Current statewide permits and such
information that indicates that the development qualifies for the particular
permits in question under the regulations established for such permit(s) by
IDNR-OWR.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 151.231 WETLAND SUBMITTAL.
   (A)   The applicant shall obtain a permit for all federally regulated
activities involving waters of the U.S. from the appropriate federal
authorities. The applicant shall obtain a permit from the county (or the
certified community) for all developments having a wetland impact. The
applicant shall indicate on the plans the location of any onsite wetland
mitigation required by a COE permit and, in narrative form, the location of all
offsite mitigation.
   (B)   A wetland submittal in accordance with the detailed requirements of
this subchapter shall be required. In general, the submittal will consist of
the following material:
      (1)   Wetland delineation report (COE format);
      (2)   Calculation of required buffer (including the size and quality when
calculated);
      (3)   Wetland delineation plan, plan view drawing:
         (a)   All existing and proposed impacted or undisturbed onsite
wetlands;
         (b)   Location of the buffers; and
         (c)   Planting plan for buffers; and
         (d)   Identify all required wetland management activities;
      (4)   For all stream modifications, the following shall be submitted:
         (a)   A plan and profile of the existing and proposed channel; and
         (b)   Supporting calculations for channel width, depth, sinuosity,
riffle locations and similar features.
         (c)   If the development will have a wetland impact, the requirements
of this subchapter shall be met.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 151.232 RECORD DRAWINGS.
   The permitee is required to submit record drawings of all permitted
stormwater facilities. The record drawings shall be signed and sealed by a
professional engineer, who shall state that the project as constructed is
substantially in conformance with the development as permitted.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 151.233 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PERMIT APPROVAL, DENIAL AND APPEAL.
   (A)   The Village Administrator shall have the authority to approve or deny
applications for stormwater management permits requested pursuant to this
subchapter.
   (B)   Within three weeks after being served with the permit or notice that
the permit has been denied, the applicant may appeal the terms or denial of the
permit to Village Board. The appeals shall be made by filing a notice thereof
with the Village Clerk, specifying the specific provisions appealed and the
grounds therefor. The Village Board may conduct a hearing on the appeal not
more than 60 days after the filing of the notice of appeal. Notice of the
hearing shall be served upon the applicant.
   (C)   Within 30 days of the conclusion of the hearing, the Village Board
shall decide whether to affirm or reverse, in whole or in part, the terms or
denial of the permit. The decision of the Village Board shall be in writing and
shall include the specific findings and conclusions supporting its
determination. A copy of this decision and the order shall be served upon the
applicant.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 151.234 LONG-TERM MAINTENANCE.
   The owner shall maintain its stormwater drainage system, including any
special management areas, located within the owner’s property.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 151.235 INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE AUTHORITY.
   The village may, upon 30 days’ notice and approval to the owner or occupant,
enter upon any lands or waters within the village for the purpose of inspecting
and/or maintaining any stormwater facilities or causing the removal of any
obstruction to an affected watercourse.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 151.236 REQUIRED INSPECTIONS.
   Any development having a stormwater management permit may be periodically
inspected by the village, or authorized agent, to ensure that the management
plan has conformed to and is being maintained in accordance with this
subchapter and the terms and conditions of the stormwater management permit.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 151.237 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be construed to protect the health, welfare,
safety and the environment of the residents of the village, and to effectuate
the purposes of this subchapter and the enabling legislation.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be deemed to consent to, license,
permit to locate, construct or maintain any structure, site, facility or
operation, or to carry on any trade, industry, occupation or activity.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 151.238 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection provided by this subchapter is
considered reasonable for regulatory purposes, and is based upon engineering
experience and scientific methods of study. Increased flooding may result from
causes beyond the control of any government authority. This subchapter does
not, therefore, guarantee that areas outside the floodplain or permitted land
uses within the floodplain will be free from flooding and associated damages.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed or applied in any manner
to create liability on the part of, or a cause of action against, the village,
or any elected official or any officer, agent, or employee of any of the
foregoing, or any qualified engineer review specialist, for any flood damage
resulting from reliance on the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 151.239 VARIANCES.
   In order to provide an avenue to allow relief from strict compliance with
the requirements of this subchapter, where it is deemed impractical to achieve
that compliance, variances from specific provisions of this subchapter may be
granted by the Village Board pursuant to the following procedures identified
below.
   (A)   A variance from the original petition submittal may be granted when
the record supports the applicant’s right to some relief.
   (B)   When granting a variance, the decision-making authority may impose
specific conditions and limitations on the applicant concerning any matter
relating to the purposes and objectives of this subchapter as may be necessary
or appropriate.
   (C)   When a variance is granted that includes condition(s) required to be
met by the applicant, the applicant shall file evidence with the Administrator
that the condition(s) have been met.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 151.240 PERFORMANCE SECURITY.
   To secure the performance of the developer’s obligation to complete the
construction of the stormwater facilities required by the stormwater management
permit, and to pay all costs, fees and charges due under this subchapter, and
to fully comply with all of the provisions of this subchapter, the applicant
shall, prior to issuance of a stormwater management permit, provide adequate
security, as determined by the village.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 151.241 DISCLAIMER.
   Nothing in this chapter purports to alter or affect the regulatory program
that is administered by the IDNR-OWR. Anything in this chapter to the contrary
notwithstanding, if under the rules and regulations administered by IDNR-OWR, a
submittal need not be made to, or a review, approval or permit need not be
obtained from IDNR-OWR, nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to impose
a requirement that such a submittal be made to, or that such a review, approval
or permit be obtained from IDNR-OWR. Similarly, if IDNR-OWR has delegated its
regulatory authority to another entity, then anything in this subchapter to the
contrary notwithstanding, if required by that entity, the submittal shall be
made to, or the review, approval or permit shall be obtained from that entity.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 151.242 NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Structures classified as nonconforming structures, which are damaged by
flood, fire, wind or other disaster, are subject to the requirements of this
subchapter
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 151.243 OFFENSES.
   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, refuses to comply with,
or resists the enforcement of any provision of this subchapter, or any
requirement or condition contained within the stormwater management permit or,
in the case of a permit violation, fails to correct the violation after notice
and reinspection, shall be considered in violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-15-2019) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter or any of the
provisions of the Building Codes adopted in §
151.030 through
151.035 shall upon conviction thereof be punished by a fine not exceeding $500
for each offense. Each day of violation of this chapter, or of any provision of
the Building Codes or amendments thereto duly adopted shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation in violation of the provisions of §
151.052(C) shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500 for each such
offense. It shall be considered a separate offense for each day in which a
violation occurs.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
151.075 through
151.080 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500 for each offense,
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues.
   (E)   Any person, firm or corporation found in violation of §§
151.095 through
151.107 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500. A separate
violation shall be deemed to occur for each day in which said violation exists.
   (F)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
151.200 through
151.243 shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $750 for each offense.
      (1)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues to occur.
      (2)   In order to enforce any of the remedies set forth in this division,
the village may bring legal action or equitable action, including injunctive
relief, that may be deemed necessary.
(Ord. 1999-2, Building § 2, subs. .050, Building § 4, subs. .070, passed 2-15-
1999; Ord. 2005-10, passed 9-19-2005; Ord. 2008-09, passed 7-21-2008; Ord.
2019-03, passed 4-15-2019)
CHAPTER 152: TRAILERS AND TRAILER PARKS
Section
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Habitation and maintenance of house-car trailers
   
152.03   Trailer camp license
   
152.04   Location and area requirements
   
152.05   Sanitary requirements
   
152.06   Safety requirements
   
152.07   Records and enforcement
 
   
152.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Other trailer park provisions, see Zoning,
Ch. 155
 § 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   When used in this chapter, words in the singular number include the plural
and words in the plural number include the singular; the word “building”
includes the word “structure” and the word “shall” is mandatory and not
directory. For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AREA UNIT. An area of ground space set aside for the accommodation of one
house-car trailer and towing unit.
   HOUSE-CAR TRAILER.  Any structure intended for or so constructed that it
will be primarily suitable for living or sleeping quarters, or for office
purposes, mounted upon wheels, or any other device upon which it may readily be
transported, either by its own power or some externally applied tractive
effort; provided, however, that this definition shall not apply to any vehicle
lawfully operated upon fixed rails.
   PARKING LOT. Any plot of ground used for temporary storage of automobiles.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, association or corporation.
   STREET. Any recognized thoroughfare in the village.
   TOWING UNIT. Any vehicle furnishing tractive effort for a house-car trailer.
   TRAILER CAMP. Any plot of ground where house-car trailers are invited or
allowed to be located, regardless of whether or not any charge is made for the
use of such plot of ground.
(Ord. passed 7-22-1963)
§ 152.02 HABITATION AND MAINTENANCE OF HOUSE-CAR TRAILERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain a house-car trailer in
the village outside of a trailer camp which is duly licensed hereunder, except
as herein specifically permitted.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, except the proprietor or his or
her bona fide employees, to remain in any trailer camp longer than 30 days
consecutively, or more than 30 days within any 45-day period, or for more than
two 30-day periods in any one-year period.
   (C)   A house-car trailer may be parked or stored in the village regardless
of the other provisions hereof, provided that it shall not be used for living
or sleeping purposes during such time it is so stored or parked and provided
moreover that it shall not be a nuisance and does not constitute a fire hazard.
   (D)   No house-car trailer shall be maintained in the village as a permanent
office. Such office use as is compatible with the demonstration and sale of
such articles or services as may be readily transported in a house-car trailer
by a distributor or salesperson may be permitted in a house-car trailer on a
legally located parking lot for a period of time not exceeding seven days,
provided such house-car trailer is not used for living or sleeping purposes
during such time.
(Ord. passed 7-22-1963) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.03 TRAILER CAMP LICENSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to establish, maintain or operate
within the corporate limits of the village any trailer camp unless such person
shall first obtain a license therefor as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Any person desiring to establish a trailer camp shall file with the
Board of Trustees plans to show fully the location of the camp and the location
therein of all buildings, toilet, bath and washing facilities, slop sinks,
water faucets or hydrants, sewer connections and driveways, or other
improvements, proposed or existing.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees shall issue, after finding that the proposed
camp outlined on such plans will comply with this chapter, a permit to erect or
construct such required facilities as are not already in existence.
   (D)   After the completion of such construction, the site shall be inspected
by proper officers or agents of the Board of Trustees, who after finding that
all requirements of this chapter are complied with, shall so certify to the
Village Clerk. Upon such certification, together with written application by
the owner or lessee of such trailer camp stating the name and address of such
owner or lessee, the location of the trailer camp, the maximum number of house-
car trailers the camp will accommodate, and the name of the manager who will be
directly responsible for the maintenance and operation of said trailer camp,
and upon presentment of the receipt of the Village Treasurer for the proper
fee, as hereinafter provided, the Village Clerk shall issue a license for the
operation of such trailer camp.
   (E)   Each application for such license shall be accompanied by a license
fee of $200 for a trailer camp capable of accommodating 20 house-car trailers
or less, and an additional fee of $10 for each area unit in excess of 20. Each
such license shall expire at the end of the calendar year in which issued, but
in event a license is issued more than a month after the beginning of any
calendar year, the fee to be paid shall be reduced in proportion to the full
calendar months which have expired in said calendar year. Before any license
shall be renewed the premises shall be subject to the same inspection as above
provided on original application.
   (F)   Such license shall be conspicuously posted on the premises of the
trailer camp at all times.
   (G)   Any trailer camp license may be transferred upon the presentment to
the Village Clerk of a written application of the holder of such license
approved by the President of the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. passed 7-22-1963) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.04 LOCATION AND AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Each unit shall be at least 20 feet by 40 feet, clearly defined by
appropriate markers, and shall be so graded as to provide adequate and proper
drainage.
   (B)   No house-car trailer shall be permitted to park closer than five feet
to the side line of its area unit, nor shall it be so parked that it is closer
than ten feet to any other house-car trailer, or any building located in the
trailer camp.
   (C)   No trailer camp shall be located within a distance of 600 feet of any
public park, public building or school.
(Ord. passed 7-22-1963) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.05 SANITARY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   An adequate supply of pure water for drinking purposes of a quality
that will meet the requirements of the U.S. Treasury Department Standards shall
be furnished to meet the requirements of each trailer camp.
   (B)   Water shall be supplied from faucets or approved type drinking
fountains only. Faucets or drinking fountains shall not be farther in distance
than 80 feet from any area unit. No common drinking cups shall be permitted.
   (C)   Each trailer camp shall provide toilets, shower baths, slop sinks and
garbage containers under the following conditions.
      (1)   One toilet of the flush type shall be provided for each sex for
every ten units, or fraction thereof, provided that one-fourth of the required
toilets for men may be substituted with urinals of the water flush type.
Entrances to all toilet facilities shall be screened, flytight and provided
with sufficient lights to provide ample illumination at night. No trailer unit
shall be farther than 200 feet from a toilet. The use of any chemical closet or
any toilet in a house-car trailer is forbidden while such house-car trailer is
located within the city limits.
      (2)   One shower shall be provided for each sex for every ten units, or
fraction thereof, provided that tubs may be substituted for one-tenth of the
required number of showers. One wash basin shall be provided for each sex for
each five units or fraction thereof. Such showers or bath tubs and wash basins
shall be located in buildings or structures of such material as shall permit
satisfactory cleaning. The floors of each such building shall be of concrete or
other nonporous material, and lights for such buildings shall be such as to
provide ample illumination at night.
      (3)   Slop sinks shall be provided with running water for every five
units, or fraction thereof. No sink located within a house-car trailer shall be
used unless it discharges into a sewer in an approved manner, or into an
approved type container which shall be flytight and secured from spilling. Such
containers must be emptied into slop sinks regularly so as to prevent spillage
upon the ground, and in any case at least once in every 24-hour period.
      (4)   All waste water and sewage from toilets, showers, bath tubs, wash
basins, slop sinks and other plumbing fixtures in the trailer camp shall be
carried to the village sewers by means of septic tanks to appropriate drains.
      (5)   A tightly covered metal garbage can shall be provided for each
occupied area unit and such means of transferring garbage therefrom to larger
containers shall be provided as is acceptable to the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. passed 7-22-1963) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.06 SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every trailer camp shall be equipped at all times with at least one
fire extinguisher of a type of at least two and one-half gallons capacity, of a
foam type, in good working order at all times and adequately protected from
freezing, for every ten units or fraction thereof.
   (B)   Such extinguishers shall be so located as to be not farther than 100
feet from any area unit.
(Ord. passed 7-22-1963) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.07 RECORDS AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the owner, his or her agent or caretaker, to
keep a register and to record therein all house-car trailers and occupants
which occupy space at his or her trailer camp. Said register shall specify
dates and time of arrival, the name of the owner of the house-car trailer and
towing unit, the state in which the house-car trailer and towing unit are
registered and the numbers of the vehicle licenses.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Village Police Officer to enforce ths
general provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   If at any time a trailer camp is found to be violating the provisions
of this chapter, or other pertinent ordinances of the village, any duly
constituted officer or agent of the village charged with the duty to inspect
trailer camps shall notify the licensee of such trailer camp of such condition.
If the violation is not corrected to the satisfaction of the department
complaining, within a reasonable time after notification, the license for such
trailer camp may be revoked by the Mayor on the recommendation of such
department.
(Ord. passed 7-22-1963)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be punished
upon conviction by a fine of not less than $50 and not more than $500. Each day
that such violation continues to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 7-22-1963)
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
   
153.01   Purpose
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   Base flood elevation
   
153.04   Duties of Building and Zoning Officer
   
153.05   Development permit
   
153.06   Preventing increased flood heights and resulting damages
   
153.07   Protecting buildings
   
153.08   Subdivision requirements
   
153.09   Public health and other standards
   
153.10   Carrying capacity and notification
   
153.11   Variances
   
153.12   Disclaimer of liability
   
153.13   Abrogation and greater restrictions
 
   
153.99   Penalty
Editor’s note:
   This chapter was originally part of the building construction regulations
codified in
Ch. 151.
§ 153.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to this
village by the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-30-2,
5/11-30-8 and 5/11-31-2) in order to accomplish the following purposes:
   (A)   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   (B)   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from
flood damage;
   (C)   To promote and protect the public health, safety and general welfare
of the citizens from the hazards of flooding;
   (D)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
   (E)   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   (F)   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   (G)   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and stormwater impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development.
(Ord. 2012-08, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 153.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year. The BASE FLOOD is also known as the 100-YEAR FLOOD. The base
flood elevation at any location is as defined below.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation in relation to mean sea level of
the crest of the base flood.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a building having its floor sub-grade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. A walled and roofed structure, including gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground, including manufactured homes,
prefabricated buildings and gas or liquid storage tanks. The term also includes
recreational vehicles and travel trailers installed on a site for more than 180
days per year.
   CRITICAL FACILITY.   
      (1)   Any facility which is critical to the health and welfare of the
population and, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the disaster.
Damage to these CRITICAL FACILITIES can impact the delivery of vital services,
can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or can put special
populations at risk.
      (2)   Examples of CRITICAL FACILITIES where flood protection should be
required include: emergency services facilities (such as fire and police
stations), schools, hospitals, retirement homes and senior care facilities,
major roads and bridges, critical utility sites (telephone switching stations
or electrical transformers) and hazardous material storage facilities
(chemicals, petrochemicals, hazardous or toxic substances).
   DEVELOPMENT.   
      (1)   Any human-made change to real estate, including but not necessarily
limited to:
         (a)   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a
building or any structural alteration to a building;
         (b)   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
         (c)   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site
for a manufactured home or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than
180 days per year;
         (d)   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges,
culverts or similar projects;
         (e)   Construction or erection of levees, dams walls or fences;
         (f)   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving
or other alterations of the ground surface;
         (g)   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid
storage tanks, and channel modifications or any other activity that might
change the direction, height or velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include routine maintenance of existing
buildings and facilities, resurfacing roads, or gardening, plowing and similar
practices that do not involve filing, grading or construction of levees.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations
adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP. A map prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a
community. This map includes insurance rate zones and may or may not depict
floodways and show base flood elevations.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
   FLOODPLAIN and SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). These two terms are
synonymous.
      (1)   Those lands within the jurisdiction of the village, the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village, or that may be annexed into the
village, that are subject to inundation by the base flood. The FLOODPLAINS of
the village are generally identified as such on panel number(s) 200 of the
countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of the county prepared by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency and dated August 2, 2012. FLOODPLAIN also includes
those areas of known flooding as identified by the community.
      (2)   The FLOODPLAINS of those parts of unincorporated Grundy County that
are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village or that may be
annexed into the village are generally identified as such on the Flood
Insurance Rate Map prepared for the county by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency and dated August 2, 2012.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural or nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form published by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry floodproofed to the flood protection
elevation.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE). The elevation of the base flood plus one
foot of freeboard at any given location in the floodplain.
   FLOODWAY. The portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the
base flood. The FLOODWAYS for each of the floodplains of the village shall be
according to the best data available from federal, state or other sources.
   FREEBOARD. An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed
development, unknown localized conditions, wave actions and unpredictable
effects such as those caused by ice or debris jams.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily
determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on the state inventory of historic places by
the State Historic Preservation Agency; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that
has been certified by the State Historic Preservation Agency.
   IDNR/OWR. Illinois Department of Natural Resources/Office of Water
Resources.
   IDNR/OWR JURISDICTIONAL STREAM. Illinois Department of Natural Resource
Office of Water Resources has jurisdiction over any stream serving a tributary
area of 640 acres or more in an urban area, or in the floodway of any stream
serving a tributary area of 6,400 acres or more in a rural area. Construction
on these streams requires a permit from the Department (Ill. Adm. Code tit. 17,
pt. 3700.30). The Department may grant approval for specific types of
activities by issuance of a statewide permit which meets the standards defined
in §
153.06.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s  LOWEST FLOOR; provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of §
153.07.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections that is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR   SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a
community and includes any subsequent improvements of such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed on or after the effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by a community.
   NFIP. National Flood Insurance Program.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE or TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less in size; and
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SFHA. See definition of Floodplain.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement and means the date
the building permit was issued. This, provided the actual START OF
CONSTRUCTION, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement or
other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start
means either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation or placement
of a manufactured home on a foundation. For a substantial improvement, actual
START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of a building whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. See definition of Building.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cumulative percentage of damage subsequent to the adoption of this chapter
equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred regardless of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and
materials must be included in this determination. The term includes Repetitive
loss buildings (see definition).
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.  Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
improvement of a structure taking place subsequent to the adoption of this
chapter in which the cumulative percentage of improvements equals or exceeds
50% of the market value of the structure before the improvement or repair is
started; or increases the floor area by more than 20%.
      (1)   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building
commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of
the structure. This term includes structures which have incurred repetitive
loss or substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work done.
      (2)   The term does not include:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or the State Register of Historic Places.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the required federal, state and/or local permits
and elevation certification is presumed to be in violation until such time as
the documentation is provided.
(Ord. 2012-08, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 153.03 BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.
   (A)   This chapter’s protection standard is the base flood. The best
available base flood data are listed below. Whenever a party disagrees with the
best available data, the party shall finance the detailed engineering study
needed to replace the existing data with better data and submit it to FEMA and
IDNR/OWR for approval prior to any development of the site.
   (B)   (1)   The base flood elevation for each of the floodplains delineated
as an A Zone on the countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of the county shall be
according to the best data available from federal, state or sources. Should no
other data exist, an engineering study must be financed by the applicant to
determine base flood elevations.
      (2)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of those parts of
unincorporated Grundy County that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction
of the village, or that may be annexed into the village, shall be as delineated
on the 100-year flood profiles in the Flood Insurance Study of the county
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated August 2, 2012.
(Ord. 2012-08, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 153.04 DUTIES OF BUILDING AND ZONING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Building and Zoning Officer shall be responsible for the general
administration of this chapter and ensure that all development activities
within the floodplains under the jurisdiction of the village meet the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Specifically, the Building and Zoning Officer shall:
      (1)   Process development permits in accordance with §
153.05;
      (2)   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of §
153.06;
      (3)   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to §
153.07 are met and maintain a record of the as-built elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) or floodproof certificate;
      (4)   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements
of §
153.08;
      (5)   Ensure that water supply and waste disposal systems meet the public
health standards of §
153.09;
      (6)   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of §
153.11 are met and maintain documentation of any variances granted;
      (7)   Inspect all development projects and take any and all penalty
actions outlined in §
153.99 as a necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter;
      (8)   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state and federal permits;
      (9)   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse;
      (10)   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
      (11)   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this chapter;
      (12)   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps,
copies of state and federal permits, and documentation of compliance for
development activities subject to this chapter;
      (13)   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with this chapter
and make substantial damage determinations for structures within the
floodplain; and
      (14)   Maintain the accuracy of floodplain maps including notifying IDNR/
OWR and/or submitting information to FEMA within six months whenever a
modification of the floodplain may change the base flood elevation or result in
a change to the floodplain map.
(Ord. 2012-08, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 153.05 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation or governmental body not exempted by law
shall commence any development in the floodplain without first obtaining a
development permit from the Building and Zoning Officer. The Building and
Zoning Officer shall not issue a development permit if the proposed development
does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   The application for development permit shall be accompanied by:
         (a)   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line
dimensions;
         (b)   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting
from excavation or filling;
         (c)   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings;
         (d)   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of §
153.07; and
         (e)   Cost of project or improvements as estimated by a licensed
engineer or architect. A signed estimate by a contractor may also meet this
requirement.
      (2)   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the
Building and Zoning Officer shall compare the elevation of the site to the base
flood elevation. Any development located on land that is shown by survey
elevation to be below the current base flood elevation is subject to the
provisions of this chapter. In addition, any development located on land shown
to be below the base flood elevation and hydraulically connected to a flood
source, but not identified as floodplain on the current Flood Insurance Rate
Map, is subject to the provisions of this chapter. Any development located on
land that can be shown by survey data to be higher than the current base flood
elevation and which has not been filled after the date of the site’s first
Flood Insurance Rate Map is not in the floodplain and therefore not subject to
the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   The Building and Zoning Officer shall maintain documentation of the
existing ground elevation at the development site and certification that this
ground elevation existed prior to the date of the site’s first Flood Insurance
Rate Map identification.
      (4)   The Building and Zoning Officer shall be responsible for obtaining
from the applicant copies of all other federal, state and local permits,
approvals or permit-not-required letters that may be required for this type of
activity. The Building and Zoning Officer shall not issue a permit unless all
other federal, state and local permits have been obtained.
(Ord. 2012-08, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 153.06 PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND RESULTING DAMAGES.
   Within any floodway identified on the countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map,
and within all other floodplains where a floodway has not been delineated, the
following standards shall apply.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, no development shall be
allowed which, acting in combination with existing and anticipated development
will cause any increase in flood heights or velocities or threat to public
health and safety. The following specific development activities shall be
considered as meeting this requirement:
      (1)   Bridge and culvert crossings of streams in rural areas meeting the
conditions of the State Department of Natural Resources, Office of Water
Resources Statewide Permit Number 2;
      (2)   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 3;
      (3)   Aerial utility crossings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 4;
      (4)   Minor boat docks meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 5;
      (5)   Minor, non-obstructive activities such as underground utility
lines, light poles, sign posts, driveways, athletic fields, patios, playground
equipment, minor storage buildings not exceeding 70 square feet and raising
buildings on the same footprint which does not involve fill and any other
activity meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 6;
      (6)   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 7;
      (7)   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions
of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 8;
      (8)   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 9;
      (9)   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential
buildings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 10;
      (10)   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 11;
      (11)   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widening
meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 12;
      (12)   Temporary construction activities meeting the following conditions
of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 13; and
      (13)   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely
within a flood fringe area shall be exempt from state floodway permit
requirements.
   (B)   Other development activities not listed in division (A) above may be
permitted only if:
      (1)   A permit has been issued for the work by IDNR/OWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required); or
      (2)   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA when necessary, and
approval obtained from FEMA for a revision of the regulatory map and base flood
elevation.
(Ord. 2012-08, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 153.07 PROTECTING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   In addition to the state permit and damage prevention requirements of
§
153.06, all buildings located in the floodplain shall be protected from flood
damage below the flood protection elevation. This building protection
requirement applies to the following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of a new building or alteration or
addition to an existing building valued at more than $1,000 or 70 square feet;
      (2)   Substantial improvements or structural alterations made to an
existing building that increase the floor area by more than 20% or equal or
exceed the market value by 50%. Alteration shall be figured cumulatively
subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. If substantially improved, the
existing structure and the addition must meet the flood protection standards of
this section;
      (3)   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. If
substantially damaged, the entire structure must meet the flood protection
standards of this section within 24 months of the date the damage occurred;
      (4)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site (the building protection requirements do not apply to
returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage);
      (5)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days per year; and
      (6)   Repetitive loss to an existing building as defined in §
153.02.
   (B)   Residential or nonresidential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by one of the following methods:
      (1)   The building may be constructed on permanent landfill in accordance
with the following:
         (a)   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation;
         (b)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
before compaction and should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation
before sloping below the flood protection elevation;
         (c)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap or other structural measure;
         (d)   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporated
debris or refuse material; and
         (e)   Shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage from or
onto neighboring properties and when necessary stormwater management techniques
such as swales or basins shall be incorporated.
      (2)   The building may be elevated on solid walls in accordance with the
following:
         (a)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls, crawlspace or other foundation that is permanently open to floodwaters;
         (b)   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at
or above the flood protection elevation;
         (c)   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the flood protection
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs must either be certified by a licensed
professional engineer or by having a minimum of one permanent opening on each
wall no more than one foot above grade with a minimum of two openings. The
openings shall provide a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding below the base flood
elevation; and
         (d)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored,
designed and certified so as to minimize exposure to hydrodynamic forces such
as current, waves, ice and floating debris.
            1.   All structural components below the flood protection elevation
shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage.
            2.   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation, provided they are waterproofed.
            3.   The area below the flood protection elevation shall be used
solely for parking or building access and not later modified or occupied as
habitable space.
            4.   In lieu of the above criteria, the design methods to comply
with these requirements may be certified by a licensed professional engineer or
architect.
      (3)   The building may be constructed with a crawlspace located below the
flood protection elevation, provided that the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
         (b)   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall
have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. A minimum of one opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than one square inch per one square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than one foot above grade;
         (c)   The interior grade of the crawlspace below the flood protection
elevation must not be more than two feet below the lowest adjacent exterior
grade;
         (d)   The interior height of the crawlspace measured from the interior
grade of the crawlspace to the top of the foundations wall must not exceed four
feet at any point;
         (e)   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawlspace within a reasonable period
of time after a flood event;
         (f)   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation
must be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage; and
         (g)   Utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the
flood protection elevation.
   (C)   Nonresidential buildings may be structurally dry floodproofed (in lieu
of elevation), provided a licensed professional engineer or architect certifies
that:
      (1)   Below the flood protection elevation the structure and attendant
utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood;
      (2)   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration, rate
of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy and the
impact from debris and ice;
      (3)   Floodproofing measures will be incorporated into the building
design and operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity; and
      (4)   Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
floodproofing for the purpose of this section.
   (D)   Manufactured homes or travel trailers to be permanently installed on
site shall be:
      (1)   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation in accordance
with division (B) above; and
      (2)   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement by being
tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations for the State Mobile
Home Tie-Down Act, being 210 ILCS 120/1 et seq., issued pursuant to 77 Ill.
Adm. Code § 870.
   (E)   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles on site for more than 180
days per year shall meet the elevation requirements of division (D) above
unless the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The vehicle must be either self-propelled or towable by a light-
duty truck;
      (2)   The hitch must remain on the vehicle at all times;
      (3)   The vehicle must not be attached to external structures such as
decks and porches;
      (4)   The vehicle must be designed solely for recreation, camping, travel
or seasonal use rather than as a permanent dwelling;
      (5)   The vehicle’s largest horizontal projections must be no larger than
400 square feet;
      (6)   The vehicle’s wheels must remain on axles and inflated;
      (7)   Air conditioning units must be attached to the frame so as to be
safe for movement of the floodplain;
      (8)   Propane tanks as well as electrical and sewage connections must be
quick-disconnect;
      (9)   The vehicle must be licensed and titled as a recreational vehicle
or park model; and
      (10)   Must either:
         (a)   Entirely be supported by jacks; or
         (b)   Have a hitch jack permanently mounted, have the tires touching
the ground and be supported by block in a manner that will allow the block to
be easily removed by use of the hitch jack.
   (F)   Garages, sheds or other minor accessory structures constructed
ancillary to an existing residential use may be permitted, provided the
following conditions are met.
      (1)   The garage or shed must be non-habitable.
      (2)   The garage or shed must be used only for the storage of vehicles
and tools and cannot be modified later into another use.
      (3)   The garage or shed must be located outside of the floodway or have
the appropriate state and/or federal permits.
      (4)   The garage or shed must be on a single-family lot and be accessory
to an existing principal structure on the same lot.
      (5)   Below the base flood elevation, the garage or shed must be built of
materials not susceptible to flood damage.
      (6)   All utilities, plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
must be elevated above the flood protection elevation.
      (7)   The garage or shed must have at least one permanent opening on each
wall not more than one foot above grade with one square inch of opening for
every one square foot of floor area.
      (8)   The garage or shed must be less than $15,000 in market value or
replacement cost, whichever is greater, or less than 576 square feet (24 feet
by 24 feet).
      (9)   The structure shall be anchored to resist floatation and
overturning.
      (10)   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers and the like) shall be stored above the flood protection elevation.
      (11)   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implications.
(Ord. 2012-08, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 153.08 SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS.
   The village shall take into account hazards, to the extent that they are
known, in all official actions related to land management use and development.
   (A)   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
planned unit developments and additions to manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protections
standards of §§
153.06 and
153.07. Any proposal for such development shall include the following data:
      (1)   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain. Where
the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the applicant
shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation;
      (2)   The boundary of the floodway when applicable; and
      (3)   A signed statement by a licensed professional engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the Plat Act (765 ILCS 205/2).
   (B)   Streets, blocks lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located
and laid out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and
channels. Wherever possible the floodplains shall be included within parks or
other public grounds.
(Ord. 2012-08, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 153.09 PUBLIC HEALTH AND OTHER STANDARDS.
   (A)   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development. In
addition to the requirements of §§
153.06 and
153.07 the following standards apply.
      (1)   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation unless
such materials are stored in a floodproofed and anchored storage tank and
certified by a professional engineer or floodproofed building constructed
according to the requirements of §
153.07.
      (2)   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
      (3)   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
      (4)   New and replacement on-site sanitary sewer lines or waste disposal
systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during flooding. Manholes or other above-ground
openings located below the flood protection elevation shall be watertight.
      (5)   Construction of new or substantially improved critical facilities
shall be located outside the limits of the floodplain. Construction of new
critical facilities shall be permissible within the floodplain if no feasible
alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated or structurally dry
floodproofed to the 500-year flood frequency elevation or three feet above the
level of the 100-year flood frequency elevation, whichever is greater.
Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic
substances will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes
elevated to or above the level of the base flood elevation shall be provided to
all critical facilities.
   (B)   All other activities defined as development shall be designed so as
not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages.
(Ord. 2012-08, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 153.10 CARRYING CAPACITY AND NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   For all projects involving channel modification, fill or stream
maintenance (including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse
shall be maintained.
   (B)   In addition, the village shall notify adjacent communities in writing
30 days prior to the issuance of a permit for the alteration or relocation of
the watercourse.
(Ord. 2012-08, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 153.11 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Generally. Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship
on a specific development proposal, the applicant may apply to the Zoning Board
of Appeals for a variance. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall review the
applicant’s request for a variance and shall submit its recommendation to the
Village Board of Trustees. The Village Board of Trustees may attach such
conditions to granting of a variance as it deems necessary to further the
intent of this chapter.
   (B)   Conditions. No variance shall be granted unless the applicant
demonstrates that all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain;
      (2)   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
      (3)   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
      (4)   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety or
creation of a nuisance;
      (5)   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing or repairs to roads, utilities or other
public facilities;
      (6)   The applicant’s circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP; and
      (7)   All other state and federal permits have been obtained.
   (C)   Notifications. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall notify an applicant
in writing that a variance from the requirements of the building protections
standards of §
153.07 that would lessen the degree of protection to a building will:
      (1)   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25 per
$100 of insurance coverage;
      (2)   Increase the risk to life and property; and
      (3)   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks
and that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
   (D)   Historic structures. Variances to the building protection requirements
of §
153.07 which are requested in connection with reconstruction, repair or
alteration of a historic site or historic structure as defined in §
153.02, may be granted using criteria more permissive than the requirements of
§§
153.06 and
153.07, subject to the conditions that:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure; and
      (2)   The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure being
removed as a certified historic structure.
   (E)   Agriculture.  
      (1)   Any variance granted for an agricultural structure shall be decided
individually based on a case-by-case analysis of the building’s unique
circumstances. Variances granted shall meet the following conditions as well as
those criteria and conditions set forth in this chapter.
      (2)   In order to minimize flood damages during the 100-year flood and
the threat to public health and safety, the following conditions shall be
included for any variance issued for agricultural structures that are
constructed at grade and wet floodproofed.
         (a)   All agricultural structures considered for a variance from the
floodplain management regulations of this chapter shall demonstrate that the
varied structure is located in wide, expansive floodplain areas and no other
alternate location outside of the special flood hazard area exists for the
agricultural structure. Residential structures or animal confinement
facilities, such as farm houses, cannot be considered agricultural structures.
         (b)   Use of the varied structures must be limited to agricultural
purposes in Zone A only as identified on the community’s Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM).
         (c)   For any new or substantially damaged agricultural structures,
the exterior and interior building components and elements (i.e., foundation,
wall framing, exterior and interior finishes, flooring and the like) below the
base flood elevation must be built with flood-resistant materials in accordance
with §
153.07.
         (d)   The agricultural structures must be adequately anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structures in accordance
with §
153.07 of this chapter. All of the building’s structural components must be
capable of resisting specific flood-related forces including hydrostatic,
buoyancy, and hydrodynamic and debris impact forces.
         (e)   Any mechanical, electrical or other utility equipment must be
located above the base flood elevation or floodproofed so that they are
contained within a watertight, floodproofed enclosure that is capable of
resisting damage during flood conditions in accordance with §
153.07.
         (f)   The NFIP requires that enclosure or foundation walls, subject to
the 100-year flood, contain openings that will permit the automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters in accordance with §
153.07(C).
         (g)   The agricultural structures must comply with the floodplain
management floodway provisions of §
153.06. No variances may be issued for agricultural structures within any
designated floodway.
         (h)   Wet floodproofing construction techniques must be reviewed and
approved by the Floodplain Administrator and a registered professional engineer
or architect prior to the issuance of any floodplain development permit for
construction.
(Ord. 2012-08, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 153.12 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the floodplain will be free
from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on the part of
the village or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that
results from proper reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision
made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 2012-08, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 153.13 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the village to
fulfill the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program including
September 16, 1985. However, this chapter does not repeal the original
resolution or ordinance adopted to achieve eligibility in the program. Nor does
this chapter repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants or
deed restrictions. Where this chapter and other ordinance easements, covenants
or deed restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 2012-08, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain or
failure to comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed
to be a violation of this chapter. Upon due investigation, the Village Attorney
may determine that a violation of the minimum standards of this chapter exists.
The Village Attorney shall notify the owner in writing of such violation.
   (B)   (1)   If such owner fails after ten days’ notice to correct the
violation:
         (a)   The village shall make application to the Circuit Court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order as
the court deems necessary to secure compliance with this chapter;
         (b)   Any person who violates this chapter shall upon conviction
thereof be fined not less than $50 or more than $750 for each offense;
         (c)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues; and
         (d)   The village shall record a notice of violation on the title of
the property.
      (2)   (a)   The Village Attorney shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore
may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
         (b)   The Village Attorney is authorized to issue an order requiring
the suspension of the subject development. The stop-work order shall be in
writing, indicate the reason for the issuance, and shall order the action, if
necessary, to resolve the circumstances requiring the stop-work order. The
stop-work order constitutes a suspension of the permit.
         (c)   No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or
revoked until a hearing is held by the Zoning Board of Appeals. Written notice
of such hearing shall be served on the permittee and shall state:
            1.   The grounds for the complaint, reasons for suspension or
revocation; and
            2.   The time and place of the hearing.
         (d)   At such hearing the permittee shall be given an opportunity to
present evidence on his or her behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the
Zoning Board of Appeals shall determine whether the permit shall be suspended
or revoked.
      (3)   Nothing herein shall prevent the village from taking such other
lawful action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected
therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 2012-08, passed 6-4-2012)
CHAPTER 154: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Short title
   
154.002   Purpose
   
154.003   Jurisdiction
   
154.004   Provisions are minimum requirements
   
154.005   More restrictive regulations to apply
   
154.006   Applicability of provisions
   
154.007   Subdivisions unlawful when
   
154.008   Separability
Rules and Definitions
   
154.020   Construction
   
154.021   Definitions
Subdivision Approval
   
154.035   Procedure overview
   
154.036   Preliminary consultation
   
154.037   Action by the subdivider
   
154.038   Action by the Chairperson of the Planning and Zoning Board and Zoning
Officer
   
154.039   Action by the Planning and Zoning Board
   
154.040   Preliminary plat; procedure
   
154.041   Final plat procedure
   
154.042   Other improvements
   
154.043   Platting of land outside village limits; procedure
Requirements; Principles
   
154.055   Community requirements to be considered
   
154.056   Conformance to Comprehensive Plan of the village
   
154.057   Provisions for stormwater and floodwater runoff required
   
154.058   Preservation of natural features
   
154.059   Subdivision to be prohibited when; authority
   
154.060   Dedication of land for public use; general provisions
   
154.061   Vacation of a plat of subdivision
   
154.062   Sale of land outside village limits; restrictions
   
154.063   Subdivision created by successive divisions
Design Standards
   
154.075   Conformance to applicable rules and regulations
   
154.076   Street right-of-way widths
   
154.077   Street grading
   
154.078   Street lights
   
154.079   Street names and signs
   
154.080   Street numbers
   
154.081   Streets and alleys; arrangements
   
154.082   Access to major streets
   
154.083   Minor and collector street standards
   
154.084   Major arterials and nonresidential streets
   
154.085   Vertical curves on streets; determination
   
154.086   Tangents on reverse curves
   
154.087   Culs-de-sac or dead-end streets
   
154.088   Half streets
   
154.089   Street intersections
   
154.090   Alleys
   
154.091   Easements
   
154.092   Blocks
   
154.093   Lots; regulations generally; conformance with zoning chapter
   
154.094   Lots; density
   
154.095   Lots; full utility subdivision
   
154.096   Lots; partial utility subdivision; building permits
   
154.097   Lots; partial utility subdivision
   
154.098   Lots; potential utility subdivision
   
154.099   Lots; private service subdivision
   
154.100   Lots; depth and width
   
154.101   Lots; frontage on major streets
   
154.102   Lots to abut public streets
   
154.103   Topsoil
   
154.104   Drainage of lots
   
154.105   Certain lots to be avoided
   
154.106   Side lot lines
   
154.107   Corner lots
   
154.108   Lot lines
   
154.109   Double frontage and reversed frontage lots
   
154.110   Sidewalks
   
154.111   Monuments
   
154.112   Water mains
   
154.113   Sanitary sewers
   
154.114   Storm sewers
   
154.115   Sewer and water main testing
   
154.116   As-built plans
Preliminary Plats
   
154.130   Required; purpose
   
154.131   Application for approval
   
154.132   Drawing specifications
   
154.133   Preliminary plat; review; recommendations
   
154.134   Preliminary plat; disposition
Final Plats
    
154.145   Final plat; preparation; submission
   
154.146   May constitute portion of preliminary plat
   
154.147   Application for approval
   
154.148   Drawing specifications
   
154.149   Drawing; map and engineering information
   
154.150   Drawing; name, location and position
   
154.151   Drawing; roads and public spaces
   
154.152   Drawing; site conditions and topography
   
154.153   Final plat; action by Planning and Zoning Board, County Emergency
Telephone System Board and Village Board
   
154.154   Final plat; required improvements and letter of credit
   
154.155   Recording; certificates
   
154.156   Recording; acknowledgment
   
154.157   Certificate of surveyor
   
154.158   County Treasurer’s certificate
   
154.159   Planning and Zoning Board certificate
   
154.160   Village Engineer certificate
   
154.161   Village Board certificate
   
154.162   Village Clerk’s certificate
Fees
   
154.175   Conditions
   
154.176   Amount
Variances; Exceptions
   
154.190   Hardships
   
154.191   Large-scale developments
   
154.192   Conditions
   
154.193   Procedure
   
154.194   Recommendations
Amendments
   
154.205   Authority; public hearings
Administration
   
154.220   Organization
   
154.221   Village Board; responsibilities
   
154.222   Planning and Zoning Board; duties
   
154.223   Village Engineer; duties
Appeals
   
154.235   Procedure
Enforcement
   
154.250   Zoning Officer; authority to enforce provisions
   
154.251   Transfer or sale of property before subdivision approval unlawful
   
154.252   Subdivision by metes and bounds for purpose of sale unlawful
   
154.253   Building or repair permit; issuance provision
   
154.254   Approval of plat; compliance with provisions required
Dedication of School Sites
   
154.265   Adoption
Dedication of Park Sites
   
154.280   Adoption
 
   
154.999   Penalty
Editor’s note:
   Ordinance 1999-2 adopted a comprehensive building, subdivision and zoning
code, split into
Chs. 151,
154 and
155.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall hereafter be known, cited and referred to as the
Subdivision Code.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 1, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.002 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The subdivision of land is the first step in the process of the urban
development. The arrangement of land parcels in the community for residential,
commercial and industrial uses and for streets, alleys, schools, parks and
other public purposes will determine to a large degree the conditions of
health, safety, economy and amenity that prevail in the urban area. Piecemeal
planning of land subdivisions, without correlation to the village’s
Comprehensive Plan, could bring out a disastrous, disconnected patchwork of
plats resulting in poor circulation of traffic and unattractive neighborhoods
and communities. Therefore, these regulations and standards for the subdivision
and improvement of land for urban use are to make provision for adequate light,
air, open space, drainage, transportation, public utilities and other needs to
ensure the development and maintenance of a healthy, attractive and efficient
community that provides for the conservation and protection of its human and
natural resources.
   (B)   These regulations are designed, intended and should be administered in
a manner to:
      (1)   Implement the Comprehensive Plan;
      (2)   Promote the public health, safety and general welfare;
      (3)   Harmoniously relate the development of various tracts of land to
the existing community and facilitate the future development of adjoining
tracts;
      (4)   Avoid undue concentration of population and overcrowding of land;
      (5)   Lessen congestion in the streets and highways;
      (6)   Provide for adequate light and air;
      (7)   Facilitate adequate provision for transportation, water and sewage;
      (8)   Provide for proper ingress and egress; and
      (9)   Ensure proper legal description, and proper monumenting of
subdivided land to establish and maintain adequate and accurate records of all
land subdivision.
   (C)   These regulations are established with reasonable consideration for
the character of the village with a view toward conserving the value of
buildings upon the land and providing the best possible environment for human
habitation. It is intended that these regulations shall supplement and
facilitate the enforcement of the provisions and development standards
contained in the Building Codes, official map, regulations, Zoning Code and the
Comprehensive Plan of the village.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 1, subs. .020, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.003 JURISDICTION.
   The village land subdivision regulations shall apply to all subdivisions of
land, as defined herein, located within the village and within one and one-half
miles of the corporate limits of the village, except those subdivisions of land
which have had their preliminary plats approved by the Village Board prior to
the effective date of the land subdivision regulation codified in this chapter.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 1, subs. .030, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.004 PROVISIONS ARE MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public
health, safety and general welfare.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 1, subs. .040, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.005 MORE RESTRICTIVE REGULATIONS TO APPLY.
   Where the conditions imposed by any provisions of this chapter upon the
subdivision of land are either more restrictive or less restrictive than
comparable conditions imposed by any other provisions of this chapter or of any
other applicable law, ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation of any kind,
the regulations which are more restrictive and impose higher standards or
requirements shall govern.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 1, subs. .050, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.006 APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to abrogate any easement, covenant or any other
private agreement; provided that where the regulations of this chapter are more
restrictive or impose higher standards or regulations than such easement,
covenant or other private agreement, the requirements of this chapter shall
govern.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 1, subs. .060, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.007 SUBDIVISIONS UNLAWFUL WHEN.
   No subdivision of land which was not lawfully existing at the time of the
adoption of the ordinance codified in this chapter shall be made lawful solely
by reason of the adoption of the ordinance codified in this chapter, and to the
extent that the subdivision of land is in conflict in any manner with the
requirements of this chapter, the subdivision of land remains unlawful under
this chapter.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 1, subs. .070, passed 2-15-1999) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.008 SEPARABILITY.
   It is the intention of the President and Village Board that the several
provisions of this chapter be separable in accordance with the following:
   (A)   If any court of competent jurisdiction adjudges any provision of this
chapter to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect any other provision of
this chapter not specifically included in such judgment; and
   (B)   If any court of competent jurisdiction adjudges invalid the
application of any provision of this chapter to a particular subdivision of
land, such judgment shall not affect the application of the provision to any
other subdivision of land not specifically included in such judgment.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 1, subs. .080, passed 2-15-1999)
RULES AND DEFINITIONS
§ 154.020 CONSTRUCTION.
   In the construction of this chapter, the rules and definitions contained
herein shall be observed and applied, except when the context clearly indicates
otherwise.
   (A)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future, the words
used in the singular number shall include the plural number, and the plural the
singular.
   (B)   “Shall” is mandatory and not discretionary.
   (C)   “May” is permissive.
   (D)   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter genders.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 2, subs. .020, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.021 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER. The officer and assistants thereof designated by the
President and Village Board as the officer responsible for administering and
enforcing all of the requirements and provisions of the village land
subdivision regulations.
   ALLEY. A public or private right-of-way primarily designed to serve as
secondary access to the side or rear of those properties whose principal
frontage is on some other street.
   BLOCK.  A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets
and public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, shorelines of waterways
or boundary lines of the village.
   BUILDING.  Any structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels or moveable property of any kind, and which is
permanently affixed to the land.
   CENTRAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A community sewer system including
collection and treatment facilities established by the developer to serve a new
subdivision outside the village but within one and one-half miles of the
corporate limits.
   CENTRAL WATER SYSTEM. A private water company founded by the developer to
serve a new subdivision. Such a system shall include water treatment and
distribution facilities.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The plan made and adopted by the Planning and Zoning
Board, if any, and all subsequent amendments and supplements thereto,
indicating the general locations recommended for the principal streets, parks,
public buildings, zoning districts, character and extent of community
development and other physical aspects of urban planning on file in the office
of the Village Clerk and in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of the county.
   CONTOUR MAP. A map on which irregularities of the land surface are shown by
lines connecting points of equal elevations. CONTOUR INTERVAL is the vertical
height between contour lines.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A local street with only one outlet and having an appropriate
terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement.
   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner of the use of land for a specific
purpose.
   FRONTAGE. The length of the front property line of the lot, lots or tract of
land abutting in a public street, road, highway or rural right-of-way.
   GRADE. The slope of a road, street or other public way, specified in
percent.
   GRADE, LANDING. The grade required on streets entering major thoroughfares,
at points of intersection, as specified herein.
   IMPROVEMENT, PUBLIC. Any sanitary sewer, storm sewer, drainage ditch, water
main, roadway, parkway, sidewalk, pedestrian way, planting strip, off-street
parking area, or other facility for which the village may ultimately assume the
responsibility for maintenance and operation.
   LARGE-SCALE DEVELOPMENT. A proposed planned development or neighborhood unit
which, due to its magnitude, comprehensiveness and design warrants special
consideration by the Planning and Zoning Board.
   LIMITED ACCESS EXPRESSWAY OR HIGHWAY. A trafficway, including toll roads,
for through traffic in respect to which owners or occupants of abutting
property or lands and other persons have no legal right of access to or from
the same, except at such points and in such manner as may be determined by the
public authority having jurisdiction over such trafficway.
   LOT. A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended for
transfer of ownership or for building development.
   LOT, BUTT. A lot at the end of a block and located between two corner lots.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the intersection of two streets, the interior
angle of such intersection not exceeding 135 degrees.
   LOT LINE. A property boundary line of any subdivided lot or any parcel of
land held in separate ownership, except that where any portion of the lot
extends into the abutting street or alley, such portion of the lot line thereof
shall be deemed to be the street or alley line.
   LOT, THROUGH (DOUBLE FRONTAGE). A lot which has a pair of opposite lot lines
along two substantially parallel streets and which is not a corner lot. On a
THROUGH LOT, both street lines shall be deemed front lot lines.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lot lines of a lot,
measured at the front building setback line.
   METES AND BOUNDS. A method of property description whereby properties are
described by means of their direction and distance from an easily identifiable
location or point.
   OUTLOT. A parcel of land within a subdivision which has been included on a
preliminary or final plat but not designated as a buildable lot due to
insufficient size and/or frontage or peculiar siting or topographical problems.
   OWNER.  Any person, group of persons, firm or firms, corporate or
corporations, or any other legal entity having legal title to the land sought
to be subdivided under this chapter.
   PARTIAL UTILITY SUBDIVISION. A subdivision in which public water service is
provided, but where public sanitary sewage disposal services have not been
established and will not be established in the foreseeable future.
   PARTIAL UTILITY SUBDIVISION, TEMPORARY. A subdivision in which public water
service is provided, but where public sanitary sewage disposal services have
not been established, being located in an area, however, which will be serviced
by such public sanitary sewage disposal services within the foreseeable future.
   PEDESTRIAN WAY or CROSSWALK.  A right-of-way across or within a block, for
use by pedestrian traffic whether designated as a pedestrian way, crosswalk or
however otherwise designated, and may include utilities where necessary.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation, trust
or any other legal entity.
   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT. A parcel of land or contiguous parcels of land of a
size sufficient to create its own environment, controlled by a single landowner
or by a group of landowners in common agreement as to control, to be developed
as a single entity, the environment of which is compatible with adjacent
parcels and the intent of the zoning district or districts in which such land
area is located. The developer or developers may be granted relief from
specific land use regulations and design standards and may be awarded certain
premiums in return for assurance of an overall quality of development,
including any specific features which will be of exceptional benefit to the
community as a whole and which would not otherwise be required by the Zoning
Code.
   PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD. The Planning and Zoning Board or other body
authorized to consider matters relative to planning, zoning and subdivision
platting, and make recommendations to the Village Board.
   PLAT, FINAL. The map or plan of record of a subdivision, and any
accompanying material.
   PLAT, PRELIMINARY. A map showing the salient features of a proposed
subdivision, submitted to the Planning and Zoning Board for purposes of
preliminary consideration.
   PREAPPLICATION. A preliminary consultation between the developer and
administrative officials of the village in order to discuss the developer’s
intent to subdivide land. The preapplication procedure is designed to provide
direction for the developer and to eliminate needless costs.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
street, crosswalk, railroad line, sanitary or storm sewer main, or for another
special use. The usage of the term RIGHT-OF-WAY for land platting purposes in
the village means that every right-of-way hereafter established and shown on a
final plat is to be separate and distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining
such right-of-way and not included within the dimensions of areas of such lots
or parcels. RIGHTS-OF-WAY intended for streets, crosswalks, water mains,
sanitary sewers, storm drains or any other use involving maintenance by a
public agency shall be dedicated to public use by the maker of the plat on
which such RIGHT-OF-WAY is established.
   ROADWAY. A paved portion of a street available for vehicular traffic.
   SERVICE DRIVE. A public street, generally paralleling and contiguous to a
main traveled way primarily designed to promote safety by eliminating
promiscuous ingress and egress to the right-of-way, and providing safe and
properly spaced points of access.
   SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM INDIVIDUAL. A septic tank seepage tile sewage
disposal system or any other sewage treatment device approved by the Village
Engineer as being in accordance with the rules of the State Department of
Public Health and/or county health provisions, and servicing only one lot.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street or crosswalk way, paved or otherwise
surfaced, intended for pedestrian use only.
   STREET. A public or private right-of-way which affords a primary means of
vehicular access to abutting properties, whether designed as a street avenue,
highway, road, boulevard, lane, throughway, or however otherwise designed, but
excepting driveways to buildings.
   STREET, COLLECTOR. A street which carries traffic from minor streets to the
system of major streets and highways, including the principal entrance streets
of a residential development and the principal circulating streets within a
development.
   STREET, HALF. A street bordering one or more property lines of a tract of
land in which the subdivider has allocated but part of the ultimate right-of-
way width.
   STREET, MAJOR. A street designated as such in the Comprehensive Plan or
official map for the village, or by action of the Village Board, which is
intended to serve a relatively large volume of traffic not originating or
terminating in the particular neighborhood.
   STREET, MARGINAL ACCESS. A minor street which is parallel and adjacent to a
major street or highway and which provides access to abutting properties and
protection from through traffic.
   STREET, MINOR.  A street of limited continuity used primarily for access to
abutting properties and serving local needs of neighborhood.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person or corporation or duly authorized agent who
undertakes the subdivision of land as defined herein.
   SUBDIVISION. A described tract of land which is to be, or has been, divided
into two or more lots or parcels, any of which is less than five acres in area.
SUBDIVISION includes resubdivision and, where it is appropriate to the context,
relates to the process of subdividing or to the land subdivided. For the
purpose of this chapter however, the following situations shall not constitute
SUBDIVISION:
      (1)   The division of lots or blocks of less than one acre in any
recorded subdivision which meets the minimum size required by the Zoning Code,
and which does not involve any new streets or easements of access;
      (2)   The sale or exchange of parcels of land between owners of adjoining
and contiguous land;
      (3)   The conveyance of parcels of land or interests therein for use as
right-of-way for railroads or other public utility facilities and other
pipelines, which does not involve any new streets or easements of access;
      (4)   The conveyance of land owned by a railroad or other public utility
which does not involve any new streets or easements of access;
      (5)   The conveyance of land for highway or other public purposes or
grants or conveyances relating to the dedication of land for public use or
instruments relating to the vacation of land impressed with a public use;
      (6)   Conveyance made to correct descriptions in prior conveyances; and
      (7)   The sale or exchange of parcels or tracts of land following the
division into no more than two parts of a particular parcel or tract of land
existing on July 17, 1959, and not involving any new streets or easements of
access.
   SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS. The basic land planning standards established
as guides for the preparation of preliminary plats.
   SUBDIVISION MINOR (LOT SPLIT).  Any subdivision of a parcel of land, along
an existing public street not involving the opening, widening or extension of
any street or road, and involving no more than ten lots.
   SUBDIVISION, POTENTIAL UTILITY.  A subdivision in which neither public water
nor public sanitary sewage disposal services are available, being an area,
however, where both public utilities will be installed within the foreseeable
future.
   SUBDIVISION, PRIVATE SERVICE. A subdivision which is located outside the
area capable of being served by the existing or proposed utilities (public
water and public sanitary sewage disposal services), and being an area where
there is no interest to serve within a reasonable period of time, as determined
by the Village Board.
   THOROUGHFARE. A street with a high degree of continuity, including
collectors, major materials and limited access highways.
   VILLAGE BOARD. The President and Village Board of Mazon, Illinois.
   WATER SUPPLY, INDIVIDUAL. A well and appurtenances supplying only one lot,
and subject to the approval of the Village Engineer as being in accordance with
the rules of the State Department of Public Health.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 2, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999)
SUBDIVISION APPROVAL
§ 154.035 PROCEDURE OVERVIEW.
   (A)   Stage A, Preliminary Consultation.
      (1)   The subdivider submits a letter of intent and meets informally with
the Chairperson of the Planning and Zoning Board to discuss his or her sketch
plan and proposed improvements.
      (2)   The Chairperson, after checking the proposed sketch plan, may
consult with the Village Attorney, Village Engineer, Village President, Zoning
and Building Officer. The Chairperson shall thereafter advise the subdivider as
to the apparent adequacy of the proposed plan.
   (B)   Stage B, Preliminary Plat.
      (1)   The subdivider prepares a preliminary plat, including a preliminary
engineering plan in compliance with §§
154.130 through
154.134, and files an application for approval along with three copies of the
proposed plat with the Planning and Zoning Board.
      (2)   The Planning Zoning Board obtains the required recommendations from
the Village Engineer. After applying the provisions of this chapter, it
approves the preliminary plat, or it approves the preliminary plat subject to
modification, or it rejects the preliminary plat. Findings are reported to the
subdivider in writing.
   (C)   Stage C, Final Plat.
      (1)   Within 12 months of the date of the approval of the preliminary
plat, the subdivider prepares and submits to the Village Clerk four copies of
the final plat incorporating all required modifications to the preliminary
plat, together with final engineering plans and specifications. The Village
Clerk shall immediately transmit such final plat to the Planning and Zoning
Board and the Village Engineer for their review and recommendations.
      (2)   The Planning and Zoning Board determines whether or not the final
plat is in conformance with the approved preliminary plat and forwards the
plat, with its recommendation, to the Village Board.
      (3)   The Village Board approves or rejects the final plat within 60 days
of submission by the Planning and Zoning Board.
      (4)   Upon receipt of a certified copy of the approved final plat, prior
to executing the Clerk’s certificate, the Village Clerk shall verify the
existence of a letter of credit, bond or other security as required herein for
the completion of subdivision improvements. Thereafter, the subdivider may
record the final plat with the County Recorder. After proper recording of the
plat of subdivision, the developer may proceed to develop and sell the lots of
his or her subdivision.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 3, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.036 PRELIMINARY CONSULTATION.
   Prior to the submission of the preliminary plat of any proposed subdivision
within the jurisdiction of the village, the subdivider shall make known his or
her intentions to the Zoning Officer. During this preliminary or reapplication
stage, the actions set forth in §§
154.037 through
154.039 shall be taken.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 3, subs. .020, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.037 ACTION BY THE SUBDIVIDER.
   The subdivider shall meet informally with the Zoning Officer and the Village
Engineer for the purpose of presenting a general outline of his or her
proposal, with a report of such a meeting to be forwarded to the Chairperson of
the Planning and Zoning Board and President, including but not limited to:
   (A)   Written notification of letter of intent from the subdivider to the
Planning and Zoning Board, establishing the subdivider’s intentions as to
development of the land;
   (B)   Sketch plans and ideas regarding land use, street and lot sizes; and
   (C)   Tentative proposals regarding water supply, sewage disposal, surface
drainage and street improvements.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 3, subs. .030, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.038 ACTION BY THE CHAIRPERSON OF THE PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD AND ZONING
OFFICER.
   (A)   The Chairperson of the Planning and Zoning Board and Zoning Officer
shall discuss the proposed subdivision with the subdivider and advise him or
her of any village plans which might affect the proposed subdivision; the
procedural steps, design and improvement standards; and the general plat
requirements.
   (B)   After this discussion, the Zoning Officer (in cooperation with the
Village Engineer) shall proceed with the following investigation:
      (1)   Check the existing zoning of the tract and advise the subdivider if
a zoning change is necessary or desirable; and
      (2)   Inspect the site or otherwise determine its relationship to major
street, utility systems and adjacent land uses, and determine any unusual
problems in regard to topography, utilities, flooding and the like.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 3, subs. .040, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.039 ACTION BY THE PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD.
   Upon receipt of the letter of intent and official acknowledgment of same,
and upon certification by the Chairperson of the Planning and Zoning Board that
the discussions and investigations described in §
154.038 have been favorably completed, the Planning and Zoning Board shall
authorize the subdivider in writing to prepare and submit his or her
preliminary plat. The preliminary plat shall be filed no sooner than 30 days
from the date of such authorization.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 3, subs. .050, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.040 PRELIMINARY PLAT; PROCEDURE.
   In planning and developing a subdivision either within the corporate limits
or within one and one-half miles of the limits of the village, the subdivider
shall comply with the procedures set forth in §§
154.130 through
154.134.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 3, subs. .060, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.041 FINAL PLAT PROCEDURE.
   In planning and developing a subdivision either within the corporate limits
or within one and one-half miles of the limits of the village, the subdivider
shall comply with the procedures set forth in §§
154.145 through
154.162.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 3, subs. .070, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.042 OTHER IMPROVEMENTS.
   It is also desirable to install other improvements such as electric lines,
gas mains and similar facilities in any subdivision. Whenever the Planning and
Zoning Board or the Village Board deems it necessary, they may require that any
such improvements shall be installed before the final plat is approved or the
cost of any such improvements are guaranteed pursuant to §
154.154. When reasonably possible, the Planning and Zoning Board may require
that all utilities and service facilities be placed underground.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 3, subs. .080, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.043 PLATTING OF LAND OUTSIDE VILLAGE LIMITS; PROCEDURE.
   For the subdivision platting of any land lying outside the corporate
boundaries of the village but within one and one-half miles thereof, the
procedures set forth in this chapter shall apply except for the following
modifications.
   (A)   Approval of preliminary plat. After approval and recommendation of a
subdivision plat by the Village Planning and Zoning Board, such plat shall be
forwarded to the Village Board for approval.
   (B)   Final plat approval. After approval and recommendation for a final
plat of subdivision by the Village Planning and Zoning Board, such plat shall
be forwarded to the Village Board for approval.
   (C)   Other required approvals. Any other approval, certificate, review,
inspection, bond or guarantee required in this chapter shall be handled
pursuant to the applicable governing authority’s requirements for land
subdivision.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 3, subs. .090, passed 2-15-1999)
REQUIREMENTS; PRINCIPLES
§ 154.055 COMMUNITY REQUIREMENTS TO BE CONSIDERED.
   The Planning and Zoning Board, in the examination of subdivision plats for
approval, and in the application of this chapter, shall take into consideration
the requirements of the community and the best use of the land being
subdivided. Particular attention shall be given to width and location of
streets, suitability of sanitary utilities, surface drainage, lot sizes and
arrangements.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 4, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.056 CONFORMANCE TO COMPREHENSIVE PLAN OF THE VILLAGE.
   The Planning and Zoning and Board shall especially require that all
subdivisions conform to the provisions and conditions of the Comprehensive Plan
for future development of the village. Plat approval may be withheld if a
subdivision does not confirm to the provisions of the Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 4, subs. .020, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.057 PROVISIONS FOR STORMWATER AND FLOODWATER RUNOFF REQUIRED.
   The Planning and Zoning Board shall not recommend for approval by the
Village Board any plat of subdivision which does not make adequate provision
for stormwater or floodwater runoff channels or basins.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 4, subs. .030, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.058 PRESERVATION OF NATURAL FEATURES.
   In all subdivisions, due regard shall be given to the preservation of
natural features such as large trees, watercourses, historical and similar
features.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 4, subs. .040, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.059 SUBDIVISION TO BE PROHIBITED WHEN; AUTHORITY.
   No land shall be subdivided for residential use which is held by the
Planning and Zoning Board, after investigation by the Village Engineer, to be
unsuitable for such use by reason of flooding or bad drainage, adverse earth of
rock formation or topography, or any other feature likely to be harmful to the
health, safety or welfare of the future residents in the proposed subdivision
or of the community. However, the subdivision of land which is subject to
stream overflow may be permitted if the special requirements described herein
have been completed or proper assurances given that they will be completed
subject to approval of the Village Engineer.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 4, subs. .050, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.060 DEDICATION OF LAND FOR PUBLIC USE; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   When a final plat of subdivision has been approved by the Village Board, all
required approvals are obtained and the plat is recorded, such approval by the
Village Board shall constitute acceptance for the purpose(s) designated on the
plat of all land shown on the plat as dedicated to or reserved for the public
use, including street dedications.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 4, subs. .060, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.061 VACATION OF A PLAT OF SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Any plat or any part of a plat may be vacated by the owner of the
premises at any time before the sale of any lot therein by a written
instrument, to which a copy of such plat shall be attached, declaring the same
to be vacated.
   (B)   Such an instrument shall be approved by the Village Board in like
manner as plats of subdivisions. The Village Board may reject any such
instrument which abridges or destroys any public rights in any way of its
streets or alleys. Such an instrument shall be executed, acknowledged or
approved, and recorded or filed, in the like manner as plats of subdivisions;
and being duly recorded, or filed, shall operate to destroy the force and
effect of the recording of the plat so vacated and to divest all public rights
in the streets, alleys and public grounds, and all dedications laid out or
described in such plat.
   (C)   When lots have been sold, the plat may be vacated in the manner
provided in this section by all the owners of lots in such plat joining in the
execution of such writing.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 4, subs. .070, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.062 SALE OF LAND OUTSIDE VILLAGE LIMITS; RESTRICTIONS.
   No person shall sell any parcel of land of one acre or less in size, located
outside the corporate limits of the village, if it abuts a road which has not
been accepted as a public road, unless the seller informs the purchaser in
writing of the fact that the road is not a public road and is not required to
be maintained by the county within which it is located.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 4, subs. .080, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.063 SUBDIVISION CREATED BY SUCCESSIVE DIVISIONS.
   Whenever a parcel of land is subdivided into lots containing one or more
acres and there are indications that such lots will eventually be subdivided
into smaller building sites, the Village Board may require that such parcels of
land be divided so as to allow for the future opening of streets and the
ultimate extensions of adjacent streets. Easements providing for the future
opening and extension of such streets may be made a requirement of the plat.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 4, subs. .090, passed 2-15-1999)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 154.075 CONFORMANCE TO APPLICABLE RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   In addition to the design standards established in this chapter, all
subdivision plats shall comply with the following laws, ordinances, rules and
regulations:
   (A)   The subdivisions provisions of state law;
   (B)   The village Zoning Code and all applicable ordinances of the
appropriate jurisdiction;
   (C)   The Comprehensive Plan, public utilities plan, official map of the
village or any portions thereof;
   (D)   The special requirements of this chapter and any rules of the village,
the State Environmental Protection Agency and County Public Health Department
relating to lot size and lot elevation if the subdivision is not served by
public water or by a public sewer and provision for one or both of these
services has not been made;
   (E)   The rules of the State Division of Highways relating to safety and
access and the preservation of the public interest and investment in the
streets if the subdivision or any lot contained therein abuts a state highway
or connecting street; and
   (F)   All designs, dimensions, materials and methods of construction of
improvements not specifically established in this chapter shall conform to
applicable federal, state and village regulations, as may be amended from time
to time.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.076 STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY WIDTHS.
   (A)   All right-of-way widths shall conform to the following minimum
dimensions:
 
Type of Street     Residential Subdivision       Manufacturing or Business
                                                 Subdivision
Collector streets  66 feet                       80 feet
Cul-de-sac streets 66 feet                       70 feet
Frontage roads     40 feet                       50 feet
                   One-half the total right-of-
Half streets       way of the proposed street or Not permitted
                   as required by the Plan
                   Commission
Minor streets      66 feet                       70 feet
                   Right-of-way widths and other design standards of
                   thoroughfares, including freeways, expressways, parkways,
                   major and secondary thoroughfares, shall be in accordance
Thoroughfares      with those designated on the official plan of the village
                   and environs, or by federal, state or county authorities
                   having jurisdiction, whichever has the greater width and
                   design standards requirements.
 
   (B)   A collector street may be required by the Village Board when
recommended by the Plan Commission:
      (1)   In a residential subdivision containing 20 acres or more in area
and where the lots are one-half acre or less in area;
      (2)   In any subdivision as an extension of an existing or planned
collector street in an adjacent subdivision; and
      (3)   In any manufacturing or business subdivision.
   (C)   When the Village Engineer recommends and the Planning and Zoning Board
and Village Board approves, a 70-foot right-of-way may be allowed, provided
adequate right-of-way is available for turn lanes and traffic lanes as traffic
flow may require.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .020, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.077 STREET GRADING.
   The bed for the roadways in the street rights-of-way shall be graded to
subgrade, and the village shall inspect and approve the sub-base prior to the
installation of the roadway stabilization fabric as required herein. The cost
of engineering and inspection, determined on the basis of time devoted to the
project at the usual and customary rate of the Village Engineer, shall be
charged to the developer. The grade of major streets shall not exceed 6% unless
necessitated by exceptional topography and approved by the Planning and Zoning
and Board. The grade of all other streets shall not exceed 10%. The minimum
grade of all streets shall be 0.4%.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .030, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.078 STREET LIGHTS.
   Street lights shall be installed to illuminate all roadways and sidewalk
surfaces in accordance with design and specification standards approved by the
Village Engineer. Such street lighting system shall be installed within two
years after the date of approval of the final plat by the Village Board, or in
the event 50% of the lots are built upon, whichever is less. The Village Board
may extend the time by six months if 50% of the lots have not been built upon.
Location, type and method of installation of street lights shall be in
accordance with standards and specifications recommended by the Planning and
Zoning Board and approved by the Village Board. The total cost of lighting and
installation shall be the responsibility of the developer.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .040, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.079 STREET NAMES AND SIGNS.
   Street signs are to be placed at all intersections within or abutting the
subdivision, the type and location of which to be approved by the Village
Engineer. No street names shall be used which will duplicate or be confused
with the names of existing streets. All proposed street names shall be
submitted to the County 911 Board or other designated entity for approval prior
to the approval of a preliminary or final plat. New streets which are
extensions of, or obviously in alignment with existing streets shall bear the
name of the existing streets. Street names shall be subject to the approval of
the Village Board.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .050, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.080 STREET NUMBERS.
   Street numbers shall be obtained from the Village Zoning Officer and shown
on the final plat.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .060, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.081 STREETS AND ALLEYS; ARRANGEMENT.
   (A)   All streets shall be properly integrated with the existing and
proposed system of thoroughfares and dedicated rights-of-way as may be required
by the Planning and Zoning Board established on the official map.
   (B)   All thoroughfares shall be properly related to special traffic
generators, such as industries, business districts, schools, churches and
shopping centers; to population densities; and to the pattern of existing and
proposed land uses.
   (C)   Minor streets shall be laid out to conform as much as possible to the
topography, to discourage use by through traffic, to permit efficient drainage
and utility systems, and to require the minimum number of streets necessary to
provide convenient, safe access to property.
   (D)   The rigid rectangular gridiron street pattern need not necessarily be
adhered to, and the use of curvilinear streets, culs-de-sac or U-shaped streets
shall be encouraged where such use will result in a more desirable layout.
   (E)   Proposed streets shall be extended to the boundary lines of the tract
to be subdivided unless prevented by topography or other physical conditions,
or unless in the opinion of the Planning and Zoning Board such extension is not
necessary or desirable for the coordination of the layout of the subdivision
with the existing layout or the most advantageous future development of
adjacent tracts.
   (F)   In business and industrial developments, the streets and other access
ways shall be planned in connection with the grouping of buildings, location of
rail facilities and the provision of alleys, truck loading and maneuvering
areas so as to minimize conflict of movement between the various types of
traffic.
   (G)   Streets shall be designed and located in relation to existing and
planned streets, to topographical conditions and natural terrain features, such
as streams and existing tree growth, to public convenience and safety, and in
appropriate relation to the proposed uses of land to be served by such streets.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .070, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.082 ACCESS TO MAJOR STREETS.
   (A)   Where a subdivision borders on or contains an existing or proposed
major street, the Planning and Zoning Board may require that access to such
streets be limited by one of the following means:
      (1)   The subdivision of lots so as to back onto the major street and
front onto a parallel local street; no access shall be provided from the major
street and screen planting shall be provided in a strip of land along the rear
property line of such lots;
      (2)   A series of culs-de-sac, U-shaped streets or short loops entered
from and designed generally at right angles to such a parallel street, with the
rear lines of their terminal lots backing onto the major street; or
      (3)   A marginal access to service street (separated from the major
street by a planting or grass strip and having access thereto at suitable
points).
   (B)   The number of residential streets entering a major street shall be
kept at a minimum.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .080, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.083 MINOR AND COLLECTOR STREET STANDARDS.
   The following minimum standards shall apply to the design of minor
residential streets, including marginal access streets.
   (A)   Roadway pavement.
      (1)   All streets and alleys within the subdivision shall be improved
with a durable all-weather bituminous concrete or concrete surface roadway. The
pavement shall be equal to or superior to a pavement consisting of a base
course of a total thickness of not less than that shown in the table in
division (B)(6) below when thoroughly compacted. Materials and method of
construction shall be in compliance with the Standard Specifications for Road
and Bridge Construction, State Department of Transportation, current edition
and the current edition of the State Department of Transportation Design
Manual, and shall be sufficient, in the opinion of the Village Engineer, to
withstand the traffic that the roadways will presumably be subjected to.
      (2)   All streets shall be improved with roadway pavements to an overall
width in accordance with the following minimum dimensions:
Pavement Width (Between Back of Curbs)
Type of Street Residential Subdivision Manufacturing or Business Subdivision
Pavement Width (Between Back of Curbs)
Type of Street     Residential Subdivision          Manufacturing or Business
                                                    Subdivision
Alleys             20 feet                          20 feet
Collector streets  36 feet                          50 feet
Cul-de-sac streets 36 feet                          40 feet
Frontage roads     26 feet                          36 feet
Half street        1/2 the width of proposed street Not permitted
                   but not less than 20 feet
Minor streets      36 feet                          40 feet
Thoroughfares      In accordance with federal, state, county and local
                   requirements
 
      (3)   Roadway pavements in cul-de-sac street terminus shall have a
minimum diameter, measured from backs of the outside curb of 100 feet for
residential subdivisions and 110 feet for manufacturing and business
subdivision. Roadway pavements in “T” type or other types of terminus shall be
as required by the Village Board.
   (B)    Roadway stabilization fabric (support membrane). Roadway pavements
shall be installed in accordance with the following minimum requirements.
      (1)   All streets within the subdivision shall be improved with the use
of a roadway stabilization fabric installed between the earth subgrade and the
aggregate base course. This fabric shall extend the full width of the proposed
pavement and be turned up eight inches on each side. All laps shall be a
minimum of 24 inches.
      (2)   Stabilization fabric must be composed of rot-proof, low water-
absorbent fibers. The fiber network (woven or nonwoven) must be dimensionally
stable (i.e., fibers must maintain their relative position with respect to each
other) and resistant to delamination. The fabric must be new, and free from any
flaws or defects which might significantly alter its physical properties. Torn
or punctured fabric shall not be used.
      (3)   The following physical property requirements must be met:
 
Grab elongation (ASTM D1682)  20%
Grab strength (ASTM D1682)    300 lbs.
Puncture strength (ASTM D751) 100 lbs.
Weight (ASTM D1910)           6.0 oz./sq.yd.
 
      (4)   After the stabilization fabric is installed, a minimum thickness of
six inches of aggregate base shall be placed before any traffic is permitted
over the fabric. The aggregate shall be placed by dumping into a pile and then
pushing the fabric. The spreading equipment shall not damage the fabric. If any
fabric is damaged, it shall be repaired immediately. Repairs shall be made in
accordance with manufacturer’s specifications with minimum overlap of 24
inches.
      (5)   Overlaps and turned-up edges will not be included in the payment
measurements for square yards of fabric. The fabric shall be “Typar” as
manufactured by DuPont, or an approved equal.
      (6)   Minimum roadway requirements shall consist of the following:
Base Course Residential Manufacturing or Business
Base Course              Residential             Manufacturing or Business
Crushed stone or         9 inches                10 inches
Bituminous aggregate     4 inches (over 4 inches 6 inches (over 4 inches CA-
mixture                  CA-6)                   6)
Surface
Bituminous surface:
Binder course            1-1/2 inches            2 inches
Surface course or        1-1/2 inches            2 inches
Portland cement concrete 6 inches (over 4 inches 8 inches (over 4 inches CA-
pavement                 CA-7)                   7)
 
      (7)   No bituminous concrete surface course shall be placed until the
construction season following the construction season that the base course was
installed, allowing one winter for any settlement of sub-base or trenches.
   (C)   Curbs and gutters. Concrete curbs and gutters shall be constructed
along the outside edges of all street pavements of the type designated by the
Village Engineer and installed in accordance with village standards and
specifications. In no case shall the total width of the combination curb and
gutter be less than 24 inches and the gutter flag thickness be less than eight
inches. The curb and gutter proposed typical section shall be approved by the
Village Engineer prior to final plans being approved.
   (D)   Access driveways. A paved access driveway from the street lot line to
the street pavement shall be provided. Pavement shall be of concrete (six-inch
thickness with W.W.M.) construction installed in accordance with village
standards and specifications.
   (E)   Side strips (parkways). Side strips shall be required on both sides of
all streets. They shall be graded and prepared for seeding by the subdivider
with at least four inches of top soil. Median strips shall be considered as
side strips unless paved.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .090, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.084 MAJOR ARTERIALS AND NONRESIDENTIAL STREETS.
   (A)   The right-of-way and pavement widths of all major arterials shall be
that indicated on the official map of the village, or if no width is indicated
there, such width and all other design standards shall be determined by the
Zoning and Planning Committee upon the recommendations of the Village Engineer.
In no case shall the right-of-way width of a major arterial be less than 80
feet.
   (B)   Design standards for minor and collector streets in nonresidential
(commercial or industrial) subdivisions or parts of subdivisions shall be
determined by the Zoning and Planning Committee upon recommendation of the
Village Engineer. In no case shall design standards be less than the minimum
standards for a low density residential subdivision.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .100, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.085 VERTICAL CURVES ON STREETS; DETERMINATION.
   (A)   All changes in street grades shall be connected by vertical curves of
a minimum length in feet equivalent to the algebraic difference in the percent
of grade times a K factor, such K factor to be derived as follows:
 
Design Speed K Factor
             Crest Curve Sag Curve
20           10          15
25           15          20
30           30          35
35           45          45
 
   (B)   No vertical curves shall be required on minor streets or collector
streets where the algebraic difference in percent of grade is less than 2%.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .110, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.086 TANGENTS ON REVERSE CURVES.
   A tangent at least 100 feet in length shall be introduced between reverse
curves on major arterials and collector streets.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .120, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.087 CULS-DE-SAC OR DEAD-END STREETS.
   (A)    A cul-de-sac or dead-end street serving less than 25 dwelling units
shall not exceed 1,000 feet in length. Culs-de-sac serving 25 or more dwelling
units shall not exceed 500 feet in length.
   (B)   The diameter of a cul-de-sac turnaround (measured at the outside
right-of-way) shall be not less than 120 feet. Pavement diameter of a cul-de-
sac turnaround shall be not less than 80 feet.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .130, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.088 HALF STREETS.
   Street systems in new subdivisions shall be laid out so as to eliminate or
avoid half streets. Where an existing half street is adjacent to a new
subdivision, the other half of the street shall be dedicated by the subdivider.
Where a new subdivision abuts an existing street of inadequate right-of-way
width, additional right-of-way width may be required to be dedicated by the
subdivider to meet the requirements of this section.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .140, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.089 STREET INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible at
right angles. A proposed intersection of two new streets at an angle of less
than 75 degrees shall not be acceptable. Not more than two streets shall
intersect at any one point unless specifically approved by the Planning and
Zoning Board.
   (B)   Proposed new intersections along one side of an existing street shall,
wherever practicable, coincide with any existing intersections on the opposite
side of such street. Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 150 feet
shall not be permitted. Where streets intersect major streets, their alignment
shall be continuous. This requirement shall not apply if the Planning and
Zoning Board finds the street jog is practical since it is designed to connect
with a preexisting street.
   (C)   Minimum curb radius at the intersection of any two local streets shall
be at least 25 feet. Alley intersections and abrupt changes in alignment with a
block shall have the corners cut off in accordance with standard engineering
practice to permit safe vehicular movement.
   (D)   Intersections shall be designed with a flat grade wherever practical.
In hilly or rolling areas, at the approach to an intersection, a leveling area
shall be provided having not greater than 2% grade a distance of 60 feet,
measured from the nearest right-of-way line of the intersection street.
   (E)   Where any street intersection will involve earth banks or existing
vegetation inside any lot corner that could create a traffic hazard by limiting
visibility, the developer shall cut such ground and/or vegetation (including
trees) in connection with the grading of the public right-of-way to the extent
deemed necessary to provide an adequate sight distance.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .150, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.090 ALLEYS.
   (A)   Alleys shall be provided in all business, commercial and industrial
districts, except that the Planning and Zoning Board may waive this requirement
where other definite and suitable provision is made for service access such as
off-street loading and parking, consistent with and adequate for the uses
proposed, and in accordance with the provision of the Village Zoning Code.
   (B)   The width of alleys shall not be less than 24 feet.
   (C)   Dead-end alleys are prohibited except under very unusual
circumstances; and crooked and T alleys shall be discouraged. Where dead-end
alleys are unavoidable, they shall be provided with adequate turnaround
facilities at the dead end.
   (D)   Alleys shall not be approved in residential subdivisions of a density
less than seven dwelling units per acre. Where deemed necessary for access to
off-street parking or loading areas for municipal services, alleys may be
approved in higher density subdivisions.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .160, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.091 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Easements across lots or centered on rear or side lot lines shall be
provided for utilities (private and municipal) where required by the Planning
and Zoning Board, such easements to be at least ten feet wide. Property
coordination shall be established between the subdivider and the applicable
utility companies for the establishment of utility easements.
   (B)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage way,
channel or stream, there shall be provided a stormwater easement or drainage
right-of-way conforming substantially to the lines of such watercourse, and of
such width or construction or both as will be adequate for the purpose,
wherever possible, it is desirable that the drainage be maintained by an open
channel with landscaped banks and adequate width for maximum potential volume
of flow.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .170, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.092 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Blocks shall have sufficient width to provide for two tiers of lots of
appropriate depths. Exceptions to this prescribed block width shall be
permitted in blocks adjacent to major streets, railroads or waterways.
   (B)   The lengths, widths and shapes of blocks shall be such as are
appropriate for the locality and the type of development contemplated, but
block lengths in residential areas shall not exceed 2,000 feet nor be less than
400 feet in length. Wherever practicable, blocks along major arterials and
collector streets shall not be less than 1,000 feet in length.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .180, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.093 LOTS; REGULATIONS GENERALLY; CONFORMANCE WITH ZONING CHAPTER.
   In general, the size, shape and orientation of lots shall be appropriate for
the location of the subdivision and for the type of development and use
contemplated. Lot dimensions shall conform to the requirements of the Village
Zoning Code.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .190, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.094 LOTS; DENSITY.
   For reasons of health and sanitation, the density of residential
subdivisions shall be directly related to the availability of public water and
sewer service. Residential lot sizes, regardless of jurisdictional boundary,
shall meet the minimum requirements hereinafter established and shall comply
with the rules and regulations of the State Department of Public Health and the
State Environmental Protection Agency.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .200, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.095 LOTS; FULL UTILITY SUBDIVISION.
   In a full utility subdivision, the developer shall establish zoning lots
which comply with all district provisions of the Village Zoning Code.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .210, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.096 LOTS; PARTIAL UTILITY SUBDIVISION; BUILDING PERMITS.
   In a partial utility subdivision, the developer may establish zoning lots
which provide not less than 21,780 square feet of lot area and maintain a
maximum frontage at the building setback line of 120 feet. Each such zoning lot
designed and approved in a partial utility subdivision shall contain not less
than two lots, neither of which shall be less than 80 feet wide at the building
setback line, numbered as follows: “Lot #      , A and B.” Building permits
shall be issued on only one of such lots until such time as full public
utilities are provided; provided, however, the remaining lot(s) may be utilized
for the installation and maintenance of an individual sewage disposal system.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .220, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.097 LOTS; PARTIAL UTILITY SUBDIVISION; TEMPORARY.
   In a temporary partial utility subdivision, the developer may establish
zoning lots which provide not less than 21,780 square feet of lot area and
maintain a minimum frontage at the building setback line of 180 feet. Each such
zoning lot designed and approved in a temporary partial utility subdivision
shall contain not less than two lots, neither of which shall be less than 60
feet wide at the building setback line, numbered as follows: “Lot #       , A
and B.” Building permits shall be issued on only one of such lots until such
time as full public utilities are provided; however, the remaining lots may be
utilized for the installation and maintenance of an individual sewage disposal
unit.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .230, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.098 LOTS; POTENTIAL UTILITY SUBDIVISION.
   In a potential utility subdivision, a developer may establish zoning lots
which provide not less than 40,000 square feet of lot area and maintain a
minimum frontage at the building setback line of 270 feet. Each such zoning lot
designed and approved in a potential utility subdivision shall contain not less
than three lots, none of which shall be less than 60 feet wide, at the building
setback line, numbered as follows: “Lot #       , A, B and C.” Building permits
shall be issued on only one of such lots until such time as full public
utilities are provided; provided, however, the remaining lots may be utilized
for the installation of private wells and/or individual sanitary sewage
disposal units.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .240, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.099 LOTS; PRIVATE SERVICE SUBDIVISION.
   In a private service subdivision, a developer may establish zoning lots
which provide not less than 40,000 square feet of lot area and maintain a
minimum frontage at the building setback line of 108 feet.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .250, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.100 LOTS; DEPTH AND WIDTH.
   Depth and width of properties reserved or laid out for business, commercial
or industrial purposes shall be adequate to provide for the off-street parking
and loading facilities required for the type of use and development
contemplated, as established in the Village Zoning Code.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .260, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.101 LOTS; FRONTAGE ON MAJOR STREETS.
   Where residential lots fronting on major streets or highways are permitted
by the Zoning and Planning Committee, they should be platted with extra depth
to permit generous distances between the buildings and such trafficways. Where
lots front on major streets, the normal building setback line shall be
increased by an additional 20 feet. Business, commercial or industrial
buildings in residential blocks shall be provided with setbacks at least equal
to the setback of the residential properties in that block and shall comply
with all applicable zoning requirements.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .270, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.102 LOTS TO ABUT PUBLIC STREET.
   Every lot shall front on or abut a public street. Lots with access only to
private drives or streets shall be permitted only with the approval of the
Zoning and Planning Committee.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .280, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.103 TOPSOIL.
   Topsoil shall not be removed from the subdivision, but shall be
redistributed so as to provide at least six inches of cover on the lots and
between sidewalks and curbs, and shall be stabilized by seeding or planting.
Any excess topsoil may be removed from the subdivision by the developer.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .290, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.104 DRAINAGE OF LOTS.
   Lots shall be laid out so as to provide positive drainage away from all
buildings, and individual lot drainage shall be coordinated with the general
storm drainage pattern for the area. Drainage shall be designed so as to avoid
concentration of storm drainage water from each lot to adjacent lots.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .300, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.105 CERTAIN LOTS TO BE AVOIDED.
   Lots at right angles to each other shall be avoided wherever possible,
especially in residential areas.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .310, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.106 SIDE LOT LINES.
   Side lot lines shall be approximately at right angles or radial to street
lines.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .320, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.107 CORNER LOTS.
   Corner lots for residential use shall have extra width to permit appropriate
building setback from and orientation to both streets.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .330, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.108 LOT LINES.
   Lot lines shall follow municipal boundary lines whenever practicable, rather
than cross them.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .340, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.109 DOUBLE FRONTAGE AND REVERSED FRONTAGE LOTS.
   Double frontage and reversed frontage lots shall be avoided except where
necessary to provide separation of residential development from traffic
arteries, or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography and orientation.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .350, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.110 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Sidewalks shall be installed on every lot within the village by every
person who erects a building or structure on the lot, unless the Village Board
exempts the person because the facts and circumstances of the situation as
determined by the Village Board do not require the installation of a sidewalk.
   (B)   No building permit as required by the Building Code shall be issued by
any governing official for the construction of any building or structure on any
lot within the village until such time as a satisfactory plan for the
construction of a public sidewalk together with a deposit of cash, or other
security or guaranty in an amount satisfactory to the Zoning Officer shall be
filed with the Village Clerk.
   (C)   Sidewalks shall be located immediately adjacent to the right-of-way
line, except that sidewalks in all subdivisions approved on or after January 1,
1996 shall be located 12 inches from the street right-of-way line. The Village
Zoning Officer shall have the authority to unilaterally grant a variance to the
requirements hereof in order to allow existing and new sidewalks to line up.
All sidewalks shall be constructed in accordance with the following.
      (1)   All sidewalks shall be constructed of Class X Portland cement or
six-bag fiber mesh mix with a 28-day compression strength of 3,500 pounds at a
grade to be designated and approved by the Village Engineer. Minimum slump
shall be three inches, and maximum slump shall be six inches. All concrete
shall be air-entrained. Other admixtures shall be approved by the Village
Engineer. All sidewalks shall be installed consistent with industry standards
and shall be approved by the village prior to acceptance.
      (2)   For residential districts, the minimum width shall be four feet;
minimum thickness shall be four inches over a three-inch granular base.
      (3)   For commercial districts, the minimum width shall be five feet;
minimum thickness shall be five inches over a three inch granular base.
      (4)   All sidewalks which cross anticipated driveways or other designated
areas designed for vehicular travel shall consist of a minimum thickness of an
additional 50% over and above the requirements herein.
   (D)   The deposit of cash or other security required hereby shall be
returned to the party posting the same, upon the completion of the sidewalk in
accordance with the specifications set forth herein.
   (E)   The public sidewalk provided for herein shall be completed within six
months after the building or structure for which the building permit was issued
is completed or occupied. After the expiration of the time limit above, if the
sidewalks are not completed, the village may complete or cause the sidewalk to
be completed and apply the proceeds of the deposit of cash or other security
toward the costs thereof, refunding any excess. In the event that the cost of
installing the sidewalk exceeds the amount of the cash or other security, the
balance shall be satisfied by the person to whom the building permit was issued
within 30 days following written notice.
   (F)   The requirements of this section shall not be applicable to lots that
are located within the M-2 Manufacturing District.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .360, passed 2-15-1999; Ord. 2019-01,
passed 1-7-2019)
§ 154.111 MONUMENTS.
   (A)   The subdivider shall place permanent reference monuments in the
subdivision as required herein and as approved by the Village Engineer.
   (B)   The external boundaries of a subdivision shall be monumented in the
field by monuments of stone or concrete, not less than 30 inches in length, not
less than four inches square or five inches in diameter, and marked on top with
a cross, brass plug, iron rod or other durable material security embedded; or
by iron rods or pipes at least 30 inches long and two inches in diameter. These
monuments shall be placed not more than 1,400 feet apart in any straight line
and all subdivision corners, at each end of all curves, at the point where a
curve changes its radius, at all angle points along the meander line. The
meander points shall be not less than 20 feet back from the bank of any river
or stream, except that when such corners or points fall within a street, or
proposed future street, the monuments shall be placed in the sideline of the
street and so referenced.
   (C)   All internal boundaries and those corners and points not referred to
in division (B) of this section shall be monumented in the field by iron rods
or pipes at least 30 inches long and two inches in diameter. These monuments
shall be placed at all block corners, at each end of all curves, at a point
where a curve changes its radius, and at all angle points in any line.
   (D)   All lot corners shall be monumented in the field by iron pipes at
least 24 inches long and one inch in diameter, or by round or square iron bars
at least 24 inches long.
   (E)   The lines of lots that extend to rivers or streams shall be monumented
in the field by iron pipes at least 30 inches long and one inch in diameter, or
by round or square iron bars at least 30 inches long. These monuments shall be
placed at the point of intersection of the river or stream lot line, with a
meander line established not less than 20 feet back from the bank of the river
or stream.
   (F)   All such monuments shall be set flush with the ground and planted in
such a manner that they will not be removed by frost.
   (G)   All monuments shall be properly set in the ground by a registered
state land surveyor and approved by the Village Engineer prior to the time the
Planning and Zoning Board recommends approval of the final plat.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .370, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.112 WATER MAINS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   No residential, commercial or industrial subdivision, or PUD shall
be approved unless it is served by the village’s water supply system.
      (2)   In the case of any structures, whether residential, commercial or
industrial, constructed prior to the adoption of this chapter and served by a
private well system, the following shall apply:
         (a)   As soon as a village water main is contiguous to and available
to serve a structure or an area on a private well system, the owner must
properly abandon the private well system and connect to the village’s public
water supply system within one year of the availability of the public water
supply system; and
         (b)   All water supply systems which are installed in the public ways
or easements shall be deemed to be dedicated to the village upon acceptance of
the subdivision.
      (3)   Consideration shall be given to water reclamation and reuse in
commercial and industrial tracts for the purpose of conservation and relief of
demands on existing residential supply.
      (4)   Evidence shall be presented by the subdivider that the local
utilities can satisfactorily serve the area by the utility easements shown.
      (5)   There shall be no physical connection between a potable and a non-
potable water supply.
   (B)   Design. Water distribution mains shall be of adequate size and shall
serve the entire development.
      (1)   Design. Water mains shall be designed according to the Standard
Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois or according
to the Recommended Standard for Water Works, adopted by the Great Lakes
Mississippi River Board of State Public Health and Environmental Managers. The
more stringent requirements of either shall apply.
      (2)   Installation.
         (a)   Said mains shall, in general, be installed in the street right-
of-way, but in no case shall mains be installed within 15 feet of a building.
         (b)   All water mains shall be installed with a minimum depth of cover
of four and one-half feet, measured from final grade to the top of the pipe.
         (c)   Mains shall be extended to the property line of the development
along public rights-of-way and at any other location indicated by the Village
Engineer.
         (d)   All excavation, backfilling, restoration of surfaces and all
related work shall be completed in accordance with this chapter.
      (3)   Size. The minimum size shall be six inches, internal diameter, in
residential areas and eight inches, internal diameter, in all other areas.
      (4)   Gridiron or looping of mains.
         (a)   Each six-inch water main shall be looped (except culs-de-sac or
stubbed streets, unless deemed necessary by the Village Engineer) so that runs
between connections to six-inch or larger size mains shall not be greater than
1,200 feet.
         (b)   Each eight-inch water main shall be looped so that runs between
connections to mains eight inches or larger shall not be greater than 1,400
feet in a commercial area or 1,800 feet in residential areas.
         (c)   Each ten-inch water main shall be looped so that runs between
connections to mains ten inches or larger shall not be greater than 2,200 feet.
         (d)   Each 12-inch and larger water main shall be looped so that runs
between connections to mains 12 inches or larger shall not be greater than
3,000 feet.
      (5)   Valves. Valves shall be located on water mains in such a manner to
effectively isolate the sections from the system with minimum disruption.
         (a)   Valves shall be installed so that not over 900 feet of main will
be shut off at any given time.
         (b)   If a tee is installed, two valves shall be used.
         (c)   The design engineer shall, by diagrams and/or written reports,
set forth his or her basis for location of water main valves.
         (d)   No more than 30 single-family dwelling units shall be without
water with the shutting off of any three valve locations.
      (6)   Valve boxes. Valve boxes shall be used on all main valves and
auxiliary valves.
         (a)   Valve boxes shall have a base compatible with the size and type
of valve to be operated and shall extend to finished grade ground level.
         (b)   Valve box covers shall be marked “WATER.”
      (7)   Thrust blocks. Thrust blocks and retainer glands are required at
all valves, hydrants, tees and bends. Retainer glands must be a type of
approved by the Village Water Department.
         (a)   Engineering drawings shall indicate the location of each thrust
block and retainer gland to be installed.
         (b)   Where undisturbed earth is not available or not likely to be
available to back up pressure-type thrust blocks, the Village Engineer shall
specify tie rods with or without anchor-type concrete thrust blocks and
retainer glands.
   (C)   Fire hydrants.
      (1)   Fire hydrants shall match the hydrants generally installed in the
village’s water system and shall be furnished by a manufacturer considered
standard by the village.
      (2)   Each hydrant shall be provided with a six-inch auxiliary gate valve
and a two-foot length of six-inch pipe between the hydrant and valve.
         (a)   Two 3/4-inch threaded steel rods with hex nuts shall be
installed to tie the auxiliary gate valve to the water main and connecting tee.
         (b)   Auxiliary valves shall be provided with valve boxes having
covers marked “WATER.”
         (c)   Location.
            1.   Fire hydrants shall be located no more than 400-foot intervals
or as approved by the Fire Department and Village Board.
            2.   If the location or configuration of a commercial building
requires it, then private fire hydrants shall be installed.
            3.   Locate hydrants for each access by the Fire Department.
   (D)   Water services. The plans, except for residential developments with
individual services for each unit, shall show the calculated static water
pressure at the lowest and highest ground elevations on the site. Calculations
shall be presented showing that the proposed water services are of a large
enough size to supply an adequate flow of water at the outlet of the meter.
   (E)   Materials. Water system materials shall be as follows.
      (1)   Water main shall be either AWWA C-900 PVC, having a minimum DR of
18 or a thickness Class 52, cement-lined ductile iron pipe meeting the
requirements of ANSI A21.60 (AWWA C150). Both types of pipe shall have
mechanical or rubber ring push-on joints.
      (2)   Water main fitting shall be either cement-lined ductile iron or PVC
with joints similar to the pipe joints. Fittings shall be capable of
withstanding the same system pressures as the adjacent pipe.
      (3)   Valves for the mains or for auxiliary fire hydrant valves shall be
mechanical joint or push-on joint cast iron bodied, resilient seat gate valves,
Mueller, Clow or equal, with bronze-mounted, double disc gate and with non-
rising stem and rubber O-ring packing. Each valve shall be furnished with a
cast iron road box with a cover marked “WATER”.
      (4)   Fire hydrants shall be Clow Model F2500 or Mueller Centurion
approved hydrants with either mechanical joints or push-on joints. All hydrants
shall have a ground-level breakaway flange feature and safety stem coupling.
Hydrants shall have six-inch inlet connections, five and one-quarter inch
compression-type main valve openings, two 2-1/2 inch hose connections, and one
4-1/2 inch pump nozzle, all with National Standard Threads.
      (5)   Water service pipe shall be Type K Soft Copper Tubing, with a
minimum size of one inch diameter, or plastic.
      (6)   Corporation cocks shall be Mueller Oriseal or equal, with a minimum
size of one inch.
      (7)   Curb stops shall be Mueller Oriseal or equal, with a minimum size
of one inch. Each stop shall be furnished with a cast iron Buffalo screw-type
box with Minneapolis pattern base and cover marked “WATER.”
      (8)   All materials must be made in the U.S.A.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .380, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.113 SANITARY SEWERS.
   (A)   Subdivision or lot divisions containing no lots less than one acre in
area and located in the unincorporated areas within one and one-half miles of
the corporate limits of the village may be served with individual sewage-
disposal systems, except that individual sewage disposal systems shall be
permitted in subdivisions annexed to the village after the effective date of
this chapter only after the Village Board shall find that connection with a
public or community system is not practicable, or there is an agreement between
the subdivider and the village and a guarantee by the subdivider that all lots
in the subdivision will be served with a public or community sewerage system
within a specified period of time.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided herein, no residential, commercial or
industrial subdivision or development shall be approved unless it is served by
sanitary sewers connected to the village’s sewer system.
   (C)   In the case of any structures, whether residential, commercial or
industrial constructed prior to the adoption of this chapter and served by a
septic system, the following shall apply:
      (1)   As soon as a public sanitary sewer main is contiguous to and
available to service a structure or a septic system, said owner or owners must
properly abandon the septic system and connect to the village’s public sanitary
sewer system within one year; and
      (2)   All sanitary sewers which are installed in the public ways or in
easements shall be deemed to be dedicated to the village upon the acceptance of
the public improvements within the subdivision by the village.
   (D)   Sewer mains shall be of adequate size and shall serve the entire
development.
      (1)   Sewer mains shall be designed according to the latest edition of
the Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois
or according to the State Environmental Protection Agency’s Recommended
Standards for Sewage Works. The more stringent requirements of either shall
apply.
      (2)   Before commencing the sewer layout, the developer shall confer with
the village to determine the required size and grades for any trunk sewers
traversing the subdivision.
      (3)   All sanitary sewers shall be constructed in accordance with the
provisions of the latest edition of the Standard Specifications for Water and
Sewer Main Construction in Illinois, as modified and/or more specifically
defined in these paragraphs and sections. In case of conflict, the provisions
of the following divisions shall apply.
      (4)   All materials shall be made in the U.S.A.
   (E)   Installation.
      (1)   Said mains shall, in general, be installed in the street right-of-
way or in an easement adjacent thereto. In no case shall mains be installed
within ten feet of a building.
      (2)   Sanitary sewers shall be extended to the edge of the development
along public rights-of-way and at other points indicated by the Village
Engineer.
   (F)   The minimum size of mains shall be eight inches, internal diameter.
   (G)   Sanitary sewer service laterals of a minimum of six-inch internal
diameter shall be provided for each lot, parcel or tract prior to the
construction of street pavements. Services shall extend to the property line.
      (1)   Service connection shall consist of a one-eighth sewer pipe bend
set in the bell of the main wye or tee and the necessary lengths of the pipe
with the terminus plugged.
      (2)   Service sewers shall have a minimum cover of 30 inches on private
property and 48 inches in public rights-of-way. In all cases where sewer
services are within ten feet of water mains or water services, the sewer
service must be 18 inches lower than the water line.
      (3)   Two or more structures are not permitted to use a joint building
service sewer.
      (4)   A minimum velocity of two feet per second shall be maintained.
      (5)   A cleanout (inspection port) shall be installed in the sewer
service line, located within the property, one foot from the right-of-way line
and flush with the existing or proposed grade. Materials used for the cleanout
shall be approved by the Water and Sewer Department and Village Engineer before
installation.
   (H)   Alignment shall be straight between manholes and follow the layout of
the streets.
   (I)   Manholes shall be installed not more than 400 feet apart for sewers
less than 18 inches in diameter or less and 500 feet for sewers 18 inches or
more.
      (1)   Manhole diameter. Manhole diameter shall be four feet for sewer
diameter of 21 inches and smaller, and five feet for sewer diameter of 24
inches and larger.
      (2)   Inspection manholes. An inspection manhole having a minimum
diameter of 48 inches is required for all commercial and industrial buildings.
         (a)   The manhole shall be constructed on the building service sewer
before it connects to the sewer main and, preferably, shall not be closer than
five feet from the building.
         (b)   There shall be no flow into the inspection manhole except the
flow from the building for which the inspection manhole is intended.
   (J)   If a lift station is part of the engineering design, it shall be shown
in the plan elevation, and the specifications for such lift station shall be
submitted with engineering plans.
      (1)   Lift stations shall be of the wet well type with submersible pumps
and shall conform in all respect to the standards established by the State
Environmental Protection Agency and the village.
      (2)   A trailer-mounted, engine-driven sewage pump of adequate capacity
shall be given to the village for use during power outages.
      (3)   An alarm shall be installed to the village master panel in the
event of failure at the lift station.
      (4)   Lift stations and force mains are not desirable nor recommended and
shall be used to only after all other means have been exhausted.
   (K)   Sewer pipe and fittings shall be either extra-strength vitrified clay
pipe (ASTM Spec. C700) with flexible compression joints (ASTM Spec. C-425) or
semi-rigid composite pipe (truss pipe) (ASTM Spec. D-2680) with solvent weld or
gasketed joints, or PVC sewer pipe, DR-35, meeting the requirements of ASTM
Spec. D3034 and ASTM Spec. F-679. Joints shall be flexible elastomeric seals
per ASTM Spec. D3212.
   (L)   Manholes shall be pre-cast concrete and in accordance with the
appropriate provisions of Section 32 of the referenced Standard Specifications
for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois. Frames and closed lids in
roadways shall be State Department of Transportation designation “Type 1 Frame
and Closed Lid.”
   (M)   Where sanitary sewer mains of larger capacity than required to serve
only the subdivision as delineated in the preliminary plat as required by the
Village Board to serve future growth in the vicinity of the subdivision, the
subdivider shall pay for only his or her portion (based on ordinance
requirements for his or her subdivision) of the total cost of installation, the
balance to be borne by the village. The village will pay the difference in cost
between the size required for the subdivision and the larger size required by
the Village Board, pursuant to an agreement entered into between the subdivider
and the village.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .390, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.114 STORM SEWERS.
   (A)   General. An adequate system of stormwater drainage shall be
constructed and installed consisting of pipes, tiles, manholes, inlets and
other necessary facilities that will adequately drain the development and
protect roadway pavements and will prevent the accumulation of stormwater at
any place under normal conditions.
      (1)   Any existing drain tiles encountered during construction must be
left undisturbed or shall be attached to the proposed storm drainage system at
locations indicated by the Village Inspector.
      (2)   Drain tile located under roadways shall be replaced with concrete
tile.
   (B)   Design.
      (1)   Layout. Subdivision shall be designed in such a manner as to
preserve and utilize natural streams, channels and detention basins.
      (2)   Stormwater release rate. The allowable release rate of stormwater
for a 100-year storm from developments shall not exceed historic/redevelopment
discharge rates for a ten-year storm or the capacity of the receiving stream or
drainage system, whichever is less.
      (3)   Stormwater storage. Excess runoff from a 100-year/24-hour storm
with an SCS Type II distribution shall be stored on site within approximately
designed detention facilities such that the allowable release rate is not
exceeded and there is no ponding in streets or on buildable lot areas, except
parking lots.
      (4)   Bypass flow. Drainage systems shall have adequate capacity to pass
through the development the runoff from all upstream areas for a ten-year
storm.
      (5)   Backyard swales. Backyard swales are permitted in residential areas
subject to the following regulations.
         (a)   Maximum and minimum slopes and general design criteria of the
Federal Housing Administration’s Minimum Property Requirements shall be
acceptable except as herein modified.
         (b)   No continuous swale shall have a length exceeding 300 feet
before discharging into a storm sewer system.
         (c)   Minimum grade of the flowline shall be 0.5%.
         (d)   A site grading plat showing proposed finished yard elevations
shall be submitted with the final plat and improvement construction drawings.
      (6)   Storm sewer outfalls.  Storm sewer outfalls shall be so designed
such that when the receiving stream or drainage system is at full capacity, the
storm sewer will continue to discharge at its design flow rate.
      (7)   Crown of street pavements. The crown of street pavements hereafter
built adjoining or near streams, floodwater runoff channels or basins shall be
not lower than the established high water elevation plus two feet in the case
of major streets, and plus one foot in the case of other streets.
      (8)   Waterway openings of bridges and culverts.  
         (a)   Waterway openings of bridges and culverts hereafter built over
streams of floodwater runoff channels shall be designed with a waterway opening
large enough to handle the flow from a 100-year frequency storm.
         (b)   Any outfall storm sewer drains into an existing open ditch or
natural water course shall have reinforced concrete headwall and a concrete
apron at least ten feet in radius from the center point of the outfall.
   (C)   Drainage plan.  A comprehensive drainage plan must be submitted to the
Village Engineer which incorporates the aforementioned rules and shall be
accompanied by maps or other descriptive material showing the following:
      (1)   The extent and area of each watershed tributary to the drainage
channels in the subdivision;
      (2)   The street storm sewers and other storm drains to be built, the
basis of their design, the outfall and outlet locations and elevations, the
receiving stream or channel and its high-water elevation, and the functioning
of the drains during high water elevations;
      (3)   Existing streams and floodwater runoff channels to be maintained
and new channels to be constructed, their location, cross-sections and
profiles;
      (4)   Existing culverts and bridges, drainage areas, elevation and
adequacy of waterway openings, new culverts and bridges to be built, their
materials, elevations, waterway openings and basis of design; and
      (5)   Existing detention ponds and basins to be maintained, enlarged or
otherwise altered and new ponds or basins to be built with dams and their
design.
   (D)   Construction requirements for detention basins.
      (1)   Detention basins containing permanent water.
         (a)   Detention basins containing permanent lakes must have a water
area of at least one-half acre and a minimum depth of ten feet over at least
25% of the total area. The remaining lake area must have an average depth of at
least three feet and should have no extensive shallow areas.
         (b)   In excavated lakes, the underwater side slopes in the lakes must
be stable. In the case of valley storage, natural slopes may be considered to
be stable.
         (c)   A safety ledge four to six feet in width is required and must be
installed in all lakes approximately 36 inches below the permanent water level.
            1.   In addition, a ledge 12 to 18 inches above the permanent water
line must be provided.
            2.   The slope between the two ledges must be stable and of a
material which will prevent erosion due to wave action such as stone or riprap.
         (d)   The basin must be designed to provide for the easy removal of
sediment which will accumulate in the lake during periods of reservoir
operations.
         (e)   Dikes shall be a minimum of four feet wide with 3:1 side slopes
or flatter. The top of the dike must be a minimum of one foot above the peak
stage for a 100-year storm. An emergency spillway shall be provided for storm
runoff volume in excess of a 100-year/24-hour storm.
      (2)   Dry detention basins. The dry detention basins must be designed to
serve multi-purposed functions. Recreational facilities, aesthetic qualities
and the like, as well as floodwater storage must be considered in planning the
reservoir.
      (3)   Other detention storage.
         (a)   Underground storage. All or a portion of the detention storage
may be provided in underground or surface detention facilities to include
basins, tanks, swales or oversized storm sewers.
         (b)   Parking lot storage. Paved parking lots may be designed to
provide temporary detention storage of stormwater on all or a portion of their
surfaces.
         (c)   Outlots shall be designed so as to slowly empty the stored
waters, and depths of storage must be limited to a maximum of nine inches.
         (d)   Inlets shall be located in driving aisles whenever possible.
      (4)   Safety features. Design of detention storage facilities shall
incorporate safety features, particularly at outlots, on steep slopes and at
any attractive nuisances to include, as necessary, fencing, hand rails,
lighting, steps, grills, signs and other protective or warning devices to
restrict access during critical periods and to afford some measure of safety to
both authorized and unauthorized persons.
         (a)   Safety screens must be provided for any pipe or opening to
prevent children or large animals from crawling into the structures. A maximum
opening of six inches is required.
         (b)   Danger signs must be mounted at appropriate locations to warn of
deep water, possible flood conditions during storm periods and other dangers
that exist. Fencing may be required if deemed necessary by the Village
Engineer.
         (c)   All slopes and the bottom of dry detention basins are to be
sodded. All other areas are to be seeded.
      (5)   Responsibility of maintenance of detention ponds. The
responsibility for maintenance during construction and thereafter shall be the
responsibility of the developer/owner unless dedicated and accepted by the
village upon completion.
         (a)   Maintenance shall consist of but shall not be limited to the
cleanup of accumulated debris, flotsam or other materials and also the control
of the growth of obnoxious weeds or the creation of conditions which support
the growth of mosquitos or other insects.
         (b)   Maintenance shall also consist of proper repairs to such items
as inlet structures, outlet structures, side slopes or other elements of the
facility.
   (E)   Stormwater storage basins. The village shall maintain a complete
listing of all storage basins for the storage and detention of stormwater in
the village, whether required under this chapter or otherwise, and may require
each basin to be inspected periodically.
      (1)   Such inspection shall be performed at the owner’s expense within 90
days and shall be performed by an engineer registered in this state.
      (2)   A report shall be submitted to the Village Engineer, including
supporting calculations, stipulating the existing capacity of the storage
basins.
      (3)   The Village Engineer may serve notice upon the record owner thereof
to restore, repair or properly maintain any such basin which does not retain
its original storage capacity.
      (4)   In the event such notice has not been complied with on or before 90
days after service thereof (unless such time period shall be extended by the
Mayor and Village Council), the village may perform such restoration, repair or
maintenance work as may be necessary to return such stormwater storage basin to
its original storage capacity; the cost thereof shall be a lien in favor of the
village upon the lots, tracts or parcels benefited by the stormwater storage
basin, and the village may file with the Recorder of Deeds of this county a
notice of lien citing this division (E)(4) describing the necessary work
performed and the reasonable cost thereof to the village. The lien may be
foreclosed pursuant to state law. The owner of the stormwater storage basin may
also be fined as set forth in this chapter.
      (5)   These regulations shall apply to all stormwater storage basins
existing on the date of the adoption of this chapter, as well as all future
stormwater storage basins.
   (F)   Storm sewers. Storm sewers shall be constructed throughout the entire
subdivision to carry off water from all inlets and catch basins and shall be
connected to an adequate outfall.
      (1)   Design.
         (a)   The storm sewer system shall be separate and independent of the
sanitary sewer system.
         (b)   All storm sewers shall be designed by the Rational Method on the
basis of a minimum ten-year storm frequency and shall be sized to adequately
carry all tributary areas. Copies of the design computations, together with a
drawing defining each drainage area, shall be submitted to the Village
Engineer.
      (2)   Velocity. Minimum velocity shall be three feet per second and
maximum velocity shall be ten feet per second for all storm sewer installation.
      (3)   Spacing for surface collectors. Maximum spacing for surface
collectors shall be 400 feet or as directed by the Village Engineer.
      (4)   Inlets. Inlets shall be provided at all low areas and shall be
provided so that surface water is not carried across or around any intersection
of streets.
      (5)   Allowable materials for storm sewers.
         (a)   Pipe materials shall be concrete pipe or reinforced concrete
pipe.
         (b)   Other materials for storm sewer construction may be used in
special cases only upon approval by the Village Engineer.
         (c)   All materials to be made in the U.S.A.
      (6)   Minimum size. The minimum size for all storm sewers shall be 12
inches.
   (G)   Storm sewer structures.
      (1)   Manholes.
         (a)   Location. Manholes are utilized to provide access to continuous
underground storm sewers for the purpose of inspection and cleanout and to
permit a change in direction, grade and size of sewer.
            1.   Typical locations where manholes should be specified are:
               a.   Where two or more storm sewers converge;
               b.   At intermediate points along tangent sections;
               c.   Where pipe size changes;
               d.   Where an abrupt change in alignment occurs; or
               e.   Where an abrupt change of the grade occurs.
            2.   Manholes should not be located in traffic lanes; however, when
it is impossible to avoid locating manholes in a traffic lane, care should be
taken to ensure they are not in the normal vehicle path.
         (b)   Spacing. The spacing of manholes should be in accordance with
the following:
 
Sizes of Pipe (Inches) Maximum Distance (Feet)
12-24                  400
27-54                  600
60-up                  1,000
 
         (c)   Types. A manhole, Type A (Highway Standard 1527) with
appropriate frame and lid should be provided for the following sewer sizes when
the depth exceeds four feet.
            1.   When a sewer pipe diameter is 18 inches or less, a four-foot
diameter manhole should be provided.
            2.   When the sewer pipe diameter is 21 inches to 42 inches,
inclusive, a five-foot diameter manhole should be provided.
            3.   When the sewer pipe diameter is 48 inches or larger, a six-
foot diameter manhole (Standard 2395) or a reinforced concrete pipe tee
(Standard 2263) or a special design manhole should be
provided.
         (d)   Hydraulic losses.  The following criteria should be used to
estimate hydraulic losses in storm sewer manholes.
            1.   Allow a drop of 0.1 foot in a through manhole where there is
no change in the diameter of the sewer pipe.
            2.   Allow a drop of 0.2 foot in the presence of one lateral or
bend.
            3.   Allow a drop of 0.3 foot when two laterals are present.
            4.   In a through manhole where there is a change in the diameter
of the sewer pipe, no loss should be allowed if 0.8 foot depth in each sewer
pipe is attained by lowering the larger pipe.
         (e)   Pipe connections.  The pipe tee and wye connections are
permitted for connecting lateral lines from pavement inlets to main storm sewer
lines provided the following conditions are met.
            1.   Manholes are provided at the required intervals.
            2.   The minimum lateral size is 12 inches or larger.
            3.   Pre-cast connections are required unless designer verifies
that the structural and hydraulic integrity of mainline sewer is not affected
by field connection.
         (f)   Junction chambers. The junction of small sewers is made in
manholes. On occasion, junction chambers of special design are required to
joint two or more converging large size storm sewers. In design, a smooth
transition is essential to prevent turbulence in flow which would cause eddies
and deposition of solids. Normally, junction chambers should not be utilized
when the trunk sewer is less than 42 inches in diameter.
      (2)   Inlets/catch basins.
         (a)   Catch basins are drainage structures utilized to collect surface
water through grate or curb openings and convey it to storm sewers or direct
outlet to culverts and ditches. Grate inlets should be provided with
appropriate frames and grates as provided in Section B of the Highway
Standards. A catch basin Type C should be utilized when the sewer pipe diameter
is 15 inches or less and the depth of pipe is not more than four feet. For
larger diameter pipes or where there is both an incoming and outgoing pipe in
the inlet, a larger diameter inlet structure, such as inlet Type B (Standard
2349) or a three-foot, four-foot and five-foot diameter catch basin or manhole
should be specified. When such a structure is used in a shallow pipe situation,
a pre-cast reinforced concrete flat slab top, shown on Standard 2354, should be
used in lieu of the standard conically tapered top.
         (b)   Catch basins used for the drainage of roadway surfaces shall be
combination catch basins. These catch basins consist of both a curb opening and
a grate inlet acting as a unit.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .400, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.115 SEWER AND WATER MAIN TESTING.
   (A)   Sewers. Testing and inspecting of sanitary sewers for acceptability
shall be conducted by:
      (1)   Air pressure test;
      (2)   Deflection for flexible thermoplastic pipe; and
      (3)   Television (providing video tape to village upon completion),
inspection in accordance with the Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer
Main Construction in Illinois.
   (B)   Water.
      (1)   Hydrostatic test. After the pipe has been laid and partly
backfilled as specified below, all newly laid pipe or any valved sections of it
shall, unless otherwise expressly specified, be subjected to a hydrostatic
pressure of 100 pounds per square inch. Duration of each pressure test shall be
for a period of not less than one hour for pipes with uncovered joints and not
less than 24 hours for pipes which have been backfilled before tests are made.
         (a)   Procedure for test. After all fittings, service connections and
service pipe (to the Buffalo box) is installed, each valved section of pipe
shall be slowly filled with water and the specified test pressure shall be
applied by means of a pump connected to the pipe in a satisfactory manner. The
pump pipe connection and all necessary apparatus including gauges and meters
shall be furnished by the contractor. Before applying the specified test
pressure, all air shall be expelled from the pipe. To accomplish this, taps
shall be made, if necessary, at points of highest elevation and afterwards
tightly plugged. All exposed pipes, fittings, valves, hydrants and joints shall
be carefully examined during the open trench test. All joints showing visible
leaks shall be repaired until tight. Any cracked or defective pipes, fittings,
valves or hydrants discovered in consequence of this pressure test shall be
removed and replaced by the contractor with sound material and the test shall
be repeated until satisfactory to the Village Engineer.
         (b)   Permissible leakage.
            1.   Suitable means shall be provided by the contractor for
determining the quantity of water lost by leakage under the specified test
pressure.
            2.   Allowable leakage shall be not greater than computed by the
following table. (Allowable leakage is shown in gal/hr. 1,000 ft.)
Diameter of Pipe Allowable Leakage Diameter of Pipe Allowable Leakage
Diameter of Pipe Allowable Leakage Diameter of Pipe Allowable Leakage
2 in.            0.30              18 in.           2.70
3 in.            0.45              20 in.           3.00
4 in.            0.60              24 in.           3.60
6 in.            0.90              30 in.           4.50
8 in.            1.20              36 in.           5.40
10 in.           1.50              42 in.           6.31
12 in.           1.80              48 in.           7.21
14 in.           2.10              54 in.           8.10
16 in.           2.40              60 in.           9.00
 
            3.   LEAKAGE is defined as the quantity of water to be supplied in
the newly laid pipe or any valved section of it necessary to maintain the
specified leakage test pressure after the pipe has been filled with water and
air expelled.
            4.   Flanged pipe shall be “bottle tight.”
      (2)   Disinfection of water main.
         (a)   Flushing. Sections of pipe to be disinfected shall first be
flushed to remove any solids or contaminated material that may have become
lodged in the pipe. If no hydrant is installed at the end of the main, then a
tap should be provided large enough to develop a velocity of at least two and
one-half feet per second in the main. One 2-1/2-inch hydrant opening will,
under normal pressures, provide this velocity in pipe sizes up to and including
12-inch. All taps required by the contractor for chlorination or flushing
purposes or for temporary or permanent release of air shall be provided by him
or her as a part of the construction of water mains.
         (b)   Requirement of chlorine. Before being placed into service, all
new mains and repaired portions of or extensions to existing mains shall be
chlorinated so that a chlorine residual of not less than ten parts per million
remains in the water after standing 24 hours in the pipe.
         (c)   Form of applied chlorine. Chlorine shall be applied by one of
the methods which follow subject to approval by the Village Engineer.
            1.   Liquid chlorine. A chlorine gas-water mixture shall be applied
by means of a solution-feed chlorinating device, or the dry gas may be fed
directly through proper devices for regulating the rate of flow and providing
effective diffusion of the gas into the water within the pipe being treated.
Chlorinating devices for feeding solutions of the chlorine gas, or the gas
itself, must provide means for preventing the backflow of water into the
chlorine.
            2.   Chlorine-bearing compounds in water. A mixture of water and
high-test calcium hypochlorite (65–70% Cl) may be substituted for the chlorine
gas water mixture. The dry powder shall first be mixed as a paste and then
thinned to a 1% chlorine solution by adding water to give a total quantity of
seven and one-half gallons of water per pound of dry powder. This solution
shall be injected in one end of the section of main to be disinfected while
filling the main with water in the amounts as shown in the table which follows.
Chlorine Requirements for 100-ft. Lengths of Various Sizes of Pipe
                   Volume of 100 ft. Amount required to Give 25 ppm Cl.
Pipe Size (Inches) Length (Gals.)    100% Chlorine (Lbs.) 1% Chlorine- Water
                                                          Solution (in Gals.)
Chlorine Requirements for 100-ft. Lengths of Various Sizes of Pipe
                   Volume of 100 ft. Amount required to Give 25 ppm Cl.
Pipe Size (Inches) Length (Gals.)    100% Chlorine (Lbs.) 1% Chlorine- Water
                                                          Solution (in Gals.)
4                  265.3             0.0135               1/6
6                  146.5             0.0305               3/8
8                  261.0             0.054                2/3
10                 408.0             0.085                1
12                 588.7             0.120                1-1/2
 
            3.   Joints. During the construction of said water main, the
contractor shall, during the installation, place at each joint, approximately
one teaspoonful of H.T.H. 6% chlorine compound or equal.
         (d)   Point of application. The preferred point of application or the
chlorinating agent is at the beginning of the pipe line extension of any valved
section of it, and through a corporation stop inserted in the pipe. The water
injector for delivering the chlorine-bearing water into the pipe should be
supplied from a tap made on the pressure side of the gate valve controlling the
flow into the pipe line extension. Alternate points of application may be used
when approved or directed by the Village Engineer.
         (e)   Rate of application. Water from the existing distribution
system, or other source of supply as approved by the Village Engineer, shall be
controlled to flow very slowly into the newly laid pipe line during application
of the chlorine. The rate of chlorine mixture flow shall be in such proportion
to the rate of water entering the newly laid pipe that the dosage applied to
the water will be at least 25 parts per million unless otherwise directed by
the Village Engineer.
         (f)   Preventing reverse flow.  Valves shall be manipulated so that
the strong chlorine solution in the line being treated will not flow back into
the line supplying the water. Check valves may be used if desired.
         (g)   Retention period. Treated water shall be retained in the pipe at
least 24 hours. After this period, the chlorine residual at pipe extremities
and at other representative points shall be at least ten parts per million.
         (h)   Chlorinating valves and hydrants. In the process of chlorinating
newly laid pipe, all valves or other appurtenances shall be operated while the
pipe line is filled with chlorinating agent and under normal operating
pressure.
         (i)   Final flushing and testing.  
            1.   Following chlorination, all treated water shall be thoroughly
flushed from the newly laid pipe at its extremity until the replacement water
throughout its length shows, upon test, the absence of chlorine. In the event
chlorine is normally used in the source of supply, then the tests shall show a
residual not in excess of that carried in the system.
            2.   After flushing, water samples collected on two successive days
from the treated piping system, as directed by the Village Engineer, shall show
satisfactory bacteriological results. Bacteriological analysis must be
performed by a laboratory designated and furnished by the owner and approved by
the Director of the State Department of Public Health.
         (j)   Repetition of flushing and testing. Should the initial treatment
result in an unsatisfactory bacterial test, the original chlorination procedure
shall be repeated by the contractor until satisfactory results are obtained.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .410, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.116 AS-BUILT PLANS.
   Upon completion of the installation of improvements in a subdivision, three
sets of plans suitable for use in reproduction, which shows all improvements as
actually installed in the field, shall be filed with the Village Clerk. The
plans shall provide accurate dimensional location for the water and sewer taps
for each lot, together with manholes, shutoff valves and all other similar
facilities.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .420, passed 2-15-1999)
PRELIMINARY PLATS
§ 154.130 REQUIRED; PURPOSE.
   (A)   Every proposed subdivision shall be submitted to the Planning and
Zoning Board for tentative or conditional approval in the form of a preliminary
plat prior to the submission of a final record plat. The preliminary plat is
not intended to be a final record plat and must be prepared in such form as not
to be confused with a final record plat. Its purpose is to show graphically all
facts needed to enable the Planning and Zoning Board and other public bodies to
determine whether the proposed layout of the land in question is satisfactory
from the standpoint of the public interest. The preliminary plat shall be
prepared by a qualified professional, trained and experienced in the layout of
subdivisions.
   (B)   The graphic and descriptive items set forth in §§
154.131 and
154.132 are required to be shown on the preliminary plat and the accompanying
application for approval. The lack of information under any item specified
herein, or improper information supplied by the application, shall be cause for
disapproval of a preliminary plat.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 6, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.131 APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL.
   Written application by the owner, or his or her agent, for approval on forms
furnished by the Planning and Zoning Board shall accompany each preliminary
plat and contain the following information:
   (A)   Name for file identification:
      (1)   Name of subdivision if property is within an existing subdivision;
      (2)   Proposed name if not within a previously platted subdivision. The
proposed name shall not duplicate the name of any plat previously recorded in
the county; and
      (3)   Name of property if no subdivision name has been chosen. (This is
the name by which the property is commonly known locally.)
   (B)   Location and description of property. Location of property by
government lot, section, township, range and county;
   (C)   Basic facts and proposals pertaining to the property:
      (1)   Size of tract in acres or of existing lots, if any, in square feet;
      (2)   Existing zoning classifications of property and any rezoning
proposed to be requested;
      (3)   Number of lots proposed in subdivision;
      (4)   Area of lots proposed, minimum, average and maximum;
      (5)   Proposed type of water and sewer facilities; and
      (6)   Any other proposals, such as parcels of land intended to be
dedicated, conveyed or reserved for public use, and the conditions proposed for
such disposal and use.
   (D)   Information as to ownership, preparation of plat and submission
thereof:
      (1)   Name and address, including telephone number, of the legal owner or
agent of property and citation of last instrument conveying title to each
parcel of property involved in the proposed subdivision, giving grantor,
grantee, date and land records reference;
      (2)   Citation of any existing legal rights-of-way or easements affecting
the property;
      (3)   Existing covenants on the property, if any; and
      (4)   Name and address, including telephone number, of the professional
responsible for the subdivision design shall be shown on the preliminary plat
as submitted, registered professional engineer of this state, responsible for
the design of public improvements, and registered state land surveyor,
responsible for surveys.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 6, subs. .020, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.132 DRAWING SPECIFICATIONS.
   The preliminary plat shall be drawn with waterproof non-fading black ink or
legibly drawn with pencil on tracing cloth or tracing paper of good quality at
a scale of not more than 100 feet to the inch, and shall show correctly on its
face the following information:
   (A)   Date, scale and north point;
   (B)   The proposed subdivision name (must be the same as that specified in
the application);
   (C)   The name and address of the owner, the subdivider and the surveyor
preparing the plat;
   (D)   Location of the subdivision by government lot, quarter section,
section, township, range and county;
   (E)   A vicinity sketch or small-scale drawing of the section or area within
which the subdivision lies, with the location of the subdivision indicated
thereon;
   (F)   The exact length and bearing of the exterior boundaries of the
subdivision. Dimensions shall be expressed in feet and decimals of a foot;
   (G)   Location and names of adjacent subdivisions and the owners of
adjoining parcels of unsubdivided land;
   (H)   Zoning on and adjacent to the subdivision;
   (I)   Location, width and names of all existing and platted streets, alleys
and other public ways and easements, railroad and utility rights-of-way, parks,
cemeteries, watercourses, drainage ditches, permanent buildings, bridges and
other pertinent data as determined by the Planning and Zoning Board;
   (J)   The water elevations of adjoining lakes or streams at the date of the
survey and the approximate high and low water elevations of such lakes or
streams. All elevations shall be referred to the village datum plane;
   (K)   If the subdivision borders a lake, river or stream, the distances and
bearings of a meander line established not less than 20 feet back from the
ordinary high water mark of such waterways;
   (L)   Layout, width and grades of all new streets and rights-of-way,
including alleys, highways, easements for sewers and water mains and other
public utilities;
   (M)   Existing sewers, water mains, culverts and other underground
structures within the tract or immediately adjacent thereto. The location and
size of the nearest water main and sanitary and storm sewers are to be
indicated in a general way upon the preliminary plat;
   (N)   Plans of proposed utility layouts (water, sewers and storm drains)
showing connections to any existing or proposed utility systems;
   (O)   Approximate dimensions and areas of lots;
   (P)   Approximate radii of all curves, length of tangents and central angles
on all streets;
   (Q)   Approximate location and area of all property proposed to be dedicated
or reserved for public use or to be reserved by deed covenant for use of all
property owners in the subdivision, with the conditions, if any, of such
dedication or reservation;
   (R)   Contours at vertical intervals of not more than one foot or at more
frequent intervals if required by the Planning and Zoning Board for land with
unusual topography;
   (S)   Street profile plans for all existing and proposed streets, containing
information specified by the Planning and Zoning Board; and
   (T)   Such other requirements or specifications as the Village Engineer,
Planning and Zoning Board or Village Board may deem necessary or desirable.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 6, subs. .030, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.133 PRELIMINARY PLAT; REVIEW; RECOMMENDATIONS.
   (A)   Planing and Zoning. The preliminary plat shall be reviewed by the
Zoning and Planning Committee to determine its conformity to this chapter and
all other ordinances and regulations in force which affect subdivisions. Copies
of such preliminary plat shall be transmitted to the Mayor and other village
officers as the Planning and Zoning Board shall deem necessary for their
recommendations concerning matters within their jurisdiction. Their
recommendations in respect thereto shall be transmitted to the Planning and
Zoning Board not later than 30 days from the date the plat is filed.
   (B)   County Emergency System (911) Board.  
      (1)   Prior to the approval by the Village Board of any preliminary
subdivision plat or final subdivision plat, any such subdivision plat submitted
for consideration of approval to the Village Board shall first be submitted to
the Chairperson of the County Emergency Telephone System Board, or his or her
named designee, for review of street names, building and lot numbers prior to
final approval by the Village Board.
      (2)   The opinions and recommendation of the County Emergency Telephone
System Board shall be taken into consideration by the village; however, said
opinions and recommendations shall not be binding upon the village.
      (3)   The developer shall be responsible for any costs and expenses
associated with the subdivision plat review process as required by this
division (B), and shall pay the same prior to execution of the certifications
contained on the final subdivision plat.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 6, subs. .040, passed 2-15-1999; Ord. 2004-1,
passed 1-19-2004)
Cross-reference:
   Final plat review, see §
154.153
§ 154.134 PRELIMINARY PLAT; DISPOSITION.
   (A)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall, within 90 days from the date of
application or the filing by the applicant of the last item of required
supporting data, whichever date is later, unless such time is extended by
mutual consent, approve the preliminary plat; approve with conditions of
approval listed; disapprove the plat; or approve it with modifications, noting
thereon any changes that will be required. One copy shall be returned to the
subdivider with the date of the approval or disapproval, and the reasons
therefor accompanying the plat.
   (B)   If the preliminary plat as originally submitted, or as changed or
modified as required by the Planning and Zoning Board, meets the requirements
of this chapter, the Planning and Zoning Board shall give it approval, and a
statement in the following form shall be duly executed by the Chairperson of
the Village Planning and Zoning Board and attested to by the Secretary of the
Village Planning and Zoning Board:
VILLAGE OF MAZON PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD APPROVAL: I,
                         , Chairperson of the Planning and Zoning Board of the
Village of Mazon, County of Grundy, State of Illinois, hereby certify that the
said Commission has duly approved the PRELIMINARY PLAT OF
                               , attached hereto on the
                          day of                          , 20      .
                                   
Chairperson
ATTEST:
                                   
Secretary
The preliminary plat shall then be referred to the Village Board for approval.
If such plat is approved by the Planning and Zoning Board, the Village Board
shall accept or reject the plat within 30 days after its next regularly stated
meeting following the actions of the Planning and Zoning Board. If the
preliminary plat is disapproved, objections to it shall be noted, and it shall
be returned to the Planning and Zoning Board; if it is approved, the President
shall ask the Village Clerk to attach a statement in the following form:
PRESIDENT AND VILLAGE BOARD of the Village of Mazon, County of Grundy, State of
Illinois hereby certify that the said Board has duly approved the PRELIMINARY
PLAT of                         attached hereto on the
                          day of                          , 20     .
                            
President
ATTEST:
                            
Village Clerk
   (C)   The preliminary plat shall then be returned to the subdivider for
compliance with final approval requirements.
   (D)   Approval by the Village Board shall give the applicant the following
rights for a 12-month period from the date of approval.
      (1)   The general terms and conditions under which the approval was
granted will not be changed by the village.
      (2)   The applicant may submit on or before the expiration date the whole
or any logical part of the approved preliminary plat for final approval.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 6, subs. .050, passed 2-15-1999)
FINAL PLATS
§ 154.145 FINAL PLAT; PREPARATION; SUBMISSION.
   Within 12 months after approval of the preliminary plat, the subdivider
shall prepare and submit to the Planning and Zoning Board a final plat
incorporating all required modifications to the preliminary plat, unless such
12-month period is extended by the Planning and Zoning Board.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 7, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.146 MAY CONSTITUTE PORTION OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   A final plat may constitute only a portion of the area contained in an
approved preliminary plat; provided that the public improvements to be
constructed in the area covered by the plat are sufficient by and of themselves
to accomplish a proper development and to provide adequately for the health,
safety and convenience of the proposed residents therein and for adequate
access to contiguous areas.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 7, subs. .020, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.147 APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL.
   Written application by the owner or his or her agent for approval on forms
furnished by the owner or his or her agent for approval on forms furnished by
the Planning and Zoning Board shall accompany each final plat and shall contain
the following information:
   (A)   Name of subdivision (which is subject to approval by the Village Board
and should be cleared with the Planning and Zoning Board prior to submission of
the plat) and description of blocks and lots included on plat;
   (B)   Location of subdivision by government lot, section, township, range
and county;
   (C)   Name, date of approval and file number of the preliminary plat upon
which the final plat is based;
   (D)   Zoning classification of the property;
   (E)   Total number of lots and/or parcels included on the plat;
   (F)   Total area shown on the plat, including streets, and total area
dedicated to public use, if any;
   (G)   Existing or proposed covenants, if any. Reference shall be made to any
private restrictions, and plats shall contain proper acknowledgments of owners
and mortgagees accepting the platting and restrictions;
   (H)   Name and address, including telephone number, of the owner or his or
her agent and the surveyor who prepared the plat;
   (I)   Submission of final engineering plans and specifications for all water
systems, sanitary sewage disposal systems and all storm drainage facilities,
showing connection to any existing or proposed utility system; and
   (J)   Final engineering drawings showing street profile plans for all
existing and proposed streets, containing all information required by the
Village Engineer and the Zoning and Planning Committee.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 7, subs. .030, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.148 DRAWING SPECIFICATIONS.
   The final plat shall be drawn with waterproof non-fading black ink, at a
scale of not more than 100 feet to the inch, on muslin-backed white paper or
four mil transparent Mylar, a form deemed acceptable by the Planning and Zoning
Board. When more than one sheet is used by any plat, each sheet shall be
numbered consecutively and shall contain a notation giving the total number of
sheets in the plat and showing the relation of that sheet to the other sheets,
and each sheet shall bear the name of the subdivision. Each plat shall show
correctly on its face the information set forth in §§
154.149 through
154.151.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 7, subs. .040, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.149 DRAWING; MAP AND ENGINEERING INFORMATION.
   Map and engineering information shall include:
   (A)   Date, scale and north point;
   (B)   The exterior boundaries of the land surveyed and divided;
   (C)   All monuments erected, corners and other points established in the
field in their proper places. The material of which the monuments, corners or
other points are made shall be noted at the representation thereof or by
legend, except that lot corners need not be shown. The legend for metal
monuments shall indicate the kind of metal, the diameter, length and weight per
lineal foot of the monument;
   (D)   The exact length and bearing of the exterior boundaries, the boundary
lines of all blocks, public grounds, streets and alleys, and all lot lines,
except that when the lines in any tier of lots are parallel, it shall be
sufficient to mark the bearings of the outer lines on one tier thereof.
Easements shall be shown by centerline and width when lines are parallel to a
boundary, otherwise boundary bearings and distances shall be shown. Where the
exterior boundary lines show bearings or lengths which vary from those recorded
in abutting plats or certified surveys, there shall be the following note
placed along such lines: “Recorded as (show recorded bearing or length or
both).”;
   (E)   Blocks, if designated, shall be consecutively numbered, or lettered in
alphabetical order, the blocks in numbered additions to the subdivision bearing
the same name shall be numbered or lettered consecutively through the several
additions;
   (F)   All lots in each block shall be consecutively numbered. Outlots shall
be lettered in alphabetical order. If blocks are numbered and lettered, outlots
shall be lettered in alphabetical order within each block;
   (G)   The exact width of all easements, streets and alleys;
   (H)   All lake or stream shore meander lines established by the surveyor in
accordance herewith, the distances and bearings thereof, and the distance
between the point of intersection of such meander lines with lot lines and the
ordinary high water mark;
   (I)   The centerline of all streets;
   (J)   The number of degrees and minutes in all exterior boundary and block
angles. When such angles are between a curve and its tangent, the angle shown
shall be that between the tangent and the main chord of the curve; when between
curves of different radii, the angle between the main chords;
   (K)   When a street is on a circular curve, the main chords of the right-of-
way lines shall be drawn as dotted lines in their proper places; and either on
them, or in an adjoining table, shall be noted their bearings and lengths, the
radius of the circle of which the curve is a part, the central angle subtended
and the tangent bearing at either the point of curve or point of tangency. The
lot lines may be drawn in the same manner or by bearings and distances. When a
circular curve of 30-foot radius or less is used to round off the intersection
between two straight lines, it shall be tangent to both straight lines. It
shall be sufficient to show on the plat the radius of the curve and the tangent
distances from the points of curvature to the point of intersection of the
straight lines;
   (L)   When strict compliance with a provision of this section will entail
undue or unnecessary difficulty or tend to render the plat more difficult to
read, and when the information on the plat is sufficient for the exact
retracement of the measurements and bearings or other unnecessary dimensions,
the Planning and Zoning Board, upon the recommendations of the Village
Engineer, may waive such strict compliance; and
   (M)   Such other requirements or specifications as the Village Engineer,
Planning and Zoning Board or Village Board may deem necessary or desirable.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 7, subs. .050, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.150 DRAWING; NAME, LOCATION AND POSITION.
   The name of the subdivision shall be printed on the plat in prominent
letters, and the following information relating to the position and location of
the subdivision shall be shown thereon:
   (A)   The location of the subdivision by government lot, recorded private
claim, quarter section, section, township, range and county noted immediately
under the name given the subdivision;
   (B)   The exact location of the subdivision, indicated by distances and
bearings with reference to a corner or corners established in the U.S. Public
Land Survey;
   (C)   A small drawing of the section, or governmental subdivision of the
section, in which the subdivision lies with the location of the subdivision
indicated thereon. This drawing shall be oriented on the sheet in the same
direction as the main drawing. The subdivider shall indicate his or her future
intent regarding unsubdivided acreage within his or her control or ownership;
   (D)   Where provision is made for access to any lake or stream, the plat
shall show the area over which access is provided to the lake or stream
together with a small-scale drawing clearly indicating the location of the
subdivision in relation to the lake or stream and the location of the area over
which access is provided;
   (E)   The name of adjoining streets, state highways and subdivisions shown
in their proper location underscored by a dotted line; and
   (F)   Abutting street and state highway lines of aborning plats shown in
their proper location by dotted lines. The width of these streets and highways
shall be given also.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 7, subs. .060, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.151 DRAWING; ROADS AND PUBLIC SPACES.
   (A)   The name of each road or street in the plat shall be printed thereon
in prominent letters.
   (B)   All lands dedicated to public use except roads and streets shall be
clearly marked “Dedicated to the Public.”
   (C)   All roads or streets shown on the plat which are not dedicated to
public use shall be clearly marked “Private Road” or “Private Street” or
“Private Way.”
   (D)   Each lot within the plat must have access to a public or private
street unless otherwise provided by local ordinance.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 7, subs. .070, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.152 DRAWING; SITE CONDITIONS AND TOPOGRAPHY.
   Site conditions and topography shall include the following:
   (A)   All existing buildings;
   (B)   All watercourses, drainage ditches and other existing features
pertinent to proper subdivision; and
   (C)   The water elevations of adjoining lakes, rivers or streams at the date
of the survey and the approximate high and low water elevations of such lakes,
rivers and streams. All elevations shall be referred to the local village datum
plane.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 7, subs. .080, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.153 FINAL PLAT; ACTION BY PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD, COUNTY EMERGENCY
TELEPHONE SYSTEM BOARD AND VILLAGE BOARD.
   (A)   (1)   Upon receipt thereof, the Planning and Zoning Board shall
examine the final plat and all necessary certificates to determine its
conformance to the preliminary plat and the requirements established in this
chapter, and shall within 30 days of its submission, unless the time is
extended by the Village Board, either approve or disapprove the final plat.
      (2)   No certification contained on any final subdivision plat shall be
executed by any officer, agent or employee of the village, and no final
subdivision plat shall be recorded with the County Recorder until such time as
the opinions and recommendations of the County Emergency Telephone System Board
have been received, reviewed and considered by the village.
   (B)   If the Planning and Zoning Board approves the final plat, such
approval and the date thereof shall be noted on the plat over the signature of
both the Chairperson and Secretary of the Commission, and the plat shall be
transmitted to the Village Board for the necessary action on the final approval
of the plat and for approval of all proposed dedications.
   (C)   The Village Board shall approve or disapprove the final plat and
accept or reject the areas preserved for or dedicated to the public within 60
days of its submission to the Planning and Zoning Board unless the subdivider
is notified of objections to the plat or the time is extended by agreement with
the subdivider.
   (D)   After the final plat has been approved by the Village Board, the
Village Clerk shall cause a certified copy of the resolution approving such
plat to be attached to the plat and returned to the subdivider. Copies of the
resolution and plat shall also be transmitted to the Planning and Zoning Board
and Village Engineer, and the Village Clerk shall retain one copy for his or
her file. The Village Clerk shall promptly file a reproducible copy of the
subdivision plat in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of the county.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 7, subs. .090, passed 2-15-1999; Ord. 2004-1,
passed 1-19-2004)
Cross-reference:
   Developer to pay any expenses of county review prior to final plat
certifications, see §
154.133
§ 154.154 FINAL PLAT; REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS AND LETTER OF CREDIT.
   (A)   The subdivider shall install street and utility improvements and other
improvements indicated on the plat as provided in this Village Subdivision
Code. If such improvements are not installed as required at the time the final
plat is submitted for approval, the subdivider shall, before the recording of
his or her plat, enter into a contract with the village in the following form
agreeing to install the required improvements:
In consideration of the Village of Mazon approving the final plat of the
subdivision commonly known as                     , the undersigned agrees to
completely install all street and utility improvements and other improvements
indicated on the subdivision final plat and as provided in the Village
Subdivision Code not later than two construction seasons (April 15 through
October 15), from the date of the Village Board’s approval of the final plat.
   (B)   The subdivider shall file with the above contract a letter of credit,
bond or other security in a form suitable to the Village Board and which also
must meet the approval of the Village Attorney.
   (C)   The letter of credit, bond or other security shall be in an amount
equal to 125% of the estimated cost of all uncompleted improvements prepared by
the developer’s engineer and approved by the Village Engineer. Such letter of
credit, bond or other security shall constitute a guarantee that all
improvements will be completed by the developer. The developer may request a
reduction in the amount of said security upon written request as progress
completion and acceptance of improvements occurs, and may substitute or modify
the original letter of credit, bond or other security to an amount approved by
the Village Engineer, but in no event less than the required maintenance
security to be maintained one year from and after final acceptance of such
improvements by the Village Board as set forth below. Repairs necessitated by
defects in material for workmanship will be made during the period not to
exceed one year from and after final acceptance of such improvements by the
Village Board and the developer shall maintain its letter of credit, bond or
other security for said one-year period in an amount equal to 10% of the
original letter of credit, bond or other security, except that said sum shall
not be less than $10,000 nor more than $50,000.
   (D)   If the improvements are not completed or repairs are not made within
the specified time period, the village may use the letter of credit, bond or
other security or any necessary portion thereof to complete or repair the same,
or may extend the time for completion.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 7, subs. .100, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.155 RECORDING; CERTIFICATES.
   To entitle a final plat to be entered in the proper record books in the
office of the Recorder of Deeds of the county, the certificates set forth in §§
154.157 through
154.162 shall accompany it. These certificates shall be lettered or printed
legibly with black durable ink, or typed.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 7, subs. .110, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.156 RECORDING; ACKNOWLEDGMENT.
   The following shall be submitted with each plat:
   (A)   A correct description of the land or parcel of land to be subdivided;
and
   (B)   A notarized statement to the effect that the subdivision as it appears
on the plat is with the free consent and in accordance with the desire of the
proprietor and his or her spouse, if any, acknowledging the adoption of the
plat and the dedication of streets and other public areas, and granting a
release of mortgage on such areas dedicated for public use.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 7, subs. .120, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.157 CERTIFICATE OF SURVEYOR.
   The final plat shall be accompanied by a certificate in the following form
and duly executed by a registered state land surveyor:
CERTIFICATE OF SURVEYOR:
I,                              , registered Illinois Land Surveyor No.
             , have surveyed and subdivided the following described property:
as shown by the plat which is a correct representation of said survey and
subdivision. The plat represents a survey made by me and that monuments and
markers shown thereon exist as located and that all dimensional and geodetic
details are correct, and that I have complied with all the rules contained
herein governing plats except for:
All distances are shown in feet and decimals thereof.
Also, I do further certify that no part of the property covered by this plat or
subdivision is situated within 500 feet of any surface drain or water course
serving a tributary area of 640 acres or more.
Given under my hand and seal at             , Illinois, this           day of
             , 20    .
                                              
Surveyor
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 7, subs. .130, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.158 COUNTY TREASURER’S CERTIFICATE.
   The final plat shall be accompanied by a certificate in the following form
and duly executed by the County Treasurer:
COUNTY TREASURER’S CERTIFICATE:
I,              , do hereby certify that I am the duly elected qualified and
acting County Treasurer of Grundy County, State of Illinois, that the tax
records of said county show all taxes are paid for the year            and
prior years on the land shown on the annexed plat of                           
Addition in Grundy County, Illinois, and that the required statutory security
has been deposited in the office of the County Treasurer, guaranteeing payment
of the current year’s taxes.
In witness whereof, said County Treasurer has caused the instrument to be
executed at Grundy County, Illinois on this               day of              ,
20      .
                                       
County Treasurer
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 7, subs. .140, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.159 PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD CERTIFICATE.
   The final plat shall contain a statement in the following form duly executed
by the Chairperson of the Planning and Zoning Board and attested to by the
Secretary of the Planning and Zoning Board:
VILLAGE OF MAZON PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD APPROVAL:
I,              , Chairperson of the Planning and Zoning Board of the Village
of Mazon, County of Grundy, State of Illinois, hereby certify that the said
Commission has duly approved the FINAL PLAT of                          
attached hereto on the               day of             , 20      .
                                       
Chairperson
ATTEST:
                                          
Secretary
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 7, subs. .150, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.160 VILLAGE ENGINEER CERTIFICATE.
   The final plat shall contain a statement in the following form duly executed
by the Village Engineer:
VILLAGE ENGINEER APPROVAL:
I,              , Village Engineer of the Village of Mazon, County of Grundy,
State of Illinois, hereby certify that I have approved the final plat of
              on this               day of              , 20     .
                                       
Village Engineer
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 7, subs. .160, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.161 VILLAGE BOARD CERTIFICATE.
   The final plat shall contain a statement in the following form duly executed
by the Mayor and attested to by the Village Clerk:
VILLAGE BOARD CERTIFICATE:
President and Village Board of the Village of Mazon, County of Grundy, State of
Illinois, hereby certify that said Board has duly approved the final plat of
                         on this          day of              , 20      .
                                          
President
ATTEST:
                                          
Village Clerk
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 7, subs. .170, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.162 VILLAGE CLERK’S CERTIFICATE.
   The Clerk’s certificate shall be as follows:
   VILLAGE CLERK’S CERTIFICATE:
STATE OF ILLINOIS )
COUNTY OF GRUNDY ) SS
I,              , Village Clerk of the Village of Mazon, Illinois, hereby
certify that the annexed plat was presented to and by resolution duly approved
by the Village Board of said Village in its meeting held on              ,
20      , and that completion of the improvements required by the regulations
of said Village and that said resolution established the amount of the School
Site Donation Ordinance contribution at $          for lots and              
and $             for lots                           .
In witness whereof I have hereto set my hand and seal of the Village of Mazon,
Illinois this          day of             , 20       .
                                       
Village Clerk
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 7, subs. .180, passed 2-15-1999)
FEES
§ 154.175 CONDITIONS.
   In order to cover the costs of plan examinations, filing, recording and
other expenses incidental to the approval of a subdivision, the subdivider
shall pay a fee at the time of application for approval of a preliminary plat.
Such fee shall be based on the projected number of lots to be created. At the
time of application for approval of the final plat, the required fee will be
recalculated on the basis of the actual number of lots created, and an
adjustment of the fee will be made, the subdivider to pay an additional amount
or to receive a refund. There shall be no refund of any portion of the fees if
the subdivider fails to apply for final approval of the subdivision within the
time limit prescribed by these regulations.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 8, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.176 AMOUNT.
   (A)   The fee shall be as follows:
      (1)   A fee of $2.50 per lot for subdivision containing 50 lots or less
with a minimum fee of $50.00;
      (2)   A fee of $150 plus $1 for each additional lot over 50 in
subdivisions containing more than 50 lots, but not more than 150 lots;
      (3)   A fee of $250 plus $1 for each additional lot over 150 in
subdivisions containing more than 150 lots; and
      (4)   In the event that the plat of subdivision or resubdivision calls
for development of residential property either as two-family or multiple-family
or as business or industrial property, then the fee shall be $2.50 per each
dwelling, business or industrial unit plus $10.00 per acre.
   (B)   All applicants requesting a site plan review, subdivision, planned
unit development, zoning, rezoning, annexation, conditional permitted use,
variance or other zoning relief shall either pay directly to or reimburse the
village for its reasonable fees and costs for engineering, planning, legal or
other professional consultants incurred in connection with preparing, studying,
inspecting, reviewing, examining, checking and processing applicant’s request
and plans.
   (C)   All bills for engineering, planning, legal and other professional
consultants shall be submitted to the Village Clerk prior to the village
submitting invoices to the applicant for prompt payment by the applicant.
   (D)   All village invoices for such services submitted by the village
related to any such application shall be paid promptly by the applicant, but
not later than 30 days, and the obligation to reimburse the village or pay
those providing services directly is binding whether or not the village
approves the applicant’s site plan subdivision, planned unit development,
zoning, rezoning, annexation, conditional permitted use, variance or other
zoning relief.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any other ordinances of the village, no site plan,
subdivision, planned unit development, zoning, rezoning, annexation,
conditional permitted use, variance or other zoning relief shall be deemed to
be approved unless or until the applicant has reimbursed the village or paid to
those directly providing services, all fees and costs incurred for engineering,
planning, legal and other professional consultant fees incurred by the village
in connection with the applicant’s request and plans.
   (F)   At the time an applicant files his or her application for a site plan
review, subdivision, planned unit development, zoning, rezoning, annexation,
conditional permitted use, variance or other zoning relief, the village shall
furnish the applicant with a form which shall read substantially as follows:
APPLICANT:                                 
Date:                                             
The following firm, representative, agent or individual does hereby state that
it has been fully disclosed to said party that in order for the village to
properly review and evaluate requests for site plan review, subdividing,
planned unit developments, zoning, rezoning, annexation, conditional permitted
use, variances or other zoning relief, the village must necessarily utilize and
engage the services of engineering, planning, legal and other professional
consultants. The undersigned hereby agrees to pay to the village, either by
reimbursement or directly to the professionals providing services, the
reasonable costs incurred by the village for such services pertaining to the
request of the undersigned for such site plan review, subdividing, planned unit
development, zoning, rezoning, annexation, conditional permitted use, variance
or other zoning relief. It is further understood and agreed that all invoices
for such services shall be paid promptly when submitted, but not later than 30
days, and that the obligation to reimburse the village or pay the professionals
providing said services directly is binding whether or not a site plan,
subdivision, planned unit development, zoning, rezoning, annexation,
conditional permitted use, variance or other zoning relief is in fact approved.
                         
Applicant
   (G)   The Zoning Board of Appeals or Village Board shall not be required to
take any action on any application submitted until the applicant has signed the
above form and properly filed an original or true and correct copy with the
Village Clerk.
   (H)   At the time an applicant files his or her application for site plan
review, subdivision, planned unit development or annexation, the applicant
shall deposit with the village the sum of $3,000 as a security deposit for the
payment and satisfaction of the costs, engineering, planning, legal and other
professional fees. Said sum shall be returned to the applicant within 60 days
following the complete payment and satisfaction of all sums due herein. In the
event the applicant fails to satisfy the financial obligations herein, the
village may apply all or any portion of said security deposit against said
obligation. The village may maintain an action at law or in equity to enforce
the provisions of this section and the applicant shall be responsible for all
costs and attorney’s fees incurred by the village in the enforcement of the
provisions of this section, whether suit is filed or not. The Building and
Zoning Officer is authorized to issue a stop-work order, if applicable, until
the applicant pays and satisfies its obligations, in full.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 8, subs. .020, passed 2-15-1999; Ord. 2006-1,
passed 1-16-2006)
Cross-reference:
   Similar language, see §
155.640
VARIANCES; EXCEPTIONS
§ 154.190 HARDSHIPS.
   Where the Planning and Zoning Board finds that extraordinary hardships or
particular difficulties regarding the physical development of land may result
from strict compliance with these regulations, it may recommend variations or
exceptions to the regulations so that substantial justice may be done and the
public interest secured; provided that such variation or exception shall not
have the effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of this chapter; and
further provided that the Planning and Zoning Board shall not recommend
variations or exceptions to the regulations of this chapter unless it makes
findings based upon the evidence presented to it in each specific case that:
   (A)   The granting of the variation will not be detrimental to the public
safety, health or welfare or injurious to other property or improvements in the
neighborhood in which the property is located;
   (B)   The conditions upon which the request for a variation is based are
unique to the property for which the variation is sought and are not
applicable, generally, to other property; and
   (C)    Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape or
topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular
hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience,
if the strict letter of the regulations were carried out.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 9, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.191 LARGE-SCALE DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   The standards and requirements of these regulations may be modified in
the case of large-scale developments when the Planning and Zoning Board finds
that a plan and program for a new neighborhood unit provides adequate public
spaces and improvements for the circulation, recreation, light, air and public
utilities service needs of the tract when fully developed and which also
provides such covenants or other legal provisions as will assure conformity and
achievement of the plan.
   (B)   Alternative construction methods, design standards and required
improvements may be approved by the Planning and Zoning Board and Village Board
if such methods, improvements and design features are proven to be comparable
to the requirements of this chapter in every respect. For the purpose of
securing professional advice and additional reaction to such requested
exceptions, the Planning and Zoning Board may forward copies to appropriate
government agencies.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 9, subs. .020, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.192 CONDITIONS.
   In recommending variations and exceptions, the Planning and Zoning Board may
require such conditions as will, in its judgment, secure substantially the
objectives of the standards or requirements of the village subdivision
regulations.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 9, subs. .030, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.193 PROCEDURE.
   A petition for any such variance shall be submitted in writing by the
subdivider at the time the preliminary plat is filed for consideration by the
Planning and Zoning Board. The petition shall state fully the grounds for the
application and all of the facts relied upon by the petitioner.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 9, subs. .040, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.194 RECOMMENDATIONS.
   Such variations and exceptions as may be recommended by the Planning and
Zoning Board shall be forwarded to the Village Board in writing, substantiating
the recommended variations and/or exceptions. The Village Board may approve
such variations or exceptions from the requirements of this chapter in specific
cases as listed on the final plat, which in its opinion do not adversely affect
the Comprehensive Plan for the village or the intent and purpose of this
chapter.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 9, subs. .050, passed 2-15-1999)
AMENDMENTS
§ 154.205 AUTHORITY; PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   For the purpose of promoting the public health, safety and general welfare,
the Village Board may from time to time amend the regulations imposed by this
chapter. The Planning and Zoning Board shall hold a public hearing on proposed
amendments and make recommendations thereon to the Village Board.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 10, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 154.220 ORGANIZATION.
   The offices set forth in §§
154.221 through
154.223 of the government of the village are authorized with the administration
of this chapter.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 11, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.221 VILLAGE BOARD; RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Village Board is vested with the following responsibilities in regard to
subdivision control:
   (A)   Approval or disapproval of all preliminary and final plats referred to
it by the Planning and Zoning Board;
   (B)   Approval or disapproval of all variations and exceptions recommended
by the Planning and Zoning Board;
   (C)   Amendment of the regulations of this chapter when found necessary and
desirable, as hereinafter provided; and
   (D)   Initiation of appropriate proceedings to enforce the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 11, subs. .020, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.222 PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD; DUTIES.
   The Planning and Zoning Board shall administer the provisions of this
chapter, and in furtherance of such authority, shall:
   (A)   Maintain permanent and current records of this chapter, including
amendments thereto;
   (B)   Receive and file all preliminary plats and final plats (together with
applications);
   (C)   Forward copies of the preliminary plat to other appropriate offices
and agencies for their recommendations and report;
   (D)   Forward, with recommendations, to the Village Board all preliminary
plats;
   (E)   Receive and file all final plats, and check their compliance with the
preliminary plat;
   (F)   Forward, with recommendations, to the Village Board all final plats;
and
   (G)   Make all other determinations required by the regulations of this
chapter.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 11, subs. .030, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.223 VILLAGE ENGINEER; DUTIES.
   The Village Engineer shall review all preliminary and final subdivision
plats and make determinations in the areas of design standards and engineering
specifications, as stipulated in this chapter. When necessary, he or she shall
cause copies of the preliminary plat, final plat and/or improvement plans to be
forwarded to appropriate government agencies.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 11, subs. .040, passed 2-15-1999)
APPEALS
§ 154.235 PROCEDURE.
   Any person, firm or corporation aggrieved by an objection to a plat or a
failure to approve a plat may appeal therefrom, within 60 days of notification
of such objection or rejection of the plat, by presenting to a court of record
a petition for a writ of certiorari directed to the Village Board. The court
shall direct that the plat be approved if it finds that the action of the
Village Board is arbitrary, unreasonable or discriminatory.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 12, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.250 ZONING OFFICER; AUTHORITY TO ENFORCE PROVISIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Zoning Officer to enforce this chapter and bring
any violations or lack of compliance herewith to the attention of the Village
Attorney.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 13, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.251 TRANSFER OR SALE OF PROPERTY BEFORE SUBDIVISION APPROVAL UNLAWFUL.
   No owner, or agent of the owner, of any parcel of land located in a proposed
subdivision shall transfer or sell such parcel before a plat of the subdivision
has been approved by the Village Board in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter and filed with the Recorder of Deeds of the county.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 13, subs. .020, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.252 SUBDIVISION BY METES AND BOUNDS FOR PURPOSE OF SALE UNLAWFUL.
   The subdivision of any lot or any parcel of land by the use of metes and
bounds for the purpose of sale, transfer or lease with the intent of evading
this chapter will not be permitted. All such described subdivisions shall be
subject to all of the requirements and regulations contained in this chapter.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 13, subs. .030, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.253 BUILDING OR REPAIR PERMIT; ISSUANCE PROVISION.
   No building or repair permit shall be issued for the construction or repair
of any building or structure located on a lot or plot subdivided or sold in
violation of the regulations of this chapter.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 13, subs. .040, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.254 APPROVAL OF PLAT; COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS REQUIRED.
   No plat of subdivision shall be approved which does not comply with all the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 13, subs. .050, passed 2-15-1999)
DEDICATION OF SCHOOL SITES
§ 154.265 ADOPTION.
   Terms and provisions of §
151.062 of the Building Code, entitled “School Site Land-Cash Donation
Requirement,” are hereby adopted and incorporated as though fully set forth
herein.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 14, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999)
DEDICATION OF PARK SITES
§ 154.280 ADOPTION.
   Terms and provisions of §
151.063 of the Building Code, entitled “Park Site Land-Cash Donation
Requirement,” are hereby adopted and incorporated as though fully set forth
herein.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 15, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who fails to comply with, or violates, any
of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not less than
$50 nor more than $500, and each day the violation continues shall be
considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 1999-2, Subdivisions § 13, subs. .060, passed 2-15-1999)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Title
   
155.002   Purpose
   
155.003   Intent
   
155.004   Interpretation
   
155.005   Zoning Officer
Rules; Definitions
   
155.020   Rules
   
155.021   Construction; definitions
Design Standards
   
155.035   Use limitations; control
   
155.036   Control over bulk
   
155.037   Number of dwellings on a lot
   
155.038   Lot division
   
155.039   Yards; location
   
155.040   Yards; lot line regulations
   
155.041   Yards; use for meeting other lot requirements
   
155.042   Yards; reduction unlawful
   
155.043   Setbacks; minimum distance
   
155.044   Setbacks; designated
   
155.045   Accessory building, structures and uses; establishment; compatibility
with principal use
   
155.046   Accessory buildings, structures and uses; animal regulations
   
155.047   Accessory buildings, structures and uses; erection in required yards
   
155.048   Accessory buildings, structures and uses; detached buildings;
permitted as obstructions
   
155.049   Accessory buildings, structures and uses; detached buildings; height
limitation; distance from principal building
   
155.050   Accessory building, structures and uses; detached dwellings; distance
from principal building
   
155.051   Permitted accessory buildings, structures and uses in required yards
   
155.052   Floor area ratio; application in particular cases
   
155.053   Manufactured housing
   
155.054   Mobile homes, travel trailers and camping trailers
   
155.055   Tents
   
155.056   Boats
   
155.057   Sewerage and water systems; public system required
   
155.058   Sewerage and water systems; individual system; permitted when
   
155.059   Sewerage and water system; individual system, installation standards
   
155.060   Sewerage and water system; individual system; lot size requirements
   
155.061   Floodplain area
   
155.062   Building height
   
155.063   Utility exemptions
   
155.064   Conditional permitted uses
   
155.065   Private swimming pools regulated
   
155.066   Community water supply well; minimum and maximum setback zone; map
Zoning Districts
   
155.080   Establishment
   
155.081   Zoning District Map
   
155.082   District boundaries
   
155.083   Annexed territory
Residence Districts
   
155.095   Applicability of provisions
   
155.096   Nameplates; permitted; regulations
   
155.097   For sale and for rent signs
   
155.098   Identification signs for nonresidential uses
   
155.099   Temporary signs for unified housing developments
   
155.100   Home occupations
R1 Single-Family Detached Residence District
   
155.115   Permitted uses
   
155.116   Conditional permitted uses
   
155.117   Lot area
   
155.118   Lot width
   
155.119   Building height
   
155.120   Ground floor area per dwelling
   
155.121   Floor area ratio
   
155.122   Yards
   
155.123   Off-street parking and loading
R2 Single-Family Detached and Semi-Detached Residence District
   
155.135   Permitted uses
   
155.136   Conditional permitted use
   
155.137   Lot area
   
155.138   Lot width
   
155.139   Building height
   
155.140   Ground floor area per dwelling
   
155.141   Floor area ratio
   
155.142   Yards
   
155.143   Off-street parking and loading
R3 Single-Family Attached and Multiple-Family Residence District
   
155.155   Permitted uses
   
155.156   Conditional permitted uses
   
155.157   Lot area
   
155.158   Lot width
   
155.159   Building height
   
155.160   Ground floor area per dwelling
   
155.161   Floor area ratio
   
155.162   Yards
   
155.163   Spacing between structures
R4 Single-Family Attached and Multiple-Family Residence District
   
155.175   Permitted uses
   
155.176   Conditional permitted uses
   
155.177   Lot area
   
155.178   Lot width
   
155.179   Building height
   
155.180   Ground floor area per dwelling
   
155.181   Floor area ratio
   
155.182   Yards
   
155.183   Spacing between buildings
   
155.184   Off-street parking and loading
R5 Mobile Home Standards
   
155.195   Purpose
   
155.196   Definitions
   
155.197   Minimum site size
   
155.198   Minimum lot size
   
155.199   Height standards
   
155.200   Yard area; mobile home
   
155.201   Yard area; travel trailer
   
155.202   Setback from centerline of street
   
155.203   Percentage of lot coverage
   
155.204   Dwelling standards
   
155.205   Off-street parking facilities
   
155.206   Screen planting; mobile home trailer park subdivision
   
155.207   Screen planting; travel trailer transient park
   
155.208   Tenant storage
   
155.209   Required recreation area
   
155.210   Percentage of lots to be improved prior to use; mobile home trailer
park
   
155.211   Percentage of lots to be improved prior to use; travel trailer
transient park
   
155.212   Permanent facilities to be installed
   
155.213   Streets and driveways
   
155.214   Water supply; general requirements
   
155.215   Water supply; water storage facilities
   
155.216   Water supply; distribution system
   
155.217   Water supply; individual water-riser pipes and connections
   
155.218   Sewage disposal; general requirements
   
155.219   Sewage disposal; sewer lines
   
155.220   Sewerage disposal; individual sewer connections
   
155.221   Sewage disposal; treatment and/or discharge
   
155.222   Electrical distribution system; requirements
   
155.223   Electrical distribution system; power lines
   
155.224   Electrical distribution system; individual connections
   
155.225   Electrical distribution system; required grounding
   
155.226   Service buildings and other community service facilities
   
155.227   Required community sanitary facilities
   
155.228   Structural requirements for buildings
   
155.229   Barbecue pits, fireplaces, stoves and incinerators
   
155.230   Refuse; handling
   
155.231   Refuse; storage
   
155.232   Refuse; collection stands
   
155.233   Refuse; collection
   
155.234   Refuse; disposal
   
155.235   Insect and rodent control; maintenance
   
155.236   Insect and rodent control; parks to be free from debris accumulations
   
155.237   Insect and rodent control; storage area maintenance
   
155.238   Insect and rodent control; required screening
   
155.239   Insect and rodent control; plant growth maintenance
   
155.240   Fuel supply and storage; natural gas
   
155.241   Fuel supply and storage; liquefied petroleum gas
   
155.242   Fuel supply and storage; fuel oils
   
155.243   Fire protection
   
155.244   Park management; operation standards
   
155.245   Park management; notification of occupants of applicable provisions
   
155.246   Park management; supervision of mobile home placement
   
155.247   Park management; register record to be kept
   
155.248   Park management; Board of Health report required
   
155.249   Park management; license; posting; transfer
   
155.250   Park management; School Board report
   
155.251   Park management; compliance with state revenue regulations
   
155.252   Park occupants; responsibilities
   
155.253   Parking areas
   
155.254   Recreation facilities
   
155.255   Community service building
   
155.256   Services and facilities to be provided in travel trailer transient
parks
   
155.257   Mobile home stands
   
155.258   Administration procedures
   
155.259   Commission approval required when
   
155.260   Site development plan; filing
   
155.261   Decisions and appeals
   
155.262   License; required; fees
   
155.263   Inspection of mobile home parks; health authority powers
   
155.264   Design review standards
   
155.265   Performance standards; development
   
155.266   Performance standards; relation to lot
   
155.267   Performance standards; relation of lots to each other
   
155.268   Performance standards; subdivision pattern relation of elements
   
155.269   Site development plan; conditions of approval
Business Districts
   
155.285   Purpose; intent
   
155.286   Dwelling units
   
155.287   Enclosure of operations
   
155.288   Performance standards
   
155.289   Parking limitations
   
155.290   Scope of operations
B1 Business District
   
155.305   Purpose; intent
   
155.306   Permitted uses
   
155.307   Conditional permitted uses
   
155.308   Floor area ratio
   
155.309   Yards
   
155.310   Awnings, marquees and signs; permitted when
   
155.311   Awnings, marquees and signs; red, green and amber illumination
prohibited
   
155.312   Awnings, marquees and signs; gross area specifications
   
155.313   Awnings, marquees and signs; ground signs
   
155.314   Awnings, marquees and signs; projection
   
155.315   Awnings, marquees and signs; advertising sign structures
   
155.316   Awnings, marquees and signs; constant illumination
   
155.317   Awnings, marquees and signs; time and temperature signs
   
155.318   Off-street parking and loading
B2 Central Shopping District
   
155.330   Purpose
   
155.331   Permitted uses
   
155.332   Conditional permitted uses
   
155.333   Building height
   
155.334   Floor area ratio
   
155.335   Yards and other open areas
   
155.336   Awnings, marquees and signs
   
155.337   Off-street parking and loading
B3 Commercial District
   
155.350   Purpose
   
155.351   Permitted uses
   
155.352   Conditional permitted uses
   
155.353   Lot area; lot width
   
155.354   Building height
   
155.355   Floor area ratio
   
155.356   Yards
   
155.357   Awnings, marquees and signs
   
155.358   Advertising or billboard signs
   
155.359   Off-street parking and loading
B4 Commercial-Recreation District
   
155.370   Purpose; intent
   
155.371   Permitted uses
   
155.372   Conditional permitted uses
   
155.373   Lot area
   
155.374   Lot width
   
155.375   Building height
   
155.376   Floor area ratio
   
155.377   Yards
   
155.378   Awnings, marquees and signs
   
155.379   Off-street parking and loading
Manufacturing Districts
   
155.390   Purpose; intent
   
155.391   Prohibited uses
   
155.392   Operations within enclosed buildings
   
155.393   Performance standards; compliance
   
155.394   Performance standards; noise
   
155.395   Performance standards; vibration
   
155.396   Performance standards; smoke and particulate matter
   
155.397   Performance standards; toxic matter; M1 and M2 Manufacturing
Districts
   
155.398   Performance standards; odorous matter
   
155.399   Performance standards; fire and explosion hazards
   
155.400   Performance standards; glare
   
155.401   Performance standards; radiation hazards
M1 Manufacturing District
   
155.415   Permitted uses
   
155.416   Conditional permitted uses
   
155.417   Floor area ratio
   
155.418   Yards
   
155.419   Signs; permitted when
   
155.420   Signs; awning exemptions
   
155.421   Signs; constant illumination
   
155.422   Signs; gross area
   
155.423   Signs; placement; ground signs
   
155.424   Signs; additional ground signs
   
155.425   Off-street parking and loading
  M2 Manufacturing District
   
155.440   Permitted uses
   
155.441   Conditional permitted uses
   
155.442   Floor area ratio
   
155.443   Yards
   
155.444   Signs
   
155.445   Off-street parking and loading
M3 Manufacturing District
   
155.460   Permitted use
   
155.461   Conditional permitted use
   
155.462   Yards
   
155.463   Lot area and lot width
   
155.464   Floor area ratio
   
155.465   Signs
   
155.466   Off-street parking and off-street loading
Off-Street Parking and Off-Street Loading
     
155.480   Scope of regulations; applicability
   
155.481   Permissive parking and loading facilities
   
155.482   Damage or destruction to conforming or nonconforming building
   
155.483   Existing parking facilities
   
155.484   Location of parking spaces
   
155.485   Size of space
   
155.486   Access of parking area
   
155.487   Use of facilities; bus spaces
   
155.488   Computation of fractional space requirements
   
155.489   Parking in yards
   
155.490   Collective provisions
   
155.491   Design and maintenance; open and enclosed spaces
   
155.492   Design and maintenance; surface specifications
   
155.493   Design and maintenance; screening and landscaping
   
155.494   Design and maintenance; lighting
   
155.495   Design and maintenance; repair and service
   
155.496   Control of off-site parking facilities
   
155.497   Employee parking
   
155.498   Required spaces
   
155.499   Required spaces for other uses
   
155.500   Off-street loading; provision
   
155.501   Off-street loading; location
   
155.502   Off-street loading; size of space
   
155.503   Off-street loading; access
   
155.504   Off-street loading; surfacing
   
155.505   Off-street loading; repair and service
   
155.506   Off-street loading; utilization
   
155.507   Off-street loading; space requirements
Nonconforming Buildings, Structures and Uses
   
155.520   Purpose
   
155.521   Authority to continue
   
155.522   Repairs and alterations; permitted when
   
155.523   Additions and enlargements; prohibited; exceptions
   
155.524   Moving building or structure to another location
   
155.525   Restoration of damaged nonconforming buildings or structures
   
155.526   Removal of building or structure
   
155.527   Nonconforming use of conforming buildings or structures
   
155.528   Nonconforming use of land; continuance
   
155.529   Nonconforming use of land; expansion; extension
   
155.530   Nonconforming use of land; discontinuance; renewal
   
155.531   Nonconforming use of land; change to another nonconforming use
   
155.532   Nonconforming use of land; accessory to nonconforming building
Planned Unit Development (PUD)
   
155.545   Purpose; intent
   
155.546   Location
   
155.547   Standards; generally
   
155.548   Site to be under single ownership
   
155.549   Minimum size
   
155.550   Uses of planned unit development
   
155.551   Height of building
   
155.552   Floor area ratio
   
155.553   Density
   
155.554   Setbacks and yards
   
155.555   Parking and loading
   
155.556   Traffic provisions
   
155.557   Public facilities
   
155.558   Common open space
   
155.559   General design
   
155.560   Application procedure
   
155.561   Preliminary plan; application fee
   
155.562   Preliminary plan; public hearing
   
155.563   Preliminary plan; findings of Planning and Zoning Board
   
155.564   Preliminary plan; approval by Village Board
   
155.565   Preliminary plat; findings of Village Board
   
155.566   Preliminary plan; status when approved
   
155.567   Final plan; application for approval
   
155.568   Final plan; Planning and Zoning Board review
   
155.569   Final plan; approval by Village Board
   
155.570   Recording of final plat
   
155.571   Procedure when construction falls behind schedule
   
155.572   Changes in final approved plan during development
   
155.573   Occupancy of planned unit development
   
155.574   Maintenance of common open space
   
155.575   Applications; content
   
155.576   Applications; preliminary plan stage
   
155.577   Applications; final plan stage; detailed when
   
155.578   Applications; final plan stage; common open space documents
   
155.579   Applications; final plan stage; public facilities
   
155.580   Applications; final plan stage; guarantee deposit
   
155.581   Applications; final plan stage; delinquent taxes
   
155.582   Applications; final plan stage; covenants
Conditional Permitted Uses
   
155.595   Purpose
   
155.596   Authority to propose
   
155.597   Processing of application
   
155.598   Decisions; Village Board authority; protest
   
155.599   Buildings with more than two and one-half stories
Variations
   
155.610   Authority; public hearing
   
155.611   Application; who may apply
   
155.612   Application; filing; notice of hearing
   
155.613   Standards; criteria for recommendation
   
155.614   Issuance conditions
Amendments
   
155.625   Permitted when; public hearing
   
155.626   Proposal authority
   
155.627   Processing; application
   
155.628   Decisions
Fees
   
155.640   Fees designated
Appeals
   
155.655   Scope
   
155.656   Application
   
155.657   Stay of proceedings
   
155.658   Hearing
Administration; Enforcement
   
155.670   Organization
   
155.671   Zoning Officer
   
155.672   Planning and Zoning Board; creation
   
155.673   Planning and Zoning Board; membership; term
   
155.674   Planning and Zoning Board; jurisdiction
   
155.675   Planning and Zoning Board; meetings; rules
Adult Businesses
   
155.690   Definitions
   
155.691   Adult businesses enumerated
   
155.692   Limitations on adult businesses
   
155.693   License required
   
155.694   Application; fee
   
155.695   Contents of application for license
   
155.696   Accompaniments to the application
   
155.697   Suspension or revocation of license for adult business
   
155.698   Effective date
Adult-Use Recreational Cannabis
   155.710   Definitions
   155.711   Standards; criteria for recommendation
   155.712   Conditions on approval
   155.713   Adult-use cannabis prohibited uses
   155.714   Co-location of cannabis business establishments
Solar Energy Systems
   155.725   Large solar energy systems
   155.726   Roof mounted solar energy systems
   155.727   Pole mounted solar energy systems
Enforcement
   155.980   Enforcement authority
 
   
155.999   Penalty
Editor’s note:
   Ordinance 1999-2 adopted a comprehensive building, subdivision and zoning
code, split into
Chs. 151,
154 and
155.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, cited and referred to as the Zoning Code.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 1, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.002 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted for the purpose of:
   (A)   Promoting the public health, safety, comfort, morals, convenience and
general welfare;
   (B)   Securing adequate natural light, pure air and safety from fire and
other dangers;
   (C)   Lessening or avoiding the hazards to persons and damage to property
resulting from the accumulation or runoff of storm or floodwaters;
   (D)   Lessening or avoiding congestion in the public streets and highways;
   (E)   Conserving the value of land and buildings throughout the village; and
   (F)   Preserving and enhancing aesthetic values throughout the village.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 1, subs. .020, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.003 INTENT.
   To the ends specified herein, this chapter is intended to accomplish certain
standards and objectives by:
   (A)   Dividing the entire village into districts and regulating therein the
location, construction, reconstruction, alteration and use of buildings,
structures and land, whether for agricultural, residential, business,
commercial, manufacturing or other specified uses;
   (B)   Avoiding or lessening congestion in the public streets by adequate
requirements for off-street parking and loading facilities;
   (C)   Preventing the overcrowding of land by regulating and limiting the
height and bulk of buildings hereafter erected;
   (D)   Establishing, regulating and limiting the building or setback lines
along streets, alleys and property lines;
   (E)   Regulating and limiting the intensity of the use of lot areas, and
regulating and determining the area of open spaces surrounding buildings;
   (F)   Establishing standards to which buildings or structures therein shall
conform;
   (G)   Permitting in each zoning district only those uses, buildings and
structures that are compatible with the character of each district;
   (H)   Preventing additions to, and alterations or remodeling of, existing
buildings or structures in such a way as to avoid the restrictions and
limitations imposed under this chapter;
   (I)   Providing controls governing the continuation of those existing uses,
buildings and structures which are incompatible with the character of the
districts in which they are located;
   (J)   Provide for the gradual elimination of structures and uses which are
incompatible with the character of the districts in which they are located;
   (K)   Defining the powers and duties of the administrative officers and
bodies as provided in this chapter; and
   (L)   Prescribing penalties for the violation of the provisions of this
chapter, or of any amendment thereto.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 1, subs. .030, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.004 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   In the interpretation and application of the provisions of this
chapter, such provisions shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the
promotion and protection of the public health, safety, morals and general
welfare.
   (B)   In addition:
      (1)   Where the conditions imposed by any provision of this chapter upon
the use of land, buildings or structures; height of buildings or structures;
floor area requirements; lot area and width requirements; yard and other open
space requirements; and other provisions of this chapter are either more
restrictive or less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed by any other
provision of this chapter or of any other law, ordinance, resolution, rule or
regulation of any kind, the regulations which are more restrictive or which
impose higher standards or requirements shall govern;
      (2)   This chapter is not intended to abrogate any easement, covenant or
other private agreement; provided that where the regulations of this chapter
are more restrictive or impose higher standards of requirements than such
easements, covenants or other private agreements, the requirements of this
chapter shall govern; and
      (3)   No building, structure or use not lawfully existing at the time of
the adoption of the ordinance codified in this chapter shall become or be made
lawful solely by reason of the adoption of this chapter; and to the extent
that, and in any manner that, the unlawful building, structure or use is in
conflict with the requirements of this chapter, the building, structure or use
remains unlawful under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 1, subs. .040, passed 2-15-1999) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.005 ZONING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Office of Zoning Officer is hereby created to enforce the
provisions hereof.
   (B)   In furtherance of said authority, he or she shall:
      (1)   Examine and approve all applications pertaining to the use of land,
buildings or structures when the application conforms with the provisions of
this chapter;
      (2)   Issue all zoning certificates and maintain records thereof;
      (3)   Issue all occupancy permits and maintain records thereof;
      (4)   Conduct inspections of buildings, structures and uses of land to
determine compliance with the terms of this chapter;
      (5)   Receive, file and forward to the Planning and Zoning Board all
applications for appeals, variations, amendments, conditional permitted uses or
for other matters on which the Planning and Zoning Board is required to pass
under this chapter;
      (6)   Receive, file and forward to the Planning and Zoning Board all
applications for amendments, conditional permitted uses, or for other matters
which under this chapter require referral to the Planning and Zoning Board;
      (7)   Maintain permanent and current records of this chapter, including
but not limited to all maps, amendments, variations, appeals and applications
therefor and records of hearings thereon, and designate on the zoning district
map each amendment thereto;
      (8)   Decide or make recommendations on all other matters under this
chapter upon which the Zoning Officer is required to act;
      (9)   Receive from the Village Clerk all notices of petitions for
appeals, variations, amendments and conditional permitted use permits which
have been referred by the Village Clerk to the Planning and Zoning Board or
other appropriate reviewing body; and
      (10)   Provide and maintain public information facilities relative to all
matters pertaining to this chapter.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 1, subs. .050, passed 2-15-1999)
RULES; DEFINITIONS
§ 155.020 RULES.
   (A)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense, and
the future the present.
   (B)   The singular number shall include the plural number and the plural
number the singular number.
   (C)   “Building” includes the word “structure.”
   (D)   “Shall” is mandatory and not directory.
   (E)   “May” is permissive.
   (F)   Any words not defined as follows shall be construed in their generally
accepted meaning as defined in the most recent publication of Webster’s New
World Dictionary, College Edition.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 2, subs. .020, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.021 CONSTRUCTION; DEFINITIONS.
   In the construction of this chapter, the rules and definitions set forth in
this section shall be observed and applied, except when the context clearly
indicates otherwise. For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   ABUTS, ABUTTING. To have a common property line or district line.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate building or a portion of a principal
building, the use of which is incidental and customary to that of the principal
building, where an ACCESSORY BUILDING complies in all respects with the
requirements of this chapter applicable to the principal building.
   ACCESSORY USE. See Use, accessory, as defined below.
   ADJACENT. Lying near or close to, in the vicinity of.
   ADJOINING. Touching or contiguous, as distinguished from lying near.
   AGRICULTURE. Land, or land, buildings and structures, the principal uses of
which are growing of farm or truck garden crops and one or more of the
following: dairying, pasturage, apiculture, horticulture, floriculture,
viticulture or animal and poultry husbandry, and accessory uses customarily
incidental to agricultural activities, including but not limited to the farm
dwelling, dwellings for tenants and full-time hired farm workers and dwellings
or lodging rooms for seasonal workers.
   AIRPORT. Any area of land or water which is used or intended for the landing
and takeoff of aircraft, together with all structures located thereon.
   ALLEY. A right-of-way which affords a secondary means of vehicular access to
abutting properties.
   ALTERATION. A change in size, shape, character or use of a building or
structure.
   ANIMAL HOSPITAL. A building or portion thereof designed or used for the
care, observation or treatment of domestic animals.
   AUTOMOBILE LAUNDRY. A business establishment containing facilities for
simultaneously washing more than two motor vehicles, using conveyor, drive-
through or methods.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. A building, or portion thereof, or lot used for
offering for sale at retail to the public, fuels, oils and accessories for
motor vehicles, where repair service is incidental, where no storage or parking
space is offered for rent and where no motor vehicles, trailers or boats are
offered for sale or rent. When such dispensing, sale or offering for sale is
incidental to the conduct of a public garage, the premises are classified as a
public garage.
   AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARDS. An area of land where three or more motor
vehicles, or vehicles, machinery or equipment drawn or operated by attaching to
motor vehicles or mechanical unit, not in or being restored to running or
operable condition, or parts thereof, are stored in the open; and any land,
building or structure used for wrecking or storing prior to wrecking of such
motor vehicles, vehicles, machinery or equipment or parts thereof.
   AWNING. A roof-like mechanism, removable or retractable in operation, which
projects from the wall of a building.
   BASEMENT. A story having part but not more than one-half of its floor to
clear ceiling height below grade. When a BASEMENT is used exclusively for
storage purposes, as a garage for use of occupants of the building, or other
facilities common to the operation and maintenance of the entire building, it
shall be counted as a story.
   BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by street, or by a combination of streets and
public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, shorelines of waterways, or
boundary lines of the village.
   BOARDINGHOUSE. A residential building or portion thereof, other than a
motel, apartment hotel or hotel, containing lodging rooms for accommodation of
three but not more than ten persons who are not members of the keeper’s family
and where lodging or meals or both are provided.
   BUILDING. A structure, having a roof and which is permanently affixed to the
land, and built for the enclosure, shelter or protection of persons, animals,
chattels or movable property of any kind. BUILDINGS are separated on all sides
from other structures by yards or by walls in which there are no communicating
doors, windows and other openings. A trailer permanently affixed to the ground
which existed on the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter
shall be considered a BUILDING.
   BUILDING, ACCESSORY. See Accessory building, defined above.
   BUILDING, COMPLETELY ENCLOSED. A building with a permanent roof separated on
all sides from the adjoining open space, or from other buildings or structures,
by exterior or party walls, pierced only by windows, normal entrance and exit
doors.
   BUILDING, DETACHED. A building surrounded by open space on the same lot.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT. The vertical distance from grade to the highest point of
the coping of a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to the mean
height level between eaves and ridge for gable or hip roofs.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. The Building and Zoning Officer of the village, or his
or her duly authorized representative.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A nonaccessory building in which is conducted the
principal use of the lot.
   BULK. The term used to indicate the size and setback of buildings or
structures, and the location of same with respect to one another, and includes
the following:
      (1)   Size and height of buildings;
      (2)   Location of exterior walls;
      (3)   Floor area ratio;
      (4)   Open space allocated to buildings; and
      (5)   Lot area and lot width provided per dwelling unit.
   BUSINESS. An occupation, employment or enterprise which occupies time,
attention, labor and materials; or wherein merchandise is exhibited or sold, or
where services are offered.
   CANDLE POWER. The luminous intensity, as evaluated in effectiveness of
stimulating visual sensation, of any radiation in a given direction. CANDLE
POWER shall be measured by the International Candle which was adopted in 1940
as 1/60 of the brightness of freezing platinum.
   CARGO CONTAINER. A standardized reusable vessel that was:
      (1)   Originally, specifically or formerly designed for or used in the
packing, shipping, movement or transportation of freight, articles, goods or
commodities;
      (2)   Designed for or capable of being moved or moved on a rail car; and/
or
      (3)   Designed for or capable of being mounted on a chassis or bogie for
movement by truck trailer or loaded on a ship, including a semitrailer box.
   CARPORT. A roofed automobile shelter, with two or more open sides.
   CELLAR.  An area having more than one-half its floor to clear ceiling height
below grade and which is not counted as a story.
   CLINIC, MEDICAL OR DENTAL. A building or portion thereof, the principal use
of which is for offices of physicians or dentists or both, for the examination
and treatment of persons on an outpatient basis.
   CLOSED CUP FLASH POINT. The lowest temperature at which a combustible liquid
under prescribed conditions will give off a flammable vapor which will
propagate a flame. The Tag closed cup tester shall be authoritative for liquids
having a flash point below 175ºF. The Pensky-Martens tester shall be
authoritative for liquids having a flash point between 175ºF and 300ºF.
   CLUB OR LODGE, PRIVATE. A nonprofit association whose facilities are
restrictive to persons who are bonafide members and their guests. Food and
alcoholic beverages may be served on its premises, provided they are secondary
and incidental to the principal use.
   COMMON OPEN SPACE. A parcel or parcels of land or an area of water, or a
combination of land and water within the site designated for a planned unit
development, and designed or intended for the use or enjoyment of residents of
the planned unit development. COMMON OPEN SPACE may contain such complimentary
structures and improvements as are necessary and appropriate for the benefit
and enjoyment of residents of the planned unit development.
   CONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. A building or structure which:
      (1)   Complies with all the regulations of this chapter or of any
amendment thereto governing bulk of the district in which the building or
structure is located; and
      (2)   Is designed or intended for a permitted or conditional permitted
use as allowed in the district in which it is located.
   COURT. An open, unoccupied space other than a yard on the same lot with a
building or group of buildings, and which is bounded on two or more sides by
such building or buildings.
   CULTIVATION CENTER. A facility operated by an organization or business that
is registered by the Department of Agriculture to perform necessary activities
to provide only registered dispensing organizations with usable medical
cannabis. CULTIVATION CENTERS as defined herein are strictly prohibited within
any zoning district within the village.
   DECIBEL. A unit of measurement of the intensity or loudness of sound. Sound
level meters employed to measure the intensity of sound are calibrated in
DECIBELS. A DECIBEL is technically defined as 20 times the logarithm to the
base ten of the ratio of the sound pressure in microbars to a reference
pressure of 0.0002 microbar.
   DISPLACEMENT (EARTH). The amplitude or intensity of an earthborne vibration
measured in inches. The displacement or amplitude is one-half the total earth
movement.
   DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment or part thereof in which are
provided facilities where serving or consuming commodities or both are intended
to occur primarily in patrons’ automobiles parked on the premises.
   DWELLING. A building, or portion thereof, designed or used exclusively for
residential purposes, including single-family, two-family and multiple-family
dwellings, but not including mobile homes or other trailers, or lodging rooms
in hotels, motels or lodging houses.
   DWELLING, ATTACHED. A dwelling which is surrounded on all sides by open
space on the same lot.
   DWELLING, DETACHED. A dwelling which is surrounded on all sides by open
space on the same lot.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A dwelling containing three or more dwelling
units.
   DWELLING, SEMI-DETACHED. A dwelling joined to one other dwelling by a party
wall or vertical cavity wall, and above-ground, physically unifying horizontal
structural elements.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A dwelling containing one dwelling unit.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY DETACHED. A dwelling containing two dwelling units
only, one above the other.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms which are arranged, designed or used as
living quarters for one family only. Individual bathrooms and complete single
kitchen facilities, permanently installed to serve the entire family, shall
always be included within each DWELLING UNIT.
   EARTHBORNE VIBRATIONS. A cyclic movement of the earth due to the propagation
of mechanical energy.
   EFFICIENCY UNIT. A dwelling unit consisting of one principal room, exclusive
of bathroom, kitchen, hallway, closets or dining alcove directly off the
principal room.
   ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION CENTER. A terminal at which electric energy is
received from the transmission system and is delivered to the distribution
system only.
   ELECTRIC SUBSTATION.  A terminal at which electric energy is received from
the transmission system and is delivered to other elements of the transmission
system and, generally, to the local distribution system.
   EQUIVALENT OPACITY. The shade on the Ringelmann Chart that most closely
corresponds to the density of smoke, other than black or gray.
   ESTABLISHMENT, BUSINESS. A structure or lot used in whole or in part as a
place of business, the ownership or management of which is separate and
distinct from the ownership or management of any other place of business
located on the same or other lot.
   FALLOUT SHELTER. An accessory building and use which incorporates the
fundamentals for fallout protection, shielding mass, ventilation and space to
live, and which is constructed of such materials, in such a manner, as to
afford to the occupants substantial protection from radioactive fallout.
   FAMILY. One person or two or more persons each related to the other by
blood, marriage or legal adoption, or a group of not more than three persons
not all so related, together with his, her or their domestic servants,
maintaining a common household in a dwelling unit. A FAMILY may include, in
addition thereto, not more than two roomers, boarders or permanent guests,
whether or not gratuitous.
   FENCE. A structure, including gates, or tree or shrub hedge which is a
barrier and used as a boundary or means of protection or confinement.
   FLOOD-CREST ELEVATION. The elevation of the highest flood level that has
been or may be subsequently designated by the Village Engineer. The FLOOD-CREST
ELEVATION designed by the Village Engineer shall be based upon a stormwater
drainage map showing FLOOD-CREST ELEVATIONS at appropriate locations as
approved by the Village Board.
   FLOODPLAIN AREA.
      (1)   The continuous area adjacent to a stream or stream bed, or any
stormwater retention area and its tributaries, whose elevation is equal to or
lower than the flood-crest elevation including also land having an elevation
higher than flood-crest elevation but less than ten acres in area and
surrounded by land in a FLOODPLAIN AREA or an area of such elevation secured by
landfill projecting into a FLOODPLAIN AREA.
      (2)   Any point shall be deemed to be within the FLOODPLAIN AREA if it
falls below the elevation of a high water mark, as the elevation of the mark is
projected in horizontal directions perpendicular to the flow of the stream and
thence to intersections at an equal elevation with the land on either side of
the stream. Any point between the aforedescribed projections of any two high
water marks shall be deemed within the FLOODPLAIN AREA if it sits at an
elevation equal to or lower than similar projections of the interpolated flood-
crest elevations. The interpolated flood-crest elevation is the calculated
elevation of the flood-crest at the centerline of the stream between two known
flood-crests of the nearest upstream and downstream high water marks; and the
difference in elevation between the flood-crest at this location and at either
of the high water mark projections is directly proportional to the difference
in stream centerline distance between the two high water mark projections.
   FLOOR AREA FOR DETERMINING FLOOR AREA RATIO.
      (1)   The sum of the gross horizontal area of the several floors,
including also the basement floor of a building, measured from the exterior
faces of the exterior walls, or from the centerlines of walls separating two
buildings. The floor area shall also include the horizontal areas on each floor
devoted to:
         (a)   Elevator shafts and stairwells;
         (b)   Mechanical equipment, except if located on the roof, when either
open or enclosed, i.e., bulkheads, water tanks and cooling towers;
         (c)   Habitable attic space as permitted by the Building Code of the
village;
         (d)   Interior balconies and mezzanines;
         (e)   Enclosed porches; and
         (f)   Accessory uses.
      (2)   The floor area of structures used for bulk storage of materials,
i.e., grain elevators or petroleum tanks, shall also be included in the floor
area, and such floor area shall be determined on the basis of the height of
such structures with one floor for each ten feet of structure height, and if
such structure measures less than ten feet but not less than five feet over
such floor height intervals, it shall be construed to have an additional floor.
      (3)   The horizontal area in each floor of a building devoted to off-
street parking and off-street loading facilities and the horizontal area of a
cellar floor shall not be included in the floor area.
   FLOOR AREA FOR DETERMINING OFF-STREET PARKING AND OFF-STREET LOADING
REQUIREMENTS. When prescribed as the basis of measurement for off-street
parking spaces and off-street loading spaces for any use, shall be the sum of
the gross horizontal area of the several floors of the building, excluding
areas used for accessory off-street parking facilities and the horizontal areas
of the basement and cellar floors that are devoted exclusively to uses
accessory to the operation of the entire building. All horizontal dimensions
shall be taken from the exterior of the walls.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO. The numerical value obtained by dividing the floor area
within a building or buildings on a lot by the area of such lot. (The floor
area ratio as designated for each district, when multiplied by the lot area in
square feet, shall determine the maximum permissible floor area for the
building or buildings on the lot.)
   FOOT-CANDLE. A unit of illumination, equivalent to the illumination at all
points which are one foot distance from a uniform point source of one candle
power.
   FOOT-LAMBERT. A unit of brightness, usually of a reflecting surface. A
diffusion surface of uniform brightness reflecting or emitting the equivalent
of the light from one candle at one foot distance over one square foot has a
brightness of one FOOT-LAMBERT.
   FREE BURNING. The rate of combustion of a material which burns actively and
easily supports combustion.
   FREQUENCY. The number of oscillations per second in a sound wave and is an
index of the pitch of the resulting sound.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building designed and used for the storage of
motor vehicles owned and used by the occupants of the building to which it is
accessory and in which no occupation or business for profit is carried on. Not
more than one of the motor vehicles may be a commercial vehicle of not more
than one and one-half tons capacity.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. A building or portion thereof other than a private or
storage garage, designed or used for equipping, servicing or repairing of motor
vehicles. Hiring, selling or storing of motor vehicles may be included.
   GARAGE, STORAGE  or  OFF-STREET PARKING. A building or portion thereof
designed or used, or land used, exclusively for storage of motor vehicles, and
which motor fuels and oils are not sold, and motor vehicles are not equipped,
repaired, hired or sold.
   GRADE. The established GRADE of the street or sidewalk. Where no such GRADE
has been established, the GRADE shall be the elevation of the sidewalk at the
property line. Where no sidewalks exist, the GRADE shall be the average
elevation of the street adjacent to the property line; except in cases of
unusual topographic conditions as determined by the Building Inspector, GRADE
shall be the ground adjoining the exterior walls of a building at the base of a
structure.
   GROSS DENSITY. The ratio between total number of dwelling units on a lot and
total lot area in acres.
   GROUND FLOOR AREA. The lot area covered by a principal building, measured at
highest ground grade, adjacent to building, from the exterior faces of the
exterior walls, but excluding open porches or terraces, and garages or
carports.
   GUEST, PERMANENT. A person who occupies or has the right to occupy a lodging
house, rooming house, boardinghouse, hotel, apartment hotel or motel
accommodation as his or her domicile and place of permanent residence.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any gainful and for profit business, occupation or
profession conducted within a dwelling unit by a member of the family residing
in the dwelling unit which is incidental and secondary to the use of the
dwelling unit for dwelling purposes. HOME OCCUPATION does not include
organizations or groups of persons which are not-for-profit or charitable in
nature.
   HOTEL. An establishment containing lodging rooms, for occupancy by transient
guests in contradistinction to a lodging house, boardinghouse or a rooming
house, and which provides customary hotel services such as: maid, telephone and
secretarial, bellboy and desk services; and the use and upkeep of furnishings
and laundering of linens.
   HOTEL, APARTMENT. A hotel in which at least 8% of the hotel accommodations
are occupied by permanent guests.
   IMPACT NOISE. A short duration sound which is incapable of being accurately
measured on a sound level meter.
   IMPULSIVE. Discrete vibration pulsations occurring no more often than one
per second.
   INCOMBUSTIBLE. A material which will not ignite nor actively support
combustion during an exposure for five minutes to a temperature of 1,200ºF.
   INSTITUTION. A building occupied by a not-for-profit corporation wholly for
public or private use.
   INTENSE BURNING.  The rate of combustion described by a material that burns
with a high degree of activity and is consumed rapidly. Examples: sawdust,
magnesium (powder, flaked or strips) and rocket fuels.
   JUNKYARD. A lot, and any accessory building or structure thereon, which is
used primarily for buying, selling, exchanging, storing, baling, packing,
disassembling or handling waste or scrap materials, including vehicles,
machinery and equipment not in operable condition or parts thereof, and other
metals, paper, rags, rubber tires and bottles. A JUNKYARD includes automobile
wrecking yards but does not include an establishment, located in the applicable
manufacturing district, engaged exclusively in processing of scrap iron or
other metals to be steel or metal alloys.
   KENNEL. Any premises or portion thereof on which more than three dogs, cats
or other household domestic animals over one year of age are kept, or on which
more than two such animals are maintained, boarded, bred or cared for, in
return for remuneration, or are kept for the purpose of sale.
   LABORATORY. See Research laboratory.
   LAMBERT. Means 1/929 of a foot-lambert, usually used to designate intrinsic
brightness of light sources.
   LANDING STRIP, PRIVATE. A strip of land used or intended for use for the
landing and takeoff of the private aircraft of the owner or lessee of the
landing strip and his or her guests and such accessory structures customarily
incidental to the operations which may include one building for the storage and
maintenance of not more than two such private aircraft.
   LANDOWNER. The legal or beneficial owner or owners of all the land proposed
to be included in a planned unit development. The holder of an option or
contract to purchase, a lessee having a remaining term of not less than 40
years, or other persons having an enforcement proprietary interest in such land
shall be deemed to be a LANDOWNER for the purposes of this chapter.
   LAUNDERETTE. A business (including a laundromat) that provides coin-operated
self-service type washing, drying, dry-cleaning and ironing facilities,
providing that:
      (1)   Not more than four persons, including owners, are employed on the
premises; and
      (2)   No pickup or delivery service is maintained.
   LOADING SPACE.  A space within the principal building or on the same lot as
the principal building, providing for the standing, loading or unloading of one
truck, and with access to a street or alley.
   LODGING HOUSE. A building originally designed for and used as a single- or
two-family dwelling, all or a portion of which contains lodging rooms which
accommodate persons who are not members of the keeper’s family. Lodging, meals
or both are provided for compensation for three but not more than ten persons.
   LODGING ROOM. A room or suite of rooms rented as sleeping and living
quarters, but without cooking facilities and with or without an individual
bathroom. In a suite of rooms, each room which provides sleeping accommodations
shall be counted as one LODGING ROOM for the purpose of this chapter.
   LOT. A tract of land which is designated by its owner or developer as a
tract to be used, developed or built upon as a unit, under unified ownership or
control. Therefore, a  LOT may or may not coincide with a lot of record.
   LOT AREA. The area of horizontal plane bounded by lot lines.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot of which at least two adjacent sides abut for their full
length upon streets; provided that the interior angle at the intersection of
such two sides is less than 135 degrees.
   LOT COVERAGE. The area of a lot occupied by the principal and accessory
structures.
   LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and the
rear lot line of a lot measured within the lot boundaries.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot that is not a corner lot.
   LOT LINE. The property line bounding a lot.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The boundary of a lot abutting a street. On a corner lot,
either lot line may be construed to be the FRONT LOT LINE.
   LOT LINE, INTERIOR. A lot line which does not abut a street.
   LOT LINE, REAR. An interior lot line which is most distant from and is
almost parallel to the front lot line, and in the case of an irregularly or
triangularly shaped lot, a line ten feet in length within the lot, which is
parallel to and at maximum distance from the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any boundary or a lot which is not a front lot line or a
rear lot line.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot having a pair of opposite lot lines along two more or
less parallel streets, and which is not a corner lot. Both street lines shall
be deemed front lot lines.
   LOT WIDTH. The minimum horizontal distance between the side lot lines of a
lot measured at the narrowest width within the 30 feet of depth immediately in
back of the front yard line.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING. Any residential structure, excluding mobile homes,
which is constructed (in excess of 25%) at a location other than its final
building site.
   MANUFACTURING ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment, the principal use of which is
manufacturing, fabricating, processing, assembly, repairing, storing, cleaning,
servicing or testing of materials, goods or products.
   MARQUEE or CANOPY. A roof-like structure of a permanent nature which
projects from the wall of a building.
   MEDICAL CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION or DISPENSARY ORGANIZATION. A
facility operated by an organization or business that is registered by the
Department of Financial and Professional Regulations to acquire medical
cannabis from a registered cultivation center for the purpose of dispensing
cannabis, paraphernalia, or related supplies and educational materials to
registered qualifying patients under the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis
Program Act, as may be amended from time to time.
   MICRON. A unit of length, equal to one-thousandth part of one millimeter,
0.001 millimeter.
   MOBILE HOME. A trailer designed and constructed for dwelling purposes which
contains cooking, sanitary and electrical facilities and has a gross floor area
of 240 square feet or more.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A lot, parcel or tract of land developed with facilities
for accommodating two or more mobile homes, provided each mobile home contains
a kitchen, flush toilet and shower or bath; and such park shall be for use only
by nontransient dwellers remaining continuously for more than one month,
whether or not a charge is made. It shall not include a sales lot in which
automobiles or unoccupied mobile homes or other trailers are parked for the
purpose of inspection or sale, except mobile homes located on a site in the
MOBILE HOME PARK which are occupied or vacant for not more than 90 days after
occupancy may be sold or offered for sale.
   MODERATE BURNING. A rate of combustion described by a material which
supports combustion and it consumed slowly as it burns. Examples: wood timber
and logs.
   MOTEL. An establishment consisting of a group of attached or detached
lodging rooms with bathrooms, and where more than 50% of the lodging grooms are
occupied or designed for occupancy by transient automobile tourists. A MOTEL
furnishes customary hotel services such as maid service and laundering of
linen, telephone, secretarial and desk service, and the use and upkeep of
furniture. One dwelling unit may be included for occupancy by the owner or
manager of the MOTEL.
   MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL. A building or area in which freight brought by motor
truck is assembled or stored for routing in intrastate or interstate shipment
by motor truck.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A passenger vehicle, truck, truck trailer, trailer or
semitrailer propelled or drawn by mechanical power.
   NAMEPLATE. A sign indicating the name and address of a building, or the name
of an occupant thereof, and the practice of a permitted occupation therein.
   NO-ACCESS STRIP. A strip of land within and along a rear lot line of a
through lot adjoining a street which is designated on a recorded subdivision
plat or property deed as land over which motor vehicular travel shall not be
permitted.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. Any building or structure lawfully
established which:
      (1)   Does not comply with all the regulations of this chapter or of any
amendments hereto governing bulk of the district in which such building or
structure is located; or
      (2)   Is designed or intended for a nonconforming use.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any building or structure and the use thereof or the use
of land that does not conform with the regulations of this chapter or any
amendment thereto governing use in the district in which it is located, but
conformed with all of the codes, ordinances and other legal requirements
applicable at the time such building, or structure was erected, enlarged or
altered and the use thereof or the use of land was established.
   NOXIOUS MATTER OR MATERIAL. A material which is capable of causing injury to
living organisms by chemical reaction, or is capable of causing detrimental
effects to the physical or economic well-being of individuals.
   NURSERY SCHOOL. An establishment for the part-time care of five or more
children of pre-elementary school age in addition to the members of the family
residing therein.
   NURSING HOME. A home for aged, chronically ill or incurable persons, in
which three or more persons not members of the family residing on the premises
are received, and provided with food, shelter and care, but not including
hospitals, clinics or similar institutions devoted primarily to the diagnosis
and treatment of disease or injury, maternity cases or mental illness.
   OCTAVE BAND. A prescribed interval of sound frequencies which classifies
sound according to its pitch.
   OCTAVE BAND FILTER. An electronic frequency analyzer designed according to
standards of the American Standards Association and used in conjunction with a
sound level meter to take measurements of sound pressure level in specific
octave bands.
   ODOR THRESHOLD. The lowest concentration of odorous matter in air that will
produce an olfactory response in a human being. ODOR THRESHOLDS shall be
determined in accordance with ASTM Method D 1391-57, Standard Method for
Measurement of Odor in Atmospheres (Dilution Method).
   ODOROUS MATTER. Any material that produces an olfactory response among human
beings.
   OFF-STREET PARKING AREA OR LOT. Land which is improved and used, or a
structure which is designed and used, exclusively for the storage of passenger
motor vehicles, either for accessory off-street parking spaces or commercial
off-street parking spaces when permitted in this chapter by district
regulations.
   OPEN SALES LOT. Land used or occupied for the purpose of buying, selling or
renting merchandise stored or displayed out of doors prior to sale. Such
merchandise includes automobiles, trucks, motor scooters, motorcycles, boats or
similar commodities.
   PARKING SPACE. An area, enclosed in a building or unenclosed, reserved for
the parking of one motor vehicle and which is accessible to and from a street
or alley.
   PARTICULATE MATTER. A material other than water which is suspended in or
discharged into the atmosphere in a finely divided form as a liquid or solid at
outdoor ambient conditions.
   PARTY WALL. An interior wall of adjoining structures extending from its
footing to the underside of the roof, and which separates and is in common use
by such adjoining structures.
   PERFORMANCE STANDARD. A criterion established to control smoke and
particulate matter, noise, odorous matter, toxic matter, vibration, fire and
explosion hazards, glare and radiation hazards generated by or inherent in uses
of land or buildings.
   PLAN. A proposal for development of a planned unit development, including
plat of subdivision, all covenants, grants of easement and other conditions
relating to the use, location and bulk of buildings, density of development,
common open space and public facilities. The PLAN shall include such
information as required by this code.
   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT. A parcel or tract of land, initially under single
ownership or control, which contains two or more principal buildings and one or
more principal uses, planned and constructed as a unified development, and
where certain regulations of this chapter for the district where it is located
are modified.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.  An area of land, controlled by a landowner, to be
developed as a single entity for a number of residential units and/or
nonresidential uses, the plan for which does not correspond in lot size, bulk
type of building or structure, residential density, lot coverage, required open
space or required parking to the regulations in any one zoning district
established by any subchapters of this Zoning Code.
   PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD. The Planning and Zoning Board or other body
authorized to consider matters relative to planning, zoning and subdivision
platting, and make recommendations to the Village Board.
   PRE-1960 OCTAVE BANDS. The frequency intervals prescribed by the American
Standards Association in ASA Standards A24, 10-1963, Octave Band Filter Set.
   PREFERRED FREQUENCIES. A set of octave bands described by the band center
frequency and standardized by the American Standards Association ASA Standard
No. Sl.6-1960, Preferred Frequencies for Acoustical Measurements.
   PRIVATE SWIMMING POOLS. A receptacle for water, or an artificial pool of
water, having a depth of any point or more than 36 inches, intended for the
purpose of immersion or partial immersion therein of human beings, and
including all appurtenant equipment, constructed, installed and maintained in
or above the ground outside of a building used for a single-family dwelling
unit, and maintained by an individual primarily for the sole use of the
household and guests and not for the purpose or profit or in connection of a
business operated for profit.
   PUBLIC OPEN SPACE. Any publicly owned open area, including but not limited
to the following: parks, playgrounds, forest preserves, waterways, parkways and
streets.
   PYROPHORIC DUST. A dust in a finely divided state that is spontaneously
combustible in air.
   RADIATION HAZARDS. The deleterious and harmful effects of all ionizing
radiation which includes all radiation capable of producing ions in their
passage through matter. Such radiations shall include but are not limited to
electromagnetic radiations such as x-rays and gamma rays and particulate
radiations such as electrons or beta particles, protons, neutrons and alpha
particles.
   RAILROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land containing railroad tracks and
auxiliary facilities for track operation, but not including freight depots or
stations, loading platforms, train sheds, warehouses, car or locomotive shops
or car yards.
   REFUSE. All waste products resulting from human habitation, except sewage.
   RESEARCH LABORATORY. A building or group of buildings in which are located
facilities for scientific research, investigation, testing or experimentation,
but not facilities for the manufacture or sale of products, except as
incidental to the main purpose of the laboratory.
   RESERVOIR PARKING SPACES.  Those off-street parking spaces allocated for
temporary standing of automobiles awaiting entrance to a particular
establishment.
   RINGELMANN CHART. The chart described in the U.S. Bureau of Mines
Information Circular 6888, upon which are illustrated graduated shades of gray
for use in estimating the light obscuring capacity of smoke density.
   RINGELMANN NUMBER. The number of the area of the Ringelmann Chart that
coincides most nearly with the visual density or equivalent opacity of the
emission or smoke observed.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street which is used or intended to be used for
the travel of motor vehicles.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between a street line and nearest
wall of a building, or side of a structure facing such street line, or edge of
the area of operation of a principal use when no building or structure is
involved.
   SETBACK, ESTABLISHED. When any lots of fronting on one side of a street
within a block are improved, the existing setbacks of such improved lot shall
be the ESTABLISHED SETBACK for determining the depth of the required front
yards for the remainder of the lots along such a street frontage, as regulated
in this chapter.
   SIGN. A name, identification, description, illustration, display or device
which is affixed to, painted or represented upon a building, structure or
device which attracts attention to a product, place, activity, person,
institution or business. A SIGN shall not include a display of a court, public
or official notice, nor shall it include the flag, emblem or insignia of a
nation, political unit, school, religious or charitable institution or
organization. A SIGN shall also include a permanent sign located within an
enclosed building in such a manner as to be viewed or intended for view
primarily from the exterior of the building.
   SIGN, ADVERTISING  or  BILLBOARD.  A sign on which is portrayed information
which directs attention to a business, commodity, service or entertainment or
other activity not necessarily related to uses on the lot upon which the sign
is located.
   SIGN, BUSINESS. A sign which directs attention to a business, commodity,
service, entertainment or other activity conducted on the lot upon which such
sign is located.
   SIGN, FLASHING. An illuminated sign on which the artificial light is not
maintained constant or stationary in intensity or color at all times when such
sign is in use. For the purpose of this chapter, a revolving sign, or any
advertising device which attracts attention by moving parts, operated by
mechanical equipment or movement caused by natural sources, whether or not
illuminated with artificial lighting, shall be considered a FLASHING SIGN.
   SIGN, GROSS SURFACE AREA OF. The entire area within a single continuous
perimeter enclosing the extreme limits of a sign.
   SIGN, GROUND. A sign which is supported by one or more uprights or braces in
or upon the ground.
   SIGN, PROJECTING. A sign which is supported by one or more uprights or
braces in or upon the ground.
   SIGN, ROOF. A sign erected, constructed and maintained above the roof of any
building.
   SIGN, WALL. A sign which is affixed to an exterior wall of any building and
shall project not more than 12 inches from the building wall or parts thereof.
   SMOKE. The visible discharge from a chimney, stack, vent, exhaust or
combustion process which is made up of particulate matter.
   SMOKE UNIT. The number obtained when the smoke density in the Ringelmann
Number is multiplied by the time of emission in minutes. For the purpose of
this calculation:
      (1)   A Ringelmann density reading shall be made at least once a minute
during the period of observation;
      (2)   Each reading is then multiplied by the time in minutes during which
it is observed; and
      (3)   The various products are then added together to give the total
number of smoke units observed during the entire observation period.
   SOUND LEVEL. The intensity of sound of an operation or use as measured in
decibels.
   SOUND LEVEL METER. An instrument for the measurement of sound pressure
levels constructed in accordance with the standards of the American Standards
Association and calibrated in decibels.
   STABLE, PRIVATE. A building or structure which is located on a lot on which
a dwelling is located, and which is designed, arranged, used or intended to be
used for housing horses for the private use of occupants of the dwelling, but
in no event for hire.
   STABLE, PUBLIC. A building where horses are kept for remuneration, hire or
sale.
   STAND, ROADSIDE. A structure for the display and sale of only farm products
which are produced on the premises.
   STORY. The portion of a building, other than a cellar, included between the
surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it or, if there is
no floor above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above
it. The floor of a  STORY may have split levels; provided that there are not
more than four feet difference in elevation between the different levels of the
floor. A basement shall be counted as a STORY , except when used for storage,
garages for use of occupants of a building or other facilities common for the
rest of the building. A mezzanine floor shall be counted as a STORY when it
covers over one-third the area of the floor next below it, or if the vertical
distance from the floor next below it to the floor next above it is 24 feet or
more.
   STORY, HALF.  A partial story under a gable, hip, mansard or gambrel roof,
the wall plates of which on at least two opposite exterior walls are not more
than three feet above the floor of such story, except that any partial story
used for residence purposes, other than a janitor or caretaker or his or her
family or by a family occupying the floor immediately below it, shall be deemed
a full story.
   STREET. A public or private right-of-way or easement which is designated as
a permanent right-of-way or easement for common use as the primary means of
vehicular access to properties abutting on it.
   STREET, FRONTAGE. All of the property fronting on one side of a street
between two intersecting streets, or in the case of a dead-end street, all of
the property along one side of the street between an intersecting street and
the end of such dead-end street.
   STREET LINE. The street right-of-way line abutting a property line of a lot.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change in the supporting members of a building or
structure such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders, or any substantial
change in the roof or in the exterior walls, excepting such repair or
replacement as may be required for the safety of the building or structure.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires more
or less permanent location on the ground or attached to something having a
permanent location on the ground, including but without limiting the generality
of the foregoing, advertising signs, backstops for tennis courts and pergolas.
   TAVERN. A business establishment where liquors are sold to be consumed on
the premises, but not including restaurants where the principal business is the
serving of food.
   THREE COMPONENT MEASURING SYSTEM. Instruments which measure simultaneously
earthborne vibrations in horizontal and vertical planes.
   TOURIST HOME. A building which contains a single dwelling unit and in which
meals or lodging or both are provided or offered to transient guests for
compensation and does not include a hotel, apartment hotel or motel.
   TOURIST PARK. A parcel or tract of land containing a single dwelling unit
and in which meals or lodging or both are provided or offered to transient
guests for compensation and does not include a hotel, apartment hotel or motel.
   TOXIC MATTER OR MATERIAL. Those materials which are capable of causing
injury to living organisms by chemical means.
   TRAILER. Any vehicle or portable structure constructed so as to permit
occupancy thereof for lodging or dwelling purposes or for the use as an
accessory building or structure in the conduct of business, trade or
occupation, and which may be used as a conveyance on streets and highways by
its own or other motive power. However, any TRAILER existing on the effective
date on the ordinance codified in this chapter which was permanently affixed or
the ground shall be considered a building.
   TRAILER, CAMPING. A trailer designed and constructed for temporary dwelling
purposes which does not contain certain built-in sanitary facilities and has a
gross floor area of less than 130 square feet.
   TRAILER, TRAVEL. A trailer designed and constructed to be used as a
temporary dwelling for travel, recreational and vacation purposes which may
contain cooking, sanitary and electrical facilities, and has a gross floor area
of 130 square feet or more, but less than 240 square feet.
   USABLE OPEN SPACE. Permanently reserved open space which is provided as
required by this chapter for the use of residents of dwellings.
   USE. The purpose or activity for which the land, or building thereon, is
designed, arranged or intended or for which it is occupied or maintained and
includes any manner of performance of such activity with respect to the
performance standards of this chapter.
   USE, ACCESSORY. One which is incidental to the dominant use of the premises.
   USE, CONDITIONAL PERMITTED. A use that has unusual operation, physical or
other characteristics that may be different from those of the predominant
permitted uses in a district, but which is a use that complements and is
otherwise, or can be made, compatible with the intended overall development
within a district. Compliance with special standards not necessarily applicable
to other permitted use conditional permitted uses in the district shall be
required for a  CONDITIONAL PERMITTED USE , as regulated in this chapter.
   USE, LAWFUL. The use of any building, structure or land that conforms with
all of the regulations of this chapter or any amendment hereto and which
conforms with all of the codes, ordinances and other legal requirements, as
existing at the time of the enactment of the ordinance codified in this chapter
or any amendment of the ordinance codified in this chapter or any amendment
thereto, for the structure or land that is being examined.
   USE, NONCONFORMING.  See Nonconforming use, above.
   USE, PERMITTED. Any use which is or may be lawfully established in a
particular district or districts, provided it conforms with all requirements,
regulations, and when applicable, performance standards of this chapter for the
district in which such use is located.
   USE, PRINCIPAL. The dominant use of land or buildings as distinguished from
a subordinate or accessory use.
   VENDING MACHINE. A machine for dispensing merchandise or services designed
to be operated by the customer.
   VIBRATION. The periodic displacement, measured in inches, of earth at
designated frequency cycles per second.
   VILLAGE. Village, city and all similar terms, means the Village of Mazon.
   VILLAGE BOARD. The Village Board (governing body) of the village.
   VILLAGE CLERK. The Village Clerk of Mazon, Illinois.
   VILLAGE ENGINEER. A professional engineer, registered in this state, who has
been duly appointed as the Village Engineer, or who has been hired by the
village as its consulting engineer.
   YARD. An open area on a lot which is unobstructed from its lowest level to
the sky, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard which is bounded by the side lot lines, and from the
front lot line to the front building line.
   YARD LINE. A line in a lot that is parallel to the lot line along which the
applicable yard extends and which is not nearer to such lot line at any point
than the required depth or width of the applicable yard. A building, structure
or other obstruction shall not encroach into the area between the YARD LINE and
such adjacent lot line, except for such permitted obstructions in yards as are
set forth in this chapter.
   YARD, REAR. A yard which is bounded by side lot lines, rear lot line and the
rear building line.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard which is bounded by the rear yard line, front yard line,
side lot line and side building line.
   YARD, SIDE ADJOINING A STREET. A yard which is bounded by the rear yard
line, front yard line, side yard line and side lot line adjoining a street
line.
   YARD INTERIOR SIDE. A side yard which adjoins another lot or an alley
separating such side yard from another lot.
   ZONING DISTRICT MAP. The zoning district map of the village.
   ZONING DISTRICTS. The districts into which the village has been divided for
zoning regulations and requirements as set forth on the zoning district map.
   ZONING OFFICER. The Zoning Officer of the village. It shall include the
title ZONING OFFICER.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 2, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999; Ord. 2003-5, passed 5-
19-2003; Ord. 2003-9, passed 9-15-2003; Ord. 2020-06, passed 9-21-2020)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 155.035 USE LIMITATIONS; CONTROL.
   (A)   The uses of land and the erection, alteration and use of buildings or
structures shall be limited to:
      (1)   Uses lawfully established and existing on the effective date of the
ordinance codified in this chapter; except, uses lawfully established and
existing on the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter and
rendered nonconforming by the provisions herein shall be subject to the
regulations of §
155.520; and
      (2)    Uses permitted or conditionally permitted in the zoning district
in which the land, building or structure is to be located.
   (B)   Where a use which is classified as a conditional permitted use by this
chapter exists on the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter,
it shall be considered to be a lawful conditional permitted use.
   (C)   Where the construction of a building or structure has begun prior to
the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter, and is being
prosecuted to completion, such building or structure may be completed and
occupied.
   (D)   Where plans for the construction of a building or structure have been
filed with the Village Clerk within ten days after the effective date of the
ordinance codified in this chapter, the building or structure may be
constructed and completed within one year of the filing date.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.036 CONTROL OVER BULK.
   (A)   New buildings or structures shall conform with the bulk regulations
established by this chapter for the district in which each such building or
structure is located. Existing buildings or structures shall not be enlarged,
reconstructed, structurally altered, converted or relocated in such a manner as
to conflict or to increase any existing conflict with the bulk regulations of
this chapter for the district in which such structures are located, except as
specifically allowed in the manufacturing districts.
   (B)   However, a lot of record at the time of the adoption of the ordinance
codified in this chapter in a residence district which is unable to meet the
requirements of this chapter as to area (either in width or depth) may be used
for a single-family detached dwelling, provided it shall meet all the other
requirements of this chapter and applicable village ordinances, regulations and
meet all the other requirements of this chapter and applicable village
ordinances, regulations and codes. The Zoning Officer may, when requested by
the owner of a lot of record, approve in specified cases a reduction in the
yard requirement for a rear yard, side yard or side yard adjoining a street,
but such side yard shall have a width of not less than 10% of the width of the
lot, or ten feet, whichever is greater. A lot of record existing on the
effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter, referred to above,
shall be as follows:
      (1)   In residence districts, a lot, parcel or tract of land which was
recorded in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of the county prior to the
effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter; and
      (2)   In residence districts, a lot in a subdivision which was so
recorded after the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter,
provided a preliminary plat for such subdivision had been given tentative
approval, as required by the subdivision regulations chapter of this code prior
to the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter, and a final
plat had been submitted and approved by the Village Board and thereafter
recorded in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of the county within the time
periods required by such subdivision regulations for filing and application for
final plat approval and for recording after approval.
   (C)   The Zoning Officer shall issue a zoning certificate for erecting a
single-family detached dwelling on a lot of record upon compliance with all of
the foregoing provisions.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .020, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.037 NUMBER OF DWELLINGS ON A LOT.
   In any residence district, every single-family detached dwelling erected or
structurally altered after the effective date of the ordinance codified in this
chapter shall be located on a lot, and there shall be not more than one such
dwelling on a lot.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .030, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.038 LOT DIVISION.
   No lot containing a structure or use shall after the effective date of the
ordinance codified in this chapter be divided in order to secure one or more
additional lots for transfer of ownership and establishment of a principal use
thereon, unless each lot, including also the lot containing the structure or
use, resulting from such division, has the minimum lot area and lot width as
required in this chapter for the district in which the lot is located.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .040, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.039 YARDS; LOCATION.
   Yards and other open spaces as required by this chapter shall be located on
the same lot as the principal building, structure or use.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .050, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.040 YARDS; LOT LINE REGULATIONS.
   On through lots, the front lot line shall be along the street line
designated by the Zoning Officer, except that when a front line has been
established along the same street line, the street line designated as the front
lot line for such lot or lots shall be the front lot line on all vacant through
lots in such block. Only those obstructions permitted in this chapter in front
yards shall be located in that part of a rear yard adjoining a street that is
equivalent in depth to a required front yard, except where a no-access strip
has been provided for such lots on the recorded plat.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .060, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.041 YARDS; USE FOR MEETING OTHER LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   No legally required yards, open space or lot area for any use or structure
shall be used to satisfy yard, open space or lot area requirements for any
other structure or use.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .070, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.042 YARDS; REDUCTION UNLAWFUL.
   No yards allocated to a building, structure or use existing on the effective
date of the ordinance codified in this chapter shall be subsequently reduced or
further reduced below the yard requirements of this chapter, except a yard
adjoining a street may be reduced in depth in the event and to the extent the
right-of-way width of such street adjoining such yard is subsequently
increased.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .080, passed 2-15-1999) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.043 SETBACKS; MINIMUM DISTANCE.
   Minimum setbacks on lots abutting a street shall be the distance required
for a front yard, or side yard adjoining a street, in the district in which
they are located and shall be measured from the street line, or from the
proposed street line if one has been designated on the official map, except as
otherwise set forth herein.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .090, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.044 SETBACKS; DESIGNATED.
   When lots fronting one side of a street within a block have established
building setbacks of a depth other than required in this chapter for a front
yard in the district in which the lot is located and where the contiguous
street is not designated on the official map for right-of-way widening, the
setback for each remaining lot along such street frontage shall be as follows:
   (A)   Interior lots. The depth of the setback on any lot shall be the
average of the setbacks already established on the two lots located on each
side of such lot, and if no setback is established on one of the adjacent lots,
the required front yard depth for that lot shall be used in calculating the
average setback of the two adjacent lots; and
   (B)   Corner lots. The depth of the setback lines shall be as required in
this chapter for front yards or side yards adjoining streets in the districts
where the lots are located.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .100, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.045 ACCESSORY BUILDING, STRUCTURES AND USES; ESTABLISHMENT; COMPATIBILITY
WITH PRINCIPAL USE.
   Accessory buildings, structures and uses shall be compatible with the
principal use and shall not be established prior to the establishment of the
principal use.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .110, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.046 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES; ANIMAL REGULATIONS.
   Accessory uses shall not include the keeping, propagation or culture of
cattle, horses, ponies, swine, sheep, goats, bees or other nonhousehold animals
pursuant to Ordinance 1993-8, the provisions of which are incorporated herein,
except on such lots where the pursuit of agriculture is a permitted principal
or accessory use.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .120, passed 2-15-1999; Ord. 2021-05, passed 9-
13-2021)
§ 155.047 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES; ERECTION IN REQUIRED YARDS.
   Accessory buildings, structures and uses shall not be erected or altered in
required yards, courts or other open areas, except those that are permitted in
this chapter as obstructions in yards, courts or other open areas.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .130, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.048 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES; DETACHED BUILDINGS;
PERMITTED AS OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Except as otherwise required in this chapter for a specific accessory use,
detached accessory buildings, as permitted in this chapter as obstructions in
required rear yards, shall:
   (A)   Be not more than one story or 15 feet in height, whichever is lower;
   (B)   Cover not more than 30% of the area of the rear yard; and
   (C)   Be located not less than ten feet from a rear lot line, and not less
than three feet from the side lot line, except:
      (1)   On corner lots, not nearer to the side street lot line than the
distance required for a side yard adjoining a street, or in the case of a
reverse corner lot, not nearer to the side street lot line than the distance
required for a front yard on such lot adjoining the rear lot line; or
      (2)   On through lots that do not have a rear lot line adjoining a no-
access strip, not nearer to the rear lot line adjoining a street than the
distance required for a front yard.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .140, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.049 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES; DETACHED BUILDINGS; HEIGHT
LIMITATION; DISTANCE FROM PRINCIPAL BUILDING.
   Except as hereinafter provided for an accessory building containing a
dwelling unit or lodging rooms for domestic employees of the occupants of the
principal dwelling, no detached building accessory to a single-family detached
dwelling hereafter erected or altered at any location on a lot shall be more
than one story or 15 feet in height, whichever is lower, nor shall it be nearer
than ten feet from the principal building on the lot.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .150, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.050 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES; DETACHED DWELLINGS;
DISTANCE FROM PRINCIPAL BUILDING.
   Accessory single-family detached dwellings or detached buildings containing
dwelling units or lodging rooms for domestic employees of the occupants of
principal single-family detached dwellings, or for students, faculty and
personnel authorized to live on the premises of institutional or other
nonresidential uses shall not be located in a yard or other open area required
for the principal building, and shall be located not less than 40 feet from the
principal building, except:
   (A)   On a lot one acre or more in area, such an accessory building when
designed as a part of an architectural entrance feature may be located in a
required front yard or side yard adjoining a street; and
   (B)   When located in back of a principal building, the rear yard of the
principal building shall be measured from the rear yard line to the nearest
building wall of such accessory building.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .160, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.051 PERMITTED ACCESSORY BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES IN REQUIRED YARDS.
   The following accessory buildings, structures and uses are permitted and may
be obstructions in yards and courts as follows.
   (A)   Awnings or canopies projecting not more than three feet into a
required yard or court are permitted in front yard and side yards adjoining
streets, interior side yards, rear yards and open courts.
   (B)   Arbors or trellises; where trellises are attached to the principal
building, they may also project into front yards, and side yards are permitted
in rear yards and open courts.
   (C)   Air conditioning equipment shelters are permitted in interior side
yards, rear yards and open courts.
   (D)   Architectural entrance structures on a lot not less than two acres in
area are permitted in front yards and side yards adjoining streets, interior
side yards and rear yards.
   (E)   Balconies are permitted in rear yards and open courts.
   (F)   Bay windows projecting not more than three feet into a yard are
permitted in front yard and side yards adjoining streets, rear yards and open
courts.
   (G)   Boat storage, one boat owned by the occupant of the dwelling is
permitted in rear yards.
   (H)   Chimneys, attached, projecting not more than 24 inches into a yard are
permitted in front yards and side yards adjoining streets, interior side yards,
rear yards and open courts.
   (I)   Driveways necessary for access to and from a garage or off-street
parking area are permitted in front yard and side yards adjoining streets,
interior side yards and rear yards.
   (J)   Eaves and gutters on principal buildings or attached accessory
buildings projecting not more than four feet into a front and rear yard and not
more than 24 inches into a side yard or court are permitted in front yards and
side yards adjoining streets, interior side yards, rear yards and open courts.
   (K)   Fallout shelters, attached or detached, are permitted in rear yards.
   (L)   Fences, see §§
151.095 through
151.107 of the Building Code.
   (M)   Fire escapes, open or enclosed, or fire towers may project into a
required front yard or side yard adjoining a street not more than five feet and
into a required interior side yard or court not more than three and one-half
feet are permitted in front yard and side yards adjoining streets, interior
side yards, rear yards and open courts.
   (N)   Flagpoles are permitted in front yards and side yards adjoining
streets, interior side yards, rear yards and open courts.
   (O)   Garages or carports, attached or detached, are permitted in side yards
and rear yards.
   (P)   Growing of farm and garden crops in the open are permitted in interior
side yards and rear yards.
   (Q)   Lawn furniture, such as benches, sundials and birdbaths are permitted
in front yards and side yards adjoining streets, interior side yards, rear
yards and open courts.
   (R)   Open off-street loading spaces are permitted in rear yards.
   (S)   Open off-street parking spaces; in all business districts, open off-
street parking spaces may be in a required front yard or side yard adjoining a
street as hereinafter regulated are permitted in interior side yards, rear
yards and open courts.
   (T)   Ornamental light standards are permitted in front yard and side yards
adjoining streets, interior side yards, rear yards and open courts.
   (U)   Playground and laundry drying equipment are permitted in side yards,
rear yards and open courts.
   (V)   Playhouses and open-sided summer houses are permitted in side yards
and rear yards.
   (W)   Sheds and storage buildings for garden equipment and household items
as accessory to dwellings and buildings and structures customarily incidental
to the pursuit of agriculture are permitted in side yards and rear yards.
   (X)   Signs and nameplates are permitted in front yard and side yards
adjoining streets, interior side yards, rear yards and open courts.
   (Y)   Sills, belt courses, cornices and ornamental features of the principal
building, projecting not more than 18 inches, are permitted in front yards and
side yards adjoining streets, interior side yards, rear yards and open courts.
   (Z)   Steps, open, necessary for access to and from the dwelling or an
accessory building; steps, as access to the lot from the street, and in gardens
or terraces, provided there are no more than eight steps for access to and from
a principal or accessory building, are permitted in front yard and side yards
adjoining streets, interior side yards, rear yards and open courts.
   (AA)   Swimming pools, private, when conforming also with other codes or
ordinances of the village are permitted in side yards and rear yards, unless
the side yard adjoins a public right-of-way. In that event, the swimming pool
must not be located any closer than ten feet from any such public right-of-way.
   (BB)   Terraces and patios are permitted in interior side yards and rear
yards.
   (CC)   Outdoor fireplaces are permitted in rear yards. Tennis courts,
private are permitted in rear yards.
   (DD)   Trees, shrubs and flowers are permitted in front yard and side yards
adjoining streets, interior side yards, rear yards and open courts.
   (EE)   Walkways necessary for access to and from the dwelling or an
accessory building are permitted in front yard and side yards adjoining
streets, interior side yards, rear yards and open court.
   (FF)   Other accessory buildings, structures and uses as herein permitted in
district regulations as accessory to a specific permitted use.
   (GG)   On corner lots within that part of a yard, court, or other open area
located within a radius of 25 feet from the point of intersection of the two
street right-of-way lines forming the lot corner, no building, structures, or
shrubs as herein permitted as obstructions in front yards or side yards
adjoining a street shall be erected, altered or planted which have a height
more than 30 inches above the ground grade in this area, and trees planted in
such areas shall be maintained in a manner that trees shall not have branches
lower than eight feet above the ground grade elevation in this area.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .170, passed 2-15-1999; Ord. 2000-6, passed 6-
5-2000)
§ 155.052 FLOOR AREA RATIO; APPLICATION IN PARTICULAR CASES.
   Where a building, lawfully existing at the date of adoption of the ordinance
codified in this chapter exceeds the permitted maximum floor area ratio, an
addition to such existing building to be constructed on an adjoining lot shall
be entitled to the minimum floor area ratio permitted in the district in which
it is located.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .180, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.053 MANUFACTURED HOUSING.
   (A)   Manufactured housing erected within the corporate limits of the
village shall consist of the following minimum requirements.
      (1)   All exterior walls shall be constructed with two by four studs, 16-
inch on center. All door and window headers must be a minimum of double two by
six studs;
      (2)   All plumbing shall be in compliance with the State Plumbing Code,
as may be amended from time to time;
      (3)   The electric service, including electrical wiring, fixtures or
other electrical hardware shall be in compliance with the International
Building Code 2003, as may be amended from time to time. Minimum of 100 amp
electric service with all copper wiring;
      (4)   All manufactured housing shall be secured upon a brick, block or
concrete foundation;
      (5)   No manufactured housing shall have an exterior surface consisting
of aluminum sheathing, metal sheathing, sheet metal or other similar material;
      (6)   No manufactured housing shall have a flat roof on any part of the
structure; and
      (7)   All manufactured housing shall have a minimum width of 24 feet and
a minimum square footage of 750 square feet.
   (B)   All manufactured housing shall be subject to conveyances of real
property by deed.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .190, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.054 MOBILE HOMES, TRAVEL TRAILERS AND CAMPING TRAILERS.
   (A)   Trailers shall not be permanently affixed to the ground as a principal
or accessory use on a lot in any district.
   (B)   Mobile homes, travel trailers or camping trailers shall not be
occupied for dwelling purposes except in lawfully established mobile home parks
or tourist camps. Mobile homes, travel trailers and camping trailers shall not
be parked or stored on any lot other than in a lawfully established mobile home
park, tourist camp or trailer sales or manufacturing establishment; except, in
a residence district, one travel trailer or camping trailer may be parked or
stored in a side yard or rear yard.
   (C)   Temporary parking and use of trailers shall be permitted in any
district for a temporary office or storage uses and in a residence district for
temporary living quarters when a permit has been issued by the Zoning Officer.
The Zoning Officer shall issue such permit for a period of one year, and may
renew said permit for one additional year. Such permit shall not be renewable
again, except during a period of actual construction wherein the use of the
trailer is incidental to the construction. All permits issued under this
section shall be for trailers located on the same or contiguous lots as the
construction or building development.
   (D)   The Village Board may cause to be issued a permit for a trailer for
use as a temporary dwelling for a custodian or guard in any village park or
recreation area within the village wherein it is deemed necessary or desirable
by the Village Board that such custodian or guard live on the premises.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .200, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.055 TENTS.
   Tents shall not be erected, used or maintained on any lot, except such small
tents as are customarily used for recreation purposes and located on the same
lot as a dwelling. Temporary use of tents for religious, amusement and
recreation, business or manufacturing purposes shall be permitted.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .210, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.056 BOATS.
   In a residence district, one boat owned by the occupant of the dwelling may
be stored or parked in the side yard or rear yard of a lot, provided no major
repair, disassembly or rebuilding operations are conducted thereon.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .220, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.057 SEWERAGE AND WATER SYSTEMS; PUBLIC SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   Each use established after the effective date of the ordinance codified in
this chapter which requires sewerage and water facilities shall be served by
public or community sewerage and water systems, except as provided below.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .230, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.058 SEWERAGE AND WATER SYSTEMS; INDIVIDUAL SYSTEM; PERMITTED WHEN.
   Lots in areas that are not served with public sewerage or water systems may
be served with individual sewage disposal systems or private wells, provided
the Village Board finds, after receiving the recommendation of the Planning and
Zoning Board, or Engineer, that it is impracticable to extend public or
community sewer or water lines to serve the area, and there is an irrevocable
commitment by the owner of the lot that connections shall be made to a public
or community sewerage or water system not less than six months after such
system has been installed or extended to serve the lot.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .240, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.059 SEWERAGE AND WATER SYSTEM; INDIVIDUAL SYSTEM; INSTALLATION STANDARDS.
   Installation of individual sewage disposal systems and private wells or
community sewerage and water systems shall be in accordance with standards and
specifications set forth in applicable laws of the village, county, state and
Environmental Protection Agency.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .250, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.060 SEWERAGE AND WATER SYSTEM; INDIVIDUAL SYSTEM; LOT SIZE REQUIREMENTS.
   A lot that was not a lot of record on the effective date of the ordinance
codified in this chapter which is to be used for a single-family detached
dwelling served with an individual sewerage disposal system shall have an area
of not less than one acre and a width of not less than 150 feet or a greater
area or width if required to conform with regulations contained above.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .260, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.061 FLOODPLAIN AREA.
   The ground floor, including also a cellar or crawl space floor, of any
building erected after the effective date of the ordinance codified in this
chapter, structurally altered, enlarged or moved to a floodplain area shall
have an elevation that is equal to or above flood-crest level, or the distance
above flood-crest level that may be required by the Zoning Officer for specific
locations.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .270, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.062 BUILDING HEIGHT.
   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or
structurally altered to exceed the height limit herein established for the
district in which the building is located, except that penthouses or roof
structures for the housing of elevators, stairways, tanks, ventilating fans or
similar equipment required to operate and maintain the building and fire or
parapet walls, skylights, towers, steeples, flagpoles, chimneys, smokestacks,
radio and television aerials, wireless masts, water tanks, silos, storage
hoppers, elevators or similar structures may be erected above the height limits
herein prescribed; except, on land bordering, adjacent to or in the vicinity of
an airport, no building or structure shall be erected, converted, enlarged,
reconstructed or structurally altered to exceed the height limits for the area
in which it is located which now are or shall hereafter be established under
the Airport Approach Plan prepared by the state, or the maximum height limit
herein required for the district, whichever is the lower height. A copy of the
Airport Approach Plan shall be maintained in the office of the Zoning Officer
as a public record.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .280, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.063 UTILITY EXEMPTIONS.
   The following public utility uses are permitted in any district: wires,
cables, conduits, vaults, laterals, pipes, mains and valves or other similar
distributing equipment; provided that the installation and location shall
conform with the rules and regulations of applicable administrative
authorities.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .290, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.064 CONDITIONAL PERMITTED USES.
   Application for zoning certificates and occupancy permits for the erection,
major alteration or enlargement and occupancy of a conditional permitted use
shall be subject to the regulations hereof.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .300, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.065 PRIVATE SWIMMING POOLS REGULATED.
   (A)   Every private residential swimming pool constructed, installed and
maintained within the village shall comply with the applicable provisions of
this code.
   (B)   The location of private swimming pools are permitted in side and rear
yards as established in §
155.051. All pools above- or in-ground must have a setback of ten feet off the
public right-of-way including pool, fencing or attached walkway.
   (C)   The definitions of a yard, front yard, yard line, rear yard, side yard
and side yards adjoining a street are set forth in §
155.021.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to proceed with the construction, installation,
enlargement or alteration of any private swimming pool in appurtenances within
the village unless permits therefor have first been obtained from the Village
Zoning Officer.
   (E)   The permit fees for private swimming pools shall be $75.
   (F)   All private swimming pools located in ground shall be completely
enclosed by a fence. All fence openings or point of entry into the pool area
enclosure shall be equipped with gates. The fence and gates shall be at least
six feet in height and constructed of a material approved by the Village
Building Code. If decking surrounds an above-ground pool, it must be fenced or
designed to be gated and deny access.
   (G)   All private swimming pools shall equipped with suitable facilities for
adding make-up water as needed. If a sill cock and hose connection is to be
used for make-up, a suitable vacuum breaker must be installed in conformance
with plumbing regulations.
   (H)   There shall be no direct connection of any pool within the village to
the municipal sewer service of the village.
   (I)   All electrical installations provided for and used in conjunction with
private swimming pools shall be in conformance with the Electrical Code,
current edition.
   (J)   All private swimming pools shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary
condition.
   (K)   The Village Zoning Officer may inspect all private swimming pools at
any reasonable time to determine whether or not the provisions of this code are
being complied with.
   (L)   All pools that have not been in use for an extended period of time
must be drained or covered when not in use.
   (M)   Any swimming pools which are existing as nonconforming structures at
the time of this section shall be considered grandfathered for the purpose of
enforcing this section. If any existing, nonconforming pool is removed or
destroyed, any subsequent pools shall be subject to this section.
   (N)   Any person in violation of the provisions of this section shall be
subject to the penalties set forth in §
155.999.
(Ord. 2003-9, passed 9-15-2003; Ord. 2018-06, passed 10-1-2018) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.066 COMMUNITY WATER SUPPLY WELL; MINIMUM AND MAXIMUM SETBACK ZONE; MAP.
   (A)   Purpose. Pursuant to the authority conferred by 65 ILCS 5/11-125-4, 5/
11-125-2; 415 ILCS 5/14.2 and 5/14.3; 65 ILCS 5/7-4-2 (all 2008); and in the
interest of securing the public health, safety and welfare; to preserve the
quality and quantity of groundwater resources in order to assure a safe and
adequate water supply for present and future generations; and to preserve
groundwater resources currently in use and those aquifers having a potential
for future use as a public water supply, the provisions of this section shall
apply to all properties located within the minimum setback zone established
under § 14.2 of the Environmental Protection Act (“Act”) (415 ILCS 5/14.2) and
this section, and the maximum setback zone established under § 14.3 of the Act
(415 ILCS 5/14.3) and this section.
   (B)   Definitions. Except as stated in this section, and unless a different
meaning of a word or term is clear from the context, the definition of words or
terms in this chapter shall be the same as those used in the Act and the
Illinois Groundwater Protection Act (415 ILCS 5/1 (2002)):
      ACT. The Environmental Protection Act (415 ILCS 5/1 (2002)).
      AGENCY. The State Environmental Protection Agency.
      BOARD. The State Pollution Control Board.
      MAXIMUM SETBACK ZONE. The area around a community water supply well
established under § 14.3 of the Act (415 ILCS 5/14.3) and this section, and
described in the minimum and maximum set back zone map, a copy of which is in
the village office.
      MINIMUM SETBACK ZONE.  The area around a community water supply well
established under § 14.2 of the Act (415 ILCS 5/, § 14.2) and this section, and
described in the minimum and maximum set back zone map, a copy of which is in
the village office.
 
   (C)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) below, no person shall
place a new potential primary source, new potential secondary source or new
potential route within the minimum setback zone.
      (2)   Except as provided otherwise in division (D) below, no person shall
place a new potential primary source within the maximum setback zone.
   (D)   Waivers, exceptions and certifications of minimal hazard.
      (1)   If, pursuant to § 14.2(b) of the Act (415 ILCS 5/), the owner of a
new potential primary source, new potential secondary source or new potential
route is granted a waiver by the Agency, such owner shall be deemed to have a
waiver to the same extent from division (C)(1) of this section.
      (2)   If, pursuant to § 14.2(c) of the Act (415 ILCS 5/), the owner of a
new potential primary source (other than land filling or land treating), new
potential secondary source or new potential route is granted an exception by
the Board, such owner shall be deemed to have an exception to the same extent
from division (C)(1) of this section.
      (3)   If, pursuant to § 14.2(c) of the Act (415 ILCS 5/), the owner of a
new potential primary source (other than land filling or land treating) is
granted an exception by the Board, such owner shall be deemed to have an
exception to the same extent from division (C)(1) of this section.
      (4)   If, pursuant to § 14.5 of the Act (415 ILCS 5/), the owner of a new
potential primary source, new potential secondary source or new potential route
is issued a certificate of minimal hazard by the Agency, such owner shall not
be subject to division (C)(1) of this section to the same extent that such
owner is not subject to § 14.2(d) of the Act.
   (E)   Exclusions. Division (C)(1) of this section shall not apply to new
common sources of sanitary pollution as specified pursuant to § 17 of the Act
(415 ILCS 5/) and the regulations adopted thereunder by the Agency; however, no
such common sources may be located within the applicable minimum distance from
a community water supply well specified by such regulations.
   (F)   Map. The map showing the minimum and maximum setback zone in
incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof as if appearing in
total. A copy of the map is on file in the village offices.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-15-2010)
ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 155.080 ESTABLISHMENT.
   In order to carry out the purpose and provisions of this chapter, the
village is divided into the following districts:
R1 Single-Family Detached Residence District
R2 Single-Family Detached and Semi-Detached Residence District
R3 Multiple-Family Residence District
R4 Multiple-Family Residence District
R5 Planned Unit Development
B1 Business District
B2 Business District
B3 Commercial District
B4 Commercial-Recreation District
M1 Manufacturing District
M2 Manufacturing District
 
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 4, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.081 ZONING DISTRICT MAP.
   The zoning districts and their boundaries are as shown upon the Zoning
District Map of the village, and all amendments thereto and all notations,
references and other information shown thereon are incorporated into and made a
part of this chapter, with the same force and effect as if fully set forth in
this chapter.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 4, subs. .020, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.082 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
    Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of the various
zoning districts as shown on the zoning district map, the following rules
apply.
   (A)   A zoning district boundary line following a street, railroad right-of-
way, waterway or extension thereof shall be construed to be the centerline of
such street, railroad right-of-way, waterway or extension.
   (B)   Where the zoning district boundaries are not otherwise indicated and
where the property has been or may hereafter be divided into blocks and lots,
the district boundaries shall be construed to be the lot lines, unless the
boundaries are otherwise indicated on the map. Within unsubdivided property,
the district boundary lines on the zoning district map shall be in accordance
with dimensions as designated on that map.
   (C)   Where a zoning district boundary line divides a lot in single
ownership, the regulations of this chapter for either portion of the lot may,
at the owner’s discretion, apply to the entire area of the lot or 25 feet
beyond the zoning district boundary line, whichever is the lesser distance.
   (D)   Questions concerning the exact locations of zoning district boundary
lines shall be resolved by the Village Board.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 4, subs. .030, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.083 ANNEXED TERRITORY.
   On land hereafter annexed to the village, no structures shall be erected,
enlarged or moved and no change in use of land or existing structures shall be
made until an amendment to this chapter designating the zoning district
classification of such annexed land is duly adopted by the Village Board;
provided that if no such ordinance has been so adopted, the annexed land shall
be automatically classified as R1 Single-Family Detached Residence District.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 4, subs. .040, passed 2-15-1999)
RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
§ 155.095 APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   Unless otherwise provided in the regulations of this chapter, the provisions
set forth in this subchapter shall apply to all residence districts.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 5, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.096 NAMEPLATES; PERMITTED; REGULATIONS.
   Nameplates shall be permitted in accordance with the following regulations.
   (A)   For single-family and two-family dwellings: one nameplate, not to
exceed 120 square inches in area for each dwelling unit, indicating the name
and address of the occupant. For multiple-family dwellings: one nameplate not
to exceed four square feet in area, provided such nameplate shall contain only
the name and address of the building and may contain also the name, address and
telephone number of the management thereof.
   (B)   Such nameplates may be affixed flat against the building, or may also
be located in a yard adjoining a street, provided they are not nearer to the
street than one-half of the depth of the yard, and do not exceed four feet in
height.
   (C)   Nameplates may be illuminated by non-flashing direct or indirect
illumination from a source of artificial lighting customarily accessory to
residential uses.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 5, subs. .020, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.097 FOR SALE AND FOR RENT SIGNS.
   “For sale” and “for rent” signs appertaining to the sale or rental of
property on which they are located shall be permitted in accordance with the
following regulations:
   (A)   There shall be not more than one sign on a lot which shall not have
artificial illumination; except on a corner lot or through lot, one such sign
facing each street shall be permitted; and
   (B)   A sign shall not have more than 12 square feet of area and it shall be
located not less than eight feet from the nearest interior lot line. Such a
sign, when affixed to a building wall, shall not project higher than ten feet
above grade, and a ground sign shall not project higher than five feet above
the ground grade elevation below it.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 5, subs. .030, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.098 IDENTIFICATION SIGNS FOR NONRESIDENTIAL USES.
   Identification signs for nonresident uses shall be permitted in accordance
with the following regulations.
   (A)   One identification sign affixed flat against a building wall and one
ground sign, which in both cases may be illuminated by non-flashing direct or
indirect illumination arranged in a manner that direct rays of light are not
beamed onto adjoining lots and streets shall be permitted, and on a corner or
through lot, one additional such sign shall be permitted facing the side street
of a corner lot or the street adjoining the rear lot line of a through lot.
   (B)   Each sign shall contain not more than 16 square feet of area and when
affixed to a building wall, it shall not project higher than ten feet above
floor grade at entrance doorways, and a ground sign shall not project higher
than ten feet above ground grade elevation at the sign.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 5, subs. .040, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.099 TEMPORARY SIGNS FOR UNIFIED HOUSING DEVELOPMENTS.
   Temporary signs for unified housing developments are permitted in accordance
with the following.
   (A)   In a unified housing development containing more than 12 dwelling
units, initially under single ownership or control, one sign may be erected
along each street frontage of the development.
   (B)   Such sign may be a ground sign or be attached to a building, and it
shall contain not more than 180 square feet of gross surface area provided that
such sign:
      (1)   May be illuminated with non-flashing illumination, provided direct
rays of light are not beamed onto adjacent lots or streets;
      (2)   Shall not project higher than 30 feet above grade;
      (3)   Shall not be located nearer than 15 feet from a property line
abutting a street, except it shall not be nearer than 50 feet from the lot
corner formed by the intersection of any two street right-of-way lines and no
nearer than 20 feet from a lot line of an adjacent lot; and
      (4)   Shall be removed within three months after completion of
construction of the development, or one year after the first dwelling unit is
occupied, whichever is sooner.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 5, subs. .050, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.100 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   Any customary home occupations and other types of home occupations are a
permitted use in all residential zoning districts, provided that the home
occupation, whether customary or not, meets all of the conditions set forth
below:
   (A)   It is conducted entirely within the dwelling and only by the resident
of the dwelling and only when such home occupation is incidental and secondary
to the use of the dwelling for dwelling purposes;
   (B)    It does not involve construction features or use of equipment not
customary in a dwelling, and the entrance to the space devoted to such
occupation shall be from within the dwelling and not more than one-fourth of
the floor area of a story (including also a cellar of the dwelling) is devoted
to such home occupation;
   (C)   There is no display or activity that will indicate from the exterior
of a dwelling that it is being used in whole or in part for any use other than
a dwelling except one nameplate no more than one square foot in area which
contains only the name of the occupant of the dwelling and the home occupation
conducted therein and is attached to the dwelling and not illuminated shall be
permitted;
   (D)   No mechanical equipment is used, except such as is customarily used
for purely domestic or household purposes;
   (E)   Stock-in-trade, including that which is produced on the premises,
shall not require receipt or delivery of merchandise, goods or equipment other
than by U.S. letter carrier mail, similar parcel delivery service or by private
passenger automobile;
   (F)   A home occupation conducted by a professional person shall be only for
consultation or performance of religious rites, but not for the general
practice of the profession;
   (G)   Academic or religious instruction may be given to not more than five
persons at the same time; and
   (H)   No home occupations shall occur before 6:00 a.m. or after 10:00 p.m.,
and no more than five vehicles shall be parked in a residential zone in
connection with a home occupation.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 5, subs. .060, passed 2-15-1999)
R1 SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED RESIDENCE DISTRICT
§ 155.115 PERMITTED USES.
   Permitted uses in the R1 Single-Family Detached Residence District shall be:
   (A)   Single-family detached dwellings;
   (B)   Agriculture on a tract of land 20 acres or more in area;
   (C)   Churches, temples or synagogues on a lot less than two acres in area;
   (D)   Golf courses, standard; but to including par three golf courses,
commercially operated driving ranges or miniature golf courses; and provided
that no clubhouse or accessory building shall be located less than 200 feet
from a lot line;
   (E)   Parks, playgrounds, forest preserves and recreational areas, public;
   (F)   Schools, public, nonboarding, elementary, junior high and high;
   (G)   Temporary buildings for construction purposes for a period not to
exceed such construction;
   (H)   Accessory uses; and
   (I)   Private garage, as defined by the Village Zoning Code, as an accessory
building.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 6, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999; Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-
15-2021)
§ 155.116 CONDITIONAL PERMITTED USES.
   Conditional permitted uses in the R1 Single-Family Detached Residence
District shall be:
   (A)   Single-family semi-detached dwelling (duplex);
   (B)   Cemeteries, including crematories and mausoleums, on a lot not less
than ten acres in area and provided no building shall be located less than 300
feet from a lot line;
   (C)   Colleges, universities and accessory uses thereto on a lot not less
than 20 acres in area and provided no building is located less than 200 feet
from a lot line;
   (D)   Hospitals, on a lot not less than five acres in area;
   (E)   Nursing homes, on a lot not less than five acres in area;
   (F)   Planned developments;
   (G)   Private recreational area or camps, when not operated for profit, on a
lot not less than five acres in area, and provided no building or structure
shall be located less than 200 feet from a lot line;
   (H)   Public utility and governmental service uses on lots having areas,
widths, yards and other conditions as approved by the Village Board:
      (1)   Electric substations and booster stations;
      (2)   Filtration plants, pumping stations, water reservoirs and wells;
      (3)   Gas regulator stations;
      (4)   Police and fire stations;
      (5)   Railroad rights-of-way and passenger stations, but not including
classification yards, terminal facilities or maintenance facilities;
      (6)   Sewage treatment plant;
      (7)   Telephone exchange and microwave relay towers;
      (8)   Other governmental uses; and
      (9)   Post offices.
   (I)   Schools, parochial or private, boarding or nonboarding, elementary,
junior high or high, on a lot not less than eight acres for elementary, 20
acres for junior high and 30 acres for high;
   (J)   Seminaries, convents, monasteries and similar religious institutions
on a lot not less than five acres in area and provided no building or structure
shall be located less than 100 feet from a lot line;
   (K)   Greenhouses and nurseries on a lot not less than ten acres in area and
providing no building or structure shall be located less than 50 feet from a
lot line; and
   (L)    Medical and dental clinics located on real property immediately
adjacent to a hospital.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 6, subs. .020, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.117 LOT AREA.
   Lot area requirements for the R1 District shall be:
   (A)   Single-family detached dwellings, not less than 9,600 square feet; and
   (B)   Nonresidential uses, not less than 15,000 square feet unless otherwise
specified.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 6, subs. .030, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.118 LOT WIDTH.
   Lot width requirements for the R1 District shall be:
   (A)   Single-family detached dwellings, not less than 80 feet; and
   (B)   Nonresidential uses, not less than 100 feet.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 6, subs. .040, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.119 BUILDING HEIGHT.
   Building height requirement for R1 District shall be:
   (A)   Single-family detached dwellings, not more than two stories or 30
feet, whichever is lower;
   (B)   Nonresidential uses, not more than three stories or 35 feet, whichever
is lower; and
   (C)   Private garage, as an accessory building, with a building height of
not more than 18 feet.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 6, subs. .050, passed 2-15-1999; Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-
15-2021)
§ 155.120 GROUND FLOOR AREA PER DWELLING.
   Ground floor area per dwelling in the R1 District shall be:
   (A)   One-story dwellings, not less than 1,200 square feet; and
   (B)   Dwellings having more than one story:
      (1)   Not less than 800 square feet for a one and one-half story
dwelling; and
      (2)   Not less than 720 square feet for a two-story dwelling.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 6, subs. .060, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.121 FLOOR AREA RATIO.
   Floor area ratio in the R1 District shall be:
   (A)   Residential uses, not applicable; and
   (B)   Nonresidential uses, not more than 0.4.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 6, subs. .070, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.122 YARDS.
   Except as may be herein otherwise required, yards shall be in accordance
with the following regulations:
   (A)   Front yard. Not less than 25 feet in depth;
   (B)   Side yards. A side yard on each side of the zoning lot of not less
than 10% of the lot width, except where a side yard adjoins a street, the
minimum width shall be not less than 25 feet;
   (C)   Rear yard. Not less than 25 feet in depth; except that detached
accessory buildings shall be governed by §§
155.045 through
155.050; and
   (D)   Yards, general; nonresidential uses. For buildings more than 30 feet
in height, each side yard as required above shall be increased in width or
depth by two feet for each additional one foot of building height over three
feet.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 6, subs. .080, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.123 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   Off-street parking and off-street loading shall be in accordance with the
regulations set forth herein.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 6, subs. .090, passed 2-15-1999)
R2 SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED AND SEMI-DETACHED RESIDENCE DISTRICT
§ 155.135 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Any of the permitted uses in the R1 District; and
   (B)   Single-family semi-detached dwelling (duplex).
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 7, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.136 CONDITIONAL PERMITTED USES.
   Conditional permitted uses in the R2 Single-Family Detached Residence
District shall be:
   (A)   The same as in the R1 District;
   (B)   Two-family detached dwellings, on a lot not less than 6,000 square
feet in area and 50 feet in width which are one unit above the other and not
side by side; and
   (C)   Building supply store or retail store, provided that the store
building has less than 2,500 square feet and that the store building is on a
state highway.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 7, subs. .020, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.137 LOT AREA.
   Lot area requirements for the R2 District shall be:
   (A)   Single-family detached dwellings, not less than 7,000 square feet and
which are one unit above the other and not side by side;
   (B)   Single-family semi-detached dwelling (duplex), not less than 5,000
square feet per dwelling unit; and
   (C)   Nonresidential uses, not less than 10,000 square feet unless otherwise
specified.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 7, subs. .030, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.138 LOT WIDTH.
   Lot width requirements for the R2 District shall be:
   (A)   Single-family detached dwellings, not less than 50 feet;
   (B)   Single-family semi-detached (duplex), not less than 70 feet and not
less than 35 feet per dwelling unit; and
   (C)   Nonresidential uses, not less than 85 feet.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 7, subs. .040, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.139 BUILDING HEIGHT.
   Building height restrictions for the R2 District shall be:
   (A)   Single-family and two-family detached dwellings, not more than two
stories or 30 feet, whichever is lower; and
   (B)   Nonresidential uses, not more than three stories or 35 feet, whichever
is lower.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 7, subs. .050, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.140 GROUND FLOOR AREA PER DWELLING.
   Ground floor area per dwelling in the R2 District shall be:
   (A)   One-story dwellings, not less than 900 square feet; and
   (B)   Dwellings having more than one story;
      (1)   Not less than 800 square feet for a one and one-half story
dwelling; and
      (2)   Not less than 720 square feet for a two-story or two and one-half
story dwelling.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 7, subs. .060, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.141 FLOOR AREA RATIO.
   Floor area ratio in the R2 District shall be:
   (A)   Residential uses, not applicable; and
   (B)   Nonresidential uses, not more than 0.4.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 7, subs. .070, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.142 YARDS.
   Except as may be herein otherwise required, yards shall be in accordance
with the following regulations:
   (A)   Front yard. Not less than 25 feet in depth;
   (B)   Side yards. A side yard on each side of the zoning lot of not less
than 10% of the lot width, except where a side yard adjoins a street, the
minimum width shall be not less than 25 feet. As to an accessory building
located more than 30 feet back of the required front yard setback, there shall
be a side yard on each side of the zoning lot of not less than three feet;
   (C)   Rear yard. Not less than 25 feet in depth; and
   (D)   Yards, general; nonresidential uses. For buildings more than 30 feet
in height, each side yard as required above shall be increased in width or
depth by two feet for each additional one foot of building height over 30 feet.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 7, subs. .080, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.143 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   Off-street parking and off-street loading shall be in accordance with
regulations set forth herein.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 7, subs. .090, passed 2-15-1999)
R3 SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED AND MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
§ 155.155 PERMITTED USES.
   Permitted uses in R3 Single-Family Attached and Multiple-Family Residence
District shall be:
   (A)   Any of the permitted uses in the R1 District;
   (B)   Multiple-family dwellings; provided that the minimum gross area of the
development under single ownership is 12,000 square feet;
   (C)   Single-family semi-detached dwellings; and
   (D)   Two-family detached dwellings.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 8, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.156 CONDITIONAL PERMITTED USES.
   Conditional permitted uses in the R3 Single-Family Attached and Multiple-
Family Residence District shall be:
   (A)   Any of the conditional permitted uses in the R1 District;
   (B)   Boardinghouses and lodging houses on a lot not less than 10,000 square
feet in area and not less than 75 feet in width; and
   (C)   Tourist homes having not more than five rooms for transient guests on
a lot not less than 10,000 square feet in area and not less than 75 feet in
width.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 8, subs. .020, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.157 LOT AREA.
   Lot area requirements for the R3 District shall be:
   (A)   Single-family detached dwelling and two-family detached dwelling, not
less than 7,000 square feet;
   (B)   Single-family semi-detached dwelling (duplex), not less than 5,000
square feet per dwelling unit;
   (C)   Multiple-family dwelling, as follows:
 
                      Minimum Lot Area Per
Type of Dwelling Unit Dwelling Unit (in Sq. Units Per Acre Bedrooms Per Acre
                      Ft.)
4 bedroom and over    3,000                 14.5           58
3 bedroom             2,250                 19.3           58
2 bedroom             1,500                 29.0           58
1 bedroom             1,000                 43.6           43.6
 
   (D)   Nonresidential uses, not less than 15,000 square feet unless otherwise
specified; and
   (E)   All residential uses permitted in this district shall be served by
public water, and sanitary and storm sewer systems.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 8, subs. .030, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.158 LOT WIDTH.
   Lot width requirements in the R3 District shall be:
   (A)   Single-family detached dwelling, not less than 50 feet;
   (B)   Two-family detached dwelling, not less than 50 feet;
   (C)   Single-family semi-detached (duplex building), not less than 70 feet
and not less than 35 feet for each dwelling; and
   (D)   Multiple-family dwelling, not less than 90 feet.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 8, subs. .040, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.159 BUILDING HEIGHT.
   No building or structure shall be erected or structurally altered to exceed
the following heights:
   (A)   Single-family detached dwellings and permitted nonresidential
buildings and structures; the same regulations shall apply as permitted or
required in the R1 District;
   (B)   Two-family detached dwellings shall not exceed a height of two stories
or 35 feet, whichever is lower; and
   (C)   All other dwelling types, not more than 35 feet.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 8, subs. .050, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.160 GROUND FLOOR AREA PER DWELLING.
   The ground floor area per dwelling shall be as in the R2 District.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 8, subs. .060, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.161 FLOOR AREA RATIO.
   Floor area ratio requirements for the R3 District shall be:
   (A)   Not applicable for dwellings, except multiple-family dwellings; and
   (B)   Multiple-family dwelling and nonresidential uses:
      (1)   For one-story structures, not more than 0.5; and
      (2)   For structures having two stories or more, not more than 0.8.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 8, subs. .070, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.162 YARDS.
   No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the following yards are
provided and maintained:
   (A)   For single-family detached dwellings:
      (1)   Front yard. Not less than 25 feet;
      (2)   Side yards. A side yard on each side of the zoning lot of not less
than 10% of the lot width, except where a side yard adjoins a street, the
minimum width shall be not less than 25 feet. As to an accessory building
located more than 30 feet back of the required front yard setback, there shall
be an interior side yard on each side of the zoning lot of not less than three
feet; and
      (3)   Rear yard. Not less than 25 feet.
   (B)   For two-family detached dwellings:
      (1)   Front yard. Not less than 25 feet; and
      (2)   Side yards.  A side yard on each side of the zoning lot of not less
than 10% of the lot, except where a side yard adjoins a street, the minimum
width shall be not less than 25 feet. As to an accessory building located more
than 30 feet back of the required front yard setback, there shall be an
interior side yard on each side of the zoning lot of not less than three feet.
   (C)   For multiple-family dwellings:
      (1)   Front yard. Not less than 25 feet;
      (2)   Side yards. Two side yards each not less than 12 feet in depth,
except a side yard adjoining a street shall not be less than 25 feet in depth
and for structures more than 30 feet in height, measured perpendicular to the
front lot line, an interior side yard shall be increased in depth by one-half
foot for each foot the building exceeds 30 feet in height; and
      (3)   Rear yard. Not less than 40 feet in depth.
   (D)   For single-family semi-detached dwellings:
      (1)   Front yard. Not less than 25 feet in depth;
      (2)   Side yards. One yard not less than ten feet in width, except a side
yard adjoining a street shall be not less than 25 feet in depth; and
      (3)   Rear yard. Not less than 40 feet in depth.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 8, subs. .080, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.163 SPACING BETWEEN STRUCTURES.
   When two or more structures which contain single-family detached dwellings,
single-family attached dwellings, single-family semi-detached dwellings or two
or more multiple-family dwelling structures, or combinations thereof, are on a
lot or on contiguous lots comprising a unified development under the same
ownership or control, the distance between the structure walls shall be as
follows:
   (A)   When the front wall of a structure faces the front wall or rear wall
of the nearest structure, the distance between the two structure walls shall be
not less than 60 feet;
   (B)   When the rear wall of a structure faces the rear wall of the nearest
structure, the distance between the two structure walls shall be not less than
50 feet;
   (C)   When the side wall of a structure faces the front or rear wall of the
nearest structure, the distance between the two structure walls shall be not
less than 40 feet, except when the side walls contains more than two windows on
a floor that are not from bathrooms or storage rooms, such distance between
structures shall be not less than 50 feet, or 60 feet if a main entrance
doorway is in such side wall;
   (D)   When the side wall of a structure faces the side wall of the nearest
structure, the distance between the two structure walls shall be not less than
20 feet, except when the facing side walls of either of such structures contain
more than two windows on a floor that are not from bathrooms or storage rooms,
such distance between the two structures shall be not less than 50 feet, or 60
feet if a main entrance doorway is in such side wall;
   (E)   A wall of a structure forming the end of a court shall be not less
than ten feet from the nearest wall of a structure forming the sides of the
court, and a structure forming the end of the court may be attached to one or
both of the structures forming the sides of the court, provided the distance
between facing walls of the structures forming the sides of the court is not
less than the applicable requirements as set forth above; and
   (F)   Where structures are not parallel to each other, the required spacing
shall be measured at the midpoint of the distance along which they face each
other; however, the spacing between the structures at the narrowest point shall
in no event be less than one-half the required distance.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 8, subs. .090, passed 2-15-1999)
R4 SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED AND MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
§ 155.175 PERMITTED USES.
   Any of the permitted uses in R1, R2 or R3 Districts.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 9, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.176 CONDITIONAL PERMITTED USES.
   Conditional permitted uses in the R4 Single-Family Attached and Multiple-
Family Residence District shall be any of the conditional permitted uses in the
R3 District.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 9, subs. .020, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.177 LOT AREA.
   Lot area requirements for the R4 District shall be:
   (A)   Single-family detached dwelling and two-family detached dwelling, not
less than 6,000 square feet;
   (B)   Single-family semi-detached dwelling (duplex building), not less than
5,000 square feet per dwelling unit;
   (C)   Multiple-family dwelling, as follows:
 
Minimum Lot Area per Dwelling Unit (in Sq. Ft.)
Type of Dwelling Unit Building 24 Feet in Height or Buildings Having 3 or More
                      less                          Stories above Grade
4-bedroom and over    3,500                         3,000
3 bedroom             2,500                         2,000
2 bedroom             2,000                         1,500
1 bedroom             1,500                         1,000
Efficiency            Not permitted                 800
 
   (D)   Nonresidential uses, not less than 15,000 square feet unless otherwise
specified; and
   (E)   All residential uses permitted in this district shall be served by
public water, and sanitary and storm sewer systems.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 9, subs. .030, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.178 LOT WIDTH.
   Lot width requirements for the R4 District shall be:
   (A)   Single-family detached dwelling, not less than 50 feet;
   (B)   Two-family detached dwelling, not less than 50 feet;
   (C)   Single-family semi-detached dwelling (duplex), not less than 70 feet
and not less than 35 feet for each dwelling; and
   (D)   Multiple-family dwelling, not less than 90 feet.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 9, subs. .040, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.179 BUILDING HEIGHT.
   No building or structure shall be erected or structurally altered to exceed
the following heights:
   (A)   Single-family detached dwellings and permitted nonresidential
buildings and structures. The same regulations shall apply as permitted or
required in the R1 District;
   (B)   Two-family detached dwellings shall not exceed a height of two stories
or 35 feet, whichever is lower; and
   (C)   All other dwelling types, not more than 35 feet above grade or greater
than 35 feet above grade but not more than 47 feet above grade if approved by
the Village Board and Fire Department after a hearing conducted by the Planning
and Zoning Board on whether the height should be approved.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 9, subs. .050, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.180 GROUND FLOOR AREA PER DWELLING.
   Ground floor area per dwelling in the R4 District shall be as in the R2
District.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 9, subs. .060, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.181 FLOOR AREA RATIO.
   Floor area ratio in the R4 District shall be:
   (A)   Not applicable for dwellings, except multiple-family dwellings; and
   (B)   Multiple-family dwelling and nonresidential uses:
      (1)   For one-story structures, not more than 0.5;
      (2)   For structures having a maximum height of 24 feet, not more than
0.8; and
      (3)   For structures having three or more stories above grade, not more
than 1.1.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 9, subs. .070, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.182 YARDS.
   No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the following yards are
provided and maintained:
   (A)   For single-family detached dwellings:
      (1)   Front yard. Not less than 25 feet;
      (2)   Side yards. A side yard on each side of the zoning lot of not less
than 10% of the lot width, except where a side yard adjoins a street, the
minimum width shall be not less than 25 feet. As to an accessory building
located more than 30 feet back of the required front yard setback, there shall
be an interior side yard on each side of the zoning lot of not less than three
feet; and
      (3)   Rear yard. Not less than 25 feet.
   (B)   For two-family detached dwellings:
      (1)   Front yard. Not less than 25 feet;
      (2)   Side yards. A side yard on each side of the zoning lot of not less
than 10% of the lot width, except where a side yard adjoins a street, the
minimum width shall be not less than 25 feet. As to an accessory building
located more than 30 feet back of the required front yard setback, there shall
be an interior side yard on each side of the zoning lot of not less than three
feet; and
      (3)   Rear yard. Not less than 25 feet.
   (C)   For multiple-family dwellings:
      (1)   Front yard. Not less than 25 feet;
      (2)   Side yards. Two side yards each not less than 12 feet in depth,
except a side yard adjoining a street shall not be less than 25 feet in depth,
and for structures more than 30 feet in height, measured perpendicular to the
front lot line, an interior side yard shall be increased in depth by one-half
foot for each foot the building exceeds 30 feet in height; and
      (3)   Rear yard. Not less than 30 feet in depth.
   (D)   For single-family semi-detached dwellings:
      (1)   Front yard. Not less than 25 feet in depth;
      (2)   Side yards. One yard not less than ten feet in width, except a side
yard adjoining a street shall be not less than 25 feet in depth; and
      (3)   Rear yard. Not less than 40 feet in depth.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 9, subs. .080, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.183 SPACING BETWEEN BUILDINGS.
   Space between structures in the R4 District shall be as in the R3 District.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 9, subs. .090, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.184 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   Off-street parking and off-street loading in the R4 District shall be in
accordance with regulations set forth herein.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 9, subs. .100, passed 2-15-1999)
R5 MOBILE HOME STANDARDS
§ 155.195 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this section is to provide a Zoning District R5, Mobile Home
Trailer Parks and Travel Trailer Parks, to establish minimum standards for
construction, alteration, extension and maintenance of mobile home parks and
related utilities and facilities; to authorize the issuance of permits for
construction, alteration and extension of mobile home parks; to authorize the
inspection of mobile home parks; and to fix penalties for violations.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.196 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The rules and definitions specified in §§
155.020 and
155.021 are incorporated by reference.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      HEALTH AUTHORITY. The State Department of Health or its authorized
representative of the village.
      LICENSE. A written license issued by the health authority allowing a
person to operate and maintain a mobile home park under the provisions of the
standards and regulations set forth in this section.
      MOBILE HOME. A detached single-family dwelling unit with all of the
following characteristics:
         (a)   Designed for long-term occupancy, and containing sleeping
accommodations, a flush toilet, a tub or shower bath, and kitchen facilities,
with plumbing and electrical connections provided for attachment to outside
systems;
         (b)   Designed to be transported after fabrication on its own wheels,
or on flatbed or other trailer or detachable wheels; and
         (c)   Arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a dwelling,
complete and ready for occupancy except for minor and incidental unpacking and
assembly operations, location on a foundation, connection to utilities and the
like.
      MOBILE HOME LOT. A parcel of land for the placement of a single mobile
home and the exclusive use of its occupants.
      MOBILE HOME PARK SUBDIVISION. A contiguous parcel of land which has been
divided into two or more lots for the placement of mobile home and is owned by
an individual, a firm, trust, partnership, public or private association or
corporation.
      MOBILE HOME STAND. The part of an individual lot which has been reserved
for the placement of one mobile home unit.
      PARK MANAGEMENT. The person who owns or has charge, care or control of
the mobile home park.
      PARK STREET. A private way which affords principal means of access to
individual mobile home lots or auxiliary buildings.
      PARK SUBDIVISION. The total acreage platted for development into a mobile
home park subdivision.
      PERMANENTLY AFFIXED. A mobile home should be deemed to be PERMANENTLY
AFFIXED to the land when, in accordance with its owner’s intent, its wheels,
skids, rollers or other transporting devices have been removed and it has been
so placed upon a lot, possessing a compacted gravel or concrete slab foundation
for supporting the home, whereby it is rendered immobile and stationary.
      PERMIT. A written permit or certification issued by the health authority
permitting the construction, alteration and extension of a mobile home park
under the provisions of these standards and regulations.
      SERVICE BUILDING. A structure housing toilet, lavatory and such other
facilities as may be required by these standards.
      SEWER CONNECTIONS. The connection consisting of all pipes, fittings and
appurtenances from the drain outlet of the mobile home to the inlet of the
corresponding sewer riser pipe of the sewerage system serving the mobile home
park.
      SEWER RISER PIPES. The portion of the sewer lateral which extends
vertically to the ground elevation and terminates at each mobile home lot.
      SITE. The total parcel of land, whether undivided acreage or a platted
subdivision or an individual lot therein, upon which a mobile home trailer may
be situated.
      TRAILER. A mobile home as defined in this section.
      TRAVEL TRAILER. Any vehicle or mobile structure designed for highway
travel less than 30 feet long, on wheels, skids, rollers or blocks designed to
be pulled, pushed or carried by motor vehicle, and any house, car, camp car,
“piggy-back” camper or self-propelled motor vehicle which is designed for
sleeping or commercial purposes, and which is complete and ready for occupancy
as such except for minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations,
location on jacks, connections to utilities and the like.
      TRAVEL TRAILER TRANSIENT PARK. An area of land containing two or more
travel trailers or providing space where two or more trailers are harbored or
parked or intended to be harbored or parked for a period of 60 days or less
either free of charge or for remuneration purposes, and should include any
building, structure, tent, vehicle or enclosure, used or intended for use as a
part of the equipment of such park, and providing sewer, water, electric and
other similar facilities required to permit occupancy of such travel trailers
parked thereon.
      WATER CONNECTION. The connection consisting of all pipes, fittings and
appurtenances from the water riser pipe to the water inlet pipe of the
distribution system within the mobile home.
      WATER RISER PIPE. The portion of the water supply system serving the
mobile home park which extends vertically to the ground elevation and
terminates at a designated point at each mobile home lot.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .020, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.197 MINIMUM SITE SIZE.
   (A)   Every mobile home trailer park subdivision shall be platted on not
less than 15 acres of land.
   (B)   Every travel trailer park shall be platted on not less than five acres
of land.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .030, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.198 MINIMUM LOT SIZE.
   (A)   Every mobile home hereafter placed in a subdivision shall be on a lot
having an area of not less than 5,000 square feet.
   (B)   Every travel trailer hereafter placed in a park shall be on a lot
having an area of not less than 3,000 square feet.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .040, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.199 HEIGHT STANDARDS.
   No building, structure or dwelling in a mobile home subdivision or travel
trailer park shall exceed two and one-half stories or 35 feet in height.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .050, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.200 YARD AREA; MOBILE HOME.
   No mobile home shall be placed upon a park subdivision lot unless the
following yards are provided and maintained in connection with such mobile home
dwellings:
   (A)   Front yard. Each lot upon which a mobile home dwelling is placed shall
have a front yard of not less than 20 feet;
   (B)   Side yard. On each lot upon which a mobile home dwelling is placed,
there shall be a side yard on each side of not less than 15 feet. The side yard
for corner lots shall not be less than 20 feet; and
   (C)   Rear yard. Every lot upon which a mobile home dwelling is placed shall
have a rear yard of not less than 20 feet.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .060, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.201 YARD AREA; TRAVEL TRAILER.
   No travel trailer shall be placed upon a park lot unless the following yards
are provided and maintained in connection with such travel trailers:
   (A)   Front yard. Each lot upon which a travel trailer is to be located
shall have a front yard of not less than eight feet. No travel trailer shall be
parked in a travel trailer park closer than 68 feet to the centerline of a
major highway;
   (B)   Side yard. On each lot upon which a travel trailer is parked, there
shall be a side yard on each side thereof of not less than ten feet; and
   (C)   Rear yard. Every lot upon which a travel trailer is parked shall have
a rear yard of not less than five feet.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .070, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.202 SETBACK FROM CENTERLINE OF STREET.
   (A)   Every mobile home placed upon a subdivision lot which fronts upon a
major highway shall be set back from the centerline of the highway a minimum of
eight feet to the building line.
   (B)   Every travel trailer placed upon a park lot which fronts upon a major
highway shall be set back from the centerline of the highway a minimum of 68
feet to the building line.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .080, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.203 PERCENTAGE OF LOT COVERAGE.
   Each mobile home dwelling, including accessory buildings, garages and
porches, shall not cover more than 50% of each subdivision lot.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .090, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.204 DWELLING STANDARDS.
   Every mobile home dwelling hereafter placed upon a subdivision lot shall be
permanently affixed and placed in location on a foundation or other permanent
supports so as to integrate it into a previously prepared structure and create
connections to the outside systems, and shall further have a total ground floor
area of not less than 500 square feet, measured from the outside of the
exterior walls, including utility rooms but excluding open porches, breezeways
and garages.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .100, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.205 OFF-STREET PARKING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Two parking spaces for each mobile home dwelling lot shall be
provided. No motor vehicle, parked on the mobile home lot, shall be parked
closer than three feet to the mobile home.
   (B)   One parking space for each travel trailer lot shall be provided.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .110, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.206 SCREEN PLANTING; MOBILE HOME TRAILER PARK SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Subdivision periphery abutting residential use.  All mobile home
subdivision sites shall be provided a 20-foot wide planting strip, planted with
trees and shrubs at least six feet deep, to provide a dense screen at all
times, which extends the length and depth of the entire subdivision.
   (B)   Interior lots and service areas. Adequate screen planting shall be
provided to ensure privacy, reduce reflected glare between mobile home lots,
and screen objectionable views including laundry and drying areas, lot storage
structures, garbage and trash collection receptacles, laundry-dryer building
facilities and common parking areas.
   (C)   Alternate screening. Wherever screen planting fails to fulfill the
objectives of division (B) above, fencing appropriately designed for the
function intended and substantially constructed to withstand conditions of
soil, weather and use shall be installed at the height of six feet.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .120, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.207 SCREEN PLANTING; TRAVEL TRAILER TRANSIENT PARK.
   There will be provided a 20-foot wide planting strip of trees and shrubs at
least six feet high to provide a dense screen at all times extending the length
and width of the transient park abutting any district.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .130, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.208 TENANT STORAGE.
   Storage facilities shall be provided conveniently near each mobile home lot
for the active storage of outdoor equipment, furniture or tools, and for the
inactive storage of such other materials as are used only seasonally or
infrequently by the typical tenant and which cannot be conveniently stored in a
typical mobile home. There shall be a minimum of 90 cubic feet provided for
general storage for each mobile home lot. Storage facilities shall be provided
in compounds located within a reasonable distance, but not more than 500 feet
from each mobile home site serviced, and located no closer to private or public
streets than the mobile home unit itself. Storage facilities shall be designed
in a manner that will enhance the appearance of the park and shall be
constructed of suitable weather-resistant materials appropriate for the use and
maintenance contemplated.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .140, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.209 REQUIRED RECREATION AREA.
   In all parks there shall be one or more recreation areas which shall be
easily accessible to all park residents. The size of such recreation areas
shall be based upon a minimum of 500 square feet for each lot in the park that
is designed to accommodate mobile homes. No outdoor recreation area shall
contain less than one acre and shall be designed in a contiguous and compact
pattern. Recreation areas shall be so located as to be free of traffic hazards
and should, where topography permits, be centrally located.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .150, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.210 PERCENTAGE OF LOTS TO BE IMPROVED PRIOR TO USE; MOBILE HOME TRAILER
PARK.
   It shall be a condition precedent to granting of the special use permit that
at least one-third of the subdivision lots be completed and ready for
occupancy, which completion shall include installation of roadways, sidewalks,
lightening, public utilities, service and management buildings.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .160, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.211 PERCENTAGE OF LOTS TO BE IMPROVED PRIOR TO USE; TRAVEL TRAILER
TRANSIENT PARK.
   It shall be a condition precedent to granting of the special use permit that
at least 50% of the transient park lots to be completed and ready for
occupancy, which completion shall include installation of roadways, sidewalks,
lightening, public utilities, service and management buildings.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .170, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.212 PERMANENT FACILITIES TO BE INSTALLED.
   The permanent facilities set forth herein shall be installed and available
to and for each mobile home and travel trailer lot.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .180, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.213 STREETS AND DRIVEWAYS.
   Streets and driveways shall be installed and paved to a minimum width and
standard to conform to municipal subdivision standards.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .190, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.214 WATER SUPPLY; GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   An accessible, adequate, safe and potable supply of water shall be provided
in each mobile home park. Where a public supply of water of satisfactory
quantity, quality and pressure is available at the site or at the boundary of
the site, connection shall be made thereto and its supply used exclusively.
When a satisfactory public water supply is not available, a private water
supply system may be developed and used as provided by the health authority.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .200, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.215 WATER SUPPLY; WATER STORAGE FACILITIES.
   All water storage reservoirs shall be covered, watertight and constructed of
impervious material. Overflows and vents of such reservoirs shall be
effectively screened. Manholes shall be constructed with overlapping covers so
as to prevent the entrance of contaminated material. Reservoir overflow pipes
shall discharge through an acceptable airgap.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .210, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.216 WATER SUPPLY; DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM.
   (A)   The water supply system of the mobile home parks shall be connected by
pipes to all mobile homes, buildings and other facilities requiring water.
   (B)   All water piping, fixtures and other equipment shall be constructed
and maintained in accordance with state and local regulations and requirements
and shall be of a type and in locations approved by the health authority.
   (C)   The water piping system shall not be connected with nonpotable or
questionable water supplies and shall be protected against the hazards of
backflow or backsiphonage.
   (D)   The system shall be so designed and maintained as to provide a
pressure of not less than 20 pounds per square inch under normal operating
conditions at service buildings and other locations requiring potable water
supply and shall be approved by the Village Engineer.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .220, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.217 WATER SUPPLY; INDIVIDUAL WATER-RISER PIPES AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Individual water-riser pipes shall be located within the confined area
of the mobile home stand at a point where the water connection will approximate
a vertical position.
   (B)   Water-riser pipes shall extend at least four inches above ground
elevation. The pipes shall be at least three-quarter inch. The water outlet
shall be capped when a mobile home does not occupy the lot.
   (C)   Adequate provisions shall be made to prevent freezing of service
lines, valves and riser pipes and to protect risers from heaving and thawing
actions of ground during freezing weather. Surface drainage shall be diverted
from the location of the riser pipe.
   (D)   A shutoff valve below the frostline shall be provided near the water-
riser pipe on each mobile home lot, along with provision for water meter
placement in a vault.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .230, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.218 SEWAGE DISPOSAL; GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   An adequate and safe sewerage system shall be provided in all mobile home
parks for conveying and disposing of all sewage. Such system shall be designed,
constructed and maintained in accordance with state and local laws.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .240, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.219 SEWAGE DISPOSAL; SEWER LINES.
   Sewer lines shall be located in trenches of sufficient depth to be free of
breakage from traffic or other movements and shall be separated from the park
water supply system at a safe distance. Sewers shall be at a grade which will
ensure a velocity of two feet per second when flowing full. All sewer lines
shall be constructed of materials approved by the Village Engineer.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .250, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.220 SEWERAGE DISPOSAL; INDIVIDUAL SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Each mobile home stand shall be provided with at least a six-inch
diameter sewer riser pipe. The sewer riser pipe shall be so located on each
stand that the sewer connection to the mobile home drain outlet will
approximate a vertical position.
   (B)   The sewer connection shall have a nominal inside diameter of at least
four inches, and the slope of any portion thereof shall be at least one-quarter
inch per foot. The sewer connection shall consist of one pipe line only without
any branch fittings. All joints shall be watertight.
   (C)   All materials used for sewer connections shall be semirigid,
corrosion-resistant, nonabsorbent and durable. The inner surface shall be
smooth.
   (D)   Provision shall be made for plugging the sewer riser pipe when a
mobile home does not occupy the lot. Surface drainage shall be diverted away
from a riser. The rim of the riser pipe shall extend at least four inches above
ground elevation.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .260, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.221 SEWAGE DISPOSAL; TREATMENT AND/OR DISCHARGE.
   Where the sewer lines of the mobile home park are not connected to a public
sewer, all proposed sewage facilities shall be approved by the Village Engineer
prior to construction. Effluents from sewage treatment facilities shall not be
discharged into any waters of the state except with prior approval of the
health authority.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .270, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.222 ELECTRICAL DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM; REQUIREMENTS.
   Every park shall contain an electrical wiring system consisting of wiring,
fixtures, equipment and appurtenances which shall be installed and maintained
in accordance with applicable codes and regulations governing such systems.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .280, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.223 ELECTRICAL DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM; POWER LINES.
   (A)   Main power lines not located underground shall be suspended at least
18 feet above the ground. There shall be a minimum horizontal clearance of
three feet between overhead wiring and any mobile home, service building or
other structure.
   (B)   All direct burial conductors or cable shall be buried at least 18
inches below the ground surface and shall be insulated and specially designed
for the purpose. Such conductors shall be located not less than one foot radial
distance from water, sewer, gas or communication lines.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .290, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.224 ELECTRICAL DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM; INDIVIDUAL CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Each mobile home lot shall be provided with an approved disconnecting
device and over current protective equipment. The minimum service per outlet
shall be 120/240 volts AC, 50 amperes.
   (B)   Receptacles, if provided, shall be in accordance with American
Standard Outlet Receptacle C-73.1.
   (C)   Outlets (receptacles or pressure connectors) shall be housed in a
weatherproof outlet box, and shall be located not more than 25 feet from the
over current protective device in the mobile home. A three-pole, four-wire
grounding type shall be used.
   (D)   Connectors, if not substituted by more than one receptacle, shall be
provided where the calculated load of the mobile home is more than 50 amperes.
   (E)   The mobile home shall be connected to the outlet box by an approved
type of flexible supply cord with a male attachment plug or with pressure
connectors.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .300, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.225 ELECTRICAL DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM; REQUIRED GROUNDING.
   All exposed noncurrent carrying metal parts of mobile homes and all other
equipment shall be grounded by means of an approved grounding conductor with
branch circuit conductors or other approved method of grounding metallic
wiring. The neutral conductor shall not be used as an equipment ground for
mobile homes or other equipment.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .310, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.226 SERVICE BUILDINGS AND OTHER COMMUNITY SERVICE FACILITIES.
   The requirements of §§
155.226 through
155.229 shall apply to service buildings, recreation buildings and other
community service facilities such as:
   (A)   Management offices, repair shops and storage areas;
   (B)   Sanitary facilities;
   (C)   Laundry facilities;
   (D)   Indoor recreation areas; and
   (E)   Commercial uses supplying essential goods or services for the
exclusive use of park occupants.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .320, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.227 REQUIRED COMMUNITY SANITARY FACILITIES.
   Every park shall be provided with the following emergency sanitary
facilities.
   (A)   For each 100 mobile home lots, or fractional part thereof, there shall
be one flush toilet and one lavatory for each sex.
   (B)   The building containing such emergency sanitary facilities shall be
accessible to all mobile homes.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .330, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.228 STRUCTURAL REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILDINGS.
   (A)   All portions of the structure shall be properly protected from damage
by ordinary uses and by decay, corrosion, termites and other destructive
elements. Exterior portions shall be of such materials and be so constructed
and protected as to prevent entrance or penetration of moisture and weather in
conformance with the Village Building Code.
   (B)   Toilets shall be located in separate compartments equipped with self-
closing doors. Shower stalls shall be of the individual type. The rooms shall
be screened to prevent direct view of the interior when the exterior doors are
open.
   (C)   Hot and cold water shall be furnished to every lavatory, sink,
bathtub, shower and laundry fixture, and cold water shall be furnished to every
water closet and urinal.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .340, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.229 BARBECUE PITS, FIREPLACES, STOVES AND INCINERATORS.
   Cooking shelters, barbecue pits, fireplaces, woodburning stoves and
incinerators shall be so located, constructed, maintained and used as to
minimize fire hazards and smoke nuisance both on the property on which used and
on neighboring property. No open fire shall be permitted except in facilities
provided. No open fire shall be left unattended. No fuel shall be used and no
material burned which emits dense smoke or objectionable odors.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .350, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.230 REFUSE; HANDLING.
   The storage, collection and disposal of refuse in the mobile home park shall
be so conducted as to create no health hazards, rodent harborage, insect
breeding areas, accident or fire hazards or air pollution and so located
outside and away from any pedestrian and vehicular access and screened from
view.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .360, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.231 REFUSE; STORAGE.
   All refuse shall be stored in flytight, watertight, rodent-proof containers,
which shall be located not more than 150 feet from any mobile home lot.
Containers shall be provided in sufficient numbers and capacity to store
properly all refuse.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .370, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.232 REFUSE; COLLECTION STANDS.
   Refuse collection stands shall be provided for all refuse containers. Such
container stands shall be so designed as to prevent containers from being
tipped to minimize spillage and container deterioration and to facilitate
cleaning around them.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .380, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.233 REFUSE; COLLECTION.
   All refuse containing garbage shall be collected at least twice weekly.
Where suitable collection service is not available from municipal or private
agencies, the mobile home park operator shall provide this service. All refuse
shall be collected and transported in covered vehicles or covered containers.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .390, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.234 REFUSE; DISPOSAL.
   Where municipal or private disposal service is not available, the mobile
home park operator shall dispose of the refuse by transporting to a disposal
site approved by the health authority.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .400, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.235 INSECT AND RODENT CONTROL; MAINTENANCE.
   Grounds, buildings and structures shall be maintained free of insect and
rodent harborage and infestation. Extermination methods and other measures to
control insects and rodents shall conform with the requirements of the health
authority.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .410, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.236 INSECT AND RODENT CONTROL; PARKS TO BE FREE FROM DEBRIS
ACCUMULATIONS.
   Parks shall be maintained free of accumulations of debris which may provide
rodent harborage or breeding places for flies, mosquitoes and other pests.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .420, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.237 INSECT AND RODENT CONTROL; STORAGE AREA MAINTENANCE.
   Storage areas shall be so maintained as to prevent rodent harborage; lumber,
pipe and other building material shall be stored at least one foot above the
ground.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .430, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.238 INSECT AND RODENT CONTROL; REQUIRED SCREENING.
   Where the potential for insect and rodent infestation exists, all exterior
openings in or beneath any structure shall be appropriately screened with wire
mesh or other suitable materials.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .440, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.239 INSECT AND RODENT CONTROL; PLANT GROWTH MAINTENANCE.
   The growth of brush, weeds and grass shall be controlled to prevent
harborage of ticks, chiggers and other noxious insects. Parks shall be so
maintained as to prevent the growth of ragweed, poison ivy, poison oak, poison
sumac and other noxious weeds considered detrimental to health. Open areas
shall be maintained free of heavy undergrowth of any description.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .450, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.240 FUEL SUPPLY AND STORAGE; NATURAL GAS.
   (A)   Natural gas piping systems shall be installed and maintained in
accordance with applicable codes and regulations governing such systems.
   (B)   Each mobile home lot provided with piped gas shall have an approved
manual shutoff valve installed upstream of the gas outlet. The outlet shall be
equipped with an approved cap to prevent accidental discharge of gas when the
outlet is not in use.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .460, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.241 FUEL SUPPLY AND STORAGE; LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS.
   (A)   Liquefied petroleum gas systems shall be installed and maintained in
accordance with applicable codes and regulations governing such systems.
However, such codes and regulations are hereby declared to be minimum standards
and satisfaction of such minimum standards shall not relieve any person or
entity of any higher or other duty imposed by law or otherwise.
   (B)   Systems shall be provided with safety devices to relieve excessive
pressures and shall be arranged so that the discharge terminates at a safe
location.
   (C)   Systems shall have at least one accessible means for shutting off gas.
Such means shall be located outside the mobile home and shall be maintained in
effective operating condition.
   (D)   All LPG piping outside of the mobile homes shall be well supported and
protected against mechanical injury. Undiluted liquefied petroleum gas in
liquid form shall not be conveyed through piping equipment and systems in
mobile homes.
   (E)   Liquefied petroleum gas containers installed on a mobile home lot
shall be securely but not permanently fastened to prevent accidental
overturning. Such containers shall not be less than 12 nor more than 60 U.S.
gallons gross capacity.
   (F)   No liquefied petroleum gas vessel shall be stored or located inside or
beneath any storage cabinet, carport, mobile home or any other structure,
unless such installations are approved by the health authority.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .470, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.242 FUEL SUPPLY AND STORAGE; FUEL OILS.
   (A)   All fuel oil supply systems shall be installed and maintained in
accordance with applicable codes and regulations governing such systems.
   (B)   All piping from outside fuel storage tanks or cylinders to mobile
homes shall be permanently installed and securely fastened in place.
   (C)   All fuel storage tanks or cylinders shall be securely fastened in
place and shall not be located inside or beneath any mobile home or less than
five feet from any mobile home exit.
   (D)   Storage tanks located in areas subject to traffic shall be protected
against physical damage.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .480, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.243 FIRE PROTECTION.
   (A)   Mobile home parks shall be kept free of litter, rubbish and other
flammable materials.
   (B)   Portable fire extinguishers rated for Classes B and C fires shall be
kept in service buildings and at other locations conveniently and readily
accessible for use by all occupants and shall be maintained in good operating
condition. Their capacity shall not be less than two and one-half pounds.
   (C)   Fires shall be made only in stoves, incinerators and other equipment
intended for such purposes.
   (D)   Fire hydrants shall be installed if the park water supply system is
capable to serve them in accordance with the following requirements:
      (1)   The water supply system shall permit the operation of a minimum of
two one and one-half inch hose streams; and
      (2)   Each of two nozzles, held four feet above the ground, shall deliver
at least 75 gallons of water per minute at a flowing pressure of at least 30
pounds per square inch at the highest elevation point of the park.
   (E)   Fire hydrants, if provided, shall be located within 400 feet of any
mobile home, service building or other structure in the park.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .490, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.244 PARK MANAGEMENT; OPERATION STANDARDS.
   The person to whom a license for a mobile home park is issued shall operate
the park in compliance with the standards and shall provide adequate
supervision to maintain the park, its facilities and equipment in good repair
and in a clean and sanitary condition.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .500, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.245 PARK MANAGEMENT; NOTIFICATION OF OCCUPANTS OF APPLICABLE PROVISIONS.
   The park management shall notify park occupants of all applicable provisions
of the standards and inform them of their duties and responsibilities under
these standards.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .510, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.246 PARK MANAGEMENT; SUPERVISION OF MOBILE HOME PLACEMENT.
   The park management shall supervise the placement of each mobile home on its
mobile home stand which includes securing its stability and installing all
utility connections.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .520, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.247 PARK MANAGEMENT; REGISTER RECORD TO BE KEPT.
   (A)   A register record shall be kept of all mobile home or travel trailer
owners or occupants situated within the park subdivision or transient park. The
register, which shall be kept within the management office, shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The name and address of each occupant;
      (2)   The name and address of each owner of each mobile home or travel
trailer and motor vehicle by which it is towed;
      (3)   The make, model, year and license number of each mobile home,
travel trailer and motor vehicle;
      (4)   The state, territory or country issuing such licenses;
      (5)   The date of arrival and departure;
      (6)   The lot number and location within the park subdivision or
transient trailer park; and
      (7)   A registry of all school age children.
   (B)   The register shall be kept available at all times for inspection by
law enforcement officers, public health officials and other officials whose
duties necessitate the acquisition of the information contained in the
register. The register record for each occupant registered therein shall not be
destroyed for a period of six years.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .530, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.248 PARK MANAGEMENT; BOARD OF HEALTH REPORT REQUIRED.
   The owner or operator shall file a report with the village giving the full
name, age and address of every person who is affected or suspected of being
affected with any reportable or communicable disease. The park management shall
notify the health authority immediately of any suspected communicable or
contagious disease within the park.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .540, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.249 PARK MANAGEMENT; LICENSE; POSTING; TRANSFER.
   The license certificate of occupancy shall be conspicuously posted in the
office of, or the premises of, the park subdivision or transient park at all
times. Operating licenses shall be nontransferable without the written consent
of the licensor. Each and every mobile home and travel trailer within a park
subdivision or transient park shall have displayed within it a certificate of
title. In addition, the mobile home or travel trailer owner and the park
subdivision or transient trailer park owner or operator shall comply with all
other provisions of the state motor vehicle law.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .550, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.250 PARK MANAGEMENT; SCHOOL BOARD REPORT.
   The owner or operator shall file a report with the local school board or
district on the first days of February and September wherein the mobile home
park subdivision is located, giving the names and ages of all school age
children living therein.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .560, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.251 PARK MANAGEMENT; COMPLIANCE WITH STATE REVENUE REGULATIONS.
   The owner or operator shall comply with all rules and regulations of the
State Department of Revenue.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .570, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.252 PARK OCCUPANTS; RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The park occupants shall comply with all applicable requirements of
the standards and shall maintain his or her mobile home lot, its facilities and
equipment in good repair and in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (B)   The park occupant shall be responsible for proper placement of his or
her mobile home on its mobile home stand and proper installation of all utility
connections in accordance with the instructions of the park management.
   (C)   Pets, if permitted in the park, shall be prohibited to run at large or
to commit any nuisance within the limits of any mobile home lot.
   (D)   Skirtings, porches, awnings and other additions shall be installed
only if permitted and approved by the park management. When installed, they
shall be maintained in good repair. The space immediately underneath a mobile
home shall be used for storage only if permitted by the park management. If
permitted, the following conditions shall be satisfied:
      (1)   The storage area shall be provided with a base of impervious
material;
      (2)   Stored items shall be located so as not to interfere with the
underneath inspection of the mobile home; and
      (3)   The storage area shall be enclosed by skirting.
   (E)   The park occupant shall store and dispose of all his or her rubbish
and garbage in a clean, sanitary and safe manner. The garbage container shall
be rodent-proof, insect-proof and watertight.
   (F)   First aid fire extinguishers for Classes B and C fires shall be kept
at the premises and maintained in working condition.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .580, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.253 PARKING AREAS.
   Paved parking areas for guests in a ratio of one space for every four
dwelling unit lots shall be provided.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .590, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.254 RECREATION FACILITIES.
   Recreation facilities, including but not limited to a swimming pool and
community meeting house, shall be provided.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .600, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.255 COMMUNITY SERVICE BUILDING.
   Where dependent trailers are situated within a park subdivision or transient
trailer park, a community service building shall be provided within 300 feet of
each mobile home or travel trailer site. Such building shall be conveniently
located, heated and lighted, and contain water closets and lavatories for each
sex, properly compartmented and partitioned with a minimum width of not less
than three feet, hot and cold water showers for each sex, and private dressing
room compartments of not less than three by four feet. All floors adequately
sloped for drainage, shall be waterproof as well as all walls which are subject
to water splash. Concrete curbing at least six inches in height shall be
installed throughout the building.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .610, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.256 SERVICES AND FACILITIES TO BE PROVIDED IN TRAVEL TRAILER TRANSIENT
PARKS.
   (A)   In travel trailer transient parks, the following shall be available:
      (1)   Heated toilet and shower facilities for men and women in a ratio of
one unit each for every 15 persons of each sex; and
      (2)   Cooking shelters and woodburning stoves and fireplaces in
convenient areas within the park area; all of which must be maintained in a
sanitary condition and kept in good repair.
   (B)   The following resident services may be made available to all mobile
home dwellers:
      (1)   Twenty-four hour custodial or caretaker service; and
      (2)   Restaurant and/or beauty parlor within the confines of the
management office building.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .620, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.257 MOBILE HOME STANDS.
   (A)   The area of the mobile home stand shall be improved to provide
adequate support for the placement and tie-down of the mobile home, thereby
securing the superstructure against uplift, sliding, rotation and overturning.
   (B)   The mobile home stand shall not heave, shift or settle unevenly under
the weight of the mobile home due to frost action, inadequate drainage,
vibration or other forces acting on the structure.
   (C)   The mobile home stand shall be provided with anchors and tie-downs
such as cast-in-place concrete dead men, eyelets imbedded in concrete
foundations or runways, screw augers, arrowhead anchors or other devices
securing the stability of the mobile home.
   (D)   Anchors and tie-downs shall be placed at least at each corner of the
mobile home stand and each shall be able to sustain a minimum tensile strength
of 2,800 pounds.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .630, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.258 ADMINISTRATION PROCEDURES.
   The divisions and allocation of land for the construction, location,
operation and expansion of both proposed and existing mobile home trailer park
subdivisions or travel trailer transient parks shall be governed by the
following procedures and the various design standards as specified in these
standards. The design standards shall be found and determined by the Planning
and Zoning Board to be a necessary element of these standards and essential to
accomplish the objectives of these regulations.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .640, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.259 COMMISSION APPROVAL REQUIRED WHEN.
   Approval of the Commission shall be obtained for the following:
   (A)   The establishment, construction, expansion or operation of an existing
mobile home park subdivision or travel trailer transient park; and
   (B)   Use of any mobile home as temporary living or office space while a
building or structure is under construction.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .650, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.260 SITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN; FILING.
   The applicant shall file with the Planning and Zoning Board a site
development plan and a supplementary statement containing the following
information:
   (A)   The name and address of the applicant, the owner, partners, corporate
officers (including present and last occupation), the engineer/surveyor
preparing the plat, and of the person proposed to supervise the facility;
   (B)   The location and legal description of the tract, the boundary lines,
their bearings and distance, a small sketch indicating the general vicinity,
location of adjoining streets and its relationship to the general area;
   (C)   The arrangement of lots in relation to each other and interior
streets; plans and specifications of existing and proposed buildings;
   (D)   Improvement plans, cross-sections and profiles for all utilities,
sewerage, streets, garbage and waste disposal, fire protection, lighting, and
parking areas proposed to be installed;
   (E)   Date, north point, scale not greater than 200 feet to the inch and
gross and net acreage;
   (F)   Freedom of the site from objectionable smoke, noxious odors and
unusual noise;
   (G)   Suitability of the site for the purpose intended insofar as soil,
ground water level, drainage and topography are concerned;
   (H)   Contour of five-foot intervals or less, if required;
   (I)   Proposed and existing facilities for a sanitary community building,
where needed, including a description of toilets, urinals, sinks, wash basins,
slop sinks, showers and drains; and
   (J)   Calendar months during which the applicant will operate the mobile
home park subdivision or travel trailer transient park.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .660, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.261 DECISIONS AND APPEALS.
   Following a final decision of the Planning and Zoning Board, an appeal may
be made to the Board of Appeals where it alleged there is an error in any
order, requirements, decision or determination in the enforcement of the
standards.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .670, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.262 LICENSE; REQUIRED; FEES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to operate any mobile home park within
the limits of the village unless he or she holds a valid license issued
annually by the health authority in the name of such person for the specific
mobile home park. All applications for licenses shall be made to the health
authority, who shall issue a license upon compliance by the applicant with
provisions of these standards.
   (B)   Every person holding a license shall give notice in writing to the
health authority within 24 hours after having sold, transferred, given away or
otherwise disposed of interest in or control of any mobile home park. Such
notice shall include the name and address of the person succeeding to the
ownership or control of such mobile home park. Upon application in writing for
transfer of the license and deposit of a fee of $100, the license shall be
transferred if the mobile home park is in compliance with all applicable
provisions of these standards.
   (C)   Application for original licenses shall be in writing, signed by the
applicant as to the truth of the application and by the deposit of a fee of
$500, and shall contain: the name and address of the applicant; the location
and legal description of the mobile home park, and a site plan of the mobile
home park showing all mobile home lots, structures, roads, walkways and other
service facilities.
   (D)   Applications for renewals of licenses shall be made in writing by the
holders of the licenses, shall be accompanied by the deposit of a fee of $500,
and shall contain any change in the information submitted since the original
license was issued or the latest renewal granted.
   (E)   Any person whose application for a license under these standards has
been denied may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the
proper authority under the procedure provided by these standards.
   (F)   Whenever, upon inspection of any mobile home park, the health
authority finds that conditions or practices exist which are in violation of
any provision of these standards, the health authority shall give notice in
writing to the person to whom the license was issued that unless such
conditions or practices are corrected within a reasonable period of time
specified in the notice by the health authority, the license shall be
suspended. At the end of such period, the health authority shall reinspect such
mobile home park and, if such conditions or practices have not been corrected,
he or she shall suspend the license and give notice in writing of such
suspension to the person whom the license was issued. Upon receipt of notice of
such suspension, such person shall cease operation of such mobile home park.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .680, passed 2-15-1999) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.263 INSPECTION OF MOBILE HOME PARKS; HEALTH AUTHORITY POWERS.
   (A)   The health authority is authorized and directed to make such
inspections as are necessary to determine satisfactory compliance with these
standards.
   (B)   The health authority shall have the power to enter at reasonable times
upon any private or public property for the purpose of inspecting and
investigating conditions relating to the enforcement of these standards.
   (C)   The health authority shall have the power to inspect the register
containing a record of all residents of the mobile home park.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the park management to give the health
authority free access to all lots at reasonable times for the purpose of
inspection.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of every occupant of a mobile home park to give
the owner thereof or his or her agent or employee access to any part of such
mobile home park as reasonable items for the purpose of making such repairs or
alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with these standards.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .690, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.264 DESIGN REVIEW STANDARDS.
   The proposed site development plan, together with the required statement of
supplementary information hereinabove specified shall be studied by the
Planning and Zoning Board and the Board shall determine whether the proposed
site development plan meets the following specified conditions.
   (A)   Such site development plan shall be laid out and developed as a unit,
in accordance with an integrated overall design.
   (B)   The location and arrangement for buildings, parking areas, walks,
lighting and appurtenant facilities shall be adjusted to the surrounding land
uses and any part of the site not used for buildings or other structures, or
for parking, or for roads or accessways, or recreation purposes, shall be
landscaped with grass, trees and shrubs.
   (C)   No signs or displays or advertising of merchandise for sale or
services offered in service shops shall be visible from outside of the building
or in the open area.
   (D)   Reasonable additional requirements as to landscaping, lighting,
screening, accessways, building setbacks and other site standards may be
imposed by the Planning and Zoning Board for the protection of all residential
property. Sanitary conditions as influenced by topography and drainage factors
shall be controlled so as to prevent the unhealthy accumulation of waters,
natural or waste, upon the site.
   (E)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall determine that the proposed site
development plan is consistent with good planning practice, consistent with
good site planning, can be operated in a manner that is not detrimental to
permitted uses in the surrounding area and is designed to promote the general
welfare of the village.
   (F)   Additions, alterations and expansions of mobile homes and travel
trailers shall be completed with fire resistant materials and be in compliance
with existing municipal building codes.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .700, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.265 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS; DEVELOPMENT.
   The following performance standards for subdivisions and their design shall
be developed as set forth herein.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .710, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.266 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS; RELATION TO LOT.
   There shall be private open areas on the lot related appropriately to its
functional areas. The lot shall be so shaped in scale as to provide for
reasonable alternatives for home placements. Moving the mobile home onto the
lot must, of course, be possible, but in subdivisions, the amount of movement
shall be limited. In subdivisions, provision for positioning of the unit on the
lot and for moving it out are only incidental to the total subdivision design.
Location of drives, parking areas, carports and garages must be on individual
mobile home lots or in the appropriate area. The parking area must be easy and
safe for entrance and convenience from all directions within the subdivision
and from the street or highway. Driveways and car shelters shall not be located
to interfere with desirable views from the mobile home or from important areas
on the site.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .720, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.267 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS; RELATION OF LOTS TO EACH OTHER.
   (A)   The mobile home as well as functional areas on individual lots shall
complement and supplement those on adjacent lots. Open areas shall flow onto
open areas enhancing primary views. Areas on one lot where it is desirable to
enclose the structures, vegetated screening or fences shall adjoin similar
areas on neighboring lots. Fronting to the inside of a subdivision block has
the definite advantages of providing a view potential, and providing a play
area for children. Facing the mobile home groupings inward improves the viewed,
unifies pedestrian ways and interrelates streets, drives, car storage, and
garbage and trash pickup functions.
   (B)   Interior areas within the mobile home groupings shall be designed to
encourage neighborliness. Interblock arrangements shall include easy access
from the entrances of mobile homes in the grouping.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .730, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.268 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS; SUBDIVISION PATTERN RELATION OF ELEMENTS.
   (A)   The general subdivision, built from mobile home groupings, shall fit
topography, requirements for circulation and requirements for provision of
community facilities and utilities. Areas for churches, schools, major parks
and community facilities shall be located appropriately with respect to the
population to be served. As appropriate, residential areas shall merge into or
be insulated from areas devoted to other purposes. They shall be insulated from
heavy traffic, concentration of parking, noise, lights, commercial and
industrial activities. They shall merge with parks or suitable areas.
   (B)   The street pattern shall serve, not shape the lots in the subdivision.
Lands devoted to streets shall be held to a minimum compatible with performance
of street related functions. Minor streets shall feed at well spaced intervals
and well-designed intersections into collector streets and arteries for fast
moving traffic.
   (C)   General site planning shall adapt to individual site conditions, the
type of market to be served, reflect advances in site planning techniques, and
be adapted to the trends and designs of the mobile home trailer court. A site
plan which conforms to and preserves terrain, existing trees, shrubs and rock
formation is highly preferred.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .740, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.269 SITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN; CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL.
   (A)   The proposed site development plan for a mobile home trailer park
subdivision or travel trailer transient park shall be studied by the Planning
and Zoning Board and must be found to conform to:
      (1)   The specified minimum site standards;
      (2)   The requirements for utilities, permanent facilities and resident
services; and
      (3)   The design review standards as specified in this subchapter.
   (B)   The Planning and Zoning Board must make a determination that the
proposed site development meets all of the precondition and design standards in
this subchapter prior to the issuance of a building permit by the Building
Inspector, and that all of the required facilities and utilities have been
installed by the park subdivision or transient trailer park developer prior to
the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .750, passed 2-15-1999)
BUSINESS DISTRICTS
§ 155.285 PURPOSE; INTENT.
   Business district regulations are intended to govern the locations and uses
of a full range of business and commercial establishments needed to serve the
citizens of the village and its trade area. The regulations of the various
business districts are designed to provide for groupings of business and
commercial establishments that are compatible in scope of services and method
of operations.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 11, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.286 DWELLING UNITS.
   Dwelling units and lodging rooms are not permitted in any business district
except in a permitted hotel, motel, resort, convent, monastery, parsonage or
rectory; as a conditional permitted use in the B2 Business District and the B3
Commercial District; or within a structure existing on the effective date of
the ordinance codified in this chapter.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 11, subs. .020, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.287 ENCLOSURE OF OPERATIONS.
   All business, servicing or processing shall be conducted, within completely
enclosed buildings except:
   (A)   Off-street parking or loading; and
   (B)   Drive-in type of operations and open sales lots when conducted as a
conditional permitted use in the B2 Business District and the B3 Commercial
District, or as a permitted use in the B3 Business District.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 11, subs. .030, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.288 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   All activities shall conform with the performance standards established for
the M1 Manufacturing District, and in every case shall be applied at the
boundaries of the lot on which such activities take place.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 11, subs. .040, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.289 PARKING LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Parking of trucks when accessory to the conduct of a permitted use
shall be limited to vehicles having not over one and one-half tons capacity,
except for pickup or delivery services during normal business hours.
   (B)   Trucks in excess of one and one-half tons capacity shall not be parked
in the open within 150 feet of a residence district boundary line unless
permitted within a specified permitted area established pursuant to the parking
provisions of this code and appropriate variance and/or waiver of the terms of
this section.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 11, subs. .050, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.290 SCOPE OF OPERATIONS.
   All business establishments shall be retail trade or service establishments
dealing directly with consumers, and all goods produced on the premises shall
be sold on the premises where produced except for specific uses in the B2
Central Shopping District and the B3 Commercial District where processing and
fabricating or wholesales are permitted.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 11, subs. .060, passed 2-15-1999)
B1 BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 155.305 PURPOSE; INTENT.
   The B1 Business District regulations are intended to provide areas and
govern uses therein for a range of shopper and personal service types of
establishments in order to serve the general shopping needs of a consumer
population that is located in one or more of the neighborhoods adjoining or in
the vicinity of the shopping district.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 12, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.306 PERMITTED USES.
   Permitted uses in the B1 Business District are:
   (A)   Antique shops;
   (B)   Art and school supply stores;
   (C)   Bakeries, retail sales where not more than 50% of the floor area may
be devoted to processing of goods, and goods so processed shall be sold only on
the premises;
   (D)   Banks and financial institutions;
   (E)   Barbershops and beauty parlors;
   (F)   Bookstores;
   (G)   Camera and photographic supply stores;
   (H)   Candy and ice cream stores;
   (I)   Carpet and rug stores;
   (J)   Catalogue sales office;
   (K)   Clothes pressing establishments;
   (L)   Clothing stores;
   (M)   Clubs or lodges, private, fraternal or religious;
   (N)   Drugstores;
   (O)   Dry-cleaning and laundry receiving stations, including self-service
coin-operated equipment;
   (P)   Dwelling units when located above the ground floor;
   (Q)   Flower shops;
   (R)   Food stores, meat and fish markets, and delicatessens;
   (S)   Furniture stores;
   (T)   Furrier shops;
   (U)   Garden supply store;
   (V)   Gift shops;
   (W)   Grocery store or supermarket;
   (X)   Hardware stores;
   (Y)   Hobby shops for retailing of items to be assembled or used away from
the premises;
   (Z)   Household appliance stores, including radio and television sales with
incidental repair facilities;
   (AA)   Interior decorating shops, including upholstery and making of
draperies, slipcovers, and other similar articles when conducted as part of the
retail operations and secondary to the principal use;
   (BB)   Investment institutions;
   (CC)   Jewelry stores;
   (DD)   Launderettes and hand laundries;
   (EE)   Leather goods and luggage stores;
   (FF)   Library;
   (GG)   Liquor stores, package;
   (HH)   Loan offices;
   (II)   Locksmith shops;
   (JJ)   Medical and dental clinics, including laboratories incidental
thereto;
   (KK)   Millinery shops;
   (LL)   Musical instrument sales and repair;
   (MM)   Music stores, photographs, photograph records and sheet music;
   (NN)   Newspaper offices, not including printing;
   (OO)   Newsstands;
   (PP)   Offices, professional, business, public or institutional;
   (QQ)   Paint and wallpaper stores;
   (RR)   Photography studios, including developing and printing of photographs
when conducted on the premises as part of the retail business;
   (SS)   Post offices;
   (TT)   Restaurants, which may include accessory cocktail lounges when the
restaurant has facilities for serving 50 or more persons at the same time;
   (UU)   Shoe stores;
   (VV)   Shoe and hat repair stores;
   (WW)   Sporting good stores;
   (XX)   Tailor shops;
   (YY)   Telephone booths;
   (ZZ)   Temporary buildings for construction purposes, for a period not to
exceed the duration of such construction;
   (AAA)   Toy stores;
   (BBB)   Variety stores;
   (CCC)   Vending machines; and
   (DDD)   Accessory uses to the above permitted uses, including but not
limited to off-street parking, off-street loading, and awnings, marquees and
business signs as regulated by this chapter.
   (EEE)   Tavern;
   (FFF)   Restaurant, where the principal business is serving food; and
   (GGG)   A combination of both a tavern and restaurant.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 12, subs. .020, passed 2-15-1999; Ord. 2020-04, passed
7-20-2020)
§ 155.307 CONDITIONAL PERMITTED USES.
   Conditional permitted uses in the B1 District are:
   (A)   Other business uses similar to permitted uses listed above;
   (B)   Public utility and governmental service uses, the location, width and
lot area of each use shall be as recommended by the Planning and Zoning Board
and approved by the Village Board;
   (C)   Schools, nursery, nonboarding, on a lot not less than 100 feet in
width and not less than 15,000 square feet in area;
   (D)   Theaters, indoor; provided that only the outer lobby has frontage on a
street;
   (E)   Undertaking establishments and funeral parlors, on a lot not less than
100 feet in width and not less than one acre in area;
   (F)   Accessory uses to the above permitted uses, including but not limited
to off-street parking, off-street loading, and awnings, marquees and business
signs as regulated by this chapter; and
   (G)   (1)   School bus garage and depot, an accessory building designed and
used for the storage, servicing, equipping or repairing of school buses or
school transportation vehicle, the location and use of which shall be as
recommended by the Zoning Board of Appeals and approved by the Village Board
after the required public hearing.
      (2)   The terms SCHOOL BUSES or SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION VEHICLES shall be
defined by the ordinance consistent with 65 ILCS 5/1-182 as every motor vehicle
owned and operated by or for any of the following entities for the
transportation of persons regularly enrolled as students in grade 12 or below
in connection with any activity of such entity: any public or private primary
or secondary school, any primary or secondary school operated by a religious
institution or any public, private or religious nursery school.
   (H)    ANIMAL SHELTER  means a not for profit corporation registered with
the state for the purpose of temporary accommodation of dogs and cats. Such
shelters may also provide secondary services such as an animal placement,
vaccination and other similar services.
   (I)   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization; except that the number of
adult-use cannabis dispensing organizations shall be limited to one within the
corporate limits of the village. No on-premises consumption of cannabis shall
be allowed for any adult-use cannabis dispensing organization.
   (J)   Medical cannabis dispensing organization; except that the number of
medical cannabis dispensing organizations shall be limited to one within the
corporate limits of the village.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 12, subs. .030, passed 2-15-1999; Ord. 2004-11, passed
6-21-2004; Ord. 2013-04, passed 5-13-2013; Ord. 2020-06, passed 9-21-2020)
§ 155.308 FLOOR AREA RATIO.
   Floor area ratio shall not exceed 0.0 for the total area under initial
unified development. If the development is subsequently divided into lots,
permitted floor expansion for each lot shall be specified upon the application
for a zoning certificate and recorded as a restrictive covenant.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 12, subs. .040, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.309 YARDS.
   (A)   Exterior boundary yards. Where property located within the B1 District
abuts streets, railroads, residence districts or manufacturing districts, the
following shall be provided:
      (1)   Along a street right-of-way, not less than 80 feet except that the
area extending from the yard line to within 15 feet of the street right-of-way
may be occupied by drives, vehicular parking, sidewalks, landscaping and
similar facilities (all area between the street right-of-way and yard line
which is not occupied by such facilities, including the 15 feet adjoining the
street right-of-way, shall be appropriately landscaped);
      (2)   Along railroad rights-of-way or other business districts, not less
than ten feet;
      (3)   Along manufacturing districts, not less than 20 feet; and
      (4)   Along residence district boundaries, not less than 35 feet which
shall be maintained as landscaped area.
   (B)   Interior yards. No other yards are required; however, if a yard is
provided, it shall be not less than ten feet in width.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 12, subs. .050, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.310 AWNINGS, MARQUEES AND SIGNS; PERMITTED WHEN.
   (A)   Awnings, marquees and non-flashing illuminated business signs with no
moving parts are permitted subject to applicable regulations set forth in other
ordinances of the village and the regulations set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   Flashing signs are permitted, but there shall only be one per business
establishment and there shall not be more than 15 flashing bulbs for each side
of the sign. The flashing parts of the sign shall not constitute more than 25%
of the entire area of the sign. All of the flashing signs shall be subject to
the applicable regulations set forth in other ordinances of the village and the
regulations set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 12, subs. .060, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.311 AWNINGS, MARQUEES AND SIGNS; RED, GREEN AND AMBER ILLUMINATION
PROHIBITED.
   A sign in direct line of vision of any traffic signal shall not have red,
green or amber illumination.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 12, subs. .070, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.312 AWNINGS, MARQUEES AND SIGNS; GROSS AREA SPECIFICATIONS.
   The gross area in square feet of all signs on a lot shall not exceed three
times the linear feet of street frontage of such lot, and no single ground sign
shall exceed 300 square feet in area. On a corner or through lot, each lot line
adjoining a street shall be considered a separate lot line.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 12, subs. .080, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.313 AWNINGS, MARQUEES AND SIGNS; GROUND SIGNS.
   One ground sign facing each street which identifies the occupant and a
bulletin area for advertising special features therein may be erected in
addition to the sign affixed to the building walls. Such ground sign shall be
not less than ten feet from any lot line and have a gross surface area of not
more than 300 square feet. In a planned development or shopping center, the
gross surface area of the ground sign may be in addition to the maximum gross
surface area as permitted in this chapter.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 12, subs. .090, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.314 AWNINGS, MARQUEES AND SIGNS; PROJECTION.
   A sign affixed to a building shall not project higher than five feet above
building height. A ground sign shall not project higher than 30 feet above the
grade below it, provided that the sign will not interfere with the use of
development of nearby residential areas, and when located within 50 feet of the
intersection of two or more streets, it shall have its lowest level not less
than eight feet above the grade below it, and when located within three feet of
driveway it shall have the lowest level not less than 12 feet above the grade
below it.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 12, subs. .100, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.315 AWNINGS, MARQUEES AND SIGNS; ADVERTISING SIGN STRUCTURES.
   One advertising sign structure may be erected on each street frontage of a
lot, providing that the full face of the sign can be viewed along the line of
travel to which it is exposed for a distance of at least 250 feet along the
centerline of the frontage street measured from a point opposite the center of
the sign and perpendicular to the street’s centerline and provided the
following standards are adhered to:
   (A)   Each advertising sign structure shall contain not more than two
display surfaces and have a total length and height of not more than such
dimension necessary to secure two standardized poster panel display surfaces 15
feet by 25 feet or a standardized painted bulletin display surface 15 feet by
55 feet, except that advertising signs located along interstate highways may be
increased in size, but the overall display surface shall not exceed 1,600
square feet;
   (B)   Each advertising sign shall be located not closer to the abutting
street or highway than the minimum setback requirements of the prevailing
district and not less than 100 feet from the nearest property line of a
residence or institutional building;
   (C)   Roof signs are not permitted, except that signs on roofs which are
normally required for aviation direction or safety are permitted; and
   (D)   Signs shall be designed and constructed to withstand wind pressures of
not less than 30 pounds per square foot.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 12, subs. .110, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.316 AWNINGS, MARQUEES AND SIGNS; CONSTANT ILLUMINATION.
   Signs may have constant illumination provided direct rays of light shall not
beam upon an existing dwelling, nor into a residence district, nor into a
street. No rotating beam or beacon resembling an emergency light shall be used.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 12, subs. .120, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.317 AWNINGS, MARQUEES AND SIGNS; TIME AND TEMPERATURE SIGNS.
   A sign whereon the time and/or temperature is indicated by intermittent
lighting shall not be deemed to be a flashing sign if the lighting changes are
limited to the numerals indicating the time and/or temperature and are not more
frequent than every ten seconds.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 12, subs. .130, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.318 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   Off-street parking and off-street loading shall be in accordance with
regulations set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 12, subs. .140, passed 2-15-1999)
B2 CENTRAL SHOPPING DISTRICT
§ 155.330 PURPOSE.
   The B2 Business District regulations are designed to accommodate prime
retail trade activities of village wide and regional significance, located
primarily within the core of the village’s downtown area. Regulations provide
for a wide variety of related shopper type business establishments along with
personal service and other complementary uses, characteristic of major shopping
centers.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 13, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.331 PERMITTED USES.
   Permitted uses in the B2 Central Shopping District are:
   (A)   Any of the permitted uses in the B1 District;
   (B)   Art galleries;
   (C)   Automobile accessory stores when there are no driveways across the
street or sidewalk into the principal or accessory building;
   (D)   Book and stationery stores;
   (E)   Business machine sales and service;
   (F)   China and glassware stores;
   (G)   Coin shops;
   (H)   Currency exchanges;
   (I)   Department stores;
   (J)   Dry goods stores;
   (K)   Fraternal, philanthropic and eleemosynary institutions;
   (L)   Frozen food stores, including locker rental in conjunction therewith;
   (M)   Furrier shops, including the incidental storage and conditioning of
furs;
   (N)   Hotels, including dining and meeting rooms;
   (O)   Laboratories, medical, dental or optical;
   (P)   Libraries, public or private;
   (Q)   Mail order service stores;
   (R)   Office supply stores;
   (S)   Pawnshops;
   (T)   Picture framing;
   (U)   Radio and television broadcasting studios;
   (V)   Residential structures existing on the effective date of the ordinance
codified in this chapter;
   (W)   Taverns;
   (X)   Ticket agencies and travel bureaus;
   (Y)   Tobacco shops;
   (Z)   Vending machines when located within an enclosed building; and
   (AA)   Accessory uses customarily incidental to the above permitted uses,
including but not limited to the following: off-street parking; off-street
loading; and awnings and marquees, as regulated by this chapter.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 13, subs. .020, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.332 CONDITIONAL PERMITTED USES.
   Conditional permitted uses in the B2 District are:
   (A)   Other uses similar to permitted uses in this district;
   (B)   Any of the conditional permitted uses in the B1 District;
   (C)   Automobile sales establishments only for authorized new passenger
automobile sales agencies and accessory open sales lots and public garage,
provided vehicular access to open sales lot and public garage is from an alley
or service drive at the rear lot line;
   (D)   Catering establishments when located above the ground floor;
   (E)   Churches, temples and synagogues;
   (F)   Clubs or lodges, private, fraternal or religious when located above
the first floor;
   (G)   Convents, monasteries, rectories or parsonages, as accessory to
churches, temples and synagogues;
   (H)   Garages, storage or off-street parking lots or structures, commercial
or municipal;
   (I)   Home center, retail lumberyards;
   (J)   Meeting halls when located above the ground floor;
   (K)   Newspaper offices and printing and publishing;
   (L)   Restaurants, including live entertainment and dancing;
   (M)   Restricted production and repair, limited to the following:
needlework; clothing, such as custom manufacturing and alterations; jewelry
from precious metals; watches; dentures; and optical lenses, when located above
the ground floor;
   (N)   Schools, commercial or trade, including those teaching music, dancing,
business, commercial, or technical subjects when operations do not involve
danger of fire and explosion, and objectionable noise, vibration, smoke, dust,
odor, glare, heat or other similar influences; and
   (O)   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization; except that the number of
adult-use cannabis dispensing organizations shall be limited to one within the
corporate limits of the village. No on-premises consumption of cannabis shall
be allowed for any adult-use cannabis dispensing organization;
   (P)   Medical cannabis dispensing organization; except that the number of
medical cannabis dispensing organizations shall be limited to one within the
corporate limits of the village; and
   (Q)   Accessory uses customarily incidental to the above conditional
permitted uses, including but not limited to the following:
      (1)   Off-street parking;
      (2)   Off-street loading;
      (3)   Drive-in facilities; and
      (4)   Awnings and marquees are regulated by this chapter.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 13, subs. .030, passed 2-15-1999; Ord. 2020-06, passed
9-21-2020)
§ 155.333 BUILDING HEIGHT.
   There are no height limitations in the B2 District.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 13, subs. .040, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.334 FLOOR AREA RATIO.
   Floor area ratio in the B2 District shall not exceed 2.5, except where
public open areas as described in this chapter are provided on the lot in
excess of 10% of the area of the lot, the floor area ratio may be increased by
0.5 for each additional 5% of the lot reserved as public open area.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 13, subs. .050, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.335 YARDS AND OTHER OPEN AREAS.
   Yards and other open area requirements shall be:
   (A)   Front. No yard requirements;
   (B)   Side. No yard requirements; except if a yard is provided, it shall not
be less than five feet in width;
   (C)   Rear. No yard requirements; except where the rear lot line adjoins a
residence district, a rear yard not less than 25 feet in depth shall be
provided, and be maintained as landscaped area; and
   (D)   Open areas. An area equivalent to 10% of the area of the lot shall be
maintained as public open area. Such open area shall:
      (1)   Have frontage on all or a part of a lot line adjoining a street,
but not less than ten feet along such frontage;
      (2)   Be unobstructed from the ground to the sky, except an open area
having a depth of not greater than 25 feet in back of the lot line adjoining a
street may be unobstructed from the ground to not less than the height of the
floor of the second story of the building; and
      (3)   Be paved for pedestrian use or landscaped.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 13, subs. .060, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.336 AWNINGS, MARQUEES AND SIGNS.
   Awnings, marquees and signs shall be permitted and regulated as set forth in
the B1 zoning regulations, and said regulations are hereby incorporated in
total by reference.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 13, subs. .070, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.337 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   Off-street parking and loading shall be in accordance with the regulations
set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 13, subs. .080, passed 2-15-1999)
B3 COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 155.350 PURPOSE.
   The B3 Commercial District classification is established to accommodate a
wide range of specialized commercial and business uses including highway
oriented service and commercial types of establishments to serve a trade area
embracing a large segment of the region.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 14, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.351 PERMITTED USES.
   Permitted uses in the B3 District are:
   (A)   Any of the permitted uses in the B2 District;
   (B)   Amusement establishments, bowling alleys, gymnasiums, swimming pools,
ice skating rinks and other recreation uses as approved by the Village Board;
   (C)   Animal hospital;
   (D)   Auction rooms;
   (E)   Automobile accessory stores;
   (F)   Automobile sales establishments;
   (G)   Automobile service stations on a lot not less than 10,000 square feet
in area;
   (H)   Bakeries, including sale of bakery products to restaurants, clubs,
hotels, institutions and similar establishments;
   (I)   Banks and other financial establishments, excluding drive-in
facilities;
   (J)   Blueprinting and photostating establishments;
   (K)   Boat sales and service establishments;
   (L)   Building material sales with outdoor storage, when the area for
outside storage is completely surrounded by a uniformly painted solid fence or
wall not over eight feet in height and no storage shall project higher than the
height of the fence or wall;
   (M)   Car wash facility on a lot not less than 20,000 square feet in area
and not less than 100 feet in width;
   (N)   Catering establishments;
   (O)   Clothing and costume rental stores;
   (P)   Clubs or lodges, private, fraternal or religious;
   (Q)   Contractors’ offices and shops;
   (R)   Dry cleaning and laundry establishments;
   (S)   Farm implement sales and display and construction equipment sales;
   (T)   Feed stores;
   (U)   Fraternal, philanthropic and eleemosynary institutions;
   (V)   Frozen food lockers;
   (W)   Fuel and ice retail sales establishments with outside storage,
provided liquid fuels are stored in underground tanks;
   (X)   Garages, storage or off-street parking lots and structures,
commercial;
   (Y)   Garages, including painting, body and fender work and motor
rebuilding;
   (Z)   Greenhouses, garden centers and nurseries, retail and wholesale sales;
   (AA)   Highway maintenance shops and yards;
   (BB)   Household appliances stores and repair shops;
   (CC)   Linen, towel or diaper service establishments;
   (DD)   Live bait stores;
   (EE)   Machinery and equipment sales establishments;
   (FF)   Machine, sheet metal or welding shops, provided a building for such a
use shall contain not more than 5,000 square feet of floor area, and operations
are within the enclosed building, and glare from welding operations is not
visible from outside the building;
   (GG)   Mail order houses, order and service centers;
   (HH)   Meat markets, including sale of meats to restaurants, clubs, hotels,
institutions and similar establishments;
   (II)   Meeting halls, convention or exhibition halls;
   (JJ)   Mobile homes and trailer sales establishments;
   (KK)   Model homes or garage display and sales;
   (LL)   Monument sales;
   (MM)   Motels and hotels;
   (NN)   Motor vehicle sales establishments;
   (OO)   Newspaper distribution agencies, for home delivery and retail trade;
   (PP)   Newspaper offices, including printing;
   (QQ)   Offices, general;
   (RR)   Open sales lots;
   (SS)   Packing and crating establishments;
   (TT)   Parcel delivery stations;
   (UU)   Parks, athletic fields and stadiums;
   (VV)   Pet shops;
   (WW)   Plumbing, electrical or heating, fixture and equipment, sales,
service and repair establishments;
   (XX)   Printing, publishing or lithography establishments, maximum gross
floor area of 6,000 square feet;
   (YY)   Public utility and governmental service uses;
   (ZZ)   Research laboratories;
   (AAA)   Residential structures existing on the effective date of the
ordinance codified in this chapter;
   (BBB)   Restaurants, including entertainment and serving of alcoholic
beverages;
   (CCC)   Schools, commercial or trade, including those teaching music,
dancing, business or technical subjects;
   (DDD)   Secondhand stores and rummage shops;
   (EEE)   Taxidermists;
   (FFF)   Theaters, but not including outdoor theaters;
   (GGG)   Taverns;
   (HHH)   Training centers, engineering or sales;
   (III)   Undertaking establishments and funeral parlors;
   (JJJ)   Wholesale and warehouse establishments, except for the sales or
storage of flammable liquids, materials or gases, except those that are in the
original sealed containers; and
   (KKK)   Accessory uses customarily incidental to the above permitted uses,
including but not limited to off-street parking, off-street loading and
business signs as regulated by this chapter.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 14, subs. .020, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.352 CONDITIONAL PERMITTED USES.
   Conditional permitted uses in the B3 District are:
   (A)   Other uses similar to the above permitted uses;
   (B)   Any of the conditional permitted uses in the B2 District;
   (C)   Advertising or billboard signs;
   (D)   Amusement establishments outdoors, par 3, immature or pitch and putt
golf courses, golf driving ranges, rebound tumbling (trampoline) centers and
similar recreation facilities as approved by the Village Board, on a lot not
less than 20,000 square feet in area;
   (E)   Cartage, express and parcel delivery establishments, not including
motor freight terminals, on a lot not less than one acre in area;
   (F)   Drive-in establishments including banks, restaurant and other uses
customarily providing drive-in facilities except theaters, location or
vehicular ingress and egress and number and location of spaces for parking of
automobiles of customers being served or waiting to be served shall be as
approved by the Planning and Zoning Board;
   (G)   Go-cart tracks, installed in accordance with other ordinances and
codes of the village, on a lot not less than one acre in area;
   (H)   Heliports, on a location recommended by the Planning and Zoning Board
and approved by other governmental bodies having jurisdiction;
   (I)   Railroad rights-of-way;
   (J)   Single-family dwellings when designed as an integral part of a
building, the principal use of which is a permitted or conditional permitted
use, and when occupied by the proprietor of such use;
   (K)   Theaters, outdoor; provided that vehicular entrance and exit driveways
intersect with a secondary or primary thoroughfare and traffic signal lights or
other means of traffic control are provided. Reservoir parking spaces for
temporary parking and automobiles of patrons awaiting entrance shall be
provided on the lot, in an amount equivalent to 10% of the vehicular capacity
of the theater. The lot shall be enclosed on all sides by a wall, fence or
densely planted hedge not less than six feet or more than eight feet in height.
No building or structure, including also the enclosing fences on the lot shall
be nearer than 50 feet from a residential lot line except when a greater
setback from a street may be required. Artificial illumination shall be
arranged in such a manner that direct rays of light shall not beam upon
adjoining properties and streets, and no central outdoor loudspeaker shall be
permitted;
   (L)   Accessory uses customarily incidental to the above conditional
permitted uses, including but not limited to off-street parking, off-street
loading and business signs as regulated by this chapter;
   (M)   Signs, advertising, as regulated by this chapter, are included in the
conditional permitted use list;
   (N)   Single-family dwelling when a single-family dwelling existed on the
premises when zoning went into effect and was subsequently destroyed; and
   (O)   Radio and television stations and towers, transmitting and receiving.
   (P)   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization; except that the number of
adult-use cannabis dispensing organizations shall be limited to one within the
corporate limits of the village. No on-premises consumption of cannabis shall
be allowed for any adult-use cannabis dispensing organization; and
   (Q)   Medical cannabis dispensing organization; except that the number of
medical cannabis dispensing organizations shall be limited to one within the
corporate limits of the village.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 14, subs. .030, passed 2-15-1999; Ord. 2006-7, passed 6-
19-2006; Ord. 2007-5, passed 4-16-2007; Ord. 2020-06, passed 9-21-2020)
§ 155.353 LOT AREA; LOT WIDTH.
   Lot area and lot width requirements shall be not less than 15,000 square
feet in area and 100 feet in width, except as may herein otherwise be required
for a specific permitted or conditional permitted use.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 14, subs. .040, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.354 BUILDING HEIGHT.
   There are no height limitations in the B3 District.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 14, subs. .050, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.355 FLOOR AREA RATIO.
   (A)   The floor area ratio in the R1 District shall be:
      (1)   Residential uses, not applicable;
      (2)   All other permitted or conditional uses; the total floor area of
all buildings or structures shall not exceed 25% of the total area of the
zoning lot, including accessory structures.
   (B)   The floor area ratio in the R2 District: Not more than 40% of the
total area of zoning lot, including accessory structures.
   (C)   The floor area ratio in the B1 District shall be:
      (1)   Floor area ratio shall not exceed .03 for the total area under
initial unified development.
      (2)   If the development is subsequently divided into lots, permitted
floor expansion for each lot shall be specified upon the application for a
zoning certificate and recorded as a restrictive covenant.
   (D)   The floor area ratio in the B2 District: Shall not exceed two and one-
half, except where public open areas are provided on the lot in excess of 10%
of the area of the lot, the floor area ratio may be increased by 0.5 for each
additional 5% of the lot reserved as public open area.
   (E)   The floor area in the B3 District: Shall not exceed 1.0.
   (F)   The floor area in the B4 District: Shall not exceed 0.8.
   (G)   The floor area in the M1 District: Shall not exceed 0.6.
   (H)   The floor area in the M2 District: Shall not exceed.65.
   (I)   The floor area in the M3 District: Shall not exceed 0.8.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 14, subs. .060, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.356 YARDS.
   Yard requirements shall be as follows.
   (A)   Front yard. Not less than 40 feet in depth, except when lots of record
existing on the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter have a
lot depth of less than 150 feet, the front yard shall be not less than 20 feet
in depth.
   (B)   Side yards. Two side yards, neither of which is less than ten feet in
width, except:
      (1)   A side yard adjoining or across the alley from a residence district
shall be not less than 20 feet in width; and
      (2)   A side yard adjoining a street shall be the same as the required
front yard.
   (C)   Rear yard. Not less than 40 feet in depth, except when lots of record
existing on the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter have a
lot depth of less than 150 feet, the rear yard shall be not less than 20 feet
in depth.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 14, subs. .070, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.357 AWNINGS, MARQUEES AND SIGNS.
   All marquees and signs shall be permitted and regulated as set forth in the
B1 zoning regulations, and said regulations are hereby incorporated by
reference.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 14, subs. .080, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.358 ADVERTISING OR BILLBOARD SIGNS.
   (A)   Advertising or billboard signs shall be a conditionally permitted use
only in a B3 Commercial Zoning District, provided that such signs have no
moving parts, and shall also conform with the following additional regulations.
      (1)   Spacing.  No advertising or billboard sign shall be located nearer
than 3,000 feet from another advertising or billboard sign.
      (2)   Area. Each advertising or billboard sign shall not have more than
two display surfaces (one on each side) nor shall the surface area of each
panel exceed 800 square feet for each such display surface.
      (3)   Location. No advertising or billboard sign shall be nearer than 50
feet from the lot line, nor nearer than 100 feet from a residential district
boundary line. No part of the sign structure, including the overhang, shall be
located on a state or village right-of-way.
      (4)   Illumination.
         (a)   Advertising or billboard signs may have constant illumination,
provided direct rays of light shall not beam upon any existing dwelling, nor
into a residential district or into a street. All lighting shall be located at
the bottom of the sign panel and shall be directed upward. No lighting shall be
directed in a downward direction. No rotating light or beacon resembling an
emergency light shall be used.
         (b)   An advertising or billboard sign where the time and/or
temperature is indicated by intermittent lighting shall not be deemed to be a
flashing sign if the lighting changes are limited to the numerals indicating
the time and/or temperature and are not more frequent than ten seconds.
      (5)   Height. No advertising or billboard sign shall have an overall sign
panel height of not less than 30 feet and not greater than 60 feet.
      (6)   Electric service. Any electric service line which supplies power to
an advertising or billboard sign shall be placed in rigid metal conduit and
shall otherwise comply with the Village Building Code and National Electrical
Code.
   (B)   All advertising or billboard signs shall require the issuance of a
village building permit prior to initiating construction and shall also be
subject to building inspections. All advertising or billboard signs located
along a state right-of-way shall also require the issuance of a sign permit
from the State Department of Transportation.
   (C)   Any other regulations in this Village Zoning Code which allows an
advertising or billboard sign in any other zoning district other than a B3
Commercial District are hereby repealed. Advertising or billboard signs shall
only be allowed as a conditional permitted use in a B3 Commercial Zoning
District.
(Ord. 2006-7, passed 6-19-2006)
§ 155.359 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   Off-street parking and off-street loading shall be in accordance with
regulations set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 14, subs. .090, passed 2-15-1999)
B4 COMMERCIAL-RECREATION DISTRICT
§ 155.370 PURPOSE; INTENT.
   The B4 Commercial-Recreation District regulations are intended to provide
for the orderly, compatible development and operations of buildings and
structures and the uses thereof or the uses of land where no buildings are
involved for such specialized uses as will provide for maximum utilization of
the recreation potential of lands adjoining suitable natural features.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 15, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.371 PERMITTED USES.
   Permitted uses in the B4 Commercial-Recreation District shall be as follows:
   (A)   Agriculture, provided on a tract of land not less than 20 acres in
area;
   (B)   Clubs, lodges and fraternities which may have outdoor recreation
facilities for boating, swimming, tennis, golf, skiing, fishing and similar
activities; provided that buildings, other than detached buildings containing
only dwelling units or lodging rooms, are not located nearer than 100 feet from
a lot line; and further provided that the principal activity is not one carried
on as a business;
   (C)   Clubhouses and facilities for equestrian sports; provided that
buildings and seating facilities for spectators are not nearer than 100 feet
from a lot line;
   (D)   Golf driving ranges, provided the clubhouse and maintenance buildings
are located not less than 100 feet from a lot line and artificial lighting for
night play installation is approved by the Village Board after receiving the
recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Board;
   (E)   Hotels and motels;
   (F)   Resorts, which may contain the following uses set forth below:
      (1)   Dwelling units and lodging rooms for guests and employees of the
resort;
      (2)   Indoor recreation facilities for use only by guests of the resort
when located in the principal building or detached recreation building or
clubhouse as follows: swimming pools, ice skating rinks, tennis courts,
gymnasiums, theaters, bowling alleys and other indoor recreation facilities as
approved by the Village Board after receiving the recommendation of the
Planning and Zoning Board; and
      (3)   Outdoor recreation facilities, boating, swimming, fishing, ice
skating, skiing, basketball, softball, volleyball, tennis courts, golf courses
(standard, par 3, pitch and putt or miniature), theaters and other outdoor
recreation facilities as approved by the Village Board after receiving the
recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Board.
   (G)   Parks and playgrounds, public, including recreation building, bathing
beaches and piers, and boat landing facilities;
   (H)   Riding academies, provided buildings for shelter of horses are located
not less than 200 feet from a lot line;
   (I)   Schools, public, elementary, junior high or high; and
   (J)   Accessory uses including off-street parking and off-street loading and
when accessory to hotels, motels, clubhouses, resorts and lodges and located
within the principal buildings, such uses as restaurants with cocktail lounges,
gift shops, beauty parlors and barbershops.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 15, subs. .020, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.372 CONDITIONAL PERMITTED USES.
   Conditional permitted uses in the B4 District shall be as follows:
   (A)   Amusement establishments, bowling alleys, billiard parlors,
gymnasiums, swimming pools, ice skating rinks, miniature or pitch and putt golf
courses, and clubs and recreation centers containing one or more of the above
uses and other recreation uses as approved by the Village Board after receiving
the recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Board;
   (B)   Marinas, private or semipublic, not less than 100 feet of frontage on
a river or lake and including boat storage and incidental service facilities
and clubhouses or recreation buildings which may include accessory uses as set
forth herein under accessory uses to permitted uses in this district, on a lot
not less than 40,000 square feet in area;
   (C)   Parks and playgrounds, private or semipublic, including recreation
buildings, bathing beaching and piers on a tract of land not less than ten
acres in area; and
   (D)   Schools, boarding or lodging, nursery, elementary, junior high or high
on a tract of land not less than five acres in area for nursery, eight acres
for elementary and 25 acres for junior high and high schools.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 15, subs. .030, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.373 LOT AREA.
   Except as may herein otherwise be required for a specific permitted or
conditional permitted use, lot area shall not be less than five acres in area.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 15, subs. .040, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.374 LOT WIDTH.
   Lot width shall be not less than 200 feet in width, except as may be herein
otherwise regulated for a specific permitted or conditional permitted use.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 15, subs. .050, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.375 BUILDING HEIGHT.
   There are no height limitations in the B4 District.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 15, subs. .060, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.376 FLOOR AREA RATIO.
   Floor area ratio in the B4 District shall not exceed 0.8.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 15, subs. .070, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.377 YARDS.
   Except as may be herein otherwise regulated for a specific permitted or
conditional permitted use, yards shall be provided as follows:
   (A)   Front yard. Not less than 40 feet in depth;
   (B)   Side yards. Two side yards, neither of which is less than 20 feet in
width, except a side yard adjoining a street, not less than 40 feet in width;
and
   (C)   Rear yard. Not less than 50 feet in depth.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 15, subs. .080, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.378 AWNINGS, MARQUEES AND SIGNS.
   All marquees and signs shall be permitted and regulated as set forth in the
B1 zoning regulations, and said regulations are hereby incorporated by
reference.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 15, subs. .090, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.379 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   Off-street parking and off-street loading shall be in accordance with
regulations set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 15, subs. .100, passed 2-15-1999)
MANUFACTURING DISTRICTS
§ 155.390 PURPOSE; INTENT.
   The regulations for manufacturing districts are designed to provide for the
establishment of a full range of industrial and allied activities and to govern
their operations in a manner that will not have a deleterious effect on
agricultural, residential and business areas. It is essential that there are
adequate provisions for the expansion of industry, both those existing today
and for attracting a diversification of new industry. Adequate industrial sites
and industrial expansion will create growth and development of the village’s
economic and tax base and provide a variety of employment for its labor force.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 16, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.391 PROHIBITED USES.
   No activities involving the manufacture of materials or products which
decompose by detonation shall be permitted in the M1 and M2 districts. Such
materials shall include but shall not be limited to all primary explosives such
as lead azide, lead styphnate, fulminates and tetracene; all high explosives
such as TNT, RDX, HMX PETN and picric acid; propellants and components thereof
such as nitrocellulose, black powder, boron hydrides, hydrazine and its
derivatives; pyrotechnics and fireworks such as magnesium powder, potassium
chlorate and potassium nitrate; blasting explosives such as dynamite and
nitroglycerine; unstable organic compounds such as acetylides, tetrazoles and
ozonides; strong oxidizing agents such as liquid oxygen, percholoric acid,
perchlorates, chlorates and hydrogen peroxide in concentrations greater than
35%; and nuclear fuels, fissionable materials and products, and reactor
elements such as uranium 235 and plutonium 239.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 16, subs. .020, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.392 OPERATIONS WITHIN ENCLOSED BUILDINGS.
   (A)   M1 Manufacturing District. All activities involving the manufacturing,
fabricating, processing, assembling, disassembling, repairing, cleaning,
servicing, testing and storing of materials, products, and goods shall be
conducted within completely enclosed buildings.
   (B)   M2 and M3 Manufacturing Districts. All activities involving the
manufacturing, fabricating, processing, assembling, disassembling, repairing,
cleaning, servicing, testing and storing of materials, products and goods shall
be within completely enclosed buildings, or if outdoors, effectively screened
by a solid wall, uniformly painted solid fence or chain link fence with dense
plantings of trees and shrubs; and provided the open storage is not of a
greater height than that of the enclosing fence or wall. This section shall not
prohibit shipping and receiving activities that do not exceed four hours.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 16, subs. .030, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.393 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS; COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Any use established in the manufacturing districts after the effective
date of the ordinance codified in this chapter shall be so operated as to
comply with the performance standards governing noise, vibration, smoke and
particulate matter, toxic matter, odorous matter, fire and explosive hazards,
glare and radiation hazards as set forth in this chapter for the district in
which such use shall be located.
   (B)   Uses already established on the effective date of the ordinance
codified in this chapter shall be permitted to be altered, enlarged, expanded
or modified, provided that the additions or changes comply with the performance
standards.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 16, subs. .040, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.394 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS; NOISE.
   (A)   For the purpose of measuring the intensity and frequency of sound, the
sound level meter, the octave band analyzer and the impact noise analyzer shall
be employed.
   (B)   The flat network and the fast meter response of the sound level meter
shall be used. Sounds of very short duration, as from forge hammers, punch
presses and metal shears which cannot be measured accurately with the sound
level meter shall be measured with the impact noise analyzer.
   (C)   Octave band analyzers calibrated in the Preferred Frequencies
(American Standards Association S1.6 - 1960, Preferred Frequencies for
Acoustical Measurements) shall be used in the table headed “Octave Band,
Preferred Frequencies.” Octave band analyzers calibrated with the pre-1960
octave bands (American Standards Association Z24.10 -1953, Octave Band Filter
Set) shall be used with the tables headed “Octave Band, Pre-1960.”
   (D)   The following uses and activities shall be exempt from the noise level
regulations:
      (1)   Noises not directly under the control of the property user;
      (2)   Noises emanating from construction and maintenance activities
between 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.;
      (3)   The noises of safety signals, warning devices and emergency
pressure relief valves; and
      (4)   Transient noises of moving sources such as automobiles, trucks,
airplanes and railroads.
   (E)   The decibel values specified for residence districts shall be reduced
by six decibels between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
   (F)   (1)   In the M1 District, the generation of noise shall not exceed the
decibel limits prescribed below.
Maximum Permitted Sound Levels in Decibels (Re. 0002 Microbar)
Octave Band Pre-1960 (Cycles per Second) Neighboring Lot Residence District
Maximum Permitted Sound Levels in Decibels (Re. 0002 Microbar)
Octave Band Pre-1960 (Cycles per Second) Neighboring Lot Residence District
20 - 75                                  79              72
75 - 150                                 74              67
150 - 300                                66              59
300 - 600                                59              52
600 - 1,200                              53              46
1,200 - 2,400                            47              40
2,400 - 4,800                            41              34
above                                    39              32
 
Octave Band Preferred Frequencies (Cycles Neighboring Lot Residence District
per Second)
Octave Band Preferred Frequencies (Cycles Neighboring Lot Residence District
per Second)
31.5                                      83              76
63                                        78              71
125                                       72              65
250                                       64              57
500                                       57              50
1,000                                     51              50
2,000                                     46              39
4,000                                     41              34
8,000                                     38              32
 
      (2)   Impact noises measured on an impact noise analyzer shall not exceed
the following peak intensities:
 
             Neighboring Lot Residence District
Overall peak 86              80
 
   (G)   (1)   In the M2 District, the generation of noise shall not exceed the
decibel limits prescribed below:
Maximum Permitted Sound Levels in Decibels (Re. 0002 Microbar)
Octave Band Pre-1960 (Cycles per Second) Neighboring Lot Residence District
Maximum Permitted Sound Levels in Decibels (Re. 0002 Microbar)
Octave Band Pre-1960 (Cycles per Second) Neighboring Lot Residence District
20 - 75                                  82              72
75 - 150                                 77              67
150 - 300                                69              59
300 - 600                                62              52
600 - 1,200                              56              46
1,200 - 2,400                            50              40
2,400 - 4,800                            44              34
4,800 - 10KC                             42              32
 
Octave Band Preferred Frequencies (Cycles Neighboring Lot Residence District
per Second)
Octave Band Preferred Frequencies (Cycles Neighboring Lot Residence District
per Second)
31.5                                      86              76
63                                        81              71
125                                       75              65
250                                       67              57
500                                       60              50
1,000                                     54              45
2,000                                     49              39
4,000                                     44              34
8,000                                     41              32
 
      (2)   Impact noises measured on an impact noise analyzer shall not exceed
the following peak intensities in decibels:
 
             Neighboring Lot Residence District
Overall peak 90              80
 
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 16, subs. .050, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.395 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS; VIBRATION.
   (A)   In all manufacturing districts, no activity or operation shall cause
or create earthborne vibrations in excess of the displacement values given in
division (C) of this section.
   (B)   Measurements shall be made at or beyond the adjacent lot line or the
nearest residence district boundary line, as described below. Vibration
displacements shall be measured with an instrument or complement of instruments
capable of simultaneously measuring in three mutually perpendicular directions.
The maximum vector resultant shall be less than the vibration displacement
permitted.
   (C)   The maximum permitted displacements shall be determined in each
district by the following formula:
D    =    K
      f
where:
D = displacement in inches;
K = a constant to be determined by reference to the tables below; and
f = the frequency of the vibration transmitted through the ground, cycles per
second.
      (1)   M1 Manufacturing District. The maximum earth displacement permitted
at the points described in the following table shall be determined by use of
the formula in division (C) of this section and the appropriate K constant
shown in Table 1 below.
Table 1: Values of K to be Used in Vibration Formula
Location K
Table 1: Values of K to be Used in Vibration Formula
Location                                     K
In any neighboring lot:
a. Continuous                                0.008
b. Impulsive                                 0.015
c. Less than eight pulses per 24-hour period 0.037
In any residence district:
a. Continuous                                0.003
b. Impulsive                                 0.006
c. Less than eight pulses per 24-hour period 0.015
 
      (2)   M2 Manufacturing District. The maximum earth displacement permitted
at the points described below shall be determined by use of the formula in
division (C) of this section and the appropriate K constant shown in Table 2
below.
Table 2: Values of K to be Used in Vibration Formula
Location K
Table 2: Values of K to be Used in Vibration Formula
Location                                     K
In any neighboring lot:
a. Continuous                                0.003
b. Impulsive                                 0.060
c. Less than eight pulses per 24-hour period 0.150
In any residence district:
a. Continuous                                0.003
b. Impulsive                                 0.006
c. Less than eight pulses per 24-hour period 0.015
 
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 16, subs. .060, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.396 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS; SMOKE AND PARTICULATE MATTER.
   (A)   The emission of smoke or particulate matter in such manner or quantity
as to endanger or be detrimental to the public health, safety, comfort or
welfare is a public nuisance and shall not be permitted in the manufacturing
districts.
   (B)   For the purpose of grading the density or equivalent opacity of smoke,
the Ringelmann Chart described in the U.S. Bureau of Mines Information Circular
6888 shall be employed. The emission of smoke or particulate matter of a
density or equivalent opacity greater than No. 2 on the Ringelmann Chart is
prohibited at all times except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   (C)   Dust and other types of air pollution borne by the wind from such
sources as storage areas, yards, roads and the like within lot boundaries shall
be kept to a minimum by appropriate landscaping, paving, oiling, fencing,
wetting or other acceptable means.
   (D)   The open burning of refuse, paint, oil, debris and any other
combustible material is prohibited in all manufacturing districts.
   (E)   No operation shall cause or allow to be emitted into the open air from
any process or control equipment or to pass any convenient measuring point in a
breaching or stack, particulate matter in the gases that exceed 0.60 pounds per
1,000 pounds of gases during any one hour.
   (F)   Particulate matter loadings in pounds per acre described below shall
be determined by selecting a continuous four-hour period which will result in
the highest average emission rate.
      (1)   M1 Manufacturing District.
         (a)   The emission of smoke having a density or equivalent opacity in
excess of Ringelmann No. 1 is prohibited. However, for two minutes in any four-
hour period, smoke up to and including Ringelmann No. 2 shall be permitted.
         (b)   The rate of emission of particulate matter from all vents and
stacks within the boundaries of any lot shall not exceed one-half stack within
the boundaries of any lot shall not exceed one-half pound per acre of lot area
per hour.
      (2)   M2 Manufacturing District.
         (a)   The emission of smoke having a density or equivalent opacity in
excess of Ringelmann No. 2 is prohibited. However, for two minutes in any four-
hour period, smoke up to and including Ringelmann No. 3 shall be permitted.
         (b)   The rate of emission of particulate matter from all stacks and
vents within the boundaries of any lot shall not exceed three pounds per acre
of lot area per hour.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 16, subs. .070, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.397 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS; TOXIC MATTER; M1 AND M2 MANUFACTURING
DISTRICTS.
   The release of airborne toxic matter (including radioactive matter) shall be
controlled and shall not exceed the latest standards set forth by the federal
Occupational and Industrialist Hygienists. The applicant shall satisfy the
Village Health Department that the proposed levels of toxic matter will be safe
and will not be detrimental to the public health or injurious to plant and
animal life.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 16, subs. .080, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.398 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS; ODOROUS MATTER.
   The release of materials capable of becoming odorous, either by bacterial
decomposition or chemical reaction, shall meet the standards of the district in
which the odor is created.
   (A)   M1 Manufacturing District. When odorous matter is released from any
operation, activity or use in the M1 Manufacturing District, the concentration
of such odorous materials shall not exceed the odor threshold when measured
beyond the lot line, either at ground level or habitable elevation.
   (B)   M2 Manufacturing District.  When odorous matter is released from any
operation, activity or use in the M2 District, the concentration of such
odorous materials shall not exceed the odor threshold when measured beyond the
M2 District boundary line.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 16, subs. .090, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.399 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS; FIRE AND EXPLOSION HAZARDS.
   (A)   All flammable solid, liquid and gaseous substances shall be
manufactured, stored and utilized in accordance with all applicable codes.
   (B)   In all manufacturing districts, the storage, utilization or
manufacture of solid materials or products ranging from incombustible to
moderate burning is permitted.
   (C)   In the M1 and M2 Manufacturing Districts, the storage, utilization or
manufacture of solid materials or products ranging from free or active burning
to intense burning is permitted, provided either of the following conditions is
met:
      (1)   The materials or products shall be stored, utilized or manufactured
within completely enclosed buildings having no less than two-hour fire-
resistant exterior walls and protected with an automatic fire extinguishing
system; or
      (2)   The material, if stored outdoors, will be no less than 50 feet to
the nearest lot line.
   (D)   (1)   M1 Manufacturing District.  
         (a)   The storage, utilization or manufacture of flammable liquids
shall be permitted in accordance with the following table, exclusive of storage
of finished products in original sealed container, which shall be unrestricted.
Flammable liquid and gas storage tanks shall not be less than 50 feet from all
lot lines.
 
Total Capacity of Flammable Materials Permitted (in Gallons)
Flash Point Temperature                Above Ground (Within Under-ground
                                       Enclosed Building)
Materials having a closed cup flash    20,000               100,000
point over 187ºF but less than 300ºF
From and including 105ºF to and       10,000               100,000
including 187ºF
Materials having a closed cup flash    3,000                100,000
point of less than 105ºF
 
         (b)   When flammable gases are stored, utilized or manufactured and
measured in cubic feet, the quantity in cubic feet at standard temperature and
pressure shall not exceed 30 times the quantities listed above.
      (2)   M2 Manufacturing District.  
         (a)   The storage, utilization or manufacture of flammable liquids
shall be permitted in accordance with the following table, exclusive of storage
of finished products in original sealed container, which shall be unrestricted.
Flammable liquid and gas storage tanks shall not be less than 50 feet from all
lot lines.
            1.   Table 1.
 
Total Capacity of Flammable Materials Permitted (in Gallons)
Industries Engaged in Storage for Resale                           Above Ground
Materials having a closed cup flash over 200ºF but less than 350º400,000
From and including 105ºF to and including 200ºF                  200,000
Materials having a closed cup flash point of less than 105ºF      100,000
   Total                                                        700,000
 
            2.   Table 2.
 
Industries Engaged in Utilization and Manufacture of Flammable     Above Ground
Materials Where Storage is an Ancillary Use
Materials having a closed cup flash point over 200ºF but less than200,000
350ºF
From and including 105ºF to and including 200ºF                  100,000
Materials having a closed cup flash point of less than 105ºF      50,000
   Total                                                        350,000
 
         (b)   The quantity of flammable liquids or materials stored below
ground shall be unrestricted.
         (c)   When flammable gases are stored, utilized, or manufactured and
measured in cubic feet, the quantity in cubic feet at standard temperature and
pressure shall not exceed 30 times the quantities listed above.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 16, subs. .100, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.400 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS; GLARE.
   (A)   Any operation or activity producing glare shall be conducted so that
direct and indirect illumination from the source of light shall not cause
illumination in excess of one-half foot-candle when measured in a residence
district and so that it also meets the standards of the American Conference of
Industrial Hygienists.
   (B)   Flickering or intense sources of light shall be controlled or shielded
so as not to cause a nuisance across lot lines.
   (C)   When street lighting produces illumination in excess of one foot-
candle at any point in a residence district, the contribution by light sources
from within any of the manufacturing districts measured at the same point shall
not exceed 50% of the street lighting.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 16, subs. .110, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.401 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS; RADIATION HAZARDS.
   Radioactive materials shall be governed by the latest Atomic Energy
Commission Standards or by standards set forth by the state, whichever are more
stringent.
Quantities of Radioactive Materials
Radioactive Material Unsealed Curies
Quantities of Radioactive Materials
Radioactive Material              Unsealed Curies
Antimony (Sb124)                  1
Arsenic 76 (As76)                 10
Arsenic 77 (As77)                 10
Barium-lanthanum 140 (BaLa140)    1
Beryllium (Be7)                   50
Cadmium-silver (CdAg109)          10
Calcium 45 (Ca45)                 10
Carbon 14 (C14)                   50
Cerium-praseodymium 144 (CePr144) 1
Cesium-barium (CsBa137)           1
Chlorine 36 (Cl36)                1
Chromium 51 (Cr51)                50
Cobalt 60 (Co60)                  1
Copper 64 (Cu64)                  50
Europium 154 (Eu154)              1
Fluorine 18 (F18)                 50
Gallium 72 (Ga72)                 10
Germanium 71 (Ge71)               50
Gold 198 (Au198)                  10
Gold 199 (Au199)                  10
Hydrogen 3 (Tritium (H3))         250
Indium 114 (In114)                1
Iodine 131 (I131)                 10
Iridium 192 (Ir192)               10
Iron 55 (Fe55)                    50
Iron 59 (Fe59)                    1
Lanthanum 140 (La140)             10
Manganese 52 (Mn52)               50
Molybdenum 99 (Mo99)              10
Nickel 59 (Ni59)                  1
Nickel 63 (Ni63)                  1
Niobium 95 (Nb95)                 10
Palladium 109 (Pd109)             10
Palladium-rhodium 103 (PdRh103)   50
Phosphorus 32 (P32)               10
Polonium 210 (Po210)              0.1
Potassium 42 (K42)                10
Praseodymium 143 (Pr143)          10
Promethium 147 (Pm147)            10
Radium 226 (Ra226)                0.1
Rhenium 186 (Re186)               10
Rhodium 105 (Rh105)               10
Rubidium 86 (Rb86)                10
Ruthenium-rhodium 106 (RuRh106)   1
Samarium 153 (Sm153)              10
Scandium 46 (Sc46)                1
Silver 105 (Ag105)                1
Silver 111 (Ag111)                10
Sodium 22 (Na22)                  10
Sodium 24 (Na24)                  10
Strontium 89 (Sr89)               1
Strontium-yttrium 90 (SrY90)      0.1
Sulfur 35 (S35)                   50
Tantalum 182 (Ta182)              10
Technetium 96 (Tc96)              1
Technetium 99 (Tc99)              1
Tellurium 127 (Te127)             10
Thallium 204 (Tl204)              50
Tin 113 (Sn113)                   10
Tungsten 185 (W185)               10
Vanadium 48 (V48)                 1
Yttrium (Y90)                     1
Yttrium 91 (Y91)                  1
Zinc 65 (Zn65)                    10
 
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 16, subs. .120, passed 2-15-1999)
M1 MANUFACTURING DISTRICT
§ 155.415 PERMITTED USES.
   Permitted uses in the M1 Manufacturing District shall be as follows:
   (A)   Any establishment, the principal use of which is manufacturing,
fabricating, processing, assembling, disassembling, repairing, cleaning,
servicing, testing, loading or storing of materials, products and goods except
for materials, products and goods which are flammable or explosive, and
provided that the operations conform with the performance standards and other
general requirements applicable to an M1 District. This division (A) shall not
apply to any building, structure or use which existed lawfully at the time of
the adoption of the ordinance codified in this section;
   (B)   Agriculture;
   (C)   Building;
   (D)   Contractors’ offices and shops;
   (E)   Dwelling units for watchmen and operating personnel and their families
when the nature of operations requires such personnel to reside on the premises
where they are employed;
   (F)   Fuel and ice retail sales and storage;
   (G)   Greenhouses, including retail and wholesale sales of plants and
products;
   (H)   Laundries;
   (I)   Mail order houses;
   (J)   Monument establishments, including accessory open sales lots;
   (K)   Offices, general, private, semipublic or public;
   (L)   Parking lots and storage garages;
   (M)   Printing and publishing establishments;
   (N)   Public open space;
   (O)   Public utility, governmental service and similar uses as follows:
      (1)   Bus transit facilities, including shelters, passenger stations,
parking areas and service buildings;
      (2)   Electric distribution centers and substations;
      (3)   Compressor stations, wellhead stations, well separators and other
similar above-ground facilities customarily used for the distribution of
natural gas as a part of the operations of a public utility company;
      (4)   Gas regulator stations;
      (5)   Public utility and governmental service establishments, including
offices, storing, testing, repairing and servicing;
      (6)   Railroad rights-of-way and passenger stations;
      (7)   Telephone exchanges, microwave relay towers and telephone
transmission equipment and other such service buildings (no limit on height of
towers); and
      (8)   Water filtration plants, pumping stations and reservoirs, and
sewage treatment plants and lift stations, public or community.
   (P)   Research laboratories;
   (Q)   Schools, commercial or trade;
   (R)   Training centers, engineering or sales;
   (S)   Warehouses;
   (T)   Wholesale establishments; and
   (U)   Accessory uses customarily incidental to the above permitted uses,
including but not limited to the following:
      (1)   Off-street parking;
      (2)   Off-street loading; and
      (3)   Awnings, marquees and business signs as regulated herein.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 17, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.416 CONDITIONAL PERMITTED USES.
   Conditional permitted uses in the M1 District shall be as follows:
   (A)   Airports, public and private, on a lot not less than five acres in
area;
   (B)   Heliports, public and private, on a lot not less than one acre in
area;
   (C)   Accessory uses customarily incidental to the above conditional
permitted uses, including but not limited to the following:
      (1)   Off-street parking;
      (2)   Off-street loading; and
      (3)   Awnings, marquees and business signs as regulated herein.
   (D)   Any establishment, the principal use of which is manufacturing,
fabricating, processing, assembling, disassembling, repairing, cleaning,
servicing, testing, loading or storing of materials which are flammable or
explosive, and provided that the operations conform with the performance
standards and other general requirements applicable to an M1 District;
   (E)   Restaurant with cocktail lounge, banquet hall and dancing area;
   (F)   Radio and television stations, and towers, transmitting and receiving;
and
   (G)   (1)   Cargo containers, as defined in §
155.021, shall be allowed as a conditional permitted use in an M3 Manufacturing
Zone only subject to the following minimum conditions:
         (a)   Only two cargo containers will be allowed per lot;
         (b)   Cargo containers located within the village should not exceed a
length of 30 feet;
         (c)   Cargo containers shall be located to minimize the visual impact
to adjacent properties, parks, trails and rights-of-way through the use of
adequate screening. The screening may be a combination of solid fencing,
landscaping or the placement of the cargo containers behind, between or within
buildings;
         (d)   If located adjacent to a building, all cargo containers must be
painted to match the building’s color;
         (e)   All cargo containers must have working doors and locks;
         (f)   Cargo containers may not occupy any required off-street parking
spaces;
         (g)   Cargo containers shall meet all setback requirements for the
zoning district where they are placed and allowed;
         (h)   Outdoor cargo containers shall not be refrigerated;
         (i)   Outdoor cargo containers shall not be stacked;
         (j)   Cargo containers shall be placed on a level hard surface, such
as gravel, blacktop, concrete or other hard surface approved by the Village
Board; and
         (k)   Cargo containers must be designed to allow drainage from above
and beneath the container. Containers with a flat roof will not be allowed.
      (2)   The Zoning Board of Appeals may recommend and the Village Board may
impose such additional conditions as may be deemed reasonable and/or
appropriate.
      (3)   No cargo containers shall be allowed within any residential or
commercial zoning district within the corporate limits of the village.
      (4)   Licensed and bonded contractors may use cargo containers in any
zone for temporary storage of any equipment and/or materials at the
construction site during construction that is authorized by the village
building permit. Said cargo containers shall not be allowed to remain at any
such construction site subsequent to the issuance of an occupancy permit or the
completion of construction, whichever occurs first.
      (5)   Any cargo containers which are existing as nonconforming structures
at the time of this division (G) shall be removed within one year from the
effective date of this division (G).
      (6)   Any person, firm or corporation in violation of the provisions of
this division (G) shall be subject to the penalties set forth in §
155.999.
   (H)   Large solar energy system.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 17, subs. .020, passed 2-15-1999; Ord. 2003-5, passed 5-
19-2003; Ord. 2020-05, passed 9-21-2020) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.417 FLOOR AREA RATIO.
   Floor area ratio in the M1 District shall not exceed 0.6.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 17, subs. .030, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.418 YARDS.
   Except as required herein under regulations along residence district
boundary lines, and applicable M1 District performance standards, yards shall
be provided in accordance with the following:
   (A)   Front yard. Not less than 40 feet in depth;
   (B)   Side yards.
      (1)   Not less than 40 feet wide when adjoining a street or residence
district; and
      (2)   Not less than 15 feet wide when adjoining an interior lot line.
   (C)   Rear yard. Not less than 25 feet in depth; except when adjoining a
railroad right-of-way, the rear yard may be measured from the centerline of the
railroad right-of-way, and except when adjoining a residence district, the rear
yard shall be not less than 40 feet in depth; and
   (D)   Yard requirements for existing buildings or structures. Where
manufacturing buildings or structures existing on the effective date of the
ordinance codified in this chapter have yards of less dimension than those
required herein, any expansion of such buildings or structures shall, in lieu
of the above requirements, be required to provide yards having a minimum depth
or width equal to those provided by such buildings or structures on the
effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter; provided that the lot
upon which the manufacturing building or structure is located does not adjoin a
residence district.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 17, subs. .040, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.419 SIGNS; PERMITTED WHEN.
   Business signs are permitted subject to the conditions set forth herein.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 17, subs. .050, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.420 SIGNS; AWNING EXEMPTIONS.
   Signs on awnings shall be exempt from the limitations imposed by this
chapter on the projection of signs from the face of the wall of any building or
structure; provided that any sign located on the awning shall be affixed flat
to the surface thereof, shall be nonilluminated and shall indicate only the
name or address of the establishment. Further, no such sign shall extend
vertically or horizontally beyond the limits of the awning.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 17, subs. .060, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.421 SIGNS; CONSTANT ILLUMINATION.
   Signs may have constant illumination; provided that such a sign located in
direct line of vision of any traffic control signal shall not have illumination
of red, green or amber color. Where a sign is illuminated by light reflected
upon it, direct rays of light shall not beam upon any part of any existing
residential buildings, nor into a residence district, or into a street.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 17, subs. .070, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.422 SIGNS; GROSS AREA.
   The gross area in square feet of all signs on a lot shall not exceed four
times the lineal feet of street frontage of such lot.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 17, subs. .080, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.423 SIGNS; PLACEMENT; GROUND SIGNS.
   Signs shall be affixed flat against the building walls and may project
therefrom not more than 18 inches and shall not project higher than five feet
above building height, except one ground sign shall be permitted along each
side of a lot fronting on a street. Ground signs shall be located not less than
20 feet from a lot line, shall not project higher than 30 feet above curb
level, and if located within six feet of a sidewalk, driveway or parking area,
or within 50 feet (or greater distance if required by state law) of the
intersection of two or more streets, shall have its lowest elevation at least
12 feet above the curb level, or 12 feet above the highest grade of the street
pavement at the street intersection or 12 feet above the grade of the sidewalk,
driveway or parking area directly opposite the sign, whichever is the higher
grade. The gross surface area of a ground sign shall be subtracted from the
gross surface area permitted for gross area of signs herein.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 17, subs. .090, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.424 SIGNS; ADDITIONAL GROUND SIGNS.
   For industrial parks, one additional ground sign facing each street frontage
may be erected. Such ground sign shall have a gross surface area of not more
than 200 square feet, which shall be in addition to the gross surface area
permitted for gross area of signs herein.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 17, subs. .100, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.425 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
    Off-street parking and off-street loading shall be in accordance with
regulations set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 17, subs. .110, passed 2-15-1999)
M2 MANUFACTURING DISTRICT
§ 155.440 PERMITTED USES.
   Permitted uses in the M2 Manufacturing District shall be as follows:
   (A)   Any establishment, the principal use of which is manufacturing,
fabricating, processing, assembling, disassembling, repairing, cleaning,
servicing, testing, loading or storing of materials, products and goods except
for materials, products and goods which are flammable or explosive, and
provided that the operations conform with the performance standards and other
general requirements applicable to an M2 District. This division (A) shall not
apply to any building, structure or use which existed lawfully at the time of
the adoption of the ordinance codified in this section;
   (B)   Any use permitted in the M1 District;
   (C)   Cartage and express facilities; and
   (D)   Accessory uses customarily incidental to the above permitted uses,
including but not limited to the following:
      (1)   Off-street parking;
      (2)   Off-street loading; and
      (3)   Awnings, marquees and business signs are regulated in §
155.444.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 18, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.441 CONDITIONAL PERMITTED USES.
   Conditional permitted uses in the M2 Manufacturing District shall be as
follows:
   (A)   Any use allowed as a conditional permitted use in the M1 District;
   (B)   Storage and utilization of flammable liquids or materials which
produce flammable liquids or materials which produce flammable or explosive
vapors or gases exceeding the total capacity permitted in the M2 District;
   (C)   Accessory uses customarily incidental to the above conditional
permitted uses, including but not limited to the following;
      (1)   Off-street parking;
      (2)   Off-street loading; and
      (3)   Awnings, marquees and business signs as regulated in §
155.444.
   (D)   Radio and television stations, and towers, transmitting and receiving;
and
   (E)   Air, rail or motor truck freight terminals, railroad switching and
classification yards, repair shops and roundhouses; and
   (F)   Large solar energy system.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 18, subs. .020, passed 2-15-1999; Ord. 2020-05, passed
9-21-2020)
§ 155.442 FLOOR AREA RATIO.
   Floor area ratio in the M2 District shall not exceed 0.65.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 18, subs. .030, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.443 YARDS.
   Yard requirements in the M2 District shall be as in the M1 District.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 18, subs. .040, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.444 SIGNS.
   Sign standards in the M2 District shall be as in the M1 District.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 18, subs. .050, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.445 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   Off-street parking and off-street loading shall be in accordance with
regulations set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 18, subs. .060, passed 2-15-1999)
M3 MANUFACTURING DISTRICT
§ 155.460 PERMITTED USE.
   (A)   Any establishment, the principal use of which is manufacturing,
fabricating, processing, assembling, disassembling, repairing, cleaning,
servicing, testing, and storing of materials, products and goods, provided
operations conform with the performance standards and other general
requirements applicable to an M3 District;
   (B)   Any use permitted in the M2 District; and
   (C)   Advertising signs.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 19, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.461 CONDITIONAL PERMITTED USE.
   (A)   For land fills, public or private, including sanitary landfills and
dry waste dumps, application for a conditional use permit shall also include an
agreement between the village and the operator of the landfill, binding the
operator and his, her or their successors to comply with scope and method of
operation in accordance with standards and specifications set forth therein. A
bond, other security or guarantee in the form required by the Village Board
shall be filed with the village in the amount established by the Village Board
to cover the estimated cost of improvements to the landfill area upon
completion of filling operations. The above-mentioned bond shall not apply to a
public body. No landfill shall exceed an area of 40 acres in size, nor shall
any landfill exceed a height of ten feet above existing grade;
   (B)   Storage and utilization of flammable liquids or materials which
produce flammable or explosive vapors or gases exceeding the total capacity
permitted in the M3 District;
   (C)   Mining, loading and hauling of coal, clay, sand, gravel, topsoil or
other aggregate or minerals, and oil or gas well drilling, including equipment,
buildings or structures, for screening, crashing, mixing, washing or storage;
   (D)   Soil and water conservation, nature and wildlife preserves, and
private outdoor recreational areas for lot owners and their guests on a lot not
less than ten acres in area, provided no buildings or structures are located
less than 200 feet from a lot line;
   (E)   Automobile wrecking yards and junkyards, providing they are screened
by a solid wall or uniformly painted solid fence at least 12 feet high; and
   (F)   Landscape composing operations as defined in the State Environmental
Protection Act; provided that any necessary permits required by the
Environmental Protection Act be obtained prior to commencing any such
operations; and
   (G)   Large solar energy system.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 19, subs. .020, passed 2-15-1999; Ord. 2020-05, passed
9-21-2020)
§ 155.462 YARDS.
   (A)   Front yard. Not less than 75 feet in depth, except, when front yards
are located across the street from a residence district, not less than 100 feet
in depth.
   (B)   Side yards.
      (1)   Not less than 75 feet wide when adjoining a street;
      (2)   Not less than 100 feet wide when adjoining a residence district;
and
      (3)   Not less than 50 feet wide when adjoining an interior lot line.
   (C)   Rear yard. Not less than 50 feet in depth, except when adjoining a
railroad right-of-way the rear yard may be measured from the centerline of the
railroad right-of-way, and except when adjoining a residence district the rear
yard shall be not less than 75 feet in depth.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 19, subs. .030, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.463 LOT AREA AND LOT WIDTH.
   Except as may herein otherwise be required for a specific permitted or
conditional permitted use, not less than three acres in area and not less than
200 feet in width.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 19, subs. .040, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.464 FLOOR AREA RATIO.
   Not to exceed .080.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 19, subs. .050, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.465 SIGNS.
   (A)   Business signs. As in the M1 District.
   (B)   Advertising signs. As in the B2 District.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 19, subs. .060, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.466 OFF-STREET PARKING AND OFF-STREET LOADING.
   In accordance with regulations herein set forth in §§
155.480 et seq.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 19, subs. .070, passed 2-15-1999)
OFF-STREET PARKING AND OFF-STREET LOADING
§ 155.480 SCOPE OF REGULATIONS; APPLICABILITY.
   The off-street parking and off-street loading provisions of this chapter
shall apply as follows.
   (A)   Accessory off-street parking and off-street loading facilities shall
be provided as required by the regulations of this subchapter for all buildings
and structures erected, altered or enlarged and all uses of land established in
each district after the effective date of the ordinance codified in this
chapter.
   (B)   When the intensity of use of any building, structure or premises is
increased through the addition of dwelling units, gross floor area, seating
capacity or other units of measurement in the amount specified in this
subchapter requiring parking or loading facilities, such required parking and
loading facilities for only the addition shall be provided.
   (C)   Whenever the existing use of a building or structure is hereafter
changed to a new use, parking or loading facilities shall be provided as
required for such new use. However, if the building or structure was erected
prior to the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter,
additional parking or loading facilities are mandatory only in the amount by
which the requirements for the new use would exceed those for the existing use,
if the latter were subject to the parking and loading provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.481 PERMISSIVE PARKING AND LOADING FACILITIES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the voluntary
establishment or off-street parking and loading facilities to serve any
existing use of land or buildings, provided that there is adherence to all
regulations herein governing the location, design and operation of such
facilities.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .020, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.482 DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION TO CONFORMING OR NONCONFORMING BUILDING.
   When any conforming or nonconforming building or use which is in existence
on the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter, which is
restored and continued in operation after being damaged or destroyed by fire,
collapse, explosion or other cause, to the extent that the cost of restoration
does not exceed 60% of the assessed value, there may be provided only the off-
street parking or loading faculties equivalent to any maintained at the time of
such damage or destruction. However, in no case shall it be necessary to
restore or maintain parking or loading facilities in excess of those required
by this chapter for equivalent new uses or construction.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .030, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.483 EXISTING PARKING FACILITIES.
   Accessory off-street parking facilities in existence on the effective date
of the ordinance codified in this chapter and located on the same lot as the
building or use served shall not hereafter be reduced below, or if already less
than, shall not be further reduced below the requirements for a similar new
building or use under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .040, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.484 LOCATION OF PARKING SPACES.
   (A)   Required accessory off-street parking spaces shall be located on the
same lot as the use served, except when the Planning and Zoning Board
recommends and the Village Board authorizes, for a specific use, the location
of all or a part of the required off-street parking spaces on a lot that does
not contain the principal use or structure.
   (B)   Unless such permitted off-street parking spaces are provided by
permitted collective use of accessory off-street parking spaces for another
use, they shall be located in a district where parking lots or storage garages
are allowable principal uses. However, there shall be compliance with
regulations set forth in §
155.496 for required accessory parking spaces not located on the same lot as
the principal use or structure.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .050, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.485 SIZE OF SPACE.
   Enclosed parking spaces shall have a vertical clearance of at least seven
feet. A required off-street parking space shall have a width and length,
exclusive of access drives or aisles, ramps, columns or office and work areas
in accordance with the following standards.
   (A)   Minimum standards of parking spaces, aisles and parking bays.
Parking Space and Aisle Dimensions
Angle of Parking Width of Space Width of Space Parallel Depth of Space
                                to Aisle                Perpendicular to Aisle
Parking Space and Aisle Dimensions
Angle of Parking Width of Space Width of Space Parallel Depth of Space
                                to Aisle                Perpendicular to Aisle
45 degrees       8 ft. 6 in.    12 ft. 0 in.            17 ft. 0 in.
60 degrees       9 ft. 0 in.    12 ft. 9 in.            17 ft. 0 in.
                 8 ft. 6 in.    9 ft. 10 in.            18 ft. 0 in.
60 degrees       9 ft. 0 in.    10 ft. 5 in.            18 ft. 0 in.
                 8 ft. 6 in.    8 ft. 6 in.             18 ft. 0 in.
90 degrees       9 ft. 0 in.    9 ft. 0 in.             18 ft. 0 in.
 
   (B)   Width of parking bays.  Parking bay consists of two parking spaces and
one aisle.
Type of Parking Space Arrangement
Width of Aisle Intermeshing Head-In To Curb Back-In To Curb
Type of Parking Space Arrangement
Width of Aisle Intermeshing  Head-In To Curb Back-In To Curb
11 ft. 6 in.   43 ft. 0 in.  43 ft. 10 in.   49 ft. 0 in.
11 ft. 0 in.   42 ft. 10 in. 43 ft. 8 in.    49 ft. 2 in.
18 ft. 0 in.   53 ft. 5 in.  52 ft. 7 in.    57 ft. 8 in.
17 ft. 0 in.   52 ft. 8 in.  51 ft. 0 in.    57 ft. 2 in.
29 ft. 0 in.   –           65 ft. 0 in.    65 ft. 0 in.
27 ft. 0 in.   –           63 ft. 0 in.    63 ft. 0 in.
 
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .060, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.486 ACCESS OF PARKING AREA.
   (A)   Each required off-street parking space shall open directly upon an
aisle or driveway of a width and design in accordance with standards set forth
in §
155.485.
   (B)   All off-street parking facilities shall be provided with appropriate
means of vehicular access to a street or alley with location and design of
intersection of parking area access driveway and the street or alley in
accordance with the following regulations (access driveway from streets to off-
street parking and loading spaces):
      (1)   Width of driveways (measured at the lot lines adjoining a street)
shall be as follows:
         (a)   Residential uses. Not less than nine feet wide or more than 22
feet; and
         (b)   Nonresidential uses.
            1.   Not less than 14 feet wide or more than 20 feet wide for a
one-way driveway;
            2.   Not less than 20 feet wide or more than 15 feet wide for a
two-way driveway serving 20 or fewer parking spaces or one loading space; and
            3.   Not less than 24 feet wide or more than 35 feet wide for a
two-way driveway serving more than 20 parking spaces or two or more loading
spaces.
      (2)   Radius connecting street pavement edge and driveway edge shall be
as follows:
         (a)   In residence districts. Not less than five feet, except
driveways more than 20 feet in width, not less than eight feet; and
         (b)   In business and manufacturing districts.
            1.   Not less than 15 feet at the intersection of a driveway and
street pavement in a street having a right-of-way more than 66 feet wide; and
            2.   Not less than eight feet at the intersection of a driveway and
a street pavement in a street having a right-of-way of 66 feet or less in
width.
      (3)   For the angle at intersection of a driveway and street, the acute
angle formed at the intersection of driveway and street pavement edges shall be
not less than 60 degrees.
      (4)   Spacing between separate driveway entrances on a lot (measured at
the lot line adjoining a street) shall be as follows:
         (a)   Not less than 20 feet on streets having rights-of-way more than
66 feet in width; and
         (b)   Not less than ten feet on streets having rights-of-way more than
66 feet or less in width.
      (5)   On corner lots, spacing between driveway entrance and right-of-way
line of an adjacent intersection street (measured from the nearest edge of the
driveway pavement at its intersection with the street right-of-way line to the
nearest right-of-way line of an adjacent intersecting street) shall be as
follows:
         (a)   Not less than 15 feet to an adjacent intersecting street having
a right-of-way more than 66 feet in width; and
         (b)   Not less than eight feet to an adjacent intersecting street
having a right-of-way 66 feet or less in width.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .070, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.487 USE OF FACILITIES; BUS SPACES.
   Accessory off-street parking facilities required as accessory to uses listed
herein shall be solely for the parking of automobiles of patrons, occupants or
employees. When bus transportation is provided for patrons, occupants or
employees of a specific establishment, additional open or enclosed off-street
parking spaces for each bus to be parked on the premises shall be provided in
accordance with regulations for access, in yards, design and maintenance, and
area applicable to accommodating such buses.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .080, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.488 COMPUTATION OF FRACTIONAL SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   When determination of the number of off-street parking spaces required by
this chapter results in a requirements of a fractional space, any fraction of
one-half or less may be disregarded, while a fraction in excess of one-half
shall be counted as one parking space.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .090, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.489 PARKING IN YARDS.
   (A)   Off-street parking spaces, open to the sky, may be located in required
interior side yards, not less than five feet from the nearest lot line, except
a parking area containing four or more parking spaces shall not be located
nearer than 20 feet from a residence district boundary line.
   (B)   In business and commercial districts, the required off-street parking
spaces may be located in a front yard or side yard adjoining a street, not less
than four feet from the stopping bumpers to the property line with a maximum
two feet overhang.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .100, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.490 COLLECTIVE PROVISIONS.
   Off-street parking facilities for separate uses may be provided collectively
if the total number of spaces so provided is not less than the sum of the
separate requirements for each such use, and provided that all regulations
governing location of accessory parking spaces, in relation to the use served,
are adhered to. Further, no parking spaces or portion thereof shall serve as a
required space for more than one use unless otherwise recommended by the
Planning and Zoning Board and authorized by the Village Board.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .110, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.491 DESIGN AND MAINTENANCE; OPEN AND ENCLOSED SPACES.
   Accessory off-street parking spaces located on the same lot as occupied by
the use served may be open to the sky or enclosed in a building. Accessory off-
street parking spaces that may be permitted elsewhere than on the same lot
occupied by the use shall be open to the sky, except when an off-site storage
garage or parking structure is recommended by the Planning and Zoning Board and
authorized by the Village Board.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .120, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.492 DESIGN AND MAINTENANCE; SURFACE SPECIFICATIONS.
   All open off-street parking areas available for public or employee use
containing more than four parking spaces shall be improved with a compacted
base, and a dustproof wearing surface as approved by the Village Engineer;
exception: storage of motor vehicle or farm implements for sale shall be exempt
from this requirement. However, all off-street loading spaces, access drives,
aisles and maneuvering space shall be improved as required for off-street
parking areas.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .130, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.493 DESIGN AND MAINTENANCE; SCREENING AND LANDSCAPING.
   All open off-street parking areas containing more than four parking spaces,
located less than 40 feet from the nearest property line of a lot in a
residence district, shall be effectively screened on each side adjoining or
fronting on such property line by a wall, fence or densely planted compact
hedge, not less than five feet nor more than eight feet in height.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .140, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.494 DESIGN AND MAINTENANCE; LIGHTING.
   Any lighting used to illuminate off-street parking areas shall be arranged
so as not to reflect direct rays of light into streets or adjacent residence
districts, and in a parking area containing more than four parking spaces. Such
lighting shall be extinguished one-half hour after the close of business,
except as may otherwise be permitted or required by the Planning and Zoning
Board for maintaining illumination with less candle power after the time
specified above.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .150, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.495 DESIGN AND MAINTENANCE; REPAIR AND SERVICE.
   No motor vehicle repair work or service of any kind shall be permitted in
off-street parking areas. No gasoline or motor oil shall be sold in conjunction
with any accessory parking facilities.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .160, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.496 CONTROL OF OFF-SITE PARKING FACILITIES.
   (A)   In cases where parking facilities are permitted on a lot other than
the lot in which the structure or use served is located, the owner of record of
such lot shall be the same as the owner of record of the lot occupied by the
structure or use in which the parking facilities are accessory. A covenant in
which the parking facilities are accessory. A covenant running with the land
must be recorded in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of the county on the
lot upon which the accessory off-street parking is located which prohibits any
other use on that lot, and a copy of the recorded covenant certified by the
Recorder of Deeds of the county must be deposited with the Building Inspector.
   (B)   The covenant shall not be released until such time as either one of
the following conditions occur:
      (1)   The structure on the lot containing the principal use is removed
and the principal use terminated; or
      (2)   Another lot of the required size within the required distance is
properly developed and used for the required accessory off-street parking in
place of and in lieu of the initial lot used for accessory off-street parking
with the same requirements, covenants and conditions attaching to such
substitute accessory use lot as approved by the same authority as required for
approval of such initial lot.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .170, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.497 EMPLOYEE PARKING.
   Parking spaces required on an employee basis shall be based on the maximum
number of employees on duty or residing, or both, on the premises at any one
time.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .180, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.498 REQUIRED SPACES.
   There shall be provided for each building, structure and use hereafter
erected, structurally altered or enlarged, the minimum number of accessory off-
street parking spaces in accordance with the following:
   (A)   Automobile, truck and farm implement sales or service. One parking
space for each one and one-half employees as related to the working period when
the maximum number of persons are employed on the premises;
   (B)   Dwelling and lodging uses.
      (1)   Hotels and motels. One parking space for each room or suite of
rooms comprising of a lodging unit, one parking space for each two employees
and one parking space for each 100 square feet of retail sales and dining area;
      (2)   Lodginghouses and apartment hotels. One parking space for each
lodging room and one parking space for each dwelling unit, and one parking
space for each two employees;
      (3)   Multiple-family dwellings.
         (a)   Located in the R3 District, two parking spaces for each dwelling
unit; and
         (b)   Located in the R4 District, one and one-half parking spaces for
each dwelling unit.
      (4)   Single-family dwellings. One parking space for each dwelling, plus
one additional parking space for each two roomers or lodgers accommodated; but
no more than four parking spaces for each single-family dwelling;
      (5)   Single-family semi-detached or attached dwellings. One, but not
more than three parking spaces for each dwelling; and
      (6)   Two-family dwellings. One parking space, but not more than two for
each dwelling unit.
   (C)   Schools, institutions and auditoriums or other places of assembly.
      (1)   Auditoriums, and auditoriums as accessory to churches, schools and
other institutional establishments. One parking space for each five seats, or
for each 90 linear inches of seating space;
      (2)   Churches, chapels, temples and synagogues. One parking space for
each five seats, or for each 90 linear inches of seating space;
      (3)   Colleges, junior colleges and universities. One parking space for
each six students, based upon the maximum number of students that can be
accommodated in accordance with design capacity plus one parking space for each
two employees;
      (4)   Gymnasiums, stadiums, grandstands, meeting halls, convention halls
and exhibition halls. One parking space for each five seats or for each 90
linear inches of seating space. When such facilities for public assembly are
necessary to a school, and when approved by the Plan Commission, the required
number of parking spaces may be reduced by the number of spaces provided, as
required herein for the applicable school;
      (5)   Hospitals. One parking space per bed for 100 beds or less; 1.1
parking spaces per bed for 101 to 300 beds; 1.2 parking spaces per bed for 301
to 500 beds; and 1.3 parking spaces per bed for over 500 beds;
      (6)   Libraries, museums, art galleries and aquariums. One parking space
for each 800 square feet of floor area;
      (7)   Nursing homes and similar types of establishments. One parking
space for each two beds, plus one parking space for each two employees;
      (8)   Private clubs and lodges. One parking space for each lodging room
and one parking space for each five seats in accordance with design seating
capacity of the main meeting room; and
      (9)   Schools. When the number of parking spaces as required herein is
provided for an auditorium or other places of public assembly accessory to a
school, and when approved by the Planning and Zoning Board, additional parking
spaces need not be provided when the number of parking spaces for such
auditorium or other places of public assembly is equal to or in excess of the
applicable requirements set forth in divisions (C)(9)(a), (b) or (c) below:
         (a)   Commercial or trade, music, dance or business. One parking space
for each two employees, plus one space for each three students, based on the
maximum number of students that can be accommodated in accordance with design
capacity;
         (b)   High, public or private. One parking space for each seven
students based on the maximum number of students that can be accommodated in
accordance with design capacity; or
         (c)   Nursery, elementary or junior high, public or private. One
parking space for each faculty member and each other full-time employee.
   (D)   Recreational uses, commercial or noncommercial.
      (1)   Bowling alleys. Seven parking spaces for each lane plus such
additional spaces as may be required herein for affiliated uses such as
restaurants and the like;
      (2)   Health salons, swimming pools and skating rinks and dance halls,
commercial. One parking space for each two persons, based upon the maximum
number of persons that can be accommodated at the same time in accordance with
such design capacity, and one parking space for each two employees;
      (3)   Parks, recreation areas and community centers, private, semipublic
or public. One parking space for each two employees, plus spaces in adequate
number as determined by the Planning and Zoning Board to serve the visiting
public;
      (4)   Theaters.  One parking space for each four seats up to 400 seats,
plus one parking space for each six seats over 400; and
      (5)   Theaters (automobile drive-in).  Reservoir standing spaces equal in
number to 10% of the vehicle capacity of such theaters.
   (E)   Business, commercial and industrial uses.
      (1)   Automobile laundries. One parking space for each one and one-half
employees, and in addition, reservoir standing spaces to accommodate
automobiles awaiting entrance to the automobile laundry equal in number to five
times the maximum capacity of the automobile laundry. Maximum capacity, in this
instance, shall mean the greatest possible number of automobiles undergoing
some phase of laundering at the same time;
      (2)   Automobile service stations. One parking space for each island of
gasoline pumps, plus two for each service stall;
      (3)   Banks and other financial institutions. One parking space for each
300 square feet of floor area;
      (4)   Barbershops and beauty parlors. One parking space for each 200
square feet of floor area;
      (5)   Restaurants, not including drive-in establishments. One parking
space for each 100 square feet of floor area in the building;
      (6)   Furniture and appliance stores, motor vehicle sales establishments,
and establishments for repair of household equipment or furniture.  One parking
space for each 400 square feet of floor area;
      (7)   Manufacturing, fabricating, processing, storing, cleaning, testing,
assembling, repairing or servicing of establishments as permitted in the
manufacturing districts. One parking space for each one and one-half employees
as related to the working period when the maximum number of persons are
employed on the premises, or one for each 800 square feet of floor area,
whichever is greater;
      (8)   Medical and dental clinics. Two parking spaces for each office,
examining room and treatment room, plus one space for each 50 square feet of
floor area contained in the reception room or waiting lobby;
      (9)   Offices, business, professional and public administration or
service office buildings. One parking space for each 250 square feet of floor
area;
      (10)   Undertaking establishments and funeral parlors. One parking space
for each 100 square feet of floor area, plus one parking space for each of the
funeral parlor’s official vehicles;
      (11)   Warehouse, storage, wholesale and mail order establishments. Four
parking spaces plus one parking space for each 1,500 square feet of floor space
for over 4,500 square feet or when the number of employees is specifically
indicated, one parking space for each one and one-half employees employed on
the premises;
      (12)   Public utility and public service uses.  One parking space for
each two employees;
      (13)   All other business and commercial establishments. One parking
space for each 200 square feet of floor area; and
      (14)   Uses in a shopping center under unified control or ownership on a
tract of land four acres or more in area. The required number of parking spaces
for shopping centers shall be the sum of the required number of parking spaces
as heretofore set forth for such uses.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .190, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.499 REQUIRED SPACES FOR OTHER USES.
   Parking spaces for other permitted uses not listed in §
155.498 shall be provided in accordance with requirements designated by the
Planning and Zoning Board, and in the case of conditional permitted uses, as
recommended by the Planning and Zoning Board and required by the Village Board.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .200, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.500 OFF-STREET LOADING; PROVISION.
   There shall be provided off-street loading spaces not less than the minimum
requirements specified in this section in connection with any building,
structure or use which is to be erected or substantially altered, and which
requires the receipt or distribution of materials or merchandise by trucks or
similar vehicles in accordance with the regulations set forth in §§
155.502 though
155.507.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .210, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.501 OFF-STREET LOADING; LOCATION.
   Accessory off-street loading spaces shall be located on the same lot as the
principal use. Open off-street loading spaces which abut a residence district
boundary line shall be completely screened therefrom by a fence, wall or door,
or any combination thereof, of any architectural design approved by the
Building Inspector, not less than six feet not more than eight feet in height
or a densely planted tree or shrub hedge maintained to not less than six feet
in height. No permitted or required loading space shall be located within 40
feet of the nearest point of intersection of any two streets. No loading space
shall be located in a required front or side yard, and any loading space
located in a required rear yard shall be open to the sky.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .220, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.502 OFF-STREET LOADING; SIZE OF SPACE.
   Unless otherwise specified in this chapter, a required off-street leading
space shall be at least 14 feet in width and at least 55 feet in length,
exclusive of access drives, aisles, ramps, maneuvering space, columns and work
area, and shall have a vertical clearance of not less than 15 feet.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .230, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.503 OFF-STREET LOADING; ACCESS.
   Each required off-street loading space shall be designed with appropriate
means of vehicular access to a street or alley in a manner which will least
interfere with traffic movements. Access drives and intersection of driveways
with streets shall be in accordance with regulations set forth in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .240, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.504 OFF-STREET LOADING; SURFACING.
   All open off-street loading spaces, access drives, aisles and maneuvering
space shall:
   (A)   Within one year from the issuance of the building permit, be improved
with a compacted base and a permanent wearing surface as approved by the
Village Engineer; and
   (B)   During the period of time from the issuance of the building permit and
prior to the construction of the improvement mentioned in division (A) above,
be in a dust-free condition which meets the approval of the Village Engineer.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .250, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.505 OFF-STREET LOADING; REPAIR AND SERVICE.
   No storage of any kind nor motor vehicle repair work or service of any kind
shall be permitted within any required loading space.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .260, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.506 OFF-STREET LOADING; UTILIZATION.
   Space allocated to any off-street loading spaces shall not be used to
satisfy the space requirements for any off-street parking facilities or
portions thereof.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .270, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.507 OFF-STREET LOADING; SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The minimum of off-street loading spaces accessory to buildings,
structures and uses hereafter erected, structurally altered or enlarged in all
business and manufacturing districts shall be in accordance with the following
schedule:
 
Gross Floor Area of Establishments Required Number
5,000 to 10,000                    1
10,000 to 25,000                   2
25,000 to 40,000                   3
40,000 to 100,000                  4
 
   (B)   For each additional 100,000 square feet of gross floor area, or
fraction thereof over 100,000 square feet of gross floor area: one additional
loading space.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .280, passed 2-15-1999)
NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES
§ 155.520 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the regulation of
nonconforming uses, buildings and structures, and to specify those
circumstances and conditions under which those nonconforming buildings,
structures and uses may be continued.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 21, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.521 AUTHORITY TO CONTINUE.
   Any building, structure or use which existed lawfully at the time of the
adoption of the ordinance codified in this chapter and which becomes
nonconforming upon the adoption of the ordinance codified in this chapter, or
of any subsequent amendment thereto, may be continued only in accordance with
the regulations set forth herein.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 21, subs. .020, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.522 REPAIRS AND ALTERATIONS; PERMITTED WHEN.
   Ordinary repairs and alterations may be made to a nonconforming building or
structure. Ordinary repairs and alterations shall be determined by the Building
Inspector and shall include, among other things, the replacement of storage
tanks where the safety of such building or structure requires such replacement.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 21, subs. .030, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.523 ADDITIONS AND ENLARGEMENTS; PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   A nonconforming building or structure shall not be added to or enlarged in
any manner unless such nonconforming building or structure and use thereof,
including all additions and enlargements thereof, is made to conform to all the
regulations of the district in which it is located. A nonconforming building or
structure which is nonconforming only as to bulk may be added to or enlarged,
provided such additions or enlargement conforms to all regulations of the
district in which it is located.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 21, subs. .040, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.524 MOVING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE TO ANOTHER LOCATION.
   No nonconforming building or structure shall be moved in whole or in part to
any other location unless every portion of such building or structure, and the
use thereof, is made to conform to all regulations of the district in which the
moved building is to be located.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 21, subs. .050, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.525 RESTORATION OF DAMAGED NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES.
   A nonconforming building or structure, or portion thereof, which is
destroyed or damaged by fire or other casualty, or act of God to the extent
that the cost of restoration to the condition in which it was before the
occurrence will exceed 60% of the total cost of reconstructing the entire
building or structure shall not be restored unless the building or structure
and the use thereof conforms to all regulations of the district in which it is
located. In the event that such damage or destruction is less than 60% of the
cost of reconstructing the entire building or structure, no repairs or
construction for restoration shall be made unless such work is started within
six months from the date of the partial destruction and is diligently
prosecuted to completion.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 21, subs. .060, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.526 REMOVAL OF BUILDING OR STRUCTURE.
   A nonconforming building or structure, or portion thereof, which has been
voluntarily removed shall not be replaced in any manner unless such replacement
building or structure conforms to all the regulations of the district in which
it is located; except that a nonconforming mobile home which exists upon
adoption of this code may be replaced on only one occasion with a mobile home
of equal or greater size and quality, on the condition that said mobile home is
replaced within 30 days.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 21, subs. .070, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.527 NONCONFORMING USE OF CONFORMING BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES.
   The existing nonconforming use of a part or all of a conforming building or
structure may be continued subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   The nonconforming use of a part of such building or structure shall
not be expanded or extended into any other portion of such building or
structure, nor changed to any other nonconforming use.
   (B)   If a nonconforming use of such a building or structure is
discontinued, or abandoned for a period of 30 days, it shall not be renewed,
and any subsequent use of such building or structure shall conform to the use
regulations of the district in which the premises are located.
   (C)   Any lawful nonconforming use in a conforming building or structure
existing in a residence district on the effective date of the ordinance
codified in this chapter, or any amendments thereto which is permitted in this
chapter as a permitted or conditional permitted use only in a business or
manufacturing district shall be entirely discontinued within ten years from the
date of the ordinance codified in this chapter or ten years from the date of
amendment, unless the village approves by motion, resolution or ordinance the
continuation of the nonconforming use in a conforming building or structure
existing in the residence district.
   (D)   The nonconforming use of a building or structure, or portion thereof,
may be changed to a use permitted in the district in which the building or
structure is located. However, once a use is changed to a conforming use, such
building or structure shall not thereafter be used for a nonconforming use or
purpose.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 21, subs. .080, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.528 NONCONFORMING USE OF LAND; CONTINUANCE.
   The nonconforming use of land not involving a building or structure, or in
connection with which any building or structure thereon as incidental or
accessory to the principal use of land, or land used for parking or storing one
or more trailers other than mobile homes, may be continued subject to the
provisions set forth in §§
155.529 through
155.532 below.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 21, subs. .090, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.529 NONCONFORMING USE OF LAND; EXPANSION; EXTENSION.
   Such nonconforming use of land shall not be expanded or extended beyond the
area it occupied at the time the ordinance codified in this chapter was
adopted, and no additional trailers shall be brought on the land.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 21, subs. .100, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.530 NONCONFORMING USE OF LAND; DISCONTINUANCE; RENEWAL.
   If such a nonconforming use of land is discontinued or abandoned for a
period of 30 days, it shall not thereafter be renewed, and any subsequent use
of such land shall conform to the regulations of the district in which the land
is located. If the land is not used for parking or storing a trailer for a
period of 30 days, another trailer shall not be brought on the lot after that
time.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 21, subs. .110, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.531 NONCONFORMING USE OF LAND; CHANGE TO ANOTHER NONCONFORMING USE.
   No nonconforming use of land shall be changed to another nonconforming use
of land.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 21, subs. .120, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.532 NONCONFORMING USE OF LAND; ACCESSORY TO NONCONFORMING BUILDING.
   Where the nonconforming use of land is accessory to the nonconforming use of
a building or structure, it shall be discontinued on the same date on which the
nonconforming use of the building or structure is discontinued.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 21, subs. .130, passed 2-15-1999)
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD)
§ 155.545 PURPOSE; INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of the planned unit development is to permit:
      (1)   Variety and flexibility in land development that is necessary to
meet changes in technology and demand that will be consistent with the best
interests of the entire village;
      (2)   The allocation, maintenance and permanent preservation of common
open space and recreation areas and facilities;
      (3)   A maximum choice in the types of environment available to the
public by allowing a development that would not be possible under the strict
application of the other sections of this chapter;
      (4)   A pattern of development to preserve natural vegetation,
topographic and geologic features;
      (5)   A creative approach to the use of land and related physical
facilities that results in better development and design and the construction
of aesthetic amenities;
      (6)   An efficient use of the land resulting in more economic networks of
utilities, streets, schools, public grounds and buildings and other facilities;
      (7)   A land use which promotes the public health, safety comfort, morals
and welfare; and
      (8)   Innovations in residential, commercial and industrial development
so that growing demands of the population may be met by greater variety in
type, design and layout of buildings and by the conservation and more efficient
use of open space ancillary to the buildings.
   (B)   The planned unit development is intended to provide for developments
incorporating a single type or a variety of related uses which are planned and
developed as a unit. Such development may consist of conventionally subdivided
lots or provide for development by a planned unit development plat in keeping
with the purpose of the plan.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.546 LOCATION.
   The Planned Unit Development District is authorized as a special use in each
of the zoning districts of this chapter which are specified on the zoning map
as eligible for planned unit development. The zoning map may be amended to
provide for planned unit development eligible districts. The size of the
planned unit development and standards for which it must be built vary in
different zoning districts in accordance with §§
155.547 through
155.559.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .020, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.547 STANDARDS; GENERALLY.
   The planned unit development must meet the standards set forth in §§
155.548 through
155.559.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .030, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.548 SITE TO BE UNDER SINGLE OWNERSHIP.
   The entire site of the planned unit development shall be under single
ownership and/or unified control as demonstrated by a description of legal
responsibility as necessary to effectuate and maintain the plan.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .040, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.549 MINIMUM SIZE.
   The site of the planned unit development shall be not less than two acres in
any zoning district.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .050, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.550 USES OF PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   The planned unit development may include any or all uses permitted within
any of the existing zoning districts or a mixture thereof; provided that the
uses permitted in the planned unit development shall be a type and so located
as to exercise no undue detrimental influence upon the surrounding properties
and shall be compatible each with the other within the planned unit
development.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .060, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.551 HEIGHT OF BUILDING.
   No building shall exceed 15 stories or 150 feet in height.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .070, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.552 FLOOR AREA RATIO.
   The following floor area ratio shall be observed as maximum density
controls:
 
Single-family units                             Not applicable
Two-family units                                Not applicable
Townhouses and rowhouses                        0.4
Garden apartments                               0.6
Elevator apartments 5 or more stories in height 2.0
 
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .080, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.553 DENSITY.
   A maximum of 40 units per net residential land area shall be permitted. A
minimum of 25% of the land area devoted to multiple-family residential use
shall consist of common open space.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .090, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.554 SETBACKS AND YARDS.
   Setbacks and yard requirements normally required by provisions of this
chapter may be waived in planned unit developments, but appropriate periphery
requirements shall be imposed so as to not alter the character of, or exercise
undue detrimental influence upon, adjacent properties.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .100, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.555 PARKING AND LOADING.
   There shall be adequate parking and/or loading facilities provided within
the site of the planned unit development or within the immediate neighborhood,
consistent with the intent of the provisions and regulations of this chapter.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .110, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.556 TRAFFIC PROVISIONS.
    Adequate provision shall be made to provide ingress and egress, loading and
delivery facilities so designated as to minimize congestion in the public
streets and alleys.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .120, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.557 PUBLIC FACILITIES.
   Existing or proposed public facilities, including but not limited to
sanitary waste, stormwater, water supply, fire protection and public utility
facilities, shall be adequate for the service of residents and occupants within
the planned unit development and must be so designed as to cause no detrimental
influence upon public facility service levels for surrounding properties.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .130, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.558 COMMON OPEN SPACE.
   The amount and location of common open space shall be consistent with the
declared function of common open space as set forth in the application for
planned unit development, and there shall be such provisions for the ownership
and maintenance of the common open space to ensure its continuity and
conservation. In the event that the common open space is permitted to
deteriorate or is not maintained in a condition consistent with the best
interests of the entire village, then and in such event the village shall take
such remedial steps provided for in this chapter as may be required, in the
discretion of the Village Board, to correct such deterioration and return the
violation to compliance.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .140, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.559 GENERAL DESIGN.
   The planned unit development shall not be designed as to be detrimental to
or endanger the public health, safety, morals, comfort or general welfare.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .150, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.560 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   A planned unit development shall be granted as a special use permit in
accordance with the standards and procedures of this chapter and may depart
from the normal procedures and requirements of other chapters in this chapter.
Application shall be accompanied by the required plats, documents and other
data. Before submitting any application for a planned unit development, an
applicant may confer with the Planning and Zoning Board to obtain information
and guidance before entering into binding commitments or incurring substantial
expense in the preparation of plans, surveys and other materials; provided,
however, that no such preapplication conference shall result in any binding
commitments on behalf of the applicant or the village.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .160, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.561 PRELIMINARY PLAN; APPLICATION; FEE.
   The application for a planned unit development shall be executed by or on
behalf of the landowner and filed in duplicate with the Secretary of the
Planning and Zoning Board. A filing fee, the amount of $75 payable to the
village, shall be submitted to the Secretary of the Planning and Zoning Board.
A preliminary plat and supporting data shall be submitted in accordance with
the provisions of §
155.576.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .170, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.562 PRELIMINARY PLAN; PUBLIC HEARING.
   The Planning and Zoning Board shall hold a public hearing within 60 days
after filing an application for a planned unit development. The Planning and
Zoning Board shall conduct the public hearing in accordance with state law. The
Planning and Zoning Board shall adopt and make public its own rules and
procedure not in conflict with this chapter. The Planning and Zoning Board may
continue the hearing from time to time; provided, however, that in any event
the public hearing or hearings shall be concluded within 30 days after the date
of the first public hearing. Either before or after the hearing, the Planning
and Zoning Board shall furnish a written recommendation regarding any proposed
planned unit development. If the request is made before the hearing, the
Planning and Zoning Board shall deliver its recommendation to the Village Board
at or before the hearing; if the request is made at or after the hearing; the
Commission shall, within a reasonable time, deliver copies of its
recommendation to the Planning and Zoning Board, the applicant and to any other
interested parties requesting same.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .180, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.563 PRELIMINARY PLAN; FINDINGS OF PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD.
   (A)   The Planning and Zoning Board, within 30 days following the conclusion
of the public hearing, shall transmit to the Village Board a written report
giving its findings and recommendations for action to be taken by the Village
Board. The Planning and Zoning Board shall recommend either approval of the
preliminary plan as submitted, approval of the preliminary plan subject to
specified conditions and modifications not included in the preliminary plan as
submitted.
   (B)   The Planning and Zoning Board’s recommendation shall include not only
conclusions but also whether findings of fact related to the proposal would or
would not be in the public interest, including but not limited to findings of
fact on the following:
      (1)   In what respects the proposed plan is or is not consistent with the
stated purpose of the planned unit development regulations;
      (2)   The extent to which the proposed plan meets the requirements and
standards of the planned unit development regulations;
      (3)   The extent to which the proposed plan departs from the zoning and
subdivision regulations otherwise applicable to the subject property, including
but not limited to the density, dimension, area, bulk and use and the reasons
why such departures are or are not deemed to be in the public interest;
      (4)   The nature and extent of the common open space in the planned unit
development, the reliability of the proposals for maintenance and conservation
of the common open space, and the adequacy or inadequacy of the amount and
function of the open space in terms of the densities and dwelling types
proposed in the plan;
      (5)   The plat of the plan and the manner in which the plat does or does
not make adequate provision for public services, provide adequate control over
vehicular traffic and further the amenities of light and air, recreation and
visual enjoyment;
      (6)   The relationship and compatibility, beneficial or adverse, of the
proposed plan to the adjacent properties and neighborhood;
      (7)   The desirability of the proposed plan to physical development, tax
base and economic well-being of the entire community;
      (8)   The conformity with the recommendations of a Comprehensive Plan for
the village; and
      (9)   In the case of a plan which proposes development over a period of
years, the sufficiency of the terms and conditions proposed to protect the
interests of the public and the residents of the planned unit development in
the integrity of the plan.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .190, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.564 PRELIMINARY PLAN; APPROVAL BY VILLAGE BOARD.
   The Village Board, after receipt of the planned unit development plan and
recommendations from the Planning and Zoning Board, shall approve, modify or
disapprove the preliminary plan. The Village Board may require such special
conditions in the approval of the preliminary plan as it may deem necessary or
appropriate to ensure conformity with the intent of all Comprehensive Plan
elements and the stated purposes of the planned unit development.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .200, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.565 PRELIMINARY PLAT; FINDINGS OF VILLAGE BOARD.
   The Village Board shall, in its resolution granting or denying approval of a
preliminary planned unit development plan, include not only conclusions but
findings of fact related to the specific proposal and shall set forth in what
respects the proposal would or would not be in the public interest, including
but not limited to the findings of fact enumerated in the appropriate sections
of this chapter.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .210, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.566 PRELIMINARY PLAN; STATUS WHEN APPROVED.
   Approval of a preliminary plan shall not constitute approval of the final
plan nor qualify a plat of the planned unit development for recording; rather,
it shall be deemed an expression of approval of the preliminary plan as a guide
to preparation for the final plan. A preliminary plan which has been granted
approval as submitted or approval with conditions or modifications shall not be
modified or revoked nor otherwise impaired by action of the village pending an
application for final approval without the consent of the landowner, provided
that application for final approval is filed within the time or times specified
in the resolution granting preliminary approval. In the event that a plan is
given preliminary approval and thereafter, but prior to final approval, the
landowner chooses to abandon such plan and so notifies the Planning and Zoning
Board in writing, or fails to file application for final plan approval within
the required time period, the preliminary plan approval shall be deemed to be
revoked, and all that portion of the area included in the plan for which final
approval has not been given shall be subject to those local ordinances
applicable thereto. No building permit shall be issued for any structure until
approval of the final plan by the Village Board.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .220, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.567 FINAL PLAN; APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL.
   (A)   An application for final plan approval may be filed for all the land
included in a plan or for a section thereof. The application shall be filed
with the Secretary of the Planning and Zoning Board within 180 days (or such
time) after approval of the preliminary plan. The application shall include
such drawings, specifications, covenants, easements and conditions and form of
bond as were set forth by resolution at the time of preliminary approval and as
specified in §§
155.577 through
155.582. In accordance with the schedule proposed in the application for
preliminary approval, the landowner may elect to have final approval of only a
geographic section or sections of the land included in the plan and may delay,
within the time authorized by the resolution, application for final approval of
other sections.
   (B)   The final plan shall be approved as the final land use and zoning plat
if it conforms with the previously approved preliminary plan. The preliminary
and final plan may be filed and approved simultaneously if all requirements of
this chapter are met.
   (C)   The final plan for the planned unit development, including plats and
other data, shall be submitted to the Planning and Zoning Board and shall
comply fully with the provisions of §§
155.577 through
155.582. All final plans shall be accompanied by a written construction
schedule of the developer, such schedule not to exceed a period of five years.
If the development period in fact exceeds five years, the village may revoke
approval of the planned unit development and initiate such zoning changes as it
deems necessary to preserve the public interest. Final plats and supporting
data shall show in detail the design, location and internal use of all
buildings and overall land development as well as such additional information
as the Village Board and Planning and Zoning Board may require.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .230, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.568 FINAL PLAN; PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD REVIEW.
   (A)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall review the final plat at a public
meeting and shall recommend approval or disapproval within 30 days after
submission by the landowner and shall indicate the reason therefor to the
Village Board.
   (B)   A public hearing on an application for final approval of a planned
unit development shall not be required except as follows.
      (1)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall not act upon a final plan
application which contains one or more major changes from the preliminary plan
as approved by the Village Board.
      (2)   A final plan which contains a major change from the preliminary
plan approved by the Village Board shall be considered and treated as a new
plan, and the Planning and Zoning Board shall require that the landowner
resubmit an application for preliminary plan approval in accordance with
appropriate section of this chapter.
      (3)   Any of the following changes shall be deemed to be a major change:
         (a)   A change which alters the concept, character or intent of the
preliminary plan;
         (b)   A change which increases residential density;
         (c)   A change which significantly increases the height of any
building or structure; or alters the uses and design standards set forth as a
minimum in this chapter;
         (d)   A change which significantly increases nonresidential floor area
by more than 10%;
         (e)   A change which reduces the amount of common open space or other
open space;
         (f)   A change which significantly reduces the number of off-street
parking spaces provided for;
         (g)   A change in the sequence of development;
         (h)   A change in the final governing agreement;
         (i)   A change in the provisions, easements or covenants;
         (j)   A change which affects the capacity of public facilities,
service and utilities (new); or
         (k)   Any change which substantially affects the previous statements
of facts and findings of the Planning and Zoning Board.
      (4)   In the event that the Planning and Zoning Board refuses to act upon
a final plan proposal because it contains major changes, the Planning and
Zoning Board shall so notify the landowner in writing within 30 days of the
application for final approval, setting forth the reasons why one or more of
the changes to the plan are major changes and ineligible for Planning and
Zoning Board review. In such event, the landowner may refile his or her
application for final approval without the major changes objected to by the
Planning and Zoning Board at any time within which he or she shall be entitled
to apply for final approval, or within 30 additional days if the time for
applying for final approval has already passed when the Planning and Zoning
Board advised the landowner that the major changes could not be considered. If
the landowner fails to refile within such period, he or she shall be deemed to
have refused to accept such requirements, and final approval shall be deemed to
have been denied.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .240, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.569 FINAL PLAN; APPROVAL BY VILLAGE BOARD.
   (A)   The Village Board, after receipt of the final plan and recommendation
from the Board of Appeals and Planning and Zoning Board, shall approve or
disapprove the final plat and, if approved, shall pass an ordinance authorizing
the planned unit development as a special use.
   (B)   The Village Board shall not approve a final plan which contains major
changes, as enumerated in §
155.568(B)(3).
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .250, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.570 RECORDING OF FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   The ordinance authorizing construction of the planned unit development
shall be effective only upon recording of the final planned unit development
plat and supporting data with the County Recorder of Deeds. No permit allowing
construction of a building or other development shall take place until the
required recording of the final plat, approval of the final engineering plans
by the Village Engineer, and the posting by the developer of the required
improvement deposits, as set forth in §§
155.579 and
155.580. All recording costs shall be paid by the developer.
   (B)   The purpose of the final plat is to designate with particularity the
land subdivided into conventional lots as well as the division of other lands,
not so subdivided, into common open areas and building sites. The preliminary
plat shall generally locate buildings, whereas the final plat shall show the
exact location of each building. The recording of the final plat shall inform
all who deal with the planned unit development of the restrictions placed upon
the land and act as a zoning control device.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .260, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.571 PROCEDURE WHEN CONSTRUCTION FALLS BEHIND SCHEDULE.
   The Village Board shall consider the planned unit development subject to
revocation if construction falls more than two years behind the schedule filed
with the final plat, or exceeds five years. The developer shall be notified at
least 90 days prior to any revocation hearing. Extensions of the building
schedule agreed by the developer at the time of approval may be granted by the
Village Board.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .270, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.572 CHANGES IN FINAL APPROVED PLAN DURING DEVELOPMENT.
   Upon issuance of a special use permit and the necessary building permits, no
changes may be made during or after the development of the final plan as
approved and recorded, unless such changes are made pursuant to a new and
separate application for planned unit development in accordance with §§
155.560 through
155.569.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .280, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.573 OCCUPANCY OF PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   No planned unit development, or any portion thereof, may be occupied until
such time as an occupancy permit has been issued by the Zoning Officer
certifying that the development or a stage of the development, if applicable,
has been completed in compliance with the final plan as approved and recorded.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .290, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.574 MAINTENANCE OF COMMON OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   In the event that the organization established to own and maintain
common open space, or any successor organization, at any time after
establishment of the planned unit development fails to maintain the common open
space in reasonable order and condition in accordance with the plan, the
village may serve written notice upon such organization or upon the residents
of the planned unit development setting forth the manner in which the
organization has failed to maintain the common open space in reasonable
conditions, and such notice shall include a demand that such deficiencies of
maintenance be cured within 30 days thereof, and shall state the date and place
of a hearing thereon which shall be held within 14 days of the notice. At such
hearing the village may modify the terms of the original notice as to the
deficiencies and may give an extension of time within which they shall be
cured. If the deficiencies set forth in the original notice or in the
modifications thereof shall not be cured within 30 days or any extension
thereof, the village, in order to preserve the taxable values of the properties
within the planned unit development and to prevent the common open space from
becoming a public nuisance, may enter upon the common open space and maintain
the same for a period of one year. The entry and maintenance shall not vest in
the public any rights to use the common open space except when the same is
voluntarily dedicated to the public by the owners. Before the expiration of the
year, the village shall, upon its initiative or upon the request of the
organization theretofore responsible for the maintenance of the common open
space, call a public hearing upon notice to such organization, or to the
residents of the planned unit development, to be held by the Planning and
Zoning Board of the village, at which hearing such organization of the
residents of the planned unit development shall show cause why such maintenance
by the village shall not, at the election of the village, continue for a
succeeding year. If the Planning and Zoning Board determines that such
organization is ready and able to maintain the common open space in reasonable
condition, the village shall cease to maintain the common open space at the end
of the year. If the Planning and Zoning Board determines such organization is
not ready and able to maintain the common open space in a reasonable condition,
the village may, in its discretion, continue to maintain the common open space
during the next succeeding year subject to a similar hearing and determination,
in each year thereafter. The decision of the Planning and Zoning Board in any
such case shall constitute a final administrative decision subject to review in
accordance with the appropriate provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The cost of such maintenance by the village shall be assessed ratably
against the properties within the planned unit development that have a right of
enjoyment of the common open space and shall become a tax lien on such
properties. The village, at the time of entering upon the common open space for
the purpose of maintenance, shall file a notice of such lien in the office of
the County Recorder upon the properties affected by such lien within the
planned unit development.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .300, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.575 APPLICATIONS; CONTENT.
   The planned unit development applications shall be accompanied by plats,
supporting data and materials which shall include at least the information
required by §§
155.576 through
155.582, prepared in a manner and scale appropriate to the size and nature of
the site and development.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .310, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.576 APPLICATIONS; PRELIMINARY PLAN STAGE.
   (A)   All drawings shall be prepared at a scale of a minimum of one inch
equal to 100 feet.
   (B)   Drawings shall include the following:
      (1)   A property survey and legal description of the size;
      (2)   Boundary lines of the development;
      (3)   Title and certificates, present tract designation according to
official records in offices of the County Recorder; title under which proposed
development is to be recorded, with names and addresses of owners. “Owner”
shall include beneficial owners of any land trust;
      (4)   Statement of present and proposed ownership of all land within the
planned unit development;
      (5)   Existing zoning regulations on and surrounding the size;
      (6)   Ground elevations, topographical description and, where applicable,
subsurface conditions of the site;
      (7)   General land use of surrounding areas, including schools, parks and
other public and semipublic facilities;
      (8)   The general location, purpose and height of each proposed building
and structure;
      (9)   Internal uses of each building or structure and the specific
overall land uses of the site;
      (10)   The number, type and size of residential units to be developed on
the site;
      (11)   The gross floor area of all nonresidential buildings, structures
and uses;
      (12)   The amount, location and proposed use of all open space and all
land dedicated for public use or reserved for the use of residents of the
development;
      (13)   Existing and proposed streets, alleys and other rights-of-way on
and adjacent to the site;
      (14)   The amount and location of all parking spaces, loading facilities,
sidewalks and service areas;
      (15)   Preliminary architectural sketches for all primary buildings in
sufficient detail to permit an understanding of the style of the development
and design of the buildings;
      (16)   Existing and proposed utilities on and adjacent to the site,
including sanitary and storm sewers, water mains, gas lines, fire hydrants,
electric and telephone lines and street lights;
      (17)   Proposed public improvements planned by public authorities on or
near the size;
      (18)   Existing and proposed easements, covenants, agreements and
provisions governing the use of land, including those providing for the
continued protection of the planned unit development and the protection and
maintenance of common open space;
      (19)   Development schedule indicating:
         (a)   Stages in which the project will be built with emphasis on area,
density, use and public facilities, such as open space to be developed with
each stage. Overall design of each stage shall be shown on the plat and through
supporting graphic material; and
         (b)   Approximate dates for beginning and completion of each stage.
      (20)   A written statement by the landowner setting forth the reasons
why, in his or her opinion, the planned unit development would be in the public
interest and would be consistent with the statement of purposes for planned
unit developments.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .320, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.577 APPLICATIONS; FINAL PLAN STAGE; DETAILED WHEN.
   (A)   A final land use and zoning plat, suitable for recording with the
County Recorder of Deeds shall be prepared. The purpose of the planned unit
development plat is to designate with particularity the land subdivided into
conventional lots as well as the division of other lands not so treated into
common open areas and building areas, and to designate and limit the specific
internal uses of each building or structure, as well as the land in general.
   (B)   The final planned unit development plat shall include but not be
limited to:
      (1)   An accurate legal description of the entire area under immediate
development within the planned unit development;
      (2)   If subdivided lands are included in the planned unit development, a
subdivision plat of all subdivided lands in the same form and meeting all the
requirements of a normal subdivision plat;
      (3)   An accurate legal description of each separate unsubdivided use
area, including common open space;
      (4)   Designation of the exact location of all buildings to be
constructed and a designation of the specific internal uses to which each
building shall be put, and a street numbering designation shall be furnished
for each building;
      (5)   Certificates, seals and signatures required for the dedication of
land, and recording the document; and
      (6)   Tabulations on each separate unsubdivided use area, including land
area, number of buildings and number of dwelling units per acre.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .330, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.578 APPLICATIONS; FINAL PLAN STAGE; COMMON OPEN SPACE DOCUMENTS.
   All common open space, at the election of the village, shall be:
   (A)   Conveyed to a municipal or public corporation, or conveyed to a not-
for-profit corporation or entity established for the purpose of benefiting the
owners and residents of the planned unit development or adjoining property
owners or any one or more of them. All lands conveyed under this chapter shall
be subject to the right of the grantee or grantees to enforce maintenance and
improvement of the common open space; or
   (B)   Guaranteed by a restrictive covenant describing the open space and its
maintenance and improvement, running with the land for the benefit of residents
of the planned unit development or adjoining property owners and/or both.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .340, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.579 APPLICATIONS; FINAL PLAN STAGE; PUBLIC FACILITIES.
   All public facilities and improvements made necessary as a result of the
planned unit development shall be either constructed in advance of the approval
of the final plat, or, at the election of the village, escrow deposits,
irrevocable letters of credit in a form approved by the Village Attorney for
performance bonds shall be delivered to guarantee construction of the required
improvements. Any such guarantee shall be 100% of the estimate approved by the
Village Engineer of the cost to construct the improvements.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .350, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.580 APPLICATIONS; FINAL PLAN STAGE; GUARANTEE DEPOSIT.
   In addition to the deposit provided for in appropriate sections, security
for the completion of public improvements shall be provided to the village
pursuant to §
154.154 of the Subdivision Code.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .360, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.581 APPLICATIONS; FINAL PLAN STAGE; DELINQUENT TAXES.
   A certificate shall be furnished from the County Collector that he or she
finds no delinquent taxes and that all special assessments constituting a lien
on the whole or any part of the property of the planned unit development have
been paid.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .370, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.582 APPLICATIONS; FINAL PLAN STAGE; COVENANTS.
   Final agreements, provisions or covenants shall govern the use, maintenance
and continued protection of the planned unit development.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .380, passed 2-15-1999)
CONDITIONAL PERMITTED USES
§ 155.595 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The formulation and enactment of a comprehensive ordinance is based on
the division of the entire village into districts in each of which are
permitted specified uses that are mutually compatible. In addition to such
permitted, compatible uses, however, it is recognized that there are other uses
which it may be necessary or desirable to allow in a given district, but which
on account of their potential influence upon neighboring uses or public
facilities need to be carefully regulated with respect to location or operation
for the protection of the community.
   (B)   Such uses are classified in this chapter as conditional permitted uses
and fall into the following categories:
      (1)   Uses either municipally operated or operated by publicly regulated
utilities, or uses traditionally affected by public interest;
      (2)   Uses entirely private in character which, on account of their
peculiar locational need, the nature of the service they offer to the public
and their possible damaging influence on the neighborhood may have to be
established in a district or districts in which they cannot reasonably be
allowed as an unrestricted permitted use under the zoning regulations; and
      (3)   Planned unit developments as set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 23, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.596 AUTHORITY TO PROPOSE.
   Conditional permitted uses may be proposed by the Village Board, Planning
and Zoning Board, and by any person, firm or corporation having a freehold
interest, a possessory interest entitled to exclusive possession, a contractual
interest which may become a freehold interest, an option to purchase, or any
exclusive possessory interest which is specifically enforceable of the land
which is described in the application for a conditional permitted use.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 23, subs. .020, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.597 PROCESSING OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for a conditional permitted use shall be filed with the
Village Clerk and thereafter entered into the records of the first meeting
thereafter of the Village Clerk.
   (B)   A copy of such application shall thereafter be forwarded by the
Village Clerk to the Planning and Zoning Board with a request to hold a public
hearing and submit to the Village Board a report of its findings and
recommendations. Such public hearing shall be held upon such notice that shall
be required by state law.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 23, subs. .030, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.598 DECISIONS; VILLAGE BOARD AUTHORITY; PROTEST.
   (A)   The Village Board, upon report of the Planning and Zoning Board and
without further public hearing, may grant or deny any proposed conditional
permitted use in accordance with applicable state statutes, or may refer it
back to the Planning and Zoning Board for further consideration.
   (B)   In case a written protest against any proposed conditional permitted
use, signed and acknowledged by owners of 20% of the frontage proposed to be
altered, or by the owners of 20% of the frontage immediately adjoining or
across the alley therefrom, or by owners of 20% of the frontage directly
opposite the frontage to be altered, is filed with the Village Clerk, the
conditional permitted use cannot be passed except on the favorable vote of two-
thirds of all members of the Village Board.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 23, subs. .040, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.599 BUILDINGS WITH MORE THAN TWO AND ONE-HALF STORIES.
   Notwithstanding anything else in this chapter to the contrary, all buildings
having more than two and one-half stories shall be considered a conditional
permitted use in all zoning districts and shall require a public hearing by the
Planning and Zoning Board and approval from the Village Board before they can
be constructed.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 23, subs. .050, passed 2-15-1999)
VARIATIONS
§ 155.610 AUTHORITY; PUBLIC HEARING.
   The Village Board shall decide all applications for variations of the
provisions of this chapter after a public hearing held before the Planning and
Zoning Board. The Planning and Zoning Board shall hold a public hearing upon
all applications for variations and shall report its recommendations to the
Village Board. The Planning and Zoning Board shall recommend a variation only
after it has made a finding of fact specifying the reason or reasons for
recommending the variation. Such findings shall be based upon the reason or
reasons for recommending the variation. Such findings shall be based upon the
standards prescribed in §
155.613. No variation shall be granted by the Village Board without such
findings of fact. When the Planning and Zoning Board fails to recommend a
variation, it can only be adopted by an ordinance with the favorable vote of
two-thirds of the Village Board.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 24, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.611 APPLICATION; WHO MAY APPLY.
   An application for a variation may be made by any governmental office,
department, board, bureau or commission or by any person, firm or corporation
having a freehold interest, a possessory interest entitled to exclusive
possession, a contractual interest which may become a freehold interest, an
option to purchase or any exclusive possessory interest applicable to the land
or land and improvements described in the application for a variation.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 24, subs. .020, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.612 APPLICATION; FILING; NOTICE OF HEARING.
   (A)   An application for a variation shall be filed with the Village Clerk,
who shall forward a copy of same to the Planning and Zoning Board without
delay.
   (B)   The application shall contain such information as the Zoning and
Planning Board may from time to time by rule provide. No more than 90 days
after the filing of such application, a hearing shall be held on the
application. Notice of such hearing shall be published at least once not more
than 30 days nor less than 15 days before the hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the village. The published notice may be supplemented by
such additional form of notice as the Board may by rule provide.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 24, subs. .030, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.613 STANDARDS; CRITERIA FOR RECOMMENDATION.
   (A)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall not recommend a variation of the
regulations of this chapter as authorized in this subchapter unless it has made
findings of fact based upon the evidence presented to it in each specific case
that:
      (1)   The property in question cannot yield a reasonable return if
permitted to be used only under the conditions allowed by the regulations in
the district in which it is located;
      (2)   The plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances;
      (3)   The variation, if granted, will not alter the essential character
of the locality; and
      (4)   For the purpose of implementing the above rules, the Planning and
Zoning Board shall also, in making its determination whether there are
practical difficulties or particular hardships, take into consideration the
extent to which the following facts favorable to the applicant have been
established by the evidence:
         (a)   The particular physical surroundings, shape or topographical
condition of the specific property involved would result in a particular
hardship upon the owner, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience, if the
strict letter of the regulations were carried out;
         (b)   The conditions upon which the petition for variation is based
would not be applicable, generally to other property within the same zoning
classification;
         (c)   The purpose of the variation is not based exclusively upon a
desire to make more money out of the property;
         (d)   The alleged difficulty or hardship has not been created by the
owner of the property, or by a previous owner;
         (e)   The granting of the variation will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to other property or improvements in the
neighborhood in which the property is located; and
         (f)   The proposed variation will not impair an adequate supply of
light and air to adjacent property, or substantially increase the congestion in
the public streets, or increase the danger of fire, or endanger the public
safety, or substantially diminish or impair property values within the
neighborhood.
   (B)   The Planning and Zoning Board may recommend and the Village Board may
require such conditions and restrictions upon the premises benefited by a
variation as may be necessary to comply with the standards set forth in this
section to reduce or minimize the injurious of such variation upon other
property in the neighborhood, and better to carry out the general intent of
this chapter.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 24, subs. .040, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.614 ISSUANCE CONDITIONS.
   Variations from the regulations of this chapter shall be granted by the
Planning and Zoning Board only in accordance with the standards set out in §
155.613, and may be granted only in the following instances, and in no others:
   (A)   To permit any yard or setback less than a yard or a setback required
by the applicable regulations;
   (B)   To permit the use of a lot or lots of record on the effective date of
the ordinance codified in this chapter for a use otherwise prohibited solely
because of insufficient area or width of the lot or lots;
   (C)   To permit the same off-street parking facility to qualify as required
facilities for two or more uses; provided that substantial use of such facility
by each user does not take place at approximately the same hours of the same
days of the week;
   (D)   To reduce the applicable off-street parking or loading facilities
required by 10% of the applicable regulations; and
   (E)   To permit the substitution of a different nonconforming use for an
existing nonconforming dwelling or structure; provided that a more compatible
arrangement of land uses will result; and further provided that the
substitution of a different nonconforming use will not require enlargements or
structural alterations to the nonconforming building or structure; however,
once a different nonconforming use has been substituted, there shall not be a
substitution back to the prior nonconforming use.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 24, subs. .050, passed 2-15-1999)
AMENDMENTS
§ 155.625 PERMITTED WHEN; PUBLIC HEARING.
   The regulations imposed and the districts created under the authority of
this chapter may be amended, from time to time, by ordinance in accordance with
applicable state statutes. An amendment shall be granted or denied by the
Village Board only after a public hearing before the Planning and Zoning Board
and a report of its findings and recommendations has thereafter been submitted
to the Village Board.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 25, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.626 PROPOSAL AUTHORITY.
   Amendments may be proposed by the Village Board, Planning and Zoning Board
and by any person, firm or corporation having a freehold interest, a possessory
interest entitled to exclusive possession, a contractual interest which may
become a freehold interest, an option to purchase or any exclusive possessory
interest which is specifically enforceable on the land which is described in
the application for an amendment.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 25, subs. .020, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.627 PROCESSING; APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for an amendment shall be filed with the Village Clerk,
and thereafter entered into the records of the first meeting thereafter of the
Village Board.
   (B)   A copy of such application shall thereafter be forwarded by the
Village Clerk to the Planning and Zoning Board with a request to hold a public
hearing and submit to the Village Board a report of its findings and
recommendations. Such public hearing shall be held upon such notice that shall
be required by state statutes.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 25, subs. .030, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.628 DECISIONS.
   (A)   The Village Board, upon report of the Planning and Zoning Board and
without further public hearing, may grant or deny any proposed amendment in
accordance with applicable state statutes, or may refer it back to the Planning
and Zoning Board for further consideration.
   (B)   In case a written protest against any proposed amendment signed and
acknowledged by owners of 20% of the frontage proposed to be altered, or by the
owners of 20% of the frontage immediately adjoining or across the alley
therefrom, or by owners of 20% of the frontage directly opposite the frontage
to be altered, is filed with the Village Clerk, the amendment cannot be passed
except on the favorable vote of two-thirds of all members of the Village Board.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 25, subs. .040, passed 2-15-1999)
FEES
§ 155.640 FEES DESIGNATED.
   (A)   A minimum fee of $1,000 shall accompany an application for a zoning
map amendment, zoning text amendment, conditional permitted use or variation,
and shall be filed with the Village Clerk by or on behalf of the owner or
owners of the property affected.
   (B)   All applicants requesting a site plan review, subdivision, planned
unit development, zoning, rezoning, annexation, conditional permitted use,
variance or other zoning relief shall either pay directly to or reimburse the
village for its reasonable fees and costs for engineering, planning, legal or
other professional consultants incurred in connection with preparing, studying,
inspecting, reviewing, examining, checking and processing applicant’s request
and plans.
   (C)   All bills for engineering, planning, legal and other professional
consultants shall be submitted to the Village Clerk prior to the village
submitting invoices to the applicant for prompt payment by the applicant.
   (D)   All village invoices for such services submitted by the village
related to any such application shall be paid promptly by the applicant, but
not later than 30 days, and the obligation to reimburse the village or pay
those providing services directly is binding whether or not the village
approves the applicant’s site plan subdivision, planned unit development,
zoning, rezoning, annexation, conditional permitted use, variance or other
zoning relief.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any other ordinances of the village, no site plan,
subdivision, planned unit development, zoning, rezoning, annexation,
conditional permitted use, variance or other zoning relief shall be deemed to
be approved unless or until the applicant has reimbursed the village or paid to
those directly providing services, all fees and costs incurred for engineering,
planning, legal and other professional consultant fees incurred by the village
in connection with the applicant’s request and plans.
   (F)   At the time an applicant files his or her application for a site plan
review, subdivision, planned unit development, zoning, rezoning, annexation,
conditional permitted use, variance or other zoning relief, the village shall
furnish the applicant with a form which shall read substantially as follows:
APPLICANT:
Date:
The following firm, representative, agent or individual does hereby state that
it has been fully disclosed to said party that in order for the village to
properly review and evaluate requests for site plan review, subdividing,
planned unit developments, zoning, rezoning, annexation, conditional permitted
use, variances or other zoning relief, the village must necessarily utilize and
engage the services of engineering, planning, legal and other professional
consultants. The undersigned hereby agrees to pay to the village, either by
reimbursement or directly to the professionals providing services, the
reasonable costs incurred by the village for such services pertaining to the
request of the undersigned for such site plan review, subdividing, planned unit
development, zoning, rezoning, annexation, conditional permitted use, variance
or other zoning relief. It is further understood and agreed that all invoices
for such services shall be paid promptly when submitted, but not later than 30
days, and that the obligation to reimburse the village or pay the professionals
providing said services directly is binding whether or not a site plan,
subdivision, planned unit development, zoning, rezoning, annexation,
conditional permitted use, variance or other zoning relief is in fact approved.
                            
Applicant
   (G)   The Zoning Board of Appeals or Village Board shall not be required to
take any action on any application submitted until the applicant has signed the
above form and properly filed an original or true and correct copy with the
Village Clerk.
   (H)   At the time an applicant files his or her application for site plan
review, subdivision, planned unit development or annexation, the applicant
shall deposit with the village the sum of $3,000 as a security deposit for the
payment and satisfaction of the costs, engineering, planning, legal and other
professional fees. Said sum shall be returned to the applicant within 60 days
following the complete payment and satisfaction of all sums due herein. In the
event the applicant fails to satisfy the financial obligations herein, the
village may apply all or any portion of said security deposit against said
obligation. The village may maintain an action at law or in equity to enforce
the provisions of this section and the applicant shall be responsible for all
costs and attorney’s fees incurred by the village in the enforcement of the
provisions of this section, whether suit is filed or not. The Building and
Zoning Officer is authorized to issue a stop-work order, if applicable, until
the applicant pays and satisfies his, her or its obligations in full.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 26, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999; Ord. 2006-1, passed 1-
16-2006; Ord. 2018-06, passed 10-1-2018)
Cross-reference:
   Similar language, see §
154.176
APPEALS
§ 155.655 SCOPE.
   An appeal to the Planning and Zoning Board may be made by any person, firm
or corporation, or by any office, department, board or bureau aggrieved by a
decision of the Zoning Officer under this chapter in accordance with state law
and §§
155.656 through
155.658.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 27, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.656 APPLICATION.
   An application for an appeal shall be filed with the Village Clerk within 20
days of the date of the action from which the appeal is being filed, and
thereafter the Village Clerk shall forward such application to the Planning and
Zoning Board for processing. The Village Clerk shall forward to the Zoning
Officer a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof, and he or she shall
forthwith transmit to the Planning and Zoning Board all the papers constituting
the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 27, subs. .020, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.657 STAY OF PROCEEDINGS.
   An appeal stays all the proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed
from unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the Planning
and Zoning Board, after the notice of appeal has been filed with him or her,
that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his or her
opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property, in which case proceedings
shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted
by the Planning and Zoning Board or by a court of record on application, on
notice to the officer from whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 27, subs. .030, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.658 HEARING.
   The Planning and Zoning Board shall fix a reasonable time, not to exceed 90
days, for the hearing of the appeal and give due notice thereof to the parties
and decide the same within a reasonable time. The Planning and Zoning Board may
reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement,
decision or determination as in its opinion ought to be made on the premises,
and to that end shall have all the powers of the officer from whom the appeal
was taken.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 27, subs. .040, passed 2-15-1999)
ADMINISTRATION; ENFORCEMENT
§ 155.670 ORGANIZATION.
   The administration of this chapter is vested in:
   (A)   The Office of the Zoning Officer;
   (B)   The Planning and Zoning Board; and
   (C)   The Village Board.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 28, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.671 ZONING OFFICER.
   The Zoning Officer shall enforce the provisions of the Building (
Ch. 151), Subdivision (
Ch. 154) and Zoning Codes pursuant to §
155.005.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 28, subs. .020, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.672 PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD; CREATION.
   The Planning and Zoning Board of the village is created in accordance with
state law.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 28, subs. .030, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.673 PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD; MEMBERSHIP; TERM.
   The Village President shall appoint a Planning and Zoning Board consisting
of seven members which shall be confirmed by a majority vote of the members of
the Village Board present and voting thereon. The members appointed shall serve
respectively for the following terms: one for one year, one for two years, one
for three years, two for four years and two for five years. The successor to
each member so appointed shall serve for a term of five years. One of the
members so appointed shall be named as Chairperson at the time of his or her
appointment by the Village President, and in case of vacancy, the Mayor shall
designate a Chairperson who shall be confirmed by a majority vote of the
Village Board present and voting thereon. The Village Board shall have the
power to remove any member of the Planning and Zoning Board for cause by a
majority vote of the members of the Village Board present and voting thereon.
Vacancies on the Planning and Zoning Board shall be filled for the unexpired
term of the member whose place has become vacant in the manner provided in this
section for the appointment of such new member.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 28, subs. .040, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.674 PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD; JURISDICTION.
   The Planning and Zoning Board is vested with the following jurisdiction and
authority:
   (A)   To hear and decide an appeal from any order, requirements, decision or
determination made by the Zoning Officer or other authorized official of the
village having jurisdiction under this chapter;
   (B)   To hear application for variations from the terms provided in this
chapter in the manner and subject to the standards set forth in this chapter;
   (C)   To hear and decide upon all matters referred to it or upon which it is
required to pass under this chapter in accordance with applicable state
statutes;
   (D)   Submit a recommendation to the Village Board on all requests for
variations, zoning amendments and conditional permitted uses;
   (E)   Receive copies of all applications for amendments and for conditional
permitted uses and hold public hearings thereon; and
   (F)   Initiate, direct and review, from time to time, a study of the
provisions of the text and the map comprising this chapter, and make reports of
its recommendations to the Village Board not less frequently than annually.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 28, subs. .050, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.675 PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD; MEETINGS; RULES.
   All meetings of the Planning and Zoning Board shall be held at the call of
the Chairperson and at such times and places within the village as the Planning
and Zoning Board may determine. All testimony by witnesses at any hearing
provided for in this chapter shall be given under oath. The Chairperson, or in
his or her absence, the acting Chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the Planning and Zoning Board shall be
open to the public. The Planning and Zoning Board shall keep minutes of its
proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon every question, or if absent
or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall also keep records of its
examinations and other official actions. A majority of a quorum of the Planning
and Zoning Board shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision
or determination of the Zoning Officer to decide in favor of the application on
any matter on which it is authorized by this chapter to render a decision.
Every rule, regulation, every amendment or repeal thereof, and every order,
requirement, decision or determination of the Planning and Zoning Board shall
immediately be filed in the office of the Planning and Zoning Board and shall
be a public record. In the performance of its duties, the Planning and Zoning
Board may incur such expenditures as shall be authorized by the Village Board.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 28, subs. .060, passed 2-15-1999)
ADULT BUSINESSES
§ 155.690 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BOOK STORE. An establishment having as a substantial or significant
portion of its stock-in-trade, books magazines and other periodicals which are
distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas, or an establishment with a segment or section devoted to the sale or
display of such material.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CABARET. A public or private establishment which may or
may not be licensed to serve food, and features topless dancers and/or
waitresses, strippers, male or female impersonators or similar entertainers.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CENTER. An enclosed building with a capacity for less
than 50 persons used for presenting motion picture films, video cassettes,
cable television or any other such visual media for observations by patrons
there, distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to specified anatomical areas or specified sexual
activities as hereafter defined.
   ADULT GIFT SHOP. An establishment having as a substantial or significant
portion of its stock-in- trade pictures, photographs, drawings, paraphernalia,
apparatus or other objects which are distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas or and establishment with a segment or
section devoted to the sale or display or such material.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building or drive-in theater used
for presenting motion picture films, video cassettes, cable television or any
other such visual media for observations by patrons there, distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities as stated herein.
   APPLICANT. The applicant for a license shall be the intended operator of the
business.
   MASSAGE. Any method or pressure on or friction against or stroking,
kneading, rubbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating or stimulation of the external
soft parts of the body with the hands or other parts of the human body or with
the aid of any mechanical or electrical apparatus or appliance, with or without
such supplementary aids as rubbing alcohol, liniments, antiseptics, oils,
powder, creams, lotions, ointments or other similar preparations commonly used
in this practice.
   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment having a fixed place of business
where any person, firm, association or corporation engages in, carries on or
permits to be engaged in the act of massage, as previously defined.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Less than completely and opaquely covered human
genitals, public region, buttock and female breast below a point immediately
above the top or the areola; and human male genitals in a discernible turgid
state, even if completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation
or arousal; acts or human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy; fondling
or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region, buttock or female
breast.
(Ord. 2000-7, passed 6-5-2000)
§ 155.691 ADULT BUSINESSES ENUMERATED.
   The following shall be considered adult businesses:
   (A)   Adult bookstore;
   (B)   Adult entertainment cabaret;
   (C)   Adult entertainment center;
   (D)   Adult gift shop;
   (E)   Adult motion picture theater; and
   (F)   Massage establishment.
(Ord. 2000-7, passed 6-5-2000)
§ 155.692 LIMITATIONS ON ADULT BUSINESSES.
   Adult businesses shall be permitted use in an M3 Manufacturing District
subject to the following limitations, and no application shall be approved for
a business which:
   (A)   Is located within 1,000 feet of an existing school, church or
residence;
   (B)   Is located within 1,000 feet of another establishment already
operating a business defined hereunder or already licensed hereunder;
   (C)   Has more than one outdoor sign advertising its existence or location;
   (D)   Has an outdoor sign exceeding ten feet in length or three feet in
width;
   (E)   Has an outdoor sign which contains any emphasis, either by wording or
picture or otherwise, of matters relating to sexual activities;
   (F)   Displays this stock-in-trade or adult businesses to the public view
from outside the establishment;
   (G)   Fails to post a notice at its door that entry by persons under age 18
is forbidden;
   (H)   Has the consumption or sale of alcohol on this premises;
   (I)   Is located in a building structure which contains another business
that sells or dispenses in some manner alcoholic beverages;
   (J)   When the applicant or any other person(s) listed on the application
has been convicted of a felony or crime of dishonesty or moral turpitude;
   (K)   When the applicant or any other person(s) listed on the application
has violated any ordinances or the village, or had any similar license revoked
by the village, or any other county or municipality within the previous five
years; or
   (L)   Is not owned or operated by a U.S. citizen or lawfully admitted
resident alien.
(Ord. 2000-7, passed 6-5-2000)
§ 155.693 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to open, maintain, operate, conduct or
permit to be operated on, in or upon any premises in the village an adult
business, without first having obtained a license from the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 2000-7, passed 6-5-2000) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.694 APPLICATION: FEE.
   (A)   Every applicant for a license to open, maintain, operate or conduct an
adult business shall file an application in duplicate with the Village Clerk
and pay a nonrefundable funding fee of $1,000. Annual license renewal fee shall
be $500 payable prior to the issuance of said license.
   (B)   Within 30 days after receiving the application, the Village Clerk
shall notify the applicant that his or her application is granted, denied or
held for further investigation. Such additional investigation shall not exceed
an additional 30 days unless otherwise agreed to by the applicant. Upon the
conclusion of such additional investigation, the Village Clerk shall inform the
applicant in writing whether the application is granted or denied.
   (C)   Whenever an application is denied or held for further investigation,
the applicant shall be advised in writing or the reasons for such action.
   (D)   Failure or refusal of the applicant to give any information relevant
to the investigation or the application or his or her refusal or failure to
appear at any reasonable time and place for examination under oath regarding
said application or his or her refusal to submit to or cooperate with any
inspection or investigation required shall constitute an admission by the
applicant that he or she is ineligible for such permit and shall be grounds for
denial of this application.
(Ord. 2000-7, passed 6-5-2000)
§ 155.695 CONTENTS OF APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   The application for such a license shall contain the exact name and
address of the applicant and the following information about this applicant and
any partner or limited partner or a partnership applicant, and any officer or
director of a corporate applicant any stockholder owning more than 5% of the
stock of a corporate applicant, and any employee of this applicant who will
work on the premises.
   (B)   All applications shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name and address;
      (2)   Written proof that the individual is at least 18 years of age;
      (3)   All residential addresses for the past five years;
      (4)   The business, occupation or employment of the applicant for the
five years immediately proceeding the date of application;
      (5)   A statement of all similar businesses ever owned or participated in
by applicant including a statement as to whether the applicant has ever held a
similar license from any other county or municipality and details of any
revocation of any such license;
      (6)   The address and legal description of the parcel of land on which
the business is to be located;
      (7)   The name under which the business is to be operated and a general
description of the services to be provided;
      (8)   Whether the applicant has been convicted of any felony within the
last ten years of any criminal offense, including controlled substances, moral
turpitude, prostitution, obscenity or other crime of a sexual nature; and
      (9)   A statement on oath and affirmation that:
         (a)   The applicant has personal knowledge of the information
contained in the application and that the information contained therein is true
and correct; and
         (b)   The applicant has read and understands the adult business
ordinance.
(Ord. 2000-7, passed 6-5-2000)
§ 155.696 ACCOMPANIMENTS TO THE APPLICATION.
   The application shall be accompanied by the following:
   (A)   Payment in full of a fee of $1,000 for an original application, or
$500 for a renewal application as applicable, which fee shall not be refundable
under any circumstances;
   (B)   A certified copy of the assumed name certificate if the business is to
be operated under an assumed name;
   (C)   If the business is a state corporation, a certified copy of the
articles of incorporation, together with all amendments thereto;
   (D)   If the business is a foreign corporation, a certified copy of the
certificate of authorization of transact business in this state, together with
all amendments thereto;
   (E)   If the business is a limited partnership formed under the laws of the
state, a certified copy of the certificate of limited partnership, together
with all amendments thereto;
   (F)   If the enterprise is a foreign limited partnership, a certified copy
of the certificate of limited partnership and the qualification documents,
together with all amendments thereto; and
   (G)   If the premises are leased or being purchased under contract, a copy
of such lease or contract shall accompany the application.
(Ord. 2000-7, passed 6-5-2000)
§ 155.697 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE FOR ADULT BUS1NESS.
   (A)   Any license issued for an adult business may be revoked or suspended
by the President of the village only if the President shall find:
      (1)   That the licensee has violated any of the provisions of this
chapter regulating adult uses; or
      (2)   That the licensee has knowingly furnished false or misleading
information or withheld relevant information on any application for any license
or permit required by this chapter or knowingly caused or suffered another to
furnish or withhold such information on his or her behalf.
   (B)   The licensee shall be responsible for the acts of his or her agents,
servants and employees; provided, however, that in the case of a first offense
by a licensee where the conduct was solely that of an employee, the penalty
shall not exceed a suspension of 30 days if the President shall find that the
licensee had no actual or constructive knowledge of such violation and could
not by the exercise of due diligence have had such actual constructive
knowledge.
   (C)   The President before revoking or suspending any license shall give the
licensee at least ten days’ written notice of the charges against him or her.
The licensee may within five days of receipt of said notice request a public
hearing before the President at which time the licensee may present evidence
bearing upon the question. Any notice by the President may be delivered
personally to the licensee or be posted on the premises of the establishment
being used as an adult use.
(Ord. 2000-7, passed 6-5-2000)
§ 155.698 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be effective from and following its passage, approval
and publication in pamphlet form.
(Ord. 2000-7, passed 6-5-2000)
ADULT-USE RECREATIONAL CANNABIS
§ 155.710 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT. An adult-use cannabis cultivation
center, craft grower, processing organization, infuser organization, dispensing
organization or transporting organization.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER. A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, dry, cure and package cannabis and perform other necessary
activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or
use at a processing organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (410
ILCS 705/1-1 et seq.), as it may be amended from time to time, and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities
to provide cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (410 ILCS 705/1-1 et
seq.), as it may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed
cannabis business establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing
cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related
supplies to purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and
caregivers, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (410 ILCS 705/1-1 et seq.),
as it may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER. A facility operated by
an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act (410 ILCS 705/1-1 et seq.), as it may be amended from
time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR. A facility operated
by an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act (410 ILCS 705/1-1 et seq.),  as it may be amended from time to
time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER. An organization
or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or a
community college licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational
Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (410 ILCS 705/
1-1 et seq.), as it may be amended from time to time, and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
(Ord. 2020-06, passed 9-21-2020)
§ 155.711 STANDARDS; CRITERIA FOR RECOMMENDATION.
   (A)   Adult-use cannabis business establishment facilities, as defined
herein, requiring approval of a conditional use in the respective districts in
which they are requested shall be processed in accordance with §§
155.595 -
155.599 of this Municipal Code.
   (B)   Any such cannabis business establishment facilities shall be evaluated
based on the entirety of the circumstances, and the following shall be
considered:
      (1)   Impact of the proposed facility on existing or planned uses located
within the vicinity of the subject property;
      (2)   Proposed structure in which the facility will be located, including
co-tenancy (if in a multi-tenant building), total square footage, security
installations/security plan and building code compliance;
      (3)   Hours of operation and anticipated number of customers/employees;
      (4)   Anticipated parking demand and available private parking supply;
      (5)   Anticipated traffic generation in the context of adjacent roadway
capacity and access to such roadways;
      (6)   Site design, including access points and internal site circulation;
      (7)   Proposed signage plan; and
      (8)   Consideration of the factors contained in §§
155.595 -
155.599.
(Ord. 2020-06, passed 9-21-2020)
§ 155.712 CONDITIONS ON APPROVAL.
   Cannabis business establishment facilities, as defined herein as conditional
uses, must comply with the following:
   (A)   Facility may not be located within 250 feet of the property line of a
pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or secondary
school, day care center, day care home or residential care home. Learning
centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a public or
private school for purposes of this section.
   (B)   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis other
than as authorized by the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (410 ILCS 705/1-1 et
seq.), as it may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
   (C)   Facility shall install security systems, lighting or other
improvements, to ensure the safety of employees and customers of the adult-use
cannabis business establishments, as well as its environs. Said improvements
shall be determined based on the specific characteristics of the floor plan for
an adult-use cannabis business establishment and the site on which it is
located, consistent with the requirements of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax
Act (410 ILCS 705/1-1 et seq.), as it may be amended from time to time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
(Ord. 2020-06, passed 9-21-2020)
§ 155.713 ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROHIBITED USES.
   The following uses are strictly prohibited uses within any zoning district
within the village:
   (A)   Adult-use cannabis craft grower organization;
   (B)   Adult-use cannabis infuser organization;
   (C)   Adult-use cannabis processing organization;
   (D)   Adult-use cannabis transporting organization; and
   (E)   Adult-use cannabis cultivation center.
(Ord. 2020-06, passed 9-21-2020)
§ 155.714 CO-LOCATION OF CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS.
   The village may approve the co-location of an adult-use cannabis dispensing
organization with a medical cannabis dispensing organization, as defined in §
155.021, subject to the provisions of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act and
the conditional use criteria within this Municipal Code. In a co-location
scenario, the co-located establishments shall occupy the sole use of the
proposed space.
(Ord. 2020-06, passed 9-21-2020)
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS
§ 155.725 LARGE SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide regulations for the
permitting large solar energy systems as a conditional permitted use for M1
Manufacturing District, M2 Manufacturing District, and M3 Manufacturing
District zoning districts. This section provides restrictions for the
development to aid in the quality of life for the adjacent property owners and
general aesthetic qualities for the village while preventing detriment to the
public health, safety and welfare of the village as a whole.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      LARGE SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. Energy generated from multiple solar panels
over a large parcel in which this would be the primary land use. Poles and
racks of multiple solar panels would be used that would generate direct
current, and systems that are not roof mounted solar energy systems, or pole
mounted solar energy systems.
      SOLAR ARRAY. A number of photovoltaic modules or panels connected
together to provide a single electrical output.
      SOLAR COLLECTOR TOTAL HEIGHT. The height of the solar collector system
from grade to the highest point of the system that may be achieved when in
operation.
      TRACKING SOLAR ARRAY. A solar array that follows the path of the sun to
optimize the amount of solar radiation received by the device.
   (C)   Filing requirements for a special use permit of a solar energy system.
Submittal packets for a special use for the construction of a large solar
energy system shall contain the following:
      (1)   Application. The applicant for a solar energy system special use
shall file ten copies of application, which shall include full size and reduced
sized copies of exhibits, with the Village Clerk, together with the appropriate
application fee.
      (2)   Village Clerk. The Village Clerk, upon receiving said application,
shall do the following:
         (a)   Accept for filing, and date stamp as filing, any application
that is filed. The date stamp of the Village Clerk should be considered the
official filing date for all time limit purposes. Receipt and acceptance of an
application by the Village Clerk does not constitute an acknowledgment that the
applicant has complied with the village ordinances.
         (b)   The Village Clerk shall then forward to all members of the
Village Planning and Zoning Board, as well as the Village Board, complete
copies of the application.
      (3)   Form of applications.
         (a)   All applications shall be in writing on paper of 8-1/2 inches by
11 inches, 8-1/2 inches by 14 inches, or 11 inches by 17 inches.
         (b)   The pages of the application shall be consecutively numbered,
and all exhibits clearly marked and identified.
         (c)   The text portion of the application (not including exhibits or
graphic presentations) shall be furnished in an electronic format. The exhibits
or graphic representations may also be furnished in electronic format.
   (D)   Content of the solar energy system application. Every solar energy
system application shall include the following information and documentation:
      (1)   Applicant information. The applicant shall describe itself, its
legal standing as to whether it is a corporation, limited liability company,
individual, or other legal entity and shall identify its officers and
directors, shareholders, and members. It shall also identify its parent and
subsidiary companies. The same information shall be provided for all owners and
operators of the large solar energy system. In addition, the applicant shall
identify the property owners that have entered into leases or agreements with
the applicant and proof must be included that the applicant has the legal
authority to bring this application in the name of such property owners.
      (2)   Project description. The applicant shall provide a general
description of the project, including its total generating capacity; the
equipment manufacturer, the type and model of solar collectors proposed, the
number of solar collectors, the generating capacity of each solar collector,
the proposed height of each solar collector and overall dimensions thereof.
      (3)   Site plan.
         (a)   All proposed setback dimensions.
         (b)   All proposed structures on the property, including, but not
limited to, solar collectors, substations, and service roads.
         (c)   Topographic site information for the subject property and the
adjacent properties within a quarter mile of the property line of the subject
property indicating contours in five foot intervals.
         (d)   Existing structures on subject property and properties within a
quarter mile of the property.
         (e)   All existing and proposed underground and aboveground utilities.
         (f)   All rights of way, wetlands, wooded areas, and public
conservation lands.
         (g)   Ingress and egress from the site as proposed during construction
and thereafter, which shall indicate proposed road surface and cover, dust
control, width and length of access route and location of ingress, and road
maintenance progress or schedule for proposed use of land.
         (h)   Certified easements, contracts, waivers, and option agreements
for proposed use of the land.
         (i)   Utility interconnection details and a copy of written
notification to the utility company requesting the proposed interconnection.
         (j)   Fire protection plan for the construction and the operation of
the facility, and emergency access to the site.
         (k)   Revegetation or reclamation plan of the areas that will be
disturbed.
         (l)   Drainage plan and erosion control plan.
         (m)   Description of hours of operation for construction and
maintenance of the facility, numbers of employees and type of traffic expected
to be generated from the site.
   (E)   Design and installation requirements.
      (1)   Height. The total height of the solar collectors shall not exceed
20 feet in height as measured using the existing, pre-construction and
installation grade, when the solar collectors are oriented at a maximum tilt
position unless specifically allowed by the Village Board.
      (2)   Setbacks.
         (a)   Yard setback requirements. The setback for the rear, front and
side of the solar array and components of the solar collector system shall
conform to the requirements of a structure for the zoning district in which the
large solar energy system is located.
         (b)   Public and private roads. Components of the solar collector
system shall be located such that they are 150 feet from public and private
roads.
      (3)   Electrical components. All electrical components of a large solar
energy system shall conform to all applicable local utility standards and
national electric codes. All electrical wires and lines that are used in
conjunction with the large solar energy system shall be installed underground.
      (4)   Environmental impact. The applicant shall have a third party,
qualified professional conduct an analysis to identify and assess any potential
impacts on the natural environment including wetlands and other fragile
ecosystems, historical or cultural sites and antiquities, and adjacent
agricultural uses such as rotating crops. The applicant shall take appropriate
measures to minimize, eliminate or mitigate adverse impacts identified in the
analysis. The applicant shall identify and evaluate the significance of any
effects or concerns that will remain after mitigation efforts. In addition, a
water usage or impact study shall be completed that will indicate any impact
that the solar energy system will have on village water resources.
      (5)   Avian and wildlife impact. The applicant shall have a third party,
qualified professional conduct an analysis to identify and assess any potential
impacts on wildlife and endangered species. The applicant shall take the
appropriate measures to minimize, eliminate or mitigate adverse impacts
identified in the analysis. The applicant shall identify and evaluate the
significance of any net effects or concerns that will remain after mitigation
efforts.
      (6)   Warning signage. Signs warning of the high voltage associated with
the large solar energy system shall be posted at every entrance to the
facility, at the base of all pad mounted transformers and substations. A sign
that provides emergency contact information, such as phone number, shall be
posted near the operations and maintenance building.
      (7)   Landscaping. Applicant shall minimize the disruption of natural
environment, retain existing vegetation and native plant species to the maximum
extent feasible and replant with native vegetation if existing vegetation is
disturbed during construction. Landscaping shall be used as part of screening
from adjacent properties or public view. The applicant shall be subject to all
vegetation control requirements identified within this Municipal Code.
      (8)   Power lines. All electrical control wiring and power lines shall be
wireless or not aboveground.
      (9)   Access roads. The applicant shall minimize the number and width of
access roads, minimize cut and fill on sloping terrain and use natural terrain
where feasible for these access points.
      (10)   Roads. All routes on either state, county, village or township
roads that will be used for the construction and maintenance purposes shall be
identified on the site plan. All routes for either egress or ingress need to be
shown. The routing shall be approved subject to the approval of the Village
Engineer. The applicant shall provide and complete a preconstruction baseline
survey to determine existing road conditions for assessing potential future
damage due to development related traffic. The applicant shall provide a road
repair plan for any and all damage, installation or replacement of roads that
might be required by the applicant. The applicant shall provide a letter of
credit or a surety bond in an amount and form approved by the village.
      (11)   Waste disposal. All solid waste generated from supplies,
equipment, parts, packaging or operation of the facility shall be removed from
the site immediately and disposed of in an appropriate manner. Any hazardous
waste that is generated by the facility, including, but not limited to,
lubricating materials, shall be removed consistent with all local, state and
federal rules and regulations.
      (12)   Conformance to industry and code standards/engineer certification.
The large solar energy system shall comply with all applicable local, national
and village codes, standards, and regulations for the electrical, mechanical
and structural components of the facility. All documents provided for review
shall be stamped and signed by a professional engineer.
      (13)   Operation and maintenance. Each applicant or successor in interest
shall have the facility inspected annually by third party qualified to inspect
large solar energy system at their own expense. The third party qualified
inspector of the large solar energy system shall be subject to the approval of
the Village Board. Within 15 days of the inspection a copy of all reports shall
be provided to the Village Board. The large solar energy system shall not
operate unless a certificate is provided to the Village Board indicating that
the annual maintenance has been completed and the facility is in good working
condition. Failure to provide this annual certification may cause the
revocation of the special use permit as issued by Village Board.
      (14)   Fencing. Perimeter fencing shall have the maximum height to
conform to the requirements of the zoning district in which the large solar
energy system is located. The fence shall contain appropriate warning signage
that is posted such that it is clearly visible on the site.
      (15)   Reflective coating. Solar energy system components shall be
designed with an antireflective coating. Verification shall be provided that
verifies that the components of the solar energy system have this quality.
      (16)   Lot area. Large Solar Energy systems and components thereof shall
be located on a parcel that is a minimum of ten acres in size. The lot or
parcel shall have a minimum width of 200 feet.
      (17)   Vegetation control. A vegetation and weed control plan shall be
provided that protects against the creation of a prey habitat and/or aesthetic
impacts to the surrounding area.
      (18)   Cleaning supplies and solvents. Cleaning chemicals and solvents
used during the operation or maintenance of the large solar energy system
facility shall consist of biodegradable products and shall be low in volatile
organic compounds.
   (F)   Decommissioning or abandonment of the large solar energy system. Prior
to receiving a special use permit of the large solar energy system, the
applicant shall provide for a decommissioning plan for the anticipated service
life of the facility or in the event that the facility is abandoned or has
reached its life expectancy. If the large solar energy system is out of service
or not producing electrical energy for a period of nine months, it will be
deemed nonoperational and decommissioning and removal of that facility will
need to commence according to the decommissioning plan provided and approved.
The decommissioning plan shall have the following information provided:
      (1)   Removal of the following within nine months:
         (a)   All solar collectors and components, aboveground improvements
and outside storage.
         (b)   Foundations, pads and underground electrical wires and reclaim
the site to a depth of four feet below the surface of the ground.
         (c)   Hazardous material from the property and dispose of in
accordance with federal and state law.
         (d)   A cost estimate for the decommissioning of the facility shall be
prepared by a professional engineer or contractor who has expertise in the
removal of the large solar energy system. The decommissioning cost estimate
shall explicitly detail the cost before considering any projected salvage value
of the out of service large solar energy system. The decommissioning cost shall
be made by cash, surety bond or irrevocable letter of credit before any
construction commences.
         (e)   A restoration plan shall be provided for the site.
   (G)   Liability insurance. The owner or operator of the large solar energy
system shall maintain a current general liability policy covering bodily injury
and property damage and name the village as an additional insured with limits
of at least $2,000,000 per occurrence and $5,000,000 in the aggregate with a
deductible of no more than $5,000.
(Ord. 2020-05, passed 9-21-2020) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.726 ROOF MOUNTED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Roof mounted solar panels shall be a permitted use on any roof in any
zoning district as permitted accessory uses. Solar panel components shall be
designed with an antireflective coating. Verification shall be provided that
verifies that the components of the solar energy system have this quality.
   (B)   Solar panels shall be flush with the roof line when possible and shall
not be elevated more than 30 degrees off the roof pitch where it is attached.
Solar panels shall not extend beyond the roof line and shall be located no
closer than five feet from an adjacent property line.
   (C)   Solar shingles shall be permitted to cover any amount of a roof
provided that they are incorporated into and made to appear as part of the
roof, continuous in area without gaps, rectangular in shape and do not cause
glare to reflect on to neighboring properties.
   (D)   All frame and visible structural parts of a solar panel shall match
the roof color. No solar panels shall be artificially lighted.
   (E)   A building permit shall be required prior to erecting any roof mounted
solar energy system. Mounting for such systems shall be in conformance with all
electrical codes and building codes to ensure wind and weight loading
requirements are met. Plans shall be stamped by a licensed structural engineer
and by a qualified inspector for such installation.
   (F)   Roof mounted solar energy systems panels shall not be permitted in any
location other than the surface of the roof of the structure.
   (G)   Solar panels not in service for a period of 180 days shall be removed
and the property on which it is located restored to its original condition
within 60 days.
   (H)   Roof mounted solar energy systems panels shall be primarily used to
generate energy for the property where it is located.
(Ord. 2020-05, passed 9-21-2020)
§ 155.727 POLE MOUNTED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Pole mounted solar energy systems panels shall be a permitted use in
any residential zoning district as permitted accessory uses. Solar panel
components shall be designed with an antireflective coating. Verification shall
be provided that verifies that the components of the solar energy system have
this quality.
   (B)   Pole mounted solar energy systems must be secured, with an adequate
base, which also extends below the ground frost line.
   (C)   Pole mounted solar energy systems must not be installed and located no
closer than ten feet from an adjacent property line.
   (D)   Pole mounted solar energy systems cannot be located within the front
yard of any parcel, or side yard which adjoins a street.
   (E)   A building permit shall be required prior to erecting any pole mounted
solar energy system. Mounting for such systems shall be in conformance with all
electrical codes and building codes to ensure wind and weight loading
requirements are met.
   (F)   Solar panels not in service for a period of 180 days shall be removed
and the property on which it is located restored to its original condition
within 60 days.
   (G)   Pole mounted solar energy systems panels shall be primarily used to
generate energy for the property where it is located.
(Ord. 2020-05, passed 9-21-2020)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 155.980 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
    The Zoning Officer is designated and authorized to enforce this chapter.
However, it shall also be the duty of all officers, citizens and employees of
the village, particularly of all members of the Police and Fire Departments, to
assist the Zoning Officer by reporting to him or her any new construction,
reconstruction, improved land uses or upon any seeming violation.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 29, subs. .020, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise indicated, any person, firm or corporation who
violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with, or who resists
enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter shall upon conviction be
fined not less than $50 nor more than $500 for each offense. Each day that a
violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person firm or corporation that violates any provisions of §§
155.690 through
155.698 shall be fined not less than $50 or more than $500 for any such
violation. A separate violation shall be deemed committed on each day in which
a violation occurs or continues to exist.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects, refuses to comply with, or resists enforcement of any of the
provisions of §
155.725 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $75 nor more than $750
for each offense. Each component of the large solar energy system shall be the
subject of a separate violation and further each week that a violation is
permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense. Other actions may be
taken by law or in equity to prevent or to remedy any violation of § 155.275
and these remedies shall be in addition to any other remedies, damages or
penalties.
(Ord. 1999-2, Zoning § 29, subs. .010, passed 2-15-1999; Ord. 2000-7, passed 6-
5-2000; Ord. 2020-05, passed 9-21-2020)
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2df39c1fa0092d856acbc8a71a7a33ec61d10b47/
IMAGES/0-0-0-35.jpg]
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 3-15-2010)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   BONDS
      
II.   LAND TRANSACTIONS
      
III.   EASEMENTS
      
IV.   VACATIONS; DEDICATIONS
      
V.   ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS
      
VI.   FRANCHISES
      
VII.   ANNEXATIONS
      
VIII.   AGREEMENTS AND CONTRACTS
TABLE I: BONDS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        2-3-1941    Issuance of water revenue bonds for constructing
                     waterworks system
-        10-31-1970  Issuing sewer bonds for new sewerage system
 
TABLE II: LAND TRANSACTIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
             Authorizing execution of quit-claim deed conveying to Community
Ord.  6-4-   Consolidate School District 40-C all the rights, title and interest of
      1956   the village regarding Lots 1 to 4, inclusive, in Block 15 of Isham’s
             Fourth Addition
      3-28-  Authorizing purchase of 7.790 acres, more or less, from Margaret Corona,
Ord.  1973   being part of the west half of the SW quarter of Section 15, Township 32
             North, Range 7 East of the third Principal Meridian
      5-1-   Authorizing negotiations for the purchase of land for water well, being
Ord.  1978   3.175 acres, more or less, being part of the SW quarter of the SW quarter
             of Section 14, Township 32 North, Range 7 East
Ord.  1-3-   Authorizing lease of real estate for head-end site for cable operation to
1994- 1994   Teleview Cable Systems
2
Ord.  6-20-  Authorizing a lease agreement for old fairgrounds property owned by JR
94-14 1994   Enterprises for four months
Ord.  1-16-  Authorizing a temporary lease agreement for property owned by JR
1995- 1995   Enterprises to expire August 31, 1995, for “Fun Days”
2
Ord.  2-6-   Authorizing purchase of ten-acre parcel owned by Richard and Louise
1995- 1995   Buckley
3
Ord.         Authorizing exchange of real property with Bob Briscoe: 0.094 acre,
1997- 9-29-  commencing at the SW corner of Lot 4 in Mazon Commercial Park, for 0.138
10    1997   acre, more or less, a portion of Lot 3 in Mazon Commercial Park owned by
             the village
Ord.  1-22-  Authorizing assignment of lease for head-end site for cable television
2001- 2001   operation from DevCom Systems, LLC to Western Cable Communications of
4            Illinois, Inc.
Res.  9-17-  Authorizing transfer of Lot 12 in Block 5, except the west 33 feet, in
2001- 2001   Isham’s First Addition, to Fire Protection District
3
Ord.  5-3-   Authorizing the purchase of 23 Warren Drive, Lot 15 in Breisch’s Garden
2004- 2004   Estates, Fourth Addition
5
Ord.  1-17-  Consenting to assignment of head-end lease from Western Cable
2005- 2005   Communications of Illinois, Inc. to Comcast of Illinois VI, LLC and
2            Comcast of Illinois/Texas, LLC
 
TABLE III: EASEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2006-10  8-7-2006    Dedication of right-of-way and easement for water main on
                     a portion of Seneca Street
2008-13  11-3-2008   Approving standard sanitary sewer easement agreement with
                     Berton and Patty Sue Willoughby
                     Approving a declaration of covenant of the sanitary sewer
2020-07  9-21-2020   easement agreement located on Lot 1 of the Mazon
                     Commercial Park
                    
 
TABLE IV: VACATIONS; DEDICATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
-     4-2-   Vacating part of an alley in L.E. Daniel’s Second Addition, lying on the west
      1906   side of Block 9, commencing at the SW corner of Lot 5 in Block 9
-     8-5-   Vacating the public alley running east and west along the south side of Z.
      1947   Isham’s Seventh Addition
-     9-2-   Vacating the public alley running east and west along the south side of E.
      1947   Isham’s Seventh Addition
-     8-7-   Vacating Kankakee Avenue located south of or part of Lots 11 and 12 in Block 2
      1950   in Daniel’s Addition
      11-1-  Vacating the public alley running north and south between Lot 1 and the west
-     1976   15.32 feet of Lot 2 in Block 24 in Isham’s Seventh Addition, and between Lots 5
             and 6 in Block 23 of Isham’s Seventh Addition
1983- 1-17-  Transferring jurisdiction of F.A.S. Route 272 (County Highway State 9) from its
1     1983   intersection with Illinois Route 47 westerly through the village to an
             intersection with Township Road 110, to the village street system
 
TABLE V: ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
1995- 9-18-  Rezoning 501 Gifford Street from R-1 to R-3
22    1995
99-14 8-16-  Rezoning property, being part of the SE quarter of Section 16, Township 32
      1999   North, Range 7 East, from R-1 to R-3
2000- 9-18-  Rezoning 606 East Street from B-2 to B-3
15    2000
2003- 9-15-  Rezoning 601 Depot Street/Atkinson property, as described, from B-1 to R-1
8     2003
2004- 5-17-  Rezoning 802 North Street from R-1 to B-1
7     2004
2006- 4-3-   Rezoning Lots 60 through 68 in Breisch’s Garden Estates, Fifth Addition from
5     2006   R-1 to R-2
2007- 8-13-  Rezoning 604 South Street and an unaddressed parcel along South Street from B-
14    2007   2 to B-3
2008- 5-19-  Rezoning 210 East North Street from R-1 to B-3
06    2008
2008- 8-18-  Rezoning 603 East Street from B-2 to B-3
11    2008
2014- 4-21-  Rezoning property located at the northeast corner of Depot Street and South
01    2014   Street from B-2 to B-3
2016- 1-19-  Rezoning property located at 806 South Street from B-2 to B-3
02    2016
2016- 1-19-  Rezoning property located along North Street from Agriculture District to R-1
05    2016
2017- 3-20-  Rezoning property located at 902 Front Street and 501 7th Street from R-1 to
03    2017   R-4
2018- 4-16-  Rezoning property located at 1112 Harmony Avenue from R-1 to R-3
02    2018
2019- 10-21- Rezoning property located at 503 Grundy Street from R-1 and B-2 to B-3
11    2019
2022- 10-24- Rezoning property located at 602, 605 and 607 Depot Street from B-1 to R-1
07    2022
            
 
TABLE VI: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
-     7-3-   Granting telephone and telegraph franchise to American Telephone and Telegraph
      1905   Company of Illinois
      5-6-   Authorization of electric light and power system construction by Charles A.
-     1910   Munroe, as assigned to Illinois Valley Gas and Electric Company on July 6,
             1910
      5-12-  Granting gas distribution system construction by Charles A. Munroe, as
-     1910   assigned to Illinois Valley Gas and Electric Company on July 6, 1910, for 50
             years
-     11-12- Granting pipeline construction and maintenance for oil transportation to
      1917   Sinclair-Cudahy Pipe Line Company, for two pipelines
-     7-4-   Granting pipeline right-of-way to The Prairie Pipe Line Company (Inc.) of
      1921   Kansas for four existing pipes
-     11-18- Granting pipeline construction and maintenance for oil transportation to
      1922   Sinclair Pipe Line Company
-     6-4-   Granting telephone franchise to Illinois Bell Telephone Company
      1951
-     6-4-   Granting franchise for gas distribution system to Public Service Company of
      1951   Northern Illinois, for 50 years
-     5-1-   Amending 1951 gas franchise of Public Service Company of Northern Illinois, §
      1953   7 (time limit to begin construction)
-     6-10-  Granting electric light and power system franchise to Commonwealth Edison
      1957   Company (Public Service Company Division), for 50 years
1984- 8-6-   Granting cablevision franchise to Three Star Communications, Inc. for 15 years
6     1984
-     11-5-  Granting cable television franchise to Specchio Cablevision (d/b/a/ Grundy
      1984   County Cablevision), for 15 years
1984- 12-3-  Amending telephone franchise passed 6-4-1951 to extend term for three years to
9     1984   1986
1991- 10-7-  Granting telephone franchise to Illinois Bell Telephone Company for ten years
4     1991
1992- 5-18-  Granting electricity franchise to Commonwealth Edison Company for 55 years
3     1992
2001- 1-22-  Authorizing assignment of 1994 cable television franchise from Teleview Cable
3     2001   Systems/DevCom Systems, LLC to Western Cable Communications of Illinois, Inc.
2001- 10-15- Authorizing gas distribution franchise to Northern Illinois Gas Company (d/b/
9     2001   a/ Nicor Gas Company) for 50 years
2005- 1-17-  Authorizing assignment of cable television franchise from Western Cable
1     2005   Communications of Illinois, Inc. to Comcast of Illinois VI, LLC and Comcast of
             Illinois/Texas, LLC
2011- 1-17-  Approving contract with Nordic Energy Services, LLC for electric services
04    2012
2013- 11-18- Approving a cable franchise agreement between the village and Comcast
11    2013
2024- 1-8-   Approving a cable franchise agreement between the village and Comcast of
01    2024   Illinois VI, LLC
            
 
TABLE VII: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
-     5-6-   Annexing 11.37 acres owned by Harry M. and Pearl Henderson, being part of the
      1957   east half of the NW quarter of Section 21, Township 32 North, Range 7 East
      11-1-  Annexing 7.14 acres, more or less, being part of the south 346 feet of the
-     1959   north half of the SE quarter of Section 16, Township 32 North, Range 7 East,
             east of the west line of the alley in Block 2 of George W. Daniels Addition
      4-6-   Annexing a portion of the township high school property, being the west 11
-     1970   acres of the north aa chains and 15-1/4 links of the east half of the NW
             quarter of Section 21, Township 32 North, Range 7 East
-     8-6-   Annexing 2.049 acres, more or less, beginning at the SW corner of Lot 6 in
      1973   Henderson’s First Addition
-     10-15- Annexing 1.5 acres or more, commencing 1,073 feet north, 40 feet west of the SE
      1973   corner of Section 16, Township 32 North, Range 7 East
-     7-15-  Annexing 7.555 acres, more or less, commencing at the SW corner of the west
      1974   half of the SW quarter of Section 15, Township 32 North, Range 7 East
-     10-3-  Annexing 10.139 acres, more or less in Morris Second Addition, as shown on the
      1977   map attached to the ordinance
      10-16- Annexing two parcels: 1,090 square feet and 30,738 square feet, both commencing
-     1978   at the SE corner of the SE quarter of Section 16, Township 32 North, Range 7
             East
1979- 9-5-   Annexing two tracts: 2.817 acres, more or less, and 2.583 acres, more or less,
4     1979   both commencing at the NE corner of Lot 2 in Block 2 of G.W. Daniel’s Addition
             Annexing two tracts: 14.254 acres, more or less, commencing at the NE corner of
88-3  7-14-  Lot 6 in Breisch’s Garden Estates Subdivision in the SE quarter of Section 16,
      1988   Township 32 North, Range 7 East; and 11.787 acres, more or less, commencing at
             the NE corner of the NW quarter of Section 21, Township 32 North, Range 7 East
88-4  6-5-   Annexing property located in Sections 16 and 21, Township 32 North, Range 7
      1989   East, commencing at the NE corner of the NW quarter of Section 21
1994- 4-18-  Annexing 34.8 acres, more or less, commencing at the SE corner of Section 16,
11    1994   Township 32 North, Range 7 East
94-12 6-20-  Annexing property owned by JR Enterprises, as described on the annexation
      1994   agreement referenced in Ord. 94-12
94-13 6-20-  Annexing property owned by JR Enterprises, as described in Appendix A attached
      1994   to Ord. 94-13
1996- 2-19-  Annexing 10.083 acres, more or less, commencing at the SW corner of the SW
3     1996   quarter of Section 15, Township 32 North, Range 7 East
1996- 3-18-  Annexing 58.929 acres, more or less, owned by Breisch-Briscoe Partnership,
5     1996   commencing at the NW corner of the SW quarter of Section 15, Township 32 North,
             Range 7 East
2016- 1-19-  Annexing +/- 0.154 acres of part of the SE quarter of the SW quarter of Section
04    2016   16, Township 32 North, Range 7 East of the Third Principal Meridian
            
 
TABLE VIII: AGREEMENTS AND CONTRACTS
Document No. Date Passed Description
Document No.      Date Passed Description
Res. 1994-19      11-21-1994  Joining the North Central Illinois Council of
                              Governments
                              Authorizing agreement with C&A Disposal
Ord. 1995-6       5-15-1995   Corporation for collection and disposal of
                              garbage, yard waste and recyclables
1996-18           11-21-1996  Service agreement with the County Animal Control
                              for stray animal apprehension
                              Intergovernmental agreement with School District
1998-R3           2-16-1998   2C for installation and maintenance of lighting
                              of Mazon Community Park
                              Authorizing adoption of intergovernmental
Res. 1999-1       3-1-1999    agreement with the Village of Addison and Kendall
                              County, establishing a mobile team in-service
                              training unit for law enforcement
                              Authorizing assignment of contract with American
Ord. 2001-2       1-15-2001   Disposal Services, Inc. to Waste Management of
                              Illinois, Inc.
Ord. 2002-5       5-20-2002   Approving membership in Illinois Municipal League
                              Risk Management Association (ILMLRMA)
                              Authorizing agreement with Commonwealth Edison
Res. 2002-1       4-15-2002   regarding vegetation management in connection
                              with electrical service
Res. 2002-2       6-3-2002    Authorizing agreement with Joe Winchell Plumbing
                              for plumbing inspection services
Res. 2002-3       6-17-2002   Authorizing encroachment license with estate of
                              Austin P. Isham
Res. 2003-1       5-1-2003    Authorizing intergovernmental cooperation
                              agreement with county for animal control services
Ord. 2003-11      11-3-2003   Authorizing IMLRMA intergovernmental cooperation
                              contract for risk management
                              Authorizing intergovernmental agreement with
Ord. 2007-10      7-2-2007    Mazon Fire Protection District, along with impact
                              fees as a condition of annexation
Ord. 2007-12      7-2-2007    Approving state law enforcement alarm system
                              mutual aid agreement
Ord. 2008-01      2-4-2008    Authorizing boundary line agreement with Village
                              of Dwight
Ord. 2008-02      2-4-2008    Authorizing boundary line agreement with Village
                              of Verona
Ord. 2008-03      2-4-2008    Authorizing boundary line agreement with Village
                              of Kinsman
                              Authorizing intergovernmental agreement with
Ord. 2009-01      3-2-2009    county for sidewalk within E. Grand Ridge Road
                              right-of-way
                              Authorizing lease agreement between Breisch
Ord. 2010-01      1-4-2010    Family Limited Partnership and the village to
                              maintain a sign at the SW corner of Illinois
                              Route 47 and Jonquil Lane, for 20 years
2013-09           10-21-2013  Authorizing contract between village and Republic
                              Services
                              Authorizing execution of a second addendum to an
2014-05           6-2-2014    intergovernmental agreement for countywide
                              dispatch services
                              Approving and authorizing the execution of a
2014-06           6-16-2014   professional service agreement for establishment
                              and annual administration of the Mazon TIF
                              District
                              Approving and authorizing the execution of a
2014-07           6-16-2014   professional services agreement for establishment
                              and annual administration of the Mazon TIF
                              District
                              Highway authority agreement between NORCO Pipe
-                 7-7-2014    Line Company, LLC and the Village of Mazon
                              Highway Authority
                              Approving and authorizing the execution of an
2015-02           1-20-2015   intergovernmental agreement for the Village of
                              Mazon Tax Increment Financing District
                              Approving and authorizing execution of a vacant
                              land sales contract between the Village of Mazon
2016-09           4-18-2016   and Robert F. Rink for the purchase of the vacant
                              property consisting of approximately .6667 acres
                              located on Grand Ridge Road
                              Approving and authorizing execution of an
2017-08           6-19-2017   intergovernmental agreement between the Illinois
                              Municipal League Risk Management Association and
                              the Village of Mazon
                              Approving and authorizing execution of the refuse
2017-11           11-6-2017   and recycling contract between American Disposal
                              Services of Illinois, Inc. and the Village of
                              Maxon
2017-12           11-20-2017  Approving intergovernmental agreement for
                              consolidated 911 emergency communication services
                              Approving and authorizing the execution of the
2017-13           11-20-2017  intergovernmental agreement between the Village
                              of Mazon and the County of Grundy for animal
                              control services.
                              Approving and authorizing the execution of the
2018-08           11-19-2018  intergovernmental agreement between the Village
                              of Mazon and the County of Grundy for animal
                              control services.
                              Approving and authorizing the execution of the
2019-02           4-1-2019    agreement between the Village of Mazon and
                              Superior Excavating Co. for the construction of
                              Grant Ridge Road Watermain.
                              Approving and authorizing the execution of the
2019-04           5-20-2019   site agreement between the Village of Mazon and
                              Surf Air Wireless, LLC.
                              Authorizing the execution and approval of the
Ord. Ord. 2019-15 12-16-2019  intergovernmental agreement with Grundy County
                              Animal Control for the care, protection, and
                              control of animals in the village
                              Approving and authorizing execution of agreement
2020-01           4-20-2020   between the Village of Mazon and Cloud Nine Web
                              Design for design and maintenance of a village
                              internet website
                              Authorizing execution and approval of the
Ord. 2020-08      11-2-2020   intergovernmental agreement with Grundy County
                              Animal Control for the care, protection, and
                              control of animals in the village
                              Approving and authorizing execution of an
Ord. 2021-02   4-19-2021   intergovernmental agreement between the Illinois
                              Local Government Health Plan and the village
                              Authorizing the execution and approval of the
Ord. 2021-08      11-22-2021  intergovernmental agreement with Grundy County
                              Animal Control providing for the care, protection
                              and control of animals in the village
                              Authorizing the execution and approval of the
Ord. 2022-10      11-14-2022  intergovernmental agreement with Grundy County
                              Animal Control to provide animal control services
                              in the village
                              Authorizing the execution and approval of the
Ord. 2023-01      11-13-2023  intergovernmental agreement with Grundy Animal
                              Control to provide animal control services in the
                              village
                             
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to Documents
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Section Code Section
ILCS Section                Code Section
5 ILCS 70/1.01              10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.02              10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.03              10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.04              10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.05              10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.07              10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.08              10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.09              10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.10              10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.11              10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.12              10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.15              10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.16              10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.17              10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.20              10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.24              10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.28              10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.29              10.02
5 ILCS 70/2                 10.04
                            30.03;
5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.        32.03;
                            36.05
5 ILCS 179/1 et seq.        32.17;
                            32.18
5 ILCS 179/10               32.17
5 ILCS 430/1-1 et seq.      32.02
5 ILCS 430/5-15             32.02
5 ILCS 430/10-10—10-40    32.02
5 ILCS 430/15-10            32.43
5 ILCS 430/70-5             32.02
5 ILCS 430/70-5(a)          32.02
5 ILCS 430/70-5(c)          32.02
20 ILCS 3805/1 et seq.      151.002
35 ILCS 115/9               33.116
35 ILCS 120/9               33.117
35 ILCS 200/1-1 et seq.     33.017
40 ILCS 5/7-101 et eq.      32.33
50 ILCS 45/1 et seq.        33.017
                            10.02;
                            33.045;
65 ILCS 5/                  33.052;
                            33.115—
                            33.117
65 ILCS 5/1-1-2             10.02
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1             10.99;
                            153.01
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.1           10.99
65 ILCS 5/1-182             155.307
65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5          30.19
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35            30.19
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-90         30.17
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-120        30.18
65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-10         30.17
65 ILCS 5/7-4-2             155.066
65 ILCS 5/8-11-1            33.071
65 ILCS 5/8-11-2            33.050
65 ILCS 5/8-11-22           33.180
65 ILCS 5/9-5-1             51.037
65 ILCS 5/11-1-1            72.30
65 ILCS 5/11-12-12          153.01
65 ILCS 5/11-30-2           153.01
65 ILCS 5/11-30-8           153.01
65 ILCS 5/11-31-2           153.01
65 ILCS 5/11-42-11          96.06
65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-1 et seq. 33.150
65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-4.2       33.150
65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-5(a)      33.159
65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-5(c)      33.159
65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-5(d)(9)   33.159
65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-6(e)      33.159
65 ILCS 5/11-80-2           72.30
65 ILCS 5/11-125-2          155.066
65 ILCS 5/11-125-4          155.066
65 ILCS 5/11-139-1 et seq.  51.085
210 ILCS 120/1 et seq.      153.07
220 ILCS 5/3-105            33.050
220 ILCS 5/3-202            33.050
220 ILCS 5/9-222            33.050
220 ILCS 5/16-104           33.051
220 ILCS 5/21-401           97.02
220 ILCS 21-201(v)          97.02
220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.       97.16
225 ILCS 325/1 et seq.      151.201
225 ILCS 330/1 et seq.      151.201
225 ILCS 340/1 et seq.      151.201
230 ILCS 5/1 et seq.        131.22
230 ILCS 15/0.001 et seq.   131.08
                            131.06;
230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.       131.20;
                            131.21
410 ILCS 705/1-1 et seq.    155.710,
                            155.712
415 ILCS 5/                 155.066
415 ILCS 5/1                155.066
415 ILCS 5/1 et seq.        51.001
415 ILCS 5/14.2             155.066
415 ILCS 5/14.3             155.066
425 ILCS 30/ et seq.        114.01
605 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.    97.02
                            70.01;
625 ILCS 5/                 72.30;
                            74.04
625 ILCS 5/1-109.01         72.45
625 ILCS 5/1-123.9          74.01
625 ILCS 5/1-128            72.45
625 ILCS 5/1-145.01         72.45
625 ILCS 5/1-168.8          74.01
625 ILCS 5/1-169            72.45
625 ILCS 5/1-188            10.02
625 ILCS 5/1-209            72.45
625 ILCS 5/1-210.01         72.45
625 ILCS 5/1-211.01         72.45
625 ILCS 5/1-217            72.31
625 ILCS 5/3-101(d)         70.01
625 ILCS 5/11-208           72.30
625 ILCS 5/11-500—11-502  74.04
625 ILCS 5/11-1303          72.30;
                            72.33
625 ILCS 5/11-1304.5        70.20
625 ILCS 5/12-603.1         74.04
625 ILCS 5/16-102.5         70.20
720 ILCS 5/28-2(b)          131.30
720 ILCS 675/0.01 et seq.   113.06;
                            113.99
740 ILCS 174/15             32.43
765 ILCS 205/2              153.08
775 ILCS 5/                 32.31
775 ILCS 5/3-1010 et seq.   94.03
775 ILCS 5/6-101(A)         32.43
820 ILCS 130                32.30
                            
 
REFERENCES TO DOCUMENTS
 
Doc. No. Date Passed Code Section
1996-18  11-21-1996  TSO VIII
1998-R3  2-16-1998   TSO VIII
-        5- -2001    30.17
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
1994-19  11-21-1994  TSO VIII
1995-15  7-17-1995   151.002
1996-7   3-28-1996   151.002
-        1-6-1997    Ch. 75 Sched. V
1999-1   3-1-1999    TSO VIII
2001-3   9-17-2001   TSO II
2002-1   4-15-2002   TSO VIII
2002-2   6-3-2002    TSO VIII
2002-3   6-17-2002   TSO VIII
2003-1   5-1-2003    TSO VIII
2008-01  2-4-2008    32.01
-        8-1-2011    34.01—
                     34.05
2011-07  12-5-2011   32.15—
                     32.18
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.                              Date Passed Code Section
                                                  51.055—
                                                  51.059;
                                                  51.061;
                                                  51.062;
-                                     - -         51.064;
                                                  51.065;
                                                  51.087;
                                                  51.100;
                                                  51.999
-                                     7-3-1905    TSO VI
-                                     4-2-1906    TSO IV
-                                     5-6-1910    TSO VI
-                                     5-12-1910   TSO VI
-                                     11-12-1917  TSO VI
-                                     7-4-1921    TSO VI
-                                     11-18-1922  TSO VI
-                                     6-7-1937    31.01
-                                     2-3-1941    TSO I
-                                     4-29-1941   30.15;
                                                  30.16
-                                     5-16-1941   10.05
-                                     7-3-1944    51.062
-                                     4-2-1945    30.16
-                                     11-4-1946   51.040
-                                     11-4-1946   51.999
-                                     8-5-1947    TSO IV
-                                     9-2-1947    TSO IV
                                                  50.01;
-                                     6-7-1948    50.02;
                                                  50.99
                                                  70.01—
                                                  70.09;
                                                  70.99;
                                                  71.01—
                                                  71.16;
                                                  71.35—
-                                     2-6-1950    71.45;
                                                  71.60;
                                                  71.61;
                                                  72.01—
                                                  72.03;
                                                  73.01—
                                                  73.03;
                                                  Ch. 75 Sched. I
-                                     8-7-1950    TSO IV
-                                     6-4-1951    TSO VI
-                                     6-4-1951    TSO VI
-                                     6-2-1952    30.02
-                                     5-1-1953    TSO VI
-                                     2-9-1954    TSO VI
-                                     3-1-1954    71.18;
                                                  Ch. 75 Sched. I
-                                     6-14-1954   72.01
                                                  33.130—
-                                     3-7-1955    33.133;
                                                  33.999
-                                     6-4-1956    TSO II
-                                     1-7-1957    30.16
-                                     1-7-1957    30.16
-                                     5-1-1957    51.062
-                                     5-6-1957    TSO VII
-                                     6-10-1957   TSO VI
-                                     6-11-1958   51.063
-                                     7-6-1959    72.01
-                                     11-1-1959   TSO VII
-                                     5-8-1961    71.02
                                                  152.01—
-                                     7-22-1963   152.07;
                                                  152.99
                                                  133.20;
-                                     9-6-1967    133.21;
                                                  133.99
-                                     10-6-1969   33.116
-                                     10-6-1969   33.117
-                                     4-6-1970    TSO VII
                                                  93.50;
-                                     11-10-1970  93.51;
                                                  93.99
-                                     11-10-1970  130.01;
                                                  130.99
-                                     3-28-1973   TSO II
-                                     8-6-1973    TSO VII
-                                     10-15-1973  TSO VII
-                                     7-15-1974   TSO VII
-                                     1-20-1975   33.115
-                                     1-20-1975   51.059;
                                                  51.999
-                                     11-1-1976   TSO IV
-                                     8-15-1977   93.35—
                                                  93.37
-                                     9-6-1977    130.02;
                                                  130.99
-                                     10-3-1977   TSO VII
-                                     5-1-1978    TSO II
-                                     10-16-1978  TSO VII
1979-4                                9-5-1979    TSO VII
-                                     10-1-1979   51.015;
                                                  51.999
-                                     2-4-1980    51.060
1981-1                                6-15-1981   32.30
1982-8                                6-21-1982   32.30
1983-1                                1-17-1983   TSO IV
                                                  72.15;
1983-3                                1-17-1983   72.16;
                                                  72.99
1983-7                                8-1-1983    32.30
                                                  51.080—
                                                  51.087;
1984-1                                10-3-1983   51.100—
                                                  51.103;
                                                  51.999
                                                  51.080—
                                                  51.087;
1984-3                                6-4-1984    51.100—
                                                  51.103;
                                                  51.999
1984-5                                6-18-1984   32.30
1984-6                                8-6-1984    TSO VI
-                                     11-5-1984   TSO VI
1984-8                                11-5-1984   Ch. 75 Sched. II
1984-9                                12-3-1984   TSO VI
                                                  133.01—
1985-2                                7-1-1985    133.05;
                                                  133.99
1985-3                                8-5-1985    32.30
1986-1                                6-16-1986   32.30
1987-2                                7-6-1987    32.30
88-2                                  7-5-1988    51.003;
                                                  51.999
88-3                                  7-14-1988   TSO VII
88-4                                  6-5-1989    TSO VII
1989-3                                6-5-1989    32.30
1990-7                                6-4-1990    32.30
                                                  71.09;
90-4                                  7-16-1990   71.99;
                                                  Ch. 75 Sched. II
91-2                                  4-1-1991    51.080
1991-4                                10-7-1991   TSO VI
1991-6                                12-2-1991   32.30
1992-4                                4-6-1992    51.080
1992-3                                5-18-1992   TSO VI
1992-6                                6-15-1992   32.30
92-7                                  7-20-1992   51.088
93-1                                  1-4-1993    32.33
1993-5                                7-6-1993    110.45—
                                                  110.47
1993-6                                7-19-1993   32.30
                                                  111.01—
1993-9                                11-1-1993   111.09;
                                                  111.99
1994-2                                1-3-1994    TSO II
1994-6                                4-4-1994    51.040;
                                                  51.999
                                                  72.15;
1994-7                                4-4-1994    72.16;
                                                  72.99
1994-8                                4-4-1994    Ch. 76 Sched. I
1994-11                               4-18-1994   TSO VII
94-12                                 6-20-1994   TSO VII
94-13                                 6-20-1994   TSO VII
94-14                                 6-20-1994   TSO II
1994-15                               6-20-1994   32.30
94-17                                 10-3-1994   51.089
1995-2                                1-16-1995   TSO II
1995-3                                2-6-1995    TSO II
1995-4                                3-20-1995   150.02
1995-6                                5-15-1995   TSO VIII
1995-7                                5-15-1995   50.03;
                                                  50.99
                                                  91.01;
1995-11                               6-19-1995   91.02;
                                                  91.99
95-12                                 6-19-1995   32.30
                                                  113.02—
1995-17                               8-7-1995    113.08;
                                                  113.99
                                                  132.15—
1995-18                               8-21-1995   132.17;
                                                  132.99
                                                  93.20—
1995-19                               9-5-1995    93.23;
                                                  93.99
1995-22                               9-18-1995   TSO V
1996-3                                2-19-1996   TSO VII
1996-5                                3-18-1996   TSO VII
1996-8                                3-28-1996   32.31
                                                  94.01—
1996-9                                3-28-1996   94.03;
                                                  94.99
1996-11                               4-15-1996   92.01
1996-13                               6-17-1996   32.30
1997-6                                6-2-1997    32.30
1997-9                                9-2-1997    31.02
1997-10                               9-29-1997   TSO II
                                                  90.01—
98-01                                 1-19-1998   90.10;
                                                  90.99
1998-2                                5-18-1998   51.088
1998-4                                7-6-1998    32.30
1998-7                                11-2-1998   151.001
1999-2, Building § 1, subs. .010     2-15-1999   151.015
1999-2, Building § 1, subs. .020     2-15-1999   151.016
1999-2, Building § 1, subs. .030     2-15-1999   151.017
1999-2, Building § 2, subs. .010     2-15-1999   151.030
1999-2, Building § 2, subs. .030     2-15-1999   151.033
1999-2, Building § 2, subs. .040     2-15-1999   151.034
1999-2, Building § 2, subs. .050     2-15-1999   151.035
1999-2, Building § 3, subs. .010     2-15-1999   151.050
1999-2, Building § 3, subs. .020     2-15-1999   151.051
1999-2, Building § 3, subs. .030     2-15-1999   151.052
1999-2, Building § 3, subs. .040     2-15-1999   151.053
1999-2, Building § 3, subs. .050     2-15-1999   151.054
1999-2, Building § 3, subs. .060     2-15-1999   151.055
1999-2, Building § 3, subs. .070     2-15-1999   151.056
1999-2, Building § 3, subs. .080     2-15-1999   151.057
1999-2, Building § 3, subs. .090     2-15-1999   151.058
1999-2, Building § 3, subs. .100     2-15-1999   151.059
1999-2, Building § 3, subs. .110     2-15-1999   151.060
1999-2, Building § 3, subs. .120     2-15-1999   151.061
1999-2, Building § 3, subs. .130     2-15-1999   151.062
1999-2, Building § 3, subs. .140     2-15-1999   151.063
1999-2, Building § 4, subs. .010     2-15-1999   151.075
1999-2, Building § 4, subs. .020     2-15-1999   151.076
1999-2, Building § 4, subs. .030     2-15-1999   151.077
1999-2, Building § 4, subs. .040     2-15-1999   151.078
1999-2, Building § 4, subs. .050     2-15-1999   151.079
1999-2, Building § 4, subs. .060     2-15-1999   151.080
1999-2, Building § 4, subs. .070     2-15-1999   151.999
1999-2, Subdivisions § 1, subs. .010 2-15-1999   154.001
1999-2, Subdivisions § 1, subs. .020 2-15-1999   154.002
1999-2, Subdivisions § 1, subs. .030 2-15-1999   154.003
1999-2, Subdivisions § 1, subs. .040 2-15-1999   154.004
1999-2, Subdivisions § 1, subs. .050 2-15-1999   154.005
1999-2, Subdivisions § 1, subs. .060 2-15-1999   154.006
1999-2, Subdivisions § 1, subs. .070 2-15-1999   154.007
1999-2, Subdivisions § 1, subs. .080 2-15-1999   154.008
1999-2, Subdivisions § 2, subs. .010 2-15-1999   154.021
1999-2, Subdivisions § 2, subs. .020 2-15-1999   154.020
1999-2, Subdivisions § 3, subs. .010 2-15-1999   154.035
1999-2, Subdivisions § 3, subs. .020 2-15-1999   154.036
1999-2, Subdivisions § 3, subs. .030 2-15-1999   154.037
1999-2, Subdivisions § 3, subs. .040 2-15-1999   154.038
1999-2, Subdivisions § 3, subs. .050 2-15-1999   154.039
1999-2, Subdivisions § 3, subs. .060 2-15-1999   154.040
1999-2, Subdivisions § 3, subs. .070 2-15-1999   154.041
1999-2, Subdivisions § 3, subs. .080 2-15-1999   154.042
1999-2, Subdivisions § 3, subs. .090 2-15-1999   154.043
1999-2, Subdivisions § 4, subs. .010 2-15-1999   154.055
1999-2, Subdivisions § 4, subs. .020 2-15-1999   154.056
1999-2, Subdivisions § 4, subs. .030 2-15-1999   154.057
1999-2, Subdivisions § 4, subs. .040 2-15-1999   154.058
1999-2, Subdivisions § 4, subs. .050 2-15-1999   154.059
1999-2, Subdivisions § 4, subs. .060 2-15-1999   154.060
1999-2, Subdivisions § 4, subs. .070 2-15-1999   154.061
1999-2, Subdivisions § 4, subs. .080 2-15-1999   154.062
1999-2, Subdivisions § 4, subs. .090 2-15-1999   154.063
1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .010 2-15-1999   154.075
1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .020 2-15-1999   154.076
1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .030 2-15-1999   154.077
1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .040 2-15-1999   154.078
1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .050 2-15-1999   154.079
1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .060 2-15-1999   154.080
1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .070 2-15-1999   154.081
1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .080 2-15-1999   154.082
1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .090 2-15-1999   154.083
1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .100 2-15-1999   154.084
1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .110 2-15-1999   154.085
1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .120 2-15-1999   154.086
1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .130 2-15-1999   154.087
1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .140 2-15-1999   154.088
1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .150 2-15-1999   154.089
1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .160 2-15-1999   154.090
1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .170 2-15-1999   154.091
1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .180 2-15-1999   154.092
1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .190 2-15-1999   154.093
1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .200 2-15-1999   154.094
1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .210 2-15-1999   154.095
1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .220 2-15-1999   154.096
1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .230 2-15-1999   154.097
1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .240 2-15-1999   154.098
1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .250 2-15-1999   154.099
1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .260 2-15-1999   154.100
1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .270 2-15-1999   154.101
1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .280 2-15-1999   154.102
1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .290 2-15-1999   154.103
1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .300 2-15-1999   154.104
1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .310 2-15-1999   154.105
1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .320 2-15-1999   154.106
1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .330 2-15-1999   154.107
1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .340 2-15-1999   154.108
1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .350 2-15-1999   154.109
1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .360 2-15-1999   154.110
1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .370 2-15-1999   154.111
1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .380 2-15-1999   154.112
1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .390 2-15-1999   154.113
1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .400 2-15-1999   154.114 
1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .410 2-15-1999   154.115
1999-2, Subdivisions § 5, subs. .420 2-15-1999   154.116
1999-2, Subdivisions § 6, subs. .010 2-15-1999   154.130
1999-2, Subdivisions § 6, subs. .020 2-15-1999   154.131
1999-2, Subdivisions § 6, subs. .030 2-15-1999   154.132
1999-2, Subdivisions § 6, subs. .040 2-15-1999   154.133
1999-2, Subdivisions § 6, subs. .050 2-15-1999   154.134
1999-2, Subdivisions § 7, subs. .010 2-15-1999   154.145
1999-2, Subdivisions § 7, subs. .020 2-15-1999   154.146
1999-2, Subdivisions § 7, subs. .030 2-15-1999   154.147
1999-2, Subdivisions § 7, subs. .040 2-15-1999   154.148
1999-2, Subdivisions § 7, subs. .050 2-15-1999   154.149
1999-2, Subdivisions § 7, subs. .060 2-15-1999   154.150
1999-2, Subdivisions § 7, subs. .070 2-15-1999   154.151
1999-2, Subdivisions § 7, subs. .080 2-15-1999   154.152
1999-2, Subdivisions § 7, subs. .090 2-15-1999   154.153
1999-2, Subdivisions § 7, subs. .100 2-15-1999   154.154
1999-2, Subdivisions § 7, subs. .110 2-15-1999   154.155
1999-2, Subdivisions § 7, subs. .120 2-15-1999   154.156
1999-2, Subdivisions § 7, subs. .130 2-15-1999   154.157
1999-2, Subdivisions § 7, subs. .140 2-15-1999   154.158
1999-2, Subdivisions § 7, subs. .150 2-15-1999   154.159
1999-2, Subdivisions § 7, subs. .160 2-15-1999   154.160
1999-2, Subdivisions § 7, subs. .170 2-15-1999   154.161
1999-2, Subdivisions § 7, subs. .180 2-15-1999   154.162
1999-2, Subdivisions § 8, subs. .010 2-15-1999   154.175
1999-2, Subdivisions § 8, subs. .020 2-15-1999   154.176
1999-2, Subdivisions § 9, subs. .010 2-15-1999   154.190
1999-2, Subdivisions § 9, subs. .020 2-15-1999   154.191
1999-2, Subdivisions § 9, subs. .030 2-15-1999   154.192
1999-2, Subdivisions § 9, subs. .040 2-15-1999   154.193
1999-2, Subdivisions § 9, subs. .050 2-15-1999   154.194
1999-2, Subdivisions § 10, subs. .0102-15-1999   154.205
1999-2, Subdivisions § 11, subs. .0102-15-1999   154.220
1999-2, Subdivisions § 11, subs. .0202-15-1999   154.221
1999-2, Subdivisions § 11, subs. .0302-15-1999   154.222
1999-2, Subdivisions § 11, subs. .0402-15-1999   154.223
1999-2, Subdivisions § 12, subs. .0102-15-1999   154.235
1999-2, Subdivisions § 13, subs. .0102-15-1999   154.250
1999-2, Subdivisions § 13, subs. .0202-15-1999   154.251
1999-2, Subdivisions § 13, subs. .0302-15-1999   154.252
1999-2, Subdivisions § 13, subs. .0402-15-1999   154.253
1999-2, Subdivisions § 13, subs. .0502-15-1999   154.254
1999-2, Subdivisions § 13, subs. .0602-15-1999   154.999
1999-2, Subdivisions § 14, subs. .0102-15-1999   154.265
1999-2, Subdivisions § 15, subs. .0102-15-1999   154.280
1999-2, Zoning § 1, subs. .010       2-15-1999   155.001
1999-2, Zoning § 1, subs. .020       2-15-1999   155.002
1999-2, Zoning § 1, subs. .030       2-15-1999   155.003
1999-2, Zoning § 1, subs. .040       2-15-1999   155.004
1999-2, Zoning § 1, subs. .050       2-15-1999   155.005
1999-2, Zoning § 2, subs. .010       2-15-1999   155.021
1999-2, Zoning § 2, subs. .020       2-15-1999   155.020
1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .010       2-15-1999   155.035
1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .020       2-15-1999   155.036
1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .030       2-15-1999   155.037
1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .040       2-15-1999   155.038
1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .050       2-15-1999   155.039
1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .060       2-15-1999   155.040
1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .070       2-15-1999   155.041
1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .080       2-15-1999   155.042
1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .090       2-15-1999   155.043
1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .100       2-15-1999   155.044
1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .110       2-15-1999   155.045
1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .120       2-15-1999   155.046
1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .130       2-15-1999   155.047
1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .140       2-15-1999   155.048
1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .150       2-15-1999   155.049
1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .160       2-15-1999   155.050
1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .170       2-15-1999   155.051
1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .180       2-15-1999   155.052
1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .190       2-15-1999   155.053
1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .200       2-15-1999   155.054
1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .210       2-15-1999   155.055
1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .220       2-15-1999   155.056
1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .230       2-15-1999   155.057
1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .240       2-15-1999   155.058
1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .250       2-15-1999   155.059
1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .260       2-15-1999   155.060
1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .270       2-15-1999   155.061
1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .280       2-15-1999   155.062
1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .290       2-15-1999   155.063
1999-2, Zoning § 3, subs. .300       2-15-1999   155.064
1999-2, Zoning § 4, subs. .010       2-15-1999   155.080
1999-2, Zoning § 4, subs. .020       2-15-1999   155.081
1999-2, Zoning § 4, subs. .030       2-15-1999   155.082
1999-2, Zoning § 4, subs. .040       2-15-1999   155.083
1999-2, Zoning § 5, subs. .010       2-15-1999   155.095
1999-2, Zoning § 5, subs. .020       2-15-1999   155.096
1999-2, Zoning § 5, subs. .030       2-15-1999   155.097
1999-2, Zoning § 5, subs. .040       2-15-1999   155.098
1999-2, Zoning § 5, subs. .050       2-15-1999   155.099
1999-2, Zoning § 5, subs. .060       2-15-1999   155.100
1999-2, Zoning § 6, subs. .010       2-15-1999   155.115
1999-2, Zoning § 6, subs. .020       2-15-1999   155.116
1999-2, Zoning § 6, subs. .030       2-15-1999   155.117
1999-2, Zoning § 6, subs. .040       2-15-1999   155.118
1999-2, Zoning § 6, subs. .050       2-15-1999   155.119
1999-2, Zoning § 6, subs. .060       2-15-1999   155.120
1999-2, Zoning § 6, subs. .070       2-15-1999   155.121
1999-2, Zoning § 6, subs. .080       2-15-1999   155.122
1999-2, Zoning § 6, subs. .090       2-15-1999   155.123
1999-2, Zoning § 7, subs. .010       2-15-1999   155.135
1999-2, Zoning § 7, subs. .020       2-15-1999   155.136
1999-2, Zoning § 7, subs. .030       2-15-1999   155.137
1999-2, Zoning § 7, subs. .040       2-15-1999   155.138
1999-2, Zoning § 7, subs. .050       2-15-1999   155.139
1999-2, Zoning § 7, subs. .060       2-15-1999   155.140
1999-2, Zoning § 7, subs. .070       2-15-1999   155.141
1999-2, Zoning § 7, subs. .080       2-15-1999   155.142
1999-2, Zoning § 7, subs. .090       2-15-1999   155.143
1999-2, Zoning § 8, subs. .010       2-15-1999   155.155
1999-2, Zoning § 8, subs. .020       2-15-1999   155.156
1999-2, Zoning § 8, subs. .030       2-15-1999   155.157
1999-2, Zoning § 8, subs. .040       2-15-1999   155.158
1999-2, Zoning § 8, subs. .050       2-15-1999   155.159
1999-2, Zoning § 8, subs. .060       2-15-1999   155.160
1999-2, Zoning § 8, subs. .070       2-15-1999   155.161
1999-2, Zoning § 8, subs. .080       2-15-1999   155.162
1999-2, Zoning § 8, subs. .090       2-15-1999   155.163
1999-2, Zoning § 9, subs. .010       2-15-1999   155.175
1999-2, Zoning § 9, subs. .020       2-15-1999   155.176
1999-2, Zoning § 9, subs. .030       2-15-1999   155.177
1999-2, Zoning § 9, subs. .040       2-15-1999   155.178
1999-2, Zoning § 9, subs. .050       2-15-1999   155.179
1999-2, Zoning § 9, subs. .060       2-15-1999   155.180
1999-2, Zoning § 9, subs. .070       2-15-1999   155.181
1999-2, Zoning § 9, subs. .080       2-15-1999   155.182
1999-2, Zoning § 9, subs. .090       2-15-1999   155.183
1999-2, Zoning § 9, subs. .100       2-15-1999   155.184
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .010      2-15-1999   155.195
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .020      2-15-1999   155.196
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .030      2-15-1999   155.197
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .040      2-15-1999   155.198
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .050      2-15-1999   155.199
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .060      2-15-1999   155.200
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .070      2-15-1999   155.201
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .080      2-15-1999   155.202
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .090      2-15-1999   155.203
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .100      2-15-1999   155.204
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .110      2-15-1999   155.205
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .120      2-15-1999   155.206
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .130      2-15-1999   155.207
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .140      2-15-1999   155.208
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .150      2-15-1999   155.209
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .160      2-15-1999   155.210
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .170      2-15-1999   155.211
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .180      2-15-1999   155.212
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .190      2-15-1999   155.213
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .200      2-15-1999   155.214
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .210      2-15-1999   155.215
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .220      2-15-1999   155.216
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .230      2-15-1999   155.217
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .240      2-15-1999   155.218
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .250      2-15-1999   155.219
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .260      2-15-1999   155.220
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .270      2-15-1999   155.221
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .280      2-15-1999   155.222
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .290      2-15-1999   155.223
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .300      2-15-1999   155.224
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .310      2-15-1999   155.225
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .320      2-15-1999   155.226
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .330      2-15-1999   155.227
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .340      2-15-1999   155.228
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .350      2-15-1999   155.229
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .360      2-15-1999   155.230
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .370      2-15-1999   155.231
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .380      2-15-1999   155.232
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .390      2-15-1999   155.233
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .400      2-15-1999   155.234
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .410      2-15-1999   155.235
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .420      2-15-1999   155.236
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .430      2-15-1999   155.237
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .440      2-15-1999   155.238
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .450      2-15-1999   155.239
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .460      2-15-1999   155.240
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .470      2-15-1999   155.241
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .480      2-15-1999   155.242
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .490      2-15-1999   155.243
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .500      2-15-1999   155.244
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .510      2-15-1999   155.245
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .520      2-15-1999   155.246
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .530      2-15-1999   155.247
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .540      2-15-1999   155.248
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .550      2-15-1999   155.249
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .560      2-15-1999   155.250
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .570      2-15-1999   155.251
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .580      2-15-1999   155.252
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .590      2-15-1999   155.253
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .600      2-15-1999   155.254
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .610      2-15-1999   155.255
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .620      2-15-1999   155.256
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .630      2-15-1999   155.257
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .640      2-15-1999   155.258
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .650      2-15-1999   155.259
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .660      2-15-1999   155.260
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .670      2-15-1999   155.261
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .680      2-15-1999   155.262
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .690      2-15-1999   155.263
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .700      2-15-1999   155.264
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .710      2-15-1999   155.265
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .720      2-15-1999   155.266
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .730      2-15-1999   155.267
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .740      2-15-1999   155.268
1999-2, Zoning § 10, subs. .750      2-15-1999   155.269
1999-2, Zoning § 11, subs. .010      2-15-1999   155.285
1999-2, Zoning § 11, subs. .020      2-15-1999   155.286
1999-2, Zoning § 11, subs. .030      2-15-1999   155.287
1999-2, Zoning § 11, subs. .040      2-15-1999   155.288
1999-2, Zoning § 11, subs. .050      2-15-1999   155.289
1999-2, Zoning § 11, subs. .060      2-15-1999   155.290
1999-2, Zoning § 12, subs. .010      2-15-1999   155.305
1999-2, Zoning § 12, subs. .020      2-15-1999   155.306
1999-2, Zoning § 12, subs. .030      2-15-1999   155.307
1999-2, Zoning § 12, subs. .040      2-15-1999   155.308
1999-2, Zoning § 12, subs. .050      2-15-1999   155.309
1999-2, Zoning § 12, subs. .060      2-15-1999   155.310
1999-2, Zoning § 12, subs. .070      2-15-1999   155.311
1999-2, Zoning § 12, subs. .080      2-15-1999   155.312
1999-2, Zoning § 12, subs. .090      2-15-1999   155.313
1999-2, Zoning § 12, subs. .100      2-15-1999   155.314
1999-2, Zoning § 12, subs. .110      2-15-1999   155.315
1999-2, Zoning § 12, subs. .120      2-15-1999   155.316
1999-2, Zoning § 12, subs. .130      2-15-1999   155.317
1999-2, Zoning § 12, subs. .140      2-15-1999   155.318
1999-2, Zoning § 13, subs. .010      2-15-1999   155.330
1999-2, Zoning § 13, subs. .020      2-15-1999   155.331
1999-2, Zoning § 13, subs. .030      2-15-1999   155.332
1999-2, Zoning § 13, subs. .040      2-15-1999   155.333
1999-2, Zoning § 13, subs. .050      2-15-1999   155.334
1999-2, Zoning § 13, subs. .060      2-15-1999   155.335
1999-2, Zoning § 13, subs. .070      2-15-1999   155.336
1999-2, Zoning § 13, subs. .080      2-15-1999   155.337
1999-2, Zoning § 14, subs. .010      2-15-1999   155.350
1999-2, Zoning § 14, subs. .020      2-15-1999   155.351
1999-2, Zoning § 14, subs. .030      2-15-1999   155.352
1999-2, Zoning § 14, subs. .040      2-15-1999   155.353
1999-2, Zoning § 14, subs. .050      2-15-1999   155.354
1999-2, Zoning § 14, subs. .060      2-15-1999   155.355
1999-2, Zoning § 14, subs. .070      2-15-1999   155.356
1999-2, Zoning § 14, subs. .080      2-15-1999   155.357
1999-2, Zoning § 14, subs. .090      2-15-1999   155.359
1999-2, Zoning § 15, subs. .010      2-15-1999   155.370
1999-2, Zoning § 15, subs. .020      2-15-1999   155.371
1999-2, Zoning § 15, subs. .030      2-15-1999   155.372
1999-2, Zoning § 15, subs. .040      2-15-1999   155.373
1999-2, Zoning § 15, subs. .050      2-15-1999   155.374
1999-2, Zoning § 15, subs. .060      2-15-1999   155.375
1999-2, Zoning § 15, subs. .070      2-15-1999   155.376
1999-2, Zoning § 15, subs. .080      2-15-1999   155.377
1999-2, Zoning § 15, subs. .090      2-15-1999   155.378
1999-2, Zoning § 15, subs. .090      2-15-1999   155.379
1999-2, Zoning § 16, subs. .010      2-15-1999   155.390
1999-2, Zoning § 16, subs. .020      2-15-1999   155.391
1999-2, Zoning § 16, subs. .030      2-15-1999   155.392
1999-2, Zoning § 16, subs. .040      2-15-1999   155.393
1999-2, Zoning § 16, subs. .050      2-15-1999   155.394
1999-2, Zoning § 16, subs. .060      2-15-1999   155.395
1999-2, Zoning § 16, subs. .070      2-15-1999   155.396
1999-2, Zoning § 16, subs. .080      2-15-1999   155.397
1999-2, Zoning § 16, subs. .090      2-15-1999   155.398
1999-2, Zoning § 16, subs. .100      2-15-1999   155.399
1999-2, Zoning § 16, subs. .110      2-15-1999   155.400
1999-2, Zoning § 16, subs. .120      2-15-1999   155.401
1999-2, Zoning § 17, subs. .010      2-15-1999   155.415
1999-2, Zoning § 17, subs. .020      2-15-1999   155.416
1999-2, Zoning § 17, subs. .030      2-15-1999   155.417
1999-2, Zoning § 17, subs. .040      2-15-1999   155.418
1999-2, Zoning § 17, subs. .050      2-15-1999   155.419
1999-2, Zoning § 17, subs. .060      2-15-1999   155.420
1999-2, Zoning § 17, subs. .070      2-15-1999   155.421
1999-2, Zoning § 17, subs. .080      2-15-1999   155.422
1999-2, Zoning § 17, subs. .090      2-15-1999   155.423
1999-2, Zoning § 17, subs. .100      2-15-1999   155.424
1999-2, Zoning § 17, subs. .110      2-15-1999   155.425
1999-2, Zoning § 18, subs. .010      2-15-1999   155.440
1999-2, Zoning § 18, subs. .020      2-15-1999   155.441
1999-2, Zoning § 18, subs. .030      2-15-1999   155.442
1999-2, Zoning § 18, subs. .040      2-15-1999   155.443
1999-2, Zoning § 18, subs. .050      2-15-1999   155.444
1999-2, Zoning § 18, subs. .060      2-15-1999   155.445
1999-2, Zoning § 19, subs. .010      2-15-1999   155.460
1999-2, Zoning § 19, subs. .020      2-15-1999   155.461
1999-2, Zoning § 19, subs. .030      2-15-1999   155.462
1999-2, Zoning § 19, subs. .040      2-15-1999   155.463
1999-2, Zoning § 19, subs. .050      2-15-1999   155.464
1999-2, Zoning § 19, subs. .060      2-15-1999   155.465
1999-2, Zoning § 19, subs. .070      2-15-1999   155.466
1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .010      2-15-1999   155.480
1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .020      2-15-1999   155.481
1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .030      2-15-1999   155.482
1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .040      2-15-1999   155.483
1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .050      2-15-1999   155.484
1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .060      2-15-1999   155.485
1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .070      2-15-1999   155.486
1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .080      2-15-1999   155.487
1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .090      2-15-1999   155.488
1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .100      2-15-1999   155.489
1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .110      2-15-1999   155.490
1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .120      2-15-1999   155.491
1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .130      2-15-1999   155.492
1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .140      2-15-1999   155.493
1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .150      2-15-1999   155.494
1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .160      2-15-1999   155.495
1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .170      2-15-1999   155.496
1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .180      2-15-1999   155.497
1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .190      2-15-1999   155.498
1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .200      2-15-1999   155.499
1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .210      2-15-1999   155.500
1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .220      2-15-1999   155.501
1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .230      2-15-1999   155.502
1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .240      2-15-1999   155.503
1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .250      2-15-1999   155.504
1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .260      2-15-1999   155.505
1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .270      2-15-1999   155.506
1999-2, Zoning § 20, subs. .280      2-15-1999   155.507
1999-2, Zoning § 21, subs. .010      2-15-1999   155.520
1999-2, Zoning § 21, subs. .020      2-15-1999   155.521
1999-2, Zoning § 21, subs. .030      2-15-1999   155.522
1999-2, Zoning § 21, subs. .040      2-15-1999   155.523
1999-2, Zoning § 21, subs. .050      2-15-1999   155.524
1999-2, Zoning § 21, subs. .060      2-15-1999   155.525
1999-2, Zoning § 21, subs. .070      2-15-1999   155.526
1999-2, Zoning § 21, subs. .080      2-15-1999   155.527
1999-2, Zoning § 21, subs. .090      2-15-1999   155.528
1999-2, Zoning § 21, subs. .100      2-15-1999   155.529
1999-2, Zoning § 21, subs. .110      2-15-1999   155.530
1999-2, Zoning § 21, subs. .120      2-15-1999   155.531
1999-2, Zoning § 21, subs. .130      2-15-1999   155.532
1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .010      2-15-1999   155.545
1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .020      2-15-1999   155.546
1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .030      2-15-1999   155.547
1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .040      2-15-1999   155.548
1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .050      2-15-1999   155.549
1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .060      2-15-1999   155.550
1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .070      2-15-1999   155.551
1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .080      2-15-1999   155.552
1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .090      2-15-1999   155.553
1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .100      2-15-1999   155.554
1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .110      2-15-1999   155.555
1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .120      2-15-1999   155.556
1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .130      2-15-1999   155.557
1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .140      2-15-1999   155.558
1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .150      2-15-1999   155.559
1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .160      2-15-1999   155.560
1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .170      2-15-1999   155.561
1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .180      2-15-1999   155.562
1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .190      2-15-1999   155.563 
1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .200      2-15-1999   155.564
1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .210      2-15-1999   155.565
1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .220      2-15-1999   155.566
1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .230      2-15-1999   155.567
1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .240      2-15-1999   155.568
1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .250      2-15-1999   155.569
1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .260      2-15-1999   155.570
1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .270      2-15-1999   155.571
1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .280      2-15-1999   155.572
1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .290      2-15-1999   155.573
1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .300      2-15-1999   155.574
1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .310      2-15-1999   155.575
1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .320      2-15-1999   155.576
1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .330      2-15-1999   155.577
1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .340      2-15-1999   155.578
1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .350      2-15-1999   155.579
1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .360      2-15-1999   155.580
1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .370      2-15-1999   155.581
1999-2, Zoning § 22, subs. .380      2-15-1999   155.582
1999-2, Zoning § 23, subs. .010      2-15-1999   155.595
1999-2, Zoning § 23, subs. .020      2-15-1999   155.596
1999-2, Zoning § 23, subs. .030      2-15-1999   155.597
1999-2, Zoning § 23, subs. .040      2-15-1999   155.598
1999-2, Zoning § 23, subs. .050      2-15-1999   155.599
1999-2, Zoning § 24, subs. .010      2-15-1999   155.610
1999-2, Zoning § 24, subs. .020      2-15-1999   155.611
1999-2, Zoning § 24, subs. .030      2-15-1999   155.612
1999-2, Zoning § 24, subs. .040      2-15-1999   155.613
1999-2, Zoning § 24, subs. .050      2-15-1999   155.614
1999-2, Zoning § 25, subs. .010      2-15-1999   155.625
1999-2, Zoning § 25, subs. .020      2-15-1999   155.626
1999-2, Zoning § 25, subs. .030      2-15-1999   155.627
1999-2, Zoning § 25, subs. .040      2-15-1999   155.628
1999-2, Zoning § 26, subs. .010      2-15-1999   155.640
1999-2, Zoning § 27, subs. .010      2-15-1999   155.655
1999-2, Zoning § 27, subs. .020      2-15-1999   155.656
1999-2, Zoning § 27, subs. .030      2-15-1999   155.657
1999-2, Zoning § 27, subs. .040      2-15-1999   155.658
1999-2, Zoning § 28, subs. .010      2-15-1999   155.670
1999-2, Zoning § 28, subs. .020      2-15-1999   155.671
1999-2, Zoning § 28, subs. .030      2-15-1999   155.672
1999-2, Zoning § 28, subs. .040      2-15-1999   155.673
1999-2, Zoning § 28, subs. .050      2-15-1999   155.674
1999-2, Zoning § 28, subs. .060      2-15-1999   155.675
1999-2, Zoning § 29, subs. .010      2-15-1999   155.999
1999-2, Zoning § 29, subs. .020      2-15-1999   155.980
99-3                                  2-15-1999   32.03
1999-5                                6-7-1999    32.30
1999-6                                6-21-1999   32.02
1999-8                                7-6-1999    33.090—
                                                  33.104
                                                  72.45—
1999-9                                7-19-1999   72.47;
                                                  72.99
99-14                                 8-16-1999   TSO V
1999-13                               10-18-1999  50.04
2000-1                                1-17-2000   70.20;
                                                  70.99
2000-2                                4-3-2000    70.35;
                                                  70.99
2000-4                                5-15-2000   51.100—
                                                  51.105
2000-6                                6-5-2000    155.051
                                                  155.690—
2000-7                                6-5-2000    155.698;
                                                  155.999
                                                  33.045—
                                                  33.047;
2000-8                                6-5-2000    33.050;
                                                  33.056;
                                                  33.057;
                                                  33.999
                                                  33.070—
2000-9                                6-5-2000    33.077;
                                                  33.999
2000-10                               6-19-2000   32.30
2000-14                               8-21-2000   33.048—
                                                  33.055
2000-15                               9-18-2000   TSO V
2000-16                               9-18-2000   33.072;
                                                  33.074
2000-18                               10-16-2000  30.17
2001-1                                1-2-2001    33.015—
                                                  33.032
2001-2                                1-15-2001   TSO VIII
2001-3                                1-22-2001   TSO VI
2001-4                                1-22-2001   TSO II
2001-6                                5-1-2001    30.18
2001-8                                6-18-2001   32.30
2001-9                                10-15-2001  TSO VI
2001-11                               10-15-2001  51.104
2002-1                                3-4-2002    71.17;
                                                  Ch. 75 Sched. IV
                                                  111.03;
2002-3                                3-4-2002    111.05;
                                                  111.06
2002-4                                5-1-2002    30.01
2002-5                                5-20-2002   TSO VIII
                                                  93.01—
2002-6                                6-17-2002   93.07;
                                                  93.99
2002-8                                6-17-2002   32.30
2002-13                               12-2-2002   33.002
                                                  132.01;
2003-2                                1-20-2003   132.02;
                                                  132.99
2003-3                                3-17-2003   151.055
2003-5                                5-19-2003   155.021;
                                                  155.416
2003-6                                6-16-2003   32.30
2003-8                                9-15-2003   TSO V
2003-9                                9-15-2003   155.021;
                                                  155.065
2003-11                               11-3-2003   TSO VIII
2004-1                                1-19-2004   154.133;
                                                  154.153
2004-4                                4-19-2004   51.016
2004-5                                5-3-2004    TSO II
2004-6                                5-3-2004    32.02
2004-7                                5-17-2004   TSO V
2004-8                                6-7-2004    32.30
2004-10                               6-21-2004   71.62
2004-11                               6-21-2004   155.307
2005-1                                1-17-2005   TSO VI
2005-2                                1-17-2005   TSO II
2005-3                                2-7-2005    151.053—
                                                  151.060
2005-7                                6-6-2005    32.30
2005-8                                7-18-2005   72.30—
                                                  72.34
                                                  110.25—
2005-9                                8-15-2005   110.30;
                                                  110.32—
                                                  110.34
2005-10                               9-19-2005   151.051;
                                                  151.999
2006-1                                1-16-2006   154.176;
                                                  155.640
2006-02                               2-6-2006    51.030—
                                                  51.039
2006-5                                4-3-2006    TSO V
2006-7                                6-19-2006   155.352;
                                                  155.358
2006-8                                7-3-2006    32.30
2006-10                               8-7-2006    TSO III
2007-01                               1-2-2007    151.062
2007-03                               2-20-2007   150.01
2007-04                               4-2-2007    Ch. 75 Sched. III
2007-5                                4-16-2007   155.352
2007-8                                6-4-2007    32.30
2007-10                               7-2-2007    TSO VIII
2007-12                               7-2-2007    TSO VIII
2007-13                               7-2-2007    71.62
2007-14                               8-13-2007   TSO V
2007-16                               - -2007     35.01—
                                                  35.03
2008-01                               2-4-2008    TSO VIII
2008-02                               2-4-2008    TSO VIII
2008-03                               2-4-2008    TSO VIII
2008-04                               4-7-2008    51.002
2008-06                               5-19-2008   TSO V
2008-07                               6-2-2008    32.30
                                                  112.01—
                                                  112.15;
                                                  112.30—
                                                  112.32;
2008-08                               6-2-2008    112.45—
                                                  112.50;
                                                  112.65—
                                                  112.69;
                                                  112.99
                                                  151.095—
2008-09                               7-21-2008   151.107;
                                                  151.999
2008-11                               8-18-2008   TSO V
2008-13                               11-3-2008   TSO III
2009-01                               3-2-2009    TSO VIII
2009-04                               6-15-2009   32.30
2010-01                               1-4-2010    TSO VIII
2010-03                               3-15-2010   155.066;
                                                  155.999
                                                  110.01—
2010-04                               4-19-2010   110.12;
                                                  Ch. 110 Appx A
2010-05                               5-17-2010   32.30
                                                  74.01—
2010-06-A                             9-7-2010    74.06;
                                                  74.99
2011-01                               5-2-2011    32.30
2011-02                               8-1-2011    32.31
2011-04                               1-17-2012   TSO VI
2012-01                               4-2-2012    151.031;
                                                  151.032
                                                  51.001;
2012-04                               5-21-2012   51.999;
                                                  Ch. 51 Appx A
2012-06                               5-21-2012   32.30
2012-05-02                            6-4-2012    72.99;
                                                  Ch. 76 Sched. II
                                                  131.01—
2012-06-02                            6-4-2012    131.07;
                                                  131.99
                                                  131.20—
2012-07                               6-4-2012    131.26;
                                                  131.99
                                                  153.01—
2012-08                               6-4-2012    153.13;
                                                  153.99
2013-02                               5-13-2013   32.30
                                                  51.001;
2013-03                               5-13-2013   51.999;
                                                  Ch. 51 Appx A
2013-09                               10-21-2013  TSO VIII
2013-11                               11-18-2013  TSO VI
2014-01                               4-21-2014   TSO V
                                                  90.01—
2014-02                               5-5-2014    90.10;
                                                  90.99
2014-03                               5-5-2014    Adopting Ordinance
2014-04                               6-2-2014    32.30
2014-05                               6-2-2014    TSO VIII
2014-06                               6-16-2014   TSO VIII
2014-07                               6-16-2014   TSO VIII
                                                  51.001;
2014-08                               7-7-2014    51.999;
                                                  Ch. 51 Appx A
—                                   7-7-2014    TSO VIII
2014-09                               9-15-2014   33.150—
                                                  33.161
2014-11                               11-17-2014  33.150—
                                                  33.161
2014-12                               11-17-2014  112.08;
                                                  112.11
2015-02                               1-20-2015   TSO VIII
                                                  51.001;
2015-07                               4-20-2015   51.999;
                                                  Ch. 51 Appx A
2015-08                               6-1-2015    32.30
2015-09                               8-17-2015   Adopting Ordinance
2015-11                               12-7-2015   35.03
2016-02                               1-19-2016   TSO V
2016-04                               1-19-2016   TSO VII
2016-05                               1-19-2016   TSO V
2016-09                               4-18-2016   TSO VIII
2016-10                               6-6-2016    32.30
2016-16                               12-5-2016   36.01—
                                                  36.08
2017-01                               1-17-2017   Adopting Ordinance
2017-03                               3-20-2017   TSO V
2017-06                               4-17-2017   36.02
2017-07                               6-5-2017    32.30
2017-08                               6-19-2017   TSO VIII
                                                  112.04;
                                                  112.08;
                                                  112.09;
2017-09                               7-17-2017   112.11;
                                                  112.12;
                                                  112.50;
                                                  112.99
2017-10                               9-18-2017   131.08;
                                                  131.30
2017-11                               11-6-2017   TSO VIII
2017-12                               11-20-2017  TSO VIII
2017-13                               11-20-2017  TSO VIII
2018-01                               2-5-2018    32.40—
                                                  32.45
2018-02                               4-18-2018   TSO V
2018-05                               6-4-2018    32.30
                                                  151.016;
                                                  151.052—
                                                  151.060;
2018-06                               10-1-2018   151.064—
                                                  151.066;
                                                  151.096;
                                                  155.065;
                                                  155.640
                                                  95.01—
2018-07                               8-6-2018    95.07;
                                                  95.99
2018-08                               11-19-2018  TSO VIII
2019-01                               1-7-2019    151.061;
                                                  154.110
2019-02                               4-1-2019    TSO VIII
2019-03                               4-15-2019   151.200—
                                                  151.243
2019-04                               5-20-2019   TSO VIII
                                                  113.01—
2019-07                               8-19-2019   113.08,
                                                  113.99
2019-08                               8-19-2019   72.01
2019-09                               9-16-2019   33.180,
                                                  33.181
                                                  32.60—
2019-10                               10-7-2019   32.70,
                                                  32.80
2019-11                               10-21-2019  TSO V
2019-15                               12-16-2019  TSO VIII
2020-01                               4-20-2020   TSO VIII
2020-04                               7-20-2020   155.306
                                                  151.055,
                                                  155.416,
                                                  155.441,
2020-05                               9-21-2020   155.461,
                                                  155.725—
                                                  155.727,
                                                  155.999
                                                  155.021,
                                                  155.307,
2020-06                               9-21-2020   155.332,
                                                  155.352,
                                                  155.710—
                                                  155.714
2020-07                               9-21-2020   TSO III
2020-08                               11-2-2020   TSO VIII
2021-01                               3-15-2021   155.115,
                                                  155.119
2021-02                               4-19-2021   TSO VIII
                                                  35.03,
                                                  115.01—
2021-05                               9-13-2021   115.09,
                                                  115.99,
                                                  155.046
2021-08                               11-22-2021  TSO VIII
2022-01                               1-10-2022   30.19
2022-07                               10-24-2022  TSO V
2022-10                               11-14-2022  TSO VIII
2023-01                               2-27-2023   96.01—
                                                  96.44
                                                  97.01—
2023-02                               3-13-2023   97.22,
                                                  97.99
2023-03                               4-10-2023   72.04
                                                  51.060,
                                                  51.088,
2023-5                                7-10-2023   51.100,
                                                  51.102,
                                                  51.103
2023-07                               11-3-2023   TSO VIII
2024-01                               1-8-2024    TSO VI
2024-02                               2-12-2024   98.01
2024-05                               6-24-2024   151.031
                                                  110.27,
2024-07                               10-14-2024  110.28,
                                                  110.30,
                                                  110.32
                                                 
 
