Village of Mettawa, Illinois
Code of Ordinances
2024 S-9 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 892, passed 3-19-2024
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CHAPTER 1 - VILLAGE OFFICIALS
SECTION
Article I. General
   
1.101   Officers and Employees; General Provisions
   
1.102   State Officials and Employees Ethics Act Adopted
Article II. Elected Officials
   
1.201   Village President
   
1.202   Board of Trustees
   
1.203   Inauguration Date; Commencement of Terms
Article III. Appointed Officers
   
1.301   Appointed Officers - General
   
1.302   Village Attorney
   
1.303   Village Clerk
   
1.304   Village Treasurer
Article IV. Bond
   
1.401   Amount
   
1.402   Type of Security
   
1.403   Filing
Article V. Succession of Officers
   
1.501   Succession in the Event of Emergency
   
1.502   Powers and Duties
Article VI. Other Village Positions
   
1.601   Village Administrator
ARTICLE I. GENERAL
SECTION 1.101. OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   A.   Effect. The provisions of this Article shall apply alike to all
officers and employees of the Village, regardless of the time of the creation
of the office or position or the time of the appointment of the officer or
employee.
   B.   Appointments. All officers shall be appointed or selected by the
Village President as provided by statute, ordinance, or resolution, as the case
may be.
   C.   Term of Office; Vacancies. Every appointive officer of the Village
shall hold office until the first day of May following his appointment or until
his successor is appointed and qualified, unless it is otherwise provided by
ordinance. In case of vacancy in any such place, it shall be filed in the same
manner in which appointments or selections are made, in the absence of
provision to the contrary.
   D.   Monies Received. Every officer of the Village shall at least once a
month turn over all money received by him in his official capacity, to the
Treasurer with a statement showing the source from which the same was received.
   E.   Oath. Every officer of the Village shall, before entering upon his
duties, take the oath prescribed by statute.
   F.   Salaries. All officers and employees of the Village shall receive such
salary as may be from time to time provided by ordinance or resolution.
   G.   Assignment of Duties. Any duty which is not assigned by ordinance to
some other specific officer and disputes or questions relating to the
respective powers or duties of officers shall be given to any appointive
officer.
   H.   Records. All records kept by any officer of the Village shall be open
to inspection by the President or any member of the Board of Trustees at all
reasonable times, whether or not such records are required to be kept by
statute or ordinance.
   J.   Bond. Every officer and employee, except trustees (of whom no bond
shall be required), shall execute a bond with security to be approved by the
President and Board of Trustees of the Village of Mettawa, in accordance with
the terms and provisions of Article III of this Chapter.
   K.   Arrests. The Village President, members of the Board of Trustees, as
well as every member of the Police Department, are hereby declared to be
conservators of the peace as authorized by statute.
   L.   Termination of Office. Every officer and employee of the Village, upon
the expiration of his term for any cause whatsoever, shall deliver to his
successor all books and records which may be the property of the Village; and
if no successor has been appointed within one week after the termination of
office, such property shall be delivered to the Village Clerk or Village
Treasurer.
   M.   Impersonation. It shall be unlawful for any person to impersonate
without lawful authority any Village officer or employee.
   N.   Interference with Officers. It shall be unlawful to interfere with or
hinder any officer or employee of the Village while engaged in the duties of
his office or employment.
   O.   Independent Audits. The President and Board of Trustees shall provide
an annual independent audit of all accounts of the Village for the prior filing
year, which audits shall be conducted independently of the Village Treasurer
and by some person or firm selected by the President and Board of Trustees.
Full reports of such audits shall be filed with the Village Clerk and
maintained as public records. This authorization with respect to such audits by
the President and Board of Trustees shall not be construed in any manner to
limit the responsibility of the Village President for the proper expenditure of
Village funds.
   P.   Conflicts of Interest.
      1.   Declaration of Policy. The proper operation of government requires
that all officials, elected and appointed, and salaried employees, hereinafter
referred to as Village officials, be independent and impartial; that government
decisions and policy be made and carried out in the proper channels of the
government structure; and that public office not be used for personal gain and
that the public have confidence in the integrity of its government. The
attainment of one or more of these ends is impaired whenever there exists or
appears to exist, an actual or potential conflict between the private interests
of a government official and his duties as an official. The public interest
requires, therefore, that the law protect against such conflicts of interest
and establish appropriate ethical standards with respect to conduct in
situations where actual or potential conflicts exist.
         a.   Public officials are agents of public purpose and hold office for
the benefit of the public. They are bound to uphold the Constitution of the
United States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois and to carry out
impartially the laws of the Nation, State and Village, thus fostering respect
for all government. They are bound to observe in their official acts the
highest standards of morality and to discharge faithfully the duties of their
office regardless of personal considerations, recognizing that the public
interest must be their primary concern. Their conduct in both their official
and private affairs should be above reproach.
         b.   All officials of the Village of Mettawa shall not exceed their
authority or breach the law or ask others to do so.
      2.   Nonpartisan Organization.
         a.   No public official, whether elected or appointed, shall promise
an appointment to any salaried municipal position as a reward for any political
activity.
         b.   No public official, whether elected or appointed, shall cause any
other Village employee to contribute to or perform work for any political party
as a condition of continued employment.
      3.   Public Property. No public official shall request or permit the use
of Village owned vehicles, equipment, materials, or property for personal
convenience or profit, except when such services are available to the public
generally, or are provided as municipal policy for use of such public official
in the conduct of official business.
      4.   Gifts and Favors. No public official or his immediate family shall
accept any gift from any person, firm, or corporation which to their knowledge
is interested directly or indirectly in any manner whatsoever in business
dealings with the Village, nor shall such public official:
         a.   Accept any gift, favor or thing of value that may tend to
influence him in the discharge of his duties; or
         b.   Grant in the discharge of his duties any improper favor, service,
or thing of value.
      5.   Official Activity. No public official shall engage in any activity
or may be in any manner interested, either directly or indirectly, in his name
or in the name of any other person, association, trust, or corporation in any
contract or the performance of any work for the making or letting of which such
official may be called upon to act or vote.
         a.   No such public official may represent, either as agent or
otherwise, any person, association, trust, or corporation, with respect to any
application or bid for any contract or work in regard to which such official
may be called upon to vote.
         b.   Any contract made and procured in violation of this Section is
void.
SECTION 1.102. STATE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT ADOPTED.
   A.   The regulations of Sections 5-15 (5 ILCS 430/5-15) and Article 10 (5
ILCS 430/10-10 through 10-40) of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act,
5 ILCS 430/1-1 et seq. (hereinafter referred to as "Act" in this Section), are
hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to the officers and employees
of the Village to the extent required by 5 ILCS 430/70-5.
   B.   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or
accepted under the Act, by any officer or any employee of the Village, is
hereby prohibited.
   C.   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to an
officer or employee of the Village under the Act, is hereby prohibited.
   D.   The participation in political activities prohibited under the Act, by
any officer or employee of the Village, is hereby prohibited.
   E.   For purposes of this Section, the terms "officer" and "employee" shall
be defined as set forth in 5 ILCS 430/70-5(c).
   F.   The penalties for violations of this Section shall be the same as those
penalties set forth in 5 ILCS 430/50-5 for similar violations of the Act.
   G.   This Section does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of Village officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this Section, however, the provisions of this Section shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 ILCS 430/70-5(a).
   H.   Any amendment to the Act that becomes effective after the effective
date of this Section shall be incorporated into this Section by reference and
shall be applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of
gifts and to prohibited political activities. However, any amendment that makes
its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be
incorporated into this Section by reference without formal action by the
Corporate Authorities of the Village.
   I.   Intentionally omitted.
   J.   If the Illinois Supreme Court declares the Act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this Section shall be repealed as of the date that the Illinois
Supreme Court's decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This Section shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the Corporate Authorities of the Village if the Act is found unconstitutional
by the Illinois Supreme Court.
   K.   If the Illinois Supreme Court declares part of the Act unconstitutional
but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the Act, or does not
address the remainder of the Act, then the remainder of the Act as adopted by
this Section shall remain in full force and effect; however, that part of this
Section relating to the part of the Act found unconstitutional shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the Corporate Authorities of the Village.
(Ord. 517, passed 5-18-2004)
ARTICLE II. ELECTED OFFICIALS
SECTION 1.201. VILLAGE PRESIDENT.
   A.   Election; Term of Office. The Village President shall be elected for a
term of four (4) years, and he shall be the President of the Board of Trustees,
as is provided by statute.
   B.   Duties.
      1.   The Village President shall be the chief executive officer of the
Village and shall perform all such duties as may be required of him by statute
or ordinance. He shall have supervision of all of the executive officers of the
Village and over all of the employees of the Village.
      2.   The Village President shall have the power and authority to inspect
all books and records kept by any Village officer or employee at any reasonable
time.
      3.   The Village President shall be the presiding officer of regular and
special meetings of the Board of Trustees and at times when the Board meets as
a committee of the whole.
      4.   The Village President shall preserve order and decorum and may speak
to points in order in preference to other members, and shall decide all
questions of order subject to appeal.
      5.   In case of any disturbance or disorderly conduct, the Village
President shall have the power to require the chamber cleared.
      6.   Whenever there is a question as to the respective powers or duties
of any appointed officer of the Village, this shall be settled by the
President; and he shall have the power to delegate to any such officer any duty
which is to be performed when no specific officer has been directed to perform
the duty.
   C.   Oath. Before entering upon the duties of his office, the President
shall take the oath of office as prescribed by statute.
   D.   Reference to Mayor of Village.
      1.   The term “Village President,” as used in any ordinance, resolution,
motion or other action of the corporate authorities shall be construed as
meaning the Mayor; and the term “Mayor” whenever so used shall be construed to
mean the Village President.
      2.   The title “Mayor,” as used in the minutes of the meetings of the
corporate authorities or any other official document shall be construed as
meaning “Village President.”
   E.   Village President's authority to declare a state of emergency.
      1.   The Village President is hereby authorized to render a declaration
of a state of emergency within the Village based on the following findings and
supporting facts:
         a)   There has occurred, or there is an actual imminent danger of the
occurrence of, a natural disaster, catastrophe, pestilence, contagious disease
or other public health emergency, which is likely to cause loss of life, loss
of productivity, hardship or suffering to the persons residing in or doing
business in the Village.
         b)   The declaration of a state of emergency and the actions to be
taken pursuant to that declaration are specifically designed to, and likely to,
address and alleviate the potential loss of life, loss of productivity,
hardship and suffering.
      2.   The declaration of a state of emergency shall:
         a)   Be in writing and executed under oath;
         b)   Set forth the basis and underlying facts supporting the
declaration of a state of emergency;
         c)   Make reference to published statements of federal, state or
county agencies whose duty it is to address emergency matters;
         d)   To the extent possible, specify the procedures and protocols to
be followed during the state of emergency;
         e)   To the extent possible, make specific reference to any
regulations which may be subject to suspension during the state of emergency;
and
         f)   Consistent with subsection E. below, set forth the duration of
the state of emergency.
      3.   The declaration of a state of emergency shall be filed with the
Village Clerk as soon as practicable after being issued.
      4.   During said state of emergency, the Village President shall be
authorized to exercise, by executive order, such powers of the Corporate
Authorities as may be reasonably necessary to respond to the emergency.
      5.   Any state of emergency declared pursuant to this authority shall
expire no later than the adjournment of the first regular meeting of the
Corporate Authorities after the state of emergency has been declared in
accordance with Section 11-1-6 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/11-1-
6); however, if the state of emergency has not been resolved as of commencement
of the first regular meeting of the Corporate Authorities after the state of
emergency has been declared, the authorizations set forth above in this
Ordinance shall remain in full force and effect without further action by the
Village President or Corporate Authorities until such state of emergency has
been resolved as declared in writing by the Village President or until the
authorizations are withdrawn by passage of an ordinance by an affirmative
majority vote the Corporate Authorities at a public meeting.
      6.   A declaration of a state of emergency, pursuant to this Section, may
not suspend in any way the rights of residents of the Village, under the
Illinois Constitution or the United States Constitution.
(Am. Ord. 847, passed 3-24-2020)
SECTION 1.202. BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   A.   The Board of Trustees consisting of six (6) members, shall be elected
to office for a four (4) year term, according to the method provided by
statute. The Board of Trustees shall be the legislative department of the
Village government, and shall perform such duties and have such powers as may
be delegated by statute by it.
   B.   Any person duly elected to sit as a member of the Board of Trustees of
the Village of Mettawa, as a trustee shall take the oath of office prescribed
by statute.
SECTION 1.203. INAUGURATION DATE; COMMENCEMENT OF TERMS.
   A.   Elections of Village officers shall be conducted in accordance with the
general election law, 10 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
   B.   An official of the Village may be inaugurated at any time following the
proclamation of the results of the regular municipal election at which such
official was elected. Inauguration shall be accomplished by taking and
subscribing the oath or affirmation required by the Illinois Constitution. The
subscribed oath or affirmation shall be filed in the office of the Village
Clerk.
   C.   Following their inauguration, the terms of elected officials of the
Village shall commence during the first regular meeting or special meeting,
whichever first occurs, of the President and Board of Trustees of the Village
in the month of May following the proclamation of the results of the regular
municipal election at which such officials were elected.
(Ord. 349, passed 3-12-97; Am. Ord. 541, passed 6-21-2005)
ARTICLE III. APPOINTED OFFICERS
SECTION 1.301. APPOINTED OFFICERS - GENERAL.
   A.   The President, by and with the advice and consent of the Board of
Trustees, may appoint such officers and personnel as set forth in this Article
as may be necessary to carry into effect the powers generally conferred upon
villages by law.
   B.   Any officer of the Village of Mettawa may resign from office. Except in
the case of resignation, any officer shall continue in office until a successor
has been chosen and has qualified. If there is a failure to appoint a Village
officer or the person appointed fails to qualify, the person filling the office
shall continue in office until a successor has been chosen and has qualified.
   C.   The provisions of this Chapter shall be deemed separable and the
invalidity of any portion of this Chapter shall not affect the validity of the
remainder.
(Ord. 569, passed 10-17-2006)
SECTION 1.302. VILLAGE ATTORNEY.
   A.   Office Established; Appointment; Removal. There hereby is created the
office of the Village Attorney, an executive office of the Village. The Village
Attorney shall be appointed by the Village President with the advice and
consent of the President and Board of Trustees and shall enjoy all of the
emoluments of the office whether appointed and holding office as an independent
contractor or as an employee. During his term, the Village Attorney shall
receive such compensation as may be fixed by contract from time to time. The
Village Attorney shall have direct communication with the Village Board and its
members individually as well as with the other Village officials. The Village
Attorney may be removed from office by the Village President on any written
charge, whenever the Village President is of the opinion that the interests of
the Village demand removal.
      1.   The Village President shall report the reasons for the removal to
the President and Board of Trustees at a meeting to be held not less than five
(5) nor more than ten (10) days after the removal.
      2.   If the Village President fails or refuses to place the item of
"Consideration of the Report of Removal" upon the agenda of such meeting of the
President and Board of Trustees and state the reasons for the removal in such
report, or if the President and Board of Trustees by a two-thirds vote of all
of the President and Board of Trustees authorized by law to be elected
disapprove of the removal at such meeting, the Village Attorney thereupon shall
be restored to office. The vote shall be by yeas and nays, which shall be
entered into the Minutes of the meeting of the President and Board of Trustees.
Upon restoration, the Village Attorney shall give a new bond and take a new
oath of office. The Village Attorney may not be removed a second time for the
same offense.
   B.   Duties. The Village Attorney shall be responsible for all legal matters
pertaining to the Village. Upon request by the Village President, he shall
render any given legal opinion in writing. From time to time, the Village
Attorney may appoint additional counsel to represent or advise the Village on
legal matters as Special Counsel. In the event such Special Counsel is so
appointed, compensation shall be recommended by the Village Attorney. Examples
of the duties of the Village Attorney follow:
      1.   The Village Attorney shall prosecute or cause to be prosecuted
violations of any of the provisions of this code or other ordinances of the
Village, including complaints of zoning and housing violations and shall advise
and assist all Village officials or employees on questions of law involved in
filing complaints making arrests and preparing for prosecutions. He shall
prosecute or defend, as the case may be, administrative law actions and any and
all suits or actions at law or in equity to which the Village may be a party,
or in which it may be interested–including those brought against or by any
officer of the Village in the capacity of such person as an officer or on
behalf of the Village.
      2.   The Village Attorney shall be the legal advisor to the Boards and
Commissioners of the Village, prepare all ordinances and resolutions, and
render opinions on Village bond issues.
(Am. Ord. 691, passed 6-21-2011)
SECTION 1.303. VILLAGE CLERK.
   A.   With the advice and consent of the President and Board of Trustees, the
Village President shall appoint the Village Clerk to serve for an indefinite
period of time. The Village Clerk need not reside within the corporate limits
of the Village; and, as an official of the Village and not an employee, shall
be paid such compensation as may be set from time to time by the President and
Board of Trustees. The Village Clerk may be removed from office by the Village
President on any written charge, whenever the Village President is of the
opinion that the interests of the Village demand removal.
      1.   The Village President shall report the reasons for the removal to
the President and Board of Trustees at a meeting to be held not less than five
(5) nor more than ten (10) days after the removal.
      2.   If the Village President fails or refuses to place the item of
"Consideration of the Report of Removal" upon the agenda of such meeting of the
President and Board of Trustees and state the reasons for the removal in such
report, or if the President and Board of Trustees by a two-thirds vote of all
of the President and Board of Trustees authorized by law to be elected
disapprove of the removal at such meeting, the Village Clerk thereupon shall be
restored to office. The vote shall be by yeas and nays, which shall be entered
into the Minutes of the meeting of the President and Board of Trustees. Upon
restoration, the Village Clerk shall give a new bond and take a new oath of
office. The Village Clerk may not be removed a second time for the same
offense.
   B.   The Village Clerk shall keep the corporate seal, to be provided by the
corporate authorities, and all papers belonging to the Village the custody and
control of which are not given to other officers.
   C.   He shall attend all meetings of the President and Board of Trustees of
the Village of Mettawa, and keep a full record of its proceedings in the
journal as provided by statute.
   D.   The Village Clerk shall seal and attest all contracts of the Village
and all license permits and other documents as shall require this formality.
   E.   In addition to the record of ordinances and other records which the
Clerk is required by statute to keep, he shall keep a register of all licenses
and permits and the payments thereon; a record showing all of the officers,
volunteers, members of boards and commissions, and regular, part-time and full-
time employees of the Village; and such other records as may be required by the
President and Board.
   F.   In addition to the duties herein provided, the Clerk shall perform such
other duties and functions as may be required by statute or ordinance.
   G.   The Clerk may appoint a deputy, by and with the consent of the
President and Board of Trustees, who in the temporary absence of the Clerk, in
case of illness or otherwise, shall be empowered to perform all the duties of
the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 197, passed 8-28-91; Am. Ord. 349, passed 3-12-97; Am. Ord. 691, passed
6-21-2011)
SECTION 1.304. VILLAGE TREASURER.
   A.   With the advice and consent of the President and Board of Trustees, the
Village President shall appoint the Village Treasurer, as an official of the
Village and not an employee, to serve for an indefinite period of time at the
pleasure of the President and Board of Trustees. The Village Treasurer need not
reside within the corporate limits of the Village. The Village Treasurer may be
removed from office by the Village President on any written charge, whenever
the Village President is of the opinion that the interests of the Village
demand removal.
      1.   The Village President shall report the reasons for the removal to
the President and Board of Trustees at a meeting to be held not less than five
(5) nor more than ten (10) days after the removal.
      2.   If the Village President fails or refuses to place the item of
"Consideration of the Report of Removal" upon the agenda of such meeting of the
President and Board of Trustees and state the reasons for the removal in such
report, or if the President and Board of Trustees by a two-thirds vote of all
of the President and Board of Trustees authorized by law to be elected
disapprove of the removal at such meeting, the Village Treasurer thereupon
shall be restored to office. The vote shall be by yeas and nays, which shall be
entered into the Minutes of the meeting of the President and Board of Trustees.
Upon restoration, the Village Treasurer shall give a new bond and take a new
oath of office. The Village Treasurer may not be removed a second time for the
same offense.
   B.   The Village Treasurer need attend only those meetings of the President
and Board of Trustees when his or her attendance is requested.
   C.   The Village Treasurer shall perform such duties and functions as may be
required by ordinance.
   D.   By and with the consent of the President and Board of Trustees, the
Village President may appoint a Deputy Village Treasurer, who shall not be an
official of the Village who, in the absence of the Village Treasurer and in
case of illness or otherwise, shall be empowered to perform all the duties of
the Village Treasurer.
   E.   By and with the consent of the President and Board of Trustees, the
Village President may retain a Financial Consultant as an independent
contractor to assist the Village Treasurer. The Financial Consultant shall not
be an official of the Village and may be an entity or an employee of an entity
that provides financial services to the Village.
      1.   The scope of such financial services may include providing:
         a.   Staff to carry out a complete range of financial and accounting
services for the Village;
         b.   Automated accounts payable;
         c.   The issuance of 1099 forms;
         d.   Management of cash receipts and disbursement per this municipal
code and applicable State statutes;
         e.   Cash and investment management pursuant to the Village's
Investment Policy;
         f.   Third party billing for reimbursed professional services;
         g.   Monthly financial reporting to be distributed by the 10th day of
each month;
         h.   The conversion from cash basis accounting to full accrual
accounting;
         i.   Availability to meet with Board members or other professionals
regularly on Village matters during business hours;
         j.   Continued availability to the Village President and Board of
Trustees during non-business hours;
         k.   Affording the Village auditor Village books and records for the
timely completion of the annual Village Audit;
         l.   The preparation of the Annual Budget and Budget Amendments;
         m.   Debt management, including meeting the continuing disclosure and
arbitrage reporting requirements;
         n.   Advice and consultation on any and all financial matters; and/or
         o.   Any other financial or administrative services as requested.
      2.   On behalf of the Village Treasurer, the Financial Consultant shall
receive all money belonging to the Village and shall keep books and accounts.
These books and accounts shall be subject to the inspection of any Village
official or member of the Board of Trustees.
      3.   On behalf of the Village Treasurer, the Financial Consultant shall
keep a separate account of each fund or appropriation and the debits and
credits belonging thereto.
      4.   On behalf of the Village Treasurer, the Financial Consultant shall
give every person paying money into the treasury a receipt therefor, specifying
the date of payment, and upon what account paid. Copies of these receipts shall
be filed with the monthly reports with the Village Clerk. If the Treasurer is
in possession of money properly appropriated to the payment of any warrant
lawfully drawn upon him or her, he shall pay the money specified in this
warrant to the person designated by the warrant.
      5.   At the end of every month, the Treasurer shall give an account under
oath to the Village Clerk showing the state of the treasury at the date of the
account and the balance of money in the treasury, along with a statement of all
money received into the treasury, and on what account together with all
warrants redeemed and paid. On the day the account is given, these warrants
with all vouchers shall be delivered to the Village Clerk and filed together
with the account, in the Clerk's office. All warrants paid shall be marked
"paid".
      6.   On behalf of the Village Treasurer, the Financial Consultant shall
keep a register of all warrants, which shall describe each warrant, showing its
date, amount, and number, the fund from which paid, the name of the person to
whom paid, and when paid.
      7.   On behalf of the Village Treasurer, the Financial Consultant shall
keep all money belonging to the Village in his or her custody separate and
distinct from his or her own money, and shall not use, either directly or
indirectly, the Village’s money or warrants in his or her custody for his or
her own use and benefit, or that of any other person. Any violation of this
provision shall subject him or her to immediate removal from office by the
Board of Trustees, who may declare the Treasurer’s office vacant. In that case,
a successor shall be appointed and shall hold office for the remainder of the
unexpired term of the Treasurer so removed.
      8.   Prior to the first day of September of each year, on behalf of the
Village Treasurer, the Financial Consultant shall annually prepare and file
with the Village Clerk an account of all moneys received and expenditures
incurred during the preceding fiscal year. The Treasurer shall show in such
account:
         a.   All monies received by the Village indicating the total amounts,
in the aggregate, received in each account of the Village, with the general
statement concerning the source of such receipts; provided, for the purpose of
this subparagraph, the term "account" shall not be construed to mean each
individual taxpayer, householder, licensee, utility user, or such other persons
whose payments to the Village are credited to a general account.
         b.   All monies paid out by the Village, giving the name of each
person to whom paid, on what account paid, and the total amount in the
aggregate, paid to each person from each such account.
         c.   A statement showing the state of the Village treasury at the
close of the fiscal year ended the prior April 30. Upon receipt of such account
from the Financial Consultant on behalf of the Village Treasurer, the Village
Clerk shall publish the account by posting a copy of the account in three (3)
prominent places within the Village.
      9.   In the absence of the Village Treasurer, on behalf of the Village
Treasurer, the Deputy Village Treasurer, may sign the Village Treasurer’s name
on any document that the Village Treasurer may be called upon to sign as
Village Treasurer. Such signing shall be in the following form: The name of the
Village Treasurer, by the name of the Deputy Village Treasurer.
(Ord. 569, passed 10-17-2006; Am. Ord. 691, passed 6-21-2011; Am. Ord. 724,
passed 7-17-2012)
ARTICLE IV. BOND
SECTION 1.401. AMOUNT.
   A.   Before entering upon the duties of their respective offices, Village
officers, except trustees (of whom no bond shall be required), shall execute a
bond with security to be approved by the President and Board of Trustees of the
Village of Mettawa. The bond shall be payable to the Village of Mettawa, unless
otherwise provided by law, in the following sums and conditioned upon the
faithful performance of the duties of their office and the payment of all money
received by such officer, according to law and also the ordinances of the
Village:
      1.   Village President: $3,000.00;
      2.   Village Clerk: $500.00;
      3.   Village Treasurer: $3,000.00; and
      4.   All other Village officers, whether elected or appointed, except
trustees: $3,000.00.
   B.   The bond so required may provide that the obligation of the sureties
shall not extend to any loss sustained by the insolvency, failure, or closing
of any bank organized and operating either under the laws of the State of
Illinois or the United States wherein such officer has placed funds in his
custody, if the bank has been approved by the President and Board of Trustees
of the Village of Mettawa as a depository for these funds.
SECTION 1.402. TYPE OF SECURITY.
   Security may be provided either by personal or corporate surety. If personal
security is provided for the bond by an individual, such individual shall own
property having a value at least equal to the face amount of the bond. If
corporate security is provided for the bond by a corporate surety, it shall be
by any insurance or bonding company authorized to do business in the State of
Illinois. If a bond is executed in accordance with this Section, any
requirement of the approval of the President and Board of Trustees as to the
security for the bond shall have been satisfied.
(Am. Ord. 685, passed 5-17-2011)
SECTION 1.403. FILING.
   The bonds herein provided for shall be filed with the Village Clerk, unless
otherwise provided by law.
ARTICLE V. SUCCESSION OF OFFICERS
SECTION 1.501. SUCCESSION IN THE EVENT OF EMERGENCY.
   In the event that the Village President is killed or rendered incapable of
performing the duties of such office, said office shall be filled without
further action of the Board of Trustees in the following order of preference
until such time as a successor is named and takes office in the manner provided
by law.
   A.   The remaining members of the Board of Trustees, senior Trustees
utilized first and in alphabetical order if two (2) or more are of the same
seniority; or
   B.   The Village Clerk.
SECTION 1.502. POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The person(s) filling such vacancies as provided herein shall exercise all
the duties and powers of that position during the emergency and until such time
as a successor can be appointed or selected in the manner provided by law.
ARTICLE VI. OTHER VILLAGE POSITIONS
SECTION 1.601. VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR.
   A.   Position Established; Appointment; Removal. There is created hereby the
position of Village Administrator. The Village Administrator, whether a person,
firm or corporation, shall be appointed by the Village President, by and with
the advice and consent of the President and Board of Trustees. The Village
Administrator shall be responsible to the Village President and to the
President and Board of Trustees for the management and operation of all of the
administrative affairs of the Village, need not reside within the corporate
limits of the Village and shall receive such compensation as may be fixed by
contract from time to time. The Village Administrator shall have direct
communication with the President and Board of Trustees and its members
individually as well as with all of the other Village officials.
      1.   The nominee for the position of Village Administrator shall be
considered by the President and Board of Trustees solely on the basis of
executive and administrative qualifications; with special reference to
education and experience with respect to the duties of the position herein set
forth, which require technical training.
      2.   No Village Trustee or Village President shall be appointed to the
position of Village Administrator during the term for which he or she has been
elected nor within one year after the expiration thereof.
      3.   The Village Administrator may be removed from office by the Village
President on any written charge, whenever the Village President is of the
opinion that the interests of the Village demand removal.
         a.   The Village President shall report the reasons for the removal to
the President and Board of Trustees at a meeting to be held not less than five
(5) nor more than ten (10) days after the removal.
         b.   If the Village President fails or refuses to place the item of
"Consideration of the Report of Removal" upon the agenda of such meeting of the
President and Board of Trustees and state the reasons for the removal in such
report, or if the President and Board of Trustees by a two-thirds vote of all
of the President and Board of Trustees authorized by law to be elected
disapprove of the removal at such meeting, the Village Administrator thereupon
shall be restored to office. The vote shall be by yeas and nays, which shall be
entered into the Minutes of the meeting of the President and Board of Trustees.
Upon restoration, the Village Administrator shall give a new bond and take a
new oath of office. The Village Administrator may not be removed a second time
for the same offense.
   B.   Duties. The Village Administrator shall:
      1.   Have the management and control of all matters and things pertaining
to the operation and maintenance of the properties of the Village;
      2.   Assist the Budget Officer by undertaking all of the work of the
Budget Officer as set forth in Article IV of Chapter 2 of this Municipal Code;
      3.   Be the Village purchasing agent and purchase all materials, supplies
or equipment for which funds are provided in the budget, and for that purpose
the Village Administrator is authorized to make expenditures of Ten Thousand
Dollars ($10,000) or less without preliminary authorization by the President
and Board of Trustees; receive bids for purchases or contracts for any purpose,
including but not limited to those affecting the operation and maintenance of
Village services; and advise the President and Board of Trustees on the
advantages or disadvantages of the contract or merchandise on which such bids
have been received - with the understanding that the Village Administrator
shall have no authority to enter into contracts for services and/or the
performance of public works and that all expenditures and payments, regardless
of amount, shall be subject to the confirmation or approval of the President
and Board of Trustees and to the limitations imposed by the adopted budget -
provided, however, that in times of emergency the Village Administrator is
authorized to contract for services of not more than Ten Thousand Dollars
($10,000) without preliminary authorization of the President and Board of
Trustees;
      4.   Attend all meetings of the President and Board of Trustees, unless
excused therefrom by the President and Board of Trustees and except when the
Village Administrator's removal is under consideration by the Board;
      5.   Have the privilege of taking part in the discussion of all matters
coming before the President and Board of Trustees and shall be entitled to
notice of all meetings, regular and special, of the President and Board of
Trustees and all of the Village commissions and other boards, and committees of
all of the foregoing;
      6.   Recommend to the President and Board of Trustees for adoption such
measures as the Village Administrator may deem necessary or expedient;
      7.   Perform the duties and have the powers as are fixed and conferred
upon the Village Administrator from time to time by the President and Board of
Trustees, whether by ordinance, resolution or motion;
      8.   Serve ex officio in the position of Deputy Village Clerk and, in the
temporary absence of the Village Clerk in case of illness or otherwise, perform
all of the duties of the Village Clerk; and
      9.   Give a monthly report to the President and Board of Trustees and, in
addition, information concerning the fiscal matters of the Village as, from
time to time, may be required by the President and Board of Trustees; and in
connection with the latter, have supervision over the accounting work of the
Village.
As used in this Subsection EMERGENCY means: An unforeseen combination of
circumstances or the resulting state that calls for immediate action or an
unforeseen circumstance that arises following a Village Board meeting requiring
action prior to the next Village Board meeting.
(Ord. 662, passed 8-17-2010; Am. Ord. 672, passed 11-16-2010; Am. Ord. 691,
passed 6-21-2011)
CHAPTER 2 - VILLAGE GOVERNMENT
SECTION
Article I. Meetings
   
2.101   Regular Meetings
   
2.102   Special Meetings
   
2.103   Control and Use of Closed Session Minutes and Verbatim Records
Article II. Rules of Order
   
2.201   Quorum
   
2.202   Order of Business
   
2.203   Addressing Meetings
   
2.204   Adoption of Robert’s ‘Rules of Order, Revised’
   
2.205   Motions
   
2.206   Temporary Suspension of Rules; Amendment of Rules
   
2.207   Censure of Members; Expulsion of Members
   
2.208   Standing Committees
Article III. Fiscal Year
   
2.301   Fiscal Year
Article IV. Annual Budget
   
2.401   Budget Officer
   
2.402   Powers and Duties of Budget Officer
   
2.403   Compilation and Contents of Budget
   
2.404   Passage of Annual Budget; Effect
   
2.405   Capital Improvement, Repair or Replacement Fund
   
2.406   Revision of Annual Budget
   
2.407   Funds for Contingency Purposes
   
2.408   Public Inspection, Notice and Hearing on Budget
   
2.409   Payment of Unpaid Charges, Levies and Assessments
Article V. Disconnection of Territory
   
2.501   Land Disconnected by Corporate Authorities; Procedure
   
2.502   Land Disconnected by Court Procedure
   
2.503   Taxation of Disconnected Land
Article VI. Indemnification of Public Officials, Commissioners, and Certain
Agents
   
2.601   Protected Personnel Defined
   
2.602   In General
   
2.603   Exception
   
2.604   Punitive Damages
   
2.605   Choice of Counsel
   
2.606   Additional Rights: Successors
   
2.607   Authorization for Payments
   
2.608   Voting
   
2.609   Severability
Article VII. The Parks and Recreation Committee of the President and Board of
Trustees
   
2.701   Creation
   
2.702   Powers
Article VIII. Official Village Seal
   
2.801   Corporate Seal
   
2.802   Village Logo
Article IX. Professional Fees
   
2.901   Definitions
   
2.902   Review
   
2.903   Reimbursement
   
2.904   Administration of Escrow
   
2.905   Estimate
   
2.906   Disbursements
   
2.907   Replenishments
   
2.908   Final Disbursement
   
2.909   Delegation
Article X. Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedule
   
2.1001   Tax rate schedule
   
2.1002   Fees
   
2.1003   Fine and penalty schedule
ARTICLE I. MEETINGS
SECTION 2.101. REGULAR MEETINGS.
   A.   All regular meetings of the President and Board of Trustees shall be
held on the third Tuesday of each month at the hour of 7:30 p.m., provided that
if the regular meeting falls on a legal holiday, the meeting shall take place
on the next secular day at the same hour.
   B.   All regular meetings of the President and Board of Trustees shall be
held in the Cottonwood Room of the Hilton Garden Inn, located at 26225 N.
Riverwoods Boulevard, Mettawa, Illinois.
   C.   Except as may otherwise be provided from time to time by applicable
statutes, there being no principal office of the Village of Mettawa, public
notices of regular meetings of the President and Board of Trustees shall be
made by posting a notice of each at least forty-eight (48) hours before such
meeting in the corridor outside of the door to the entrances to the Cottonwood
Room in, and in the lobby of, the Hilton Garden Inn, located at 26225 N.
Riverwoods Boulevard, Mettawa, Illinois, being the building where such regular
meetings are to be held. Such notice shall contain the agenda of such meeting.
      1.   Although it has no full-time staff, if the Village maintains a
website, the agenda of a regular meeting shall be posted on the Village of
Mettawa website and shall remain thereon until the regular meeting is
concluded. In addition, if the Village maintains a website, the public notice
of the annual schedule of all regular meetings of the President and Board of
Trustees shall be posted on the website and shall remain on the website until a
new public notice of the schedule of regular meetings is approved. Failure to
post on the website notice of any meeting or the agenda of any meeting shall
not invalidate any meeting or any actions taken at such meeting.
      2.   If a change is made in regular meeting dates, at least ten (10) days
in advance of such change, notice of such change shall be given by publication
in a newspaper of general circulation in the village. However, until the
village has a population of more than five hundred (500), such ten (10) day
notice may be given by posting a notice of such change in at least three (3)
prominent places within the corporate limits of the Village at least ten (10)
days in advance of such change. Notice of such change shall also be posted at
the building in which the meeting is to be held, there being no principal
office of the Village.
(Am. Ord. 301, passed 5-12-93; Am. Ord. 315, passed 12-14-94; Am. Ord. 414,
passed 12-8-99; Am. Ord. 478, passed 1-16-2002; Am. Ord. 628, passed 6-16-2009;
Am. Ord. 637, passed 10-20-2009)
SECTION 2.102. SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings may be called by the Village President or any three (3)
Trustees upon written notice to all members of the Board of Trustees including
the Village President at least twenty-five (25) hours prior to such meeting.
   A.   Such notice shall state the time and place of the special meeting.
   B.   Such notice shall be accompanied by the agenda of the special meeting.
   C.   Said notice may be given to each of the persons to whom it is to be
directed by either of the following ways:
      1.   By delivering said notice to any said person personally or by
leaving same at the residence of said person in the Village before 5:00 o'clock
p.m. of the day preceding the day upon which the meeting is to be held; or
      2.   By depositing said notice in the United States Mail enclosed in an
envelope plainly addressed to said person at his place of residence in the
Village with postage prepaid, at least forty-eight (48) hours before the time
of meeting exclusive of any intervening Sunday or legal holiday.
   D.   If all of the President and Trustees are present at a special meeting,
no notice (other than any notice by statute) of such meeting shall be
necessary.
   E.   Except as may otherwise be provided from time to time by applicable
statutes, there being no principal office of the Village of Mettawa, public
notice of each special meeting of the President and Board of Trustees shall be
made by posting a notice of such at least forty-eight (48) hours before such
meeting in the corridor outside of the door to the entrances to the room in,
and in the lobby of, the building where such special meeting is to be held.
Such notice shall contain the agenda of such meeting. In addition and although
it has no full-time staff, if the Village maintains a website, the agenda of a
special meeting shall be posted on the Village of Mettawa website and shall
remain thereon until the special meeting is concluded. Failure to post on the
website notice of any special meeting or the agenda of any special meeting
shall not invalidate any special meeting or any actions taken at such special
meeting.
(Am. Ord. 301, passed 5-12-93; Am. Ord. 637, passed 10-20-2009)
SECTION 2.103. CONTROL AND USE OF CLOSED SESSION MINUTES AND VERBATIM RECORDS.
   A.   Background And Purpose: The Illinois Open Meetings Act requires all
public bodies to keep minutes of their meetings, whether opened or closed. With
the adoption of amendments to 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/2.06, public
bodies also must maintain a verbatim record of all closed meetings in the form
of an audio or video recording. This section sets forth procedures to ensure
that the President and Board of Trustees and all committees of the Village,
other boards, other committees, commissions, and other bodies of the Village
that are subject to the open meetings act (“subsidiary bodies”) comply with the
requirements for closed sessions.
   B.   Closed Meeting Minutes: Minutes of a closed meeting shall comply with
the same requirements applicable to minutes for an open meeting. Minutes of a
closed meeting shall include, at a minimum, the date, time, and place of the
meeting; the members of the public body that are present and those that are
absent; a summary of discussion on all matters proposed, deliberated, or
decided; and a record of any votes taken. The Open Meetings Act exemption or
exemptions applicable to the closed session should be identified in the minutes
of the closed session. Minutes of closed meetings shall not be released for
public inspection to the extent that there is a need to preserve
confidentiality of matters stated in those minutes.
   C.   Closed Meeting Verbatim Records: A verbatim record of each closed
meeting is required and shall be subject to the following requirements:
      1.   Recordings: Verbatim records shall be made by audio or video
recording. Each recording shall be labeled with the name of the meeting body
and the date, time, and place of the meeting.
      2.   Confidentiality: All verbatim records of closed meetings are hereby
declared to be confidential and not subject to release except pursuant to this
subsection or as required by law.
      3.   Duties Of Clerk Or Designee: The Village Clerk, or his or her
designee, shall be responsible for creating the verbatim record. After a closed
meeting, the verbatim record shall be delivered immediately to the Village
Clerk for storage in a secure location. The Village Clerk shall be responsible
for maintaining, storing, and restricting access to all verbatim records.
      4.   Access To Verbatim Records: No individual, nor the President or a
member of the Board of Trustees, nor any subsidiary body shall have access to
any verbatim record of any closed session unless approved by one of the
following specific methods:
         a.   Individuals: Unless otherwise required by law, no individual,
including the President or a member of the Board of Trustees or any subsidiary
body shall have access to any verbatim record unless specifically approved by
an affirmative majority vote of the Board of Trustees taken at an open meeting.
An individual who is granted the right to access a verbatim record shall do so
only at the location where the verbatim record is stored and in the presence of
the Village Clerk or his/her designee. No verbatim record shall be copied or
taken out of the secured location where stored except as specifically allowed
in this subsection or as otherwise required by law.
         b.   Subsidiary Bodies: A subsidiary body may access a verbatim record
of one of the subsidiary body’s closed meetings only by an affirmative majority
vote, taken at an open meeting, of all members of that subsidiary body then
holding office. A subsidiary body shall review a verbatim record only at a duly
noticed closed meeting of that subsidiary body.
         c.   Board of Trustees: The Board of Trustees may access a verbatim
record of one of its closed meetings or of a closed meeting of any subsidiary
body only by an affirmative majority vote of the Board of Trustees taken at an
open meeting. The Board of Trustees shall review a verbatim record only at a
duly noticed closed meeting of the Board of Trustees.
         d.   Village Clerk: The Village Clerk shall have access at all times
to all verbatim records for the purpose of ensuring their proper care and
protection. The Village Clerk may review a verbatim record, however, only if
authorized to do so by an affirmative majority vote of the Board of Trustees
taken at an open meeting.
         e.   Court: If the Village is directed by a court order issued in
accordance with 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/2.06 to deliver a verbatim
record, then the Village Clerk or his/her designee shall deliver the relevant
verbatim record to the court, after that record has been reviewed by the
Village Attorney.
      5.   Verbatim Record Not Official Record: A verbatim record shall not be
part of the official public record of any meeting. Rather, the approved minutes
are to be deemed the official record of the meeting.
      6.   Notification Of Destruction Of Verbatim Record: Verbatim records may
be destroyed where approved by an affirmative majority vote of the Board of
Trustees, in compliance with the Open Meetings Act.
   D.   Review And Release Of Closed Meeting Minutes And Verbatim Records:
      1.   Review Of Minutes: No less than twice each year, the President and
Board of Trustees, and each subsidiary body shall review its closed meeting
minutes to determine if they are eligible for release to the public. In its
review, the President and Board of Trustees or subsidiary body shall determine
if the minutes contain information that continues to require confidential
treatment. Only portions of written minutes that no longer require confidential
treatment shall be released. Written minutes shall not be released unless
approved by an affirmative majority vote of the Board of Trustees or subsidiary
body taken in public session.
      2.   Review Of Verbatim Records: Pursuant to subsection C2 of this
section, verbatim records always are, per se, confidential. Not less than twice
each year, the Village Clerk shall provide a list to the President and Board of
Trustees and to the relevant subsidiary body of existing verbatim records, the
review of which list by the Village Clerk, by the President and Board of
Trustees, and by the subsidiary body, if any, shall constitute review of the
verbatim records. The President and Board of Trustees or the relevant
subsidiary body may undertake a further review of a verbatim record, but only
in accordance with subsection C4 of this Section.
(Ord. 723, passed 7-17-2012)
ARTICLE II. RULES OF ORDER
SECTION 2.201. QUORUM.
   A quorum for the transaction of business at regular or special meetings
shall consist of a majority of the President and Board of Trustees.
SECTION 2.202. ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   A.   The order of business at regular meetings shall be as follows:
      1.   Call to order;
      2.   Roll call;
      3.   Approval of minutes;
      4.   Approval of bills;
      5.   Treasurer's report;
      6.   Public Hearings;
      7.   Communications and petitions from the public:
         a.   Citizens to be heard on items not on the agenda; and
         b.   Written communications of citizens to be read.
      8.   Commission, Committee and other reports:
         a.   Finance Committee
         b.   Public Works Committee
         c.   Parks and Recreation Committee
         d.   Public Safety
         e.   Zoning, Planning and Appeals Commission
      9.   Business from the Board:
         a.   Mayor's report;
         b.   Selection of Consent Agenda
         c.   Unfinished Business
         d.   New Business.
      10.   Items to be referred;
      11.   For information only;
      12.   Executive session; and
      13.   Adjournment.
   B.   All questions relating to the priority of business shall be decided by
the Chair without debate, subject to appeal.
(Am. Ord. 345, passed 8-14-96; Am. Ord. 856, passed 1-19-2021)
SECTION 2.203. ADDRESSING MEETINGS.
   A.   Visitors. No person other than a member of the Board of Trustees shall
address that body during a meeting outside of the “Communications and petitions
from the public” portion of the agenda, except with the consent of the Chair or
a majority of the members present.
   B.   Presentation of New Business. When a member wishes to present a
communication, petition, order, resolution, ordinance or other original matter,
he shall bring the communication, petition, order, resolution, ordinance or
other original matter to the presiding officer’s attention, and the presiding
officer shall either read such matter when reached in its proper order, or
direct the Clerk to read such matter when reached in its proper order.
      1.   While the presiding officer is putting the question, no member shall
walk across or out of the board room.
      2.   Every member, previous to his speaking, making a motion or seconding
the same shall address himself to the presiding officer and say “Mr. President”
and shall not proceed with his remarks until recognized and named by the
President. He shall confine himself to the questions under debate avoiding
personalties and refrain from impugning the motives of any other member’s
argument or vote.
      3.   When two or more members rise at same time, the presiding officer
shall name the member who is first to speak.
(Am. Ord. 725, passed 8-21-2012)
SECTION 2.204. ADOPTION OF ROBERT'S 'RULES OF ORDER, REVISED'.
   The rules of order of the corporate authorities of the Village of Mettawa
shall consist of the provisions of this chapter and, except where inconsistent
or in conflict with this chapter or with Illinois law, the provisions of the
new revised Robert’s Rules of Order to the extent otherwise applicable.
   A.   Discussion. All items of business on the agenda of an official meeting
shall be open for discussion and debate by the President and Board of Trustees
upon being called by the President. Upon the sole discretion of the President,
the President may call upon Village Staff or others to discuss, debate, or
provide information relating to any and all items of business on the agenda of
an official meeting.
   B.   Call for Question. Pending discussion, the President or any Trustee may
call for the question, without a second. Upon a call for the question, if no
motion is made and seconded, the item shall be deemed concluded, and shall not
again be taken up at the same meeting unless by motion to return to that item
of business.
   C.   Debate. Whenever a motion is made and seconded debate shall be limited
to the motion. Only the President and Board of Trustees may participate in
debate, except that the President may recognize staff or others to answer
questions in connection with the matter under debate.
   D.   Reopening Discussion. With the approval of a majority of the Trustees,
the President may reopen a matter to general discussion, or may allow an
interested party to participate in debate on a pending motion.
   E.   Previous Question. Whenever a motion is pending, debate (and
discussion, if reopened) shall be closed by the President when the issue is
exhausted or the points raised become repetitious or dilatory. Any Trustee may
move the previous question at any time, and if carried by a two-thirds vote,
such motion shall terminate all discussion and debate except that each member
may take one minute to explain his or her vote if a roll call is taken on the
pending motion.
   F.   Question of Personal Privilege. The right of a member to address the
Board of Trustees on a question of personal privilege shall be limited to cases
in which his integrity, character or motives are assailed, questioned or
impugned.
   G.   Voting. Every member who shall be present when a question is stated
from the President shall vote thereon, unless excused by the Board of Trustees
or unless he is personally interested in the question in which case he shall
not vote.
   H.   Roll Call Votes. A roll call vote by ayes and nays shall be taken on
any motion:
      1.   To pass ordinances, approve contracts, authorize expenditures, adopt
or amend the budget, or waive competitive bidding;
      2.   Which any majority greater than a simple majority of the members of
the corporate authorities present is required;
      3.   Required by state law to be by record vote;
      4.   To reconsider a roll call vote or to pass, adopt or approve any
ordinance, resolution or motion over the veto of the president;
      5.   To appeal the ruling of the President;
      6.   At the request of any member of the corporate authorities.
   I.   Voting. Each Trustee shall vote in the order called. When the Clerk
calls on a member to vote, the member of the corporate authorities may take one
minute to explain his or her reasons. Every Trustee shall vote aye or nay on
every roll call, and shall not abstain unless he or she declares a conflict of
interest, as defined under state law and the Village ordinances. A Trustee who
does not vote, or who requests an abstention without announcing a de jure
conflict of interest shall be recorded, at the conclusion of the roll call,
voting with the majority on the particular question.
   J.   Effect of Not Voting. Except for instances of de jure conflicts of
interest, and except for a motion to appeal the ruling of the President,
failure or refusal to vote by a Trustee in attendance shall constitute
concurrence in the vote of the majority.
   K.   The President, or the Clerk at the President’s direction, shall
announce the result of every vote, whereupon no further discussion, debate, or
explanation of votes shall be in order on the question voted, except on a
motion to reconsider, made and seconded.
   L.   Appeal. Any Trustee may appeal from a ruling of the President. If the
appeal is seconded, only the Trustee moving the appeal may speak to the motion,
but the President may explain his ruling. Otherwise there shall be no
discussion or debate. The President shall put the question: “Shall the decision
of the chair be overruled?” If a majority of the corporate authorities present
the vote aye, the President shall be overruled; otherwise, it shall be
sustained.
   M.   Call to Order. A member when called to order by the President, shall
thereupon discontinue speaking and take his seat and the order or ruling of the
President shall be binding and conclusive, subject only to the right of appeal.
   N.   Consent Agenda. The President and Board of Trustees may establish a
consent agenda for items appearing on the agenda of any regular or special
meeting. All items placed on the consent agenda will be enacted by one motion
and one vote, which shall be a roll call vote. The Village President or any
Trustee may request that an item not be placed upon the consent agenda, in
which case the item will be considered separately. Any items not placed upon
the consent agenda will be considered individually by separate vote.
(Ord. 725, passed 8-21-2012; Am. Ord. 856, passed 1-19-2021)
SECTION 2.205. MOTIONS.
   A.   Motions. No motion shall be put unless it is seconded. Neither the
maker nor seconder of a motion shall be required to vote in favor of the
motion.
   B.   Withdrawal of Motions—Seconds. The maker of a motion may withdraw it
any time before the commencement of the vote, without the approval of the
seconder. The seconder may thereupon renew the motion and seek a new seconder;
if the seconder does not renew the motion, any other Trustee may then do so. A
seconder of a motion may withdraw his second at any time before the
commencement of the vote.
   C.   Amendment of Motions. The maker of a motion may amend his motion, with
the concurrence of the seconder, at any time prior to the commencement of the
vote. No motion may be otherwise amended, except the motions to amend an
ordinance, resolution, contract or other written proposition shall, if adopted,
amend any pending motions to pass or adopt the written proposition.
   D.   Tabling. A motion to table shall dispose of an item of business, which
shall not again be considered until the item is removed from the table. Tabling
of a specific written proposal shall not, however, preclude future
consideration of a similar, but substantively different, proposal as a
different item. Tabling of a subject matter or docket shall bar the entire
subject or docket from any future consideration until removed from the table by
action of the corporate authorities. Motions to table to a time certain shall
be out of order.
   E.   Removing from Table. No matter may be removed from the table except
upon motion adopted by an affirmative vote of four members of the corporate
authorities. No matter which is not on the agenda of a meeting may be removed
from the table except by motion adopted by the unanimous affirmative vote of
the members present. No matter previously tabled may be added to the agenda
during the same meeting it is to be considered for passage or adoption.
   F.   Postpone. A motion to postpone consideration shall postpone all
consideration of the item until a subsequent meeting, which may include a
recessed or adjourned session of the same meeting on a later day. A motion to
postpone which does not specify a date certain shall postpone the item to the
next regular meeting. A motion to postpone to a day certain which is not a
regular meeting date shall be out of order unless it includes a motion to call
a special meeting for such date. Any motion to postpone which carries shall
direct the item to be included on the agenda of the date specified. A motion to
postpone to a later date shall have precedence over a motion to postpone to an
earlier date.
   G.   Defer. A motion to defer consideration shall defer all consideration of
an item until a later time during the same meeting, which may include a
recessed or adjourned session of the same meeting, on a subsequent day. A
motion to defer must specify either a point on the agenda or a time certain.
Any motion deferring consideration to a time certain shall cause the item
deferred to be in order at such time, or as soon thereafter as the corporate
authorities have concluded consideration of whatever matter is then before the
meeting.
   H.   Remove. A motion to remove from agenda shall terminate all
consideration of the item at the meeting, and shall not direct or imply any
direction with regard to consideration at any future meeting.
   I.   Motions to Amend and to Fill Blanks.
      1.   A motion to amend an amendment shall be in order, but one to amend
an amendment to an amendment shall not be entertained.
      2.   An amendment modifying the intention of a motion shall be in order;
but an amendment not germane to the subject of the pending proposition shall
not be in order.
      3.   On an amendment to “strike out and insert,” the paragraph to be
amended shall first be read as it stands, then the words proposed to be
stricken out, then those to be inserted, and finally the paragraph as it will
stand if so amended shall be read.
   J.   Motion to Substitute. A substitute for any original proposition under
debate or for any pending amendment to such proposition may be entertained by
motion. If accepted by the corporate authorities by vote, the substitute motion
shall entirely supersede such original proposition or amendment, as the case
may be.
   K.   Reconsideration.
      1.   A vote or question may be reconsidered at any time during the same
meeting, or at the first regular meeting held thereafter. A vote or question
may be reconsidered or a matter rescinded at a special meeting held prior to
the next regular meeting but only if there are present at such special meeting
as many members of the corporate authorities as were present when the original
vote was taken. Where a motion is made at the same meeting as the passage of
the original motion it may be postponed to a later date certain.
      2.   A motion for reconsideration having been made and decided in the
negative or tabled shall not be renewed, nor shall a motion to reconsider be
reconsidered.
      3.   No motion to reconsider the approval or denial of the recommendation
of any advisory body required by law to hold public hearings shall be
entertained except at the same meeting at which the original action was taken
or after the matter has been conferred to the advisory body for a further
hearing and recommendation.
      4.   A motion to reconsider must be made by a Trustee who voted on the
prevailing side of the question to be reconsidered. However, where a voice vote
was taken then any Trustee may move to reconsider such vote; and where a motion
has received a majority vote in the affirmative, but is declared lost solely on
the ground that a greater number of affirmative votes is required for its
passage or adoption, then a motion to reconsider may be made only by those who
voted in the affirmative on such question to be reconsidered. Any Trustee may
second a motion to reconsider. Any vote upon a motion to reconsider a roll call
vote shall also be by roll call vote.
   L.   Rescinding and Repeal. No resolution or other written proposition shall
be subsequently rescinded except by adoption of a written resolution or other
written proposition. No ordinance or provision of an ordinance shall be
repealed except by a subsequent ordinance which expressly and specifically
effects such repeal. No ordinance shall be construed to repeal any previous
ordinance by implication, notwithstanding any inconsistency or conflict between
them; in such cases, the subsequent ordinance shall supersede the prior
ordinance and shall govern those situations to which it is applicable to the
extent of such conflict or inconsistency, and the prior ordinance provisions
shall remain applicable to all other situations, circumstances and applications
as to which it has not been superseded.
(Ord. 725, passed 8-21-2012)
SECTION 2.206. TEMPORARY SUSPENSION OF RULES; AMENDMENT OF RULES.
   These rules may be temporarily suspended by a vote of two-thirds of all the
Trustees entitled by law to be elected and shall not be repealed, altered or
amended unless by concurrence of two-thirds of all the Trustees entitled by law
to be elected.
SECTION 2.207. CENSURE OF MEMBERS; EXPULSION OF MEMBERS.
   Any member acting or appearing in a lewd or disgraceful manner, or who uses
approprious, obscene or insulting language to or about any member of the Board
of Trustees, or who does not obey the order of the Chair, shall be, on motion,
censured by a majority vote of the members present, or expelled by a two-thirds
vote of all members elected.
SECTION 2.208. STANDING COMMITTEES.
   A.   The following shall be the standing committees of the Board of
Trustees:
      1.   Committee on Finance;
      2.   Committee on Public Works;
      3.   Committee on Parks and Recreation.
   B.   Each regular committee shall consist of three (3) members to be
appointed by the President.
   C.   Any report of a committee shall be deferred for final action to the
next regular meeting after the report is made upon the request of any two (2)
members of the Board of Trustees.
   D.   Jurisdiction of Committees.
      1.   The Committee on Finance shall inquire into and propose ways and
means to finance the necessary obligations of the municipality and shall make
recommendations with respect thereto to the Board of Trustees.
      2.   The Committee on Roads shall inquire into and propose necessary
measure for the maintenance of the Village roads and shall make recommendations
with respect thereto to the Board of Trustees.
      3.   The Committee on Zoning and Planning shall inquire into the
proposals and recommendations of the Plan Commission, shall meet with said
Commission as necessary, and shall propose necessary legislation for the
adoption of a Zoning Code and any amendments, and for the adoption of an
official plan and any amendments thereto, including but not limited to a
subdivision control code and shall make recommendations with respect to the
foregoing.
      4.   The Committee on Building shall inquire into and propose necessary
legislation for the maintenance of building standards within the Village and
review recommendations from the Zoning Board of Appeals and shall make
recommendations with respect thereto.
      5.   The Committee on Annexation shall inquire into all requests for and/
or the advisability of annexation of various parcels to the Village and shall
make recommendations with respect thereto.
      6.   The Public Works Committee shall inquire into potable water utility
services, sanitary sewer utility services, and other public services and shall
inquire into and propose necessary measures for the installation and on-going
maintenance of roads and trails and their appurtenances under the jurisdiction
and/or control of the Village; secure new trail easements for and/or rights to
construct and maintain potable water mains and service lines, and stormwater
facilities, trails, roads, or other public service facilities on real property;
oversee the securing of contractors' bids and/or proposals to construct and/or
maintain new and/or existing trails, roads, and other public facilities;
perform or cause to be performed studies of issues affecting traffic within the
Village, including traffic regulations; and make its recommendations regarding
the foregoing to the President and Board of Trustees.
      7.   Each standing committee shall formulate its own rules of procedure,
including time and place of meeting, provided said rules do not conflict with
the ordinances of this Village and with the statutes of the State of Illinois.
(Am. Ord. 682, passed 4-19-2011; Am. Ord. 856, passed 1-19-2021)
ARTICLE III. FISCAL YEAR
SECTION 2.301. FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year for the Village of Mettawa shall be from May 1 of any given
calendar year through the following April 30.
ARTICLE IV. ANNUAL BUDGET
SECTION 2.401. BUDGET OFFICER.
   A.   There is created hereby the position of Budget Officer in the Village
of Mettawa, who shall be designated by the Village President with the approval
of the Board of Trustees.
   B.   The Budget Officer may hold another municipal office, either elected or
appointed, and may receive the compensation established from time to time by
the President and Board of Trustees for both offices. Such Budget Officer shall
serve at the pleasure of the Village President.
   C.   Before entering upon the duties of this office, the Budget Officer
shall take oath and post bond as provided by statute.
SECTION 2.402. POWERS AND DUTIES OF BUDGET OFFICER.
   A.   The Budget Officer shall have the following powers and duties:
      1.   To permit, encourage and establish the efficient planning,
budgeting, auditing, reporting, accounting, and other fiscal management
procedures in all municipal departments, commissions and boards;
      2.   To compile an annual budget in accord with Section 2.403 hereof;
      3.   To examine all books and records of all Village departments,
commissions, and boards which relate to monies received and paid out by the
Village, its departments, commissions, and boards and debts and accounts
receivable, amounts owed by or to the Village, its departments, commissions,
and boards;
      4.   To obtain such additional information from the Village, its
departments, commissions, and boards as may be useful for compiling a municipal
budget, such information to be furnished by the Village, its departments,
commissions, and boards in the form required by the Budget Officer; and
      5.   To establish and maintain such procedures as shall insure that no
expenditures are made by the Village, its departments, commissions, or boards
except as authorized by the budget.
   B.   Any department, commission, or board which refuses to make such
information as is requested of it available to the Budget Officer shall not be
permitted to make expenditures under any subsequent budget for the Village
until such department, commission, or board shall comply in full with the
request of the Budget Officer.
SECTION 2.403. COMPILATION AND CONTENTS OF BUDGET.
   The Budget Officer shall compile a budget which contains estimates of
revenues available to the Village for the fiscal year for which the budget is
drafted, together with recommended expenditures for the Village and all of its
departments, commissions, and boards. Revenue estimates and expenditure
recommendations shall be presented in a manner which is in conformity with good
fiscal management practices. The budget shall contain actual or estimated
revenues and expenditures for the two years immediately preceding the fiscal
year for which the budget is prepared. So far as is possible, the fiscal data
for such two preceding fiscal years shall be itemized in a manner which is in
conformity with the chart of accounts approved above. Each budget shall show
the specific fund from which each anticipated expenditure shall be made.
SECTION 2.404. PASSAGE OF ANNUAL BUDGET; EFFECT.
   A.   Passage of the annual budget by adoption of an appropriate resolution
by the corporate authorities shall be in lieu of passage of the appropriation
ordinance as required by statute.
   B.   The annual budget shall be published in the manner provided for in
Section 2.408 hereof.
   C.   The annual budget shall be adopted by the corporate authors before the
beginning of the fiscal year to which it applies.
SECTION 2.405. CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT, REPAIR OR REPLACEMENT FUND.
   A.   In the preparation of the budget by the Budget Officer, an amount not
too exceed three percent (3%) of the equalized assessed value of property
subject to taxation by the Village may be accumulated in a separate fund for
the purpose or purposes of specific capital improvements, repairs, and/or
replacement of specific types of municipal equipment or other tangible
property, both real and personal, to be designated as the “Capital Improvement,
Repair or Replacement Fund.”
   B.   Expenditures from the Capital Improvement, Repair or Replacement Fund
shall be budgeted in the fiscal year in which the capital improvement, repair
or replacement will occur.
   C.   Upon the completion or abandonment of any project, or in the event any
surplus monies remain after the completion or abandonment of any project for
which the Capital Improvement, Repair or Replacement Fund was instituted, then
such funds no longer necessary for capital improvement, repair or replacement
shall be transferred to the general corporate fund of the Village on the first
day of the fiscal year following such abandonment or completion, or discovery
of surplus funds.
SECTION 2.406. REVISION OF ANNUAL BUDGET.
   A.   The President and Board of Trustees may delegate authority to heads of
Village departments, commissions, and boards to delete, add to, change or
create sub-classes within object classes budgeted previously to the department,
board, or commission, subject to such limitation or requirement for prior
approval by the Budget Officer or Village President, as the Board of Trustees,
upon a two-thirds vote of the members of the Village Board of Trustees
(including the President) then holding office, may establish.
   B.   By a vote of two-thirds of the members of the Village Board of Trustees
(including the President) then holding office, the annual budget for the
Village may be revised by deleting, adding to, changing, or creating sub-
classes within object classes and object classes themselves.
   C.   No revision of the budget shall be made increasing the total budget in
the event funds are not available to effectuate the purpose of the revision.
SECTION 2.407. FUNDS FOR CONTINGENCY PURPOSES.
   The annual budget may contain money set aside for contingency purposes not
to exceed ten percent (10%) of the total budget, less the amount set aside for
contingency purposes, which monies may be expended for contingencies upon a
majority vote of the Village Board of Trustees (including the Village
President) then holding office.
SECTION 2.408. PUBLIC INSPECTION, NOTICE AND HEARING ON BUDGET.
   A.   The Village President and Board of Trustees shall make the tentative
annual budget conveniently available to public inspection for at least ten (10)
days prior to the passage of the annual budget by publication in the journal of
the proceedings of the corporate authorities or in such other form as the
President and Board of Trustees of the Village may prescribe.
   B.   Not less than one week of the publication of the tentative annual
budget, and prior to final action on the budget, the Village President and
Board of Trustees shall hold at least one public hearing on the tentative
annual budget, after which hearing or hearings the tentative annual budget may
be further revised and passed without any further inspection, notice or
hearing. Notice of this hearing shall be given by posting notice in three
prominent places within the Village.
(Ord. 196, passed 1-22-91)
SECTION 2.409. PAYMENT OF UNPAID CHARGES, LEVIES AND ASSESSMENTS.
   Prior to the issuance of any real estate transfer stamp, license, permit or
certificate required pursuant to this Code, the Village Clerk, Village Engineer
or other Village official, or the duly designated agents of each shall
ascertain that there are no unpaid Village liens, assessments, or charges owed
the Village, including but not limited to: Any unpaid reimbursement to the
Village for engineering and legal fees, un-reimbursed fees for weed-cutting or
other municipal service to be reimbursed; over-payments of real estate tax
rebates; and/or municipal levies, taxes, fines and judgments then due and
unpaid. No such transfer stamp, license, permit or certificate shall be issued
or approved until such time as the applicant for such transfer stamp, license,
permit or certificate presents to said Village Clerk, Village Engineer or other
Village official the certificate of the Village Treasurer or the Deputy Village
Treasurer that all such Village liens, assessments, or charges have been paid
in full.
(Ord. 598, passed 2-19-2008)
ARTICLE V. DISCONNECTION OF TERRITORY
SECTION 2.501. LAND DISCONNECTED BY CORPORATE AUTHORITIES; PROCEDURE.
   Any territory which is upon the border but within the boundary of the
Village of Mettawa may be disconnected from the Village in the discretion of
the President and Board of Trustees as follows:
   A.   A written petition, signed by owners of record representing a majority
of the area of land in such territory, shall be filed with the Village Clerk,
requesting that the specified territory be disconnected from the Village. The
petition shall be filed at least thirty (30) days before it is considered by
the President and Board of Trustees. The petition shall be accompanied with the
certificate of the Clerk of Lake County, showing that all Village taxes or
assessments due up to the time of presenting the petition are fully paid.
   B.   The President and Board of Trustees, in their discretion, may
disconnect the territory from the Village by an ordinance passed by a majority
of the members of the President and Board of Trustees.
   C.   A copy of the ordinance disconnecting territory from the Village,
certified by the Village Clerk, shall within ninety (90) days be filed for
recordation in the Lake County Recorder's office and with the Lake County
Clerk.
SECTION 2.502. LAND DISCONNECTED BY COURT PROCEDURE.
   A.   The owner or owners of record of any area of land consisting of one or
more tracts, lying within the corporate limits of the Village of Mettawa may
have such territory disconnected which:
      1.   Contains twenty (20) or more acres;
      2.   Is located on the border of the Village;
      3.   If disconnection will not result in the isolation of any part of the
Village from the remainder of the Village;
      4.   If disconnected, the growth prospects and plan and zoning ordinances
of the Village will not be unreasonably disrupted;
      5.   If disconnected, no substantial disruption will result to existing
Village service facilities, such as, but not limited to, sewer systems, street
lighting, water mains, garbage collection and fire protection; and
      6.   If disconnected, the Village will not be unduly harmed through loss
of tax revenue in the future.
   B.   The procedure for disconnection shall be as follows: the owner or
owners of record of any such area of land shall file a petition in the Circuit
Court of Lake County alleging facts in support of the disconnection. The
Village of Mettawa shall be made a defendant, and it may appear and defend
against the petition. Following a hearing on the petition, if the court finds
that the allegations of the petition are not true, the court shall enter an
order dismissing the petition. If the court finds that the allegations of the
petition are true and that the area of land is entitled to disconnection, it
shall order the question submitted within the corporate limits of the Village
of Mettawa at an election in accordance with the general election law. The
Clerk of the Circuit Court shall certify the question to the proper election
authority for submission. The result of the election shall be entered of record
in the court. If a majority of votes cast on the question favor disconnection,
the court shall then give notice thereof to the President and Board of Trustees
of the Village of Mettawa.
   C.   If a majority of persons voting upon the question vote for
disconnection, the described territory is disconnected from the Village of
Mettawa. However, if a majority of the persons voting on the question vote
against disconnection, no further proceedings shall be had on the question for
at least twenty-three (23) months from the date of such election.
SECTION 2.503. TAXATION OF DISCONNECTED LAND.
   The disconnection of any area of land shall not exempt it from taxation for
the purpose of any indebtedness contracted by the President and Board of
Trustees of the Village of Mettawa, prior to the filing of the petition for
disconnection. On the contrary, the territory shall be assessed and taxed to
pay such indebtedness until the indebtedness is completely paid, the same as
though the territory had not been disconnected. Except for this purpose, the
Lake County Clerk shall not include disconnected territory within the corporate
limits of the Village of Mettawa.
(Ord. 196, passed 5-29-91)
ARTICLE VI. INDEMNIFICATION OF PUBLIC OFFICIALS, COMMISSIONERS, AND CERTAIN
AGENTS
SECTION 2.601. PROTECTED PERSONNEL DEFINED.
   As used in this Article, PROTECTED PERSONNEL shall mean and include: Current
and former duly appointed members of the Village of Mettawa boards and
commissions, including but not limited to the Plan Commission; Planning, Zoning
and Appeals Commission; the Building Code Board of Appeals and the Zoning Board
of Appeals; and Village of Mettawa officials holding or who have held elected
Village office and current and former Village of Mettawa appointed officials
and certain independent contractors, including but not limited to: Any Village
President, Trustee, Village Clerk, Village Administrator, Village Attorney,
Village Engineer, Village Treasurer and the duly authorized agents thereof; and
any independent contractor named as Deputy Village Treasurer, Financial
Consultant, Building Official, or holding any other position in the government
of the Village and the duly authorized agents thereof - whether such persons
are employees of the Village, independent contractors, or employees of
independent contractors.
(Ord. 507, passed 1-20-2004; Am. Ord. 570, passed 10-17-2006; Am. Ord. 662,
passed 8-17-2010; Am. Ord. 707, passed 10-18-2011)
SECTION 2.602. IN GENERAL.
   The Village shall defend, indemnify, and hold harmless its Protected
Personnel from and against any civil, administrative investigations, claims,
actions, or proceedings, and any judgments, fines, liabilities, and other costs
thereof, including reasonable attorneys' fees and any amount paid in any
settlement approved in advance by the President and Board of Trustees, based
upon any act, error, or omission that could reasonably be construed to be
within the exercise of the lawful Village of Mettawa duties of such Protected
Personnel.
(Ord. 507, passed 1-20-2004)
SECTION 2.603. EXCEPTION.
   The Village's undertaking pursuant to this Article shall not apply to the
provision of defense or indemnification to any Protected Personnel in any such
investigation, claim, action, or proceeding instituted by the Village or other
governmental agency against any such Protected Personnel.
(Ord. 507, passed 1-20-2004)
SECTION 2.604. PUNITIVE DAMAGES.
   In addition to the general indemnification and defense undertaking in
Section 2.602 above, the Village shall, to the extent permitted by law, defend,
indemnify, and hold harmless, and/or provide insurance coverage for, any
Protected Personnel from and against claims, actions, or proceedings in which
punitive damages are sought from or awarded against any such Protected
Personnel, unless the President and Board of Trustees of the Village of Mettawa
determines that such damages are sought or awarded as the result of action or
activity outside of the lawful Village of Mettawa duties of such Protected
Personnel.
(Ord. 507, passed 1-20-2004)
SECTION 2.605. CHOICE OF COUNSEL.
   The Village Attorney shall defend any Protected Personnel from and against
any claim, action, or proceeding within the scope of the Village's
indemnification undertakings pursuant to this Article. At the request of any
Protected Personnel or upon the recommendation of the Village Attorney, the
President and Board of Trustees may authorize the appointment of another
attorney approved by the Village Attorney to provide the defense for the
Protected Personnel.
(Ord. 507, passed 1-20-2004)
SECTION 2.606. ADDITIONAL RIGHTS: SUCCESSORS.
   The undertakings by the Village pursuant to this Article shall not be
exclusive of any other rights that any Protected Personnel may have as a matter
of law. In the event of the death of any Protected Personnel, the benefits
provided in this Article shall inure to the benefit of the lawful heirs and
successors of the Protected Personnel.
(Ord. 507, passed 1-20-2004)
SECTION 2.607. AUTHORIZATION FOR PAYMENTS.
   The liability of the Village for payments pursuant to this Article may be
insured to the extent permitted by law, but to the extent not insured shall be
payable out of the funds and monies of the Village Treasury.
(Ord. 507, passed 1-20-2004)
SECTION 2.608. VOTING.
   On any matters coming before the President and Board of Trustees for a vote
pursuant to this Article, it is hereby declared that such matters do not
involve any work, contract, or business with the Village, nor the provision of
materials, merchandise, property, services, or labor to the Village.
Accordingly, no member of the President and Board of Trustees shall be required
to recuse himself or herself from considering or voting on such matters in
which such member is one of the Protected Personnel in question.
(Ord. 507, passed 1-20-2004)
SECTION 2.609. SEVERABILITY.
   In the event any part or parts of this Article shall be found to be
unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality
shall not affect the validity of the remaining parts of this Article.
(Ord. 507, passed 1-20-2004)
ARTICLE VII. THE PARKS AND RECREATION COMMITTEE OF THE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF
TRUSTEES
SECTION 2.701. CREATION.
   There is created hereby the Parks and Recreation Committee, being a standing
committee of the President and Board of Trustees. The Parks and Recreation
Committee shall be comprised of members of the President and Board of Trustees
and shall consist of a Chairman and two (2) other members, all of whom shall be
appointed by the Village President. Following their appointment, members of the
Parks and Recreation Committee shall serve on the Committee for a period of one
(1) year and shall continue to serve thereafter until a successor has been
appointed.
(Ord. 579, passed 2-20-2007)
SECTION 2.702. POWERS.
   The Parks and Recreation Committee shall manage the Parks and Recreation
Department, which shall operate and maintain the public parks established by
the President and Board of Trustees of the Village, implementing the policies
established pursuant to the powers and responsibilities of the President and
Board of Trustees set forth in Sections 11-95-1 et seq., of the Illinois
Municipal Code [65 ILCS 5/11-95-1 et seq.] as modified by this Municipal Code
and the actions, from time to time, of the President and Board of Trustees that
may be in conflict therewith.
(Ord. 579, passed 2-20-2007)
ARTICLE VIII. OFFICIAL VILLAGE SEAL
SECTION 2.801. CORPORATE SEAL.
   The Corporate Seal of the Village shall be a circular disc which has
impressed on the periphery thereof the words "Village of Mettawa, Illinois."
and "Official Seal" in the center - all of which shall be an overlay upon a
drawing depicting artifacts and scenes reminiscent of the Village's Native
American roots and rural lifestyle.
(Ord. 665, passed 9-21-2010)
SECTION 2.802. VILLAGE LOGO.
   The identifying symbol of the Village of Mettawa shall be similar to the
Village Corporate Seal, but without the words "Illinois" and "Corporate Seal"
contained thereon, as follows:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/66c950a57e9910e3945c5f85920a0e118f90dca4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6768.jpg]
 
(Ord. 665, passed 9-21-2010)
ARTICLE IX. PROFESSIONAL FEES
SECTION 2.901. DEFINITIONS.
   PERSON: All individuals, partnerships, corporations, associations, or any
other legal entities.
   PROFESSIONAL FEES: Fees incurred by the Village for professional
consultation by attorneys, engineers, land planners, and any other
professionals retained by the Village to review, in whole or in part, Village
matters.
(Ord. 750, passed 1-21-2014)
SECTION 2.902. REVIEW.
   Whenever any person is required by an ordinance of the Village, State, or
Federal law, to submit any plans, specifications, or other documents to the
Village to be reviewed, and in connection therewith it shall be necessary for
the Village to retain professional services of an engineer, attorney, planning
consultant, and/or other professional, the person submitting the same shall be
fully responsible for all fees charged by said professionals in reviewing the
matter.
   For the purposes of this Chapter, the requirement to pay for professional
fees incurred by the Village shall apply to, but not be limited to,
applications for rezoning, applications for variations, applications for
planned unit developments, applications for subdvision, applications for
special use, application for annexations, and applications for building
permits. Neither preliminary approval nor final approval shall be given for any
subdivision, zoning change amendment, variation, planned unit development,
special use, annexation, or building permit unless and until the Village Clerk
certifies that all professional fees incurred by the Village have been paid in
full.
(Ord. 750, passed 1-21-2014)
SECTION 2.903. REIMBURSEMENT.
   It is further the purpose of this Article IX to require the deposit of
necessary funds by applicants prior to professional fees being incurred by the
Village in those instances in which the Village requires that the applicant
reimburse the Village for any professional fees incurred by the Village in
connection with the applicant’s request or matter. An applicant required to
reimburse the Village shall receive a credit towards the applicant's
reimbursement obligation for amounts paid to the Village for any related
application fee or permit fee. The Village's costs of renting any audio visual
equipment used at a public meeting and/or hearing in connection with the
Village's review as set forth in Section
2.902 above, shall be paid by the person(s) requesting the audio visual
equipment. The Village's costs of or room rental fees for special meetings of
the Zoning, Planning and Appeals Commission and/or Village President and Board
of Trustees in connection with the Village's review as set forth in Section
2.902 above shall be paid by the applicant.
(Ord. 750, passed 1-21-2014; Am. Ord. 821, passed 4-17-2018)
SECTION 2.904. ADMINISTRATION OF ESCROW.
   The Village Clerk shall be responsible for the administration of escrow
funds in all those instances in which the Village Code requires an applicant or
other individual to reimburse the Village for any professional fees it may
incur in processing that applicant’s request or matter. This Article IX shall
apply to all instances in which the Village Code requires that an applicant or
other individual reimburse the Village for its professional expenses incurred
or to be incurred, and it shall apply to those Village Code provisions in
effect or hereafter adopted which require an applicant or other individual to
reimburse the Village for its professional fees incurred or to be incurred.
(Ord. 750, passed 1-21-2014)
SECTION 2.905. ESTIMATE.
   The Village Clerk shall, upon receipt of a matter which may or will require
professional services to be rendered to the Village, obtain an estimate of the
amount of the cost of expected services based on the nature of the matter, its
complexity, the relative need for professional advice, and the expected
duration of processing of the matter. The Village Clerk shall so notify the
individual applicant in writing with his estimate of the necessary funds to
defray all professional costs the Village might incur in the course of
reviewing the matter submitted by the applicant or other individual. The
Village Clerk shall also include in this communication a request that the
individual applicant deposit with the Village within fourteen (14) days said
sum to be held in escrow. The application or matter shall not thereafter be
reviewed or acted upon by the Village unless and until said sum is received by
the Village Clerk. Upon receipt of said sum, the Village Clerk shall deposit
the same in a separate escrow account.
   Simultaneously with the sending of notice to the applicant or other
individual, the Village Clerk shall also notify the professionals whom the
Village expects to utilize to review the matter and request that those
professionals bill no less frequently than monthly on said matter, and
otherwise keep the Village apprised of time and cost expended in reviewing this
matter.
(Ord. 750, passed 1-21-2014)
SECTION 2.906. DISBURSEMENTS.
   The escrow funds as deposited shall be utilized to pay for professional
review and any and all disbursements therefrom shall be approved by the Village
Clerk or the Village President and Board of Trustees, and a copy of each
disbursement shall be transmitted by the Village Clerk to the individual
applicant who has deposited the funds.
(Ord. 750, passed 1-21-2014)
SECTION 2.907. REPLENISHMENTS.
   The Village Clerk shall periodically review the escrow funds on deposit to
ensure that adequate funds are available to satisfy all professional statements
relating to said matter. In the event the Village Clerk determines sufficient
funds are not available, the Village Clerk shall so notify the applicant or
other individual and request a further amount to defray the anticipated
additional costs in accordance with the standards set forth in Section 2.905.
The professionals previously engaged shall be advised not to perform any
further work until said sum has been received, and the individual applicant
shall be given fourteen (14) days to deposit said additional funds. In the
event that said funds are not deposited, the Village shall take no further
action on the matter and shall so advise the applicant or other individual.
(Ord. 750, passed 1-21-2014)
SECTION 2.908. FINAL DISBURSEMENT.
   At the conclusion of the matter and after all outstanding professional fees
incurred by the Village in review of the matter have been satisfied in full,
the Village Clerk shall remit the balance, if any, to the applicant or other
individual within a reasonable time.
(Ord. 750, passed 1-21-2014)
SECTION 2.909. DELEGATION.
   The Village Clerk may delegate her/his authority under this Article IX, in
whole or part, to a designee, or designees.
ARTICLE X. TAX, FEE, FINE AND PENALTY SCHEDULE
SECTION 2.1001. TAX RATE SCHEDULE.
   The rate of taxes imposed pursuant to the provisions in Chapter 19 of this
Code of Ordinances are as set forth in the following Tax Rate Schedule:
   TAX RATE SCHEDULE
 
Article                    Code Section        Amount of Fee
Chapter 19: Taxation
                                               Five percent (5%) of the
                                               rental or leasing charge
Article I. Hotel-Motel Tax 19.102 Levied       for any hotel or motel
                                               accommodation in the
                                               Village.
                                               Five Dollars ($5) for every
                                               One Thousand Dollars
                                               ($1,000) Value or fraction
                                               thereof as stated in the
Article II. Real Estate    19.201 Transfer Tax declaration and said tax
Transfer Tax               Imposed             shall be in addition to any
                                               other tax imposed by the
                                               State of Illinois or any
                                               other political subdivision
                                               thereof.
                                               Six percent (6%) of the
Article IV. Simplified                         gross charges for such
Municipal Tele-            19.401 Tax Imposed  telecommunications
communications Tax                             purchased at retail from a
                                               retailer
(Ord. 852, passed 10-20-2020)
SECTION 2.1002. FEES.
   Except as may otherwise be provided within this Code of Ordinances, the
following fees are hereby imposed as set forth in the following Fee Schedule:
   FEE SCHEDULE
Article Code Section Amount of Fee
Article        Code Section   Amount of Fee
Chapter 5: Streets and Parks
Article II.    5.202 Permit   F.   Application Fee $1,000. No application fee is required to be paid by any
Construction   Required;      electricity utility that is paying the municipal electricity infrastructure
In and Use of  Applications   maintenance fee pursuant to the Electricity Infrastructure Maintenance Fee Act
Public Ways    and Fees
                              New Driveway approach:
Article III.   5.307 Permit   -   Curb Cut to Max of 20 feet in width $100
Driveways      Fees           -   Curb Cut over 20 feet and up to 40 feet in width $750
                              -   Curb Cut over 40 feet in width $1,500
               5.402 Permits  B.2.   A permit may be extended by one (1) year for an additional 10% of the
Article IV.                   original permit fee
Restoration of 5.403 Permit
Village Owned  Fees and       A.   Shall be accompanied by a permit fee of One Hundred Dollars, $100
Land           Financial
               Responsibility
                              D.   Shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable application fee
                              -   Collocate a small wireless facility includes installation of a new pole,
               5.605 Permits; $1,000.00
               Application    -   Collocate a single small wireless facility on an existing pole or wireless
Article VI.    Process        support structure, $650
Small Wireless                -   Collocate multiple small wireless facility on existing utility poles or
Facilities                    wireless support structures in a single application, $350.00 per small wireless
               5.613
               Collocation on -   $200 per year
               Village Owned
               Infrastructure
Chapter 6: Traffic Codes
Article XIII.  6.1308
Stopping,      Handicapped    -   The Village shall be responsible for the provision of such decal or device,
Standing And   Persons;       its issuance and designated placement within the vehicle. The cost of such decal
Parking        Parking and    or device shall be fifteen dollars ($15)
               Exemptions
Chapter 7: Offenses and Miscellaneous Regulations
Article VII.   7.708 Issuance -   A deposit of ten dollars ($10) with the Village Administrator, which amount
Solicitors and or Denial of   shall be refunded at the time the certificate of registration is returned
Canvassers     Certificate of intact, no later than five (5) days after the date of expiration of said
               Registration   certificate
Article VIII.
Mandates Under                -   First 50 pages, no charge
the Illinois                  -   Letter/legal black and white copies after 50 pages, $.015 per page
Freedom of     7.805 Fees     -   Certified copies, $1.00 per document in addition to copy charges
Information                   -   Large format, audio tapes, digit copies or color copies, actual cost to the
Act and                       Village excluding any personnel costs
Illinois Open
Meeting Act
Chapter 8: Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal Systems
Article VI.    8.606          -    Shall be in accordance with the most recent Resolution Setting Building
Site           Procedures and Permit and Inspection Fees Adopted from the time to time by the President and
Suitability    Fees           Board of Trustees of the Village
Chapter 9: Building Code
Article I.
Administration 9.116 Fees     C.1.   All plan review and Building Permit fees shall be paid in accordance with
and                           the most recent fee schedule approved by the President and Board of Trustees.
Enforcement
 
Type of
Permit/      Type of Construction                                                             Fee
Review
             Remodeling:
                Commercial (includes tenant build out)                                      
                Residential (involving Changes to structure, HVAC, Electrical or plumbing  $600.00 plus $.25 per square foot
             systems)                                                                         $275.00 plus 1% of construction cost
             New Construction (including additions):                                           
                Commercial                                                                 $5,500.00 plus $.25 per square foot
                Residential                                                                $600.00 plus $.25 per square foot
Plan Review     Auxiliary Structures (garages, barns, stables, gazebos, sheds, etc.,):     $120.00 plus $.20 per square foot
                   Without HVAC or plumbing                                             $200.00 plus $.35 per square foot
                   With HVAC and/or potable water, but without sanitary sewer or septic $150.00
                Decks, Patios, Fences, Walls and Driveways                                 $550.00
                   Swimming Pool or Spa (in ground)                                     $200.00
                   Signs                                                                $150.00
                Satellite Antennae                                                         $150.00
                Irrigation Systems                                                         $250.00
                Electrical Generators
             Remodeling:                                                                       
                Commercial (includes tenant build out)                                     $550.00 plus $1.75 per square foot
                Residential (involving Changes to structure, HVAC, Electrical or plumbing  $275.00 plus 1% of construction cost
             systems)                                                                          
             New Construction (including additions)
                Commercial
                Residential                                                                $5,500.00 plus $.90 per square foot
                Auxiliary Structures (garages, barns, stables, gazebos, sheds, etc.):      $600.00 plus $1.50 per square foot
Building           Without HVAC or plumbing                                             $120.00 plus $.20 per square foot
Permit             With HVAC and/or potable water, but without sanitary sewer           $200.00 plus $.35 per square foot
                   or septic                                                            $150.00
             Decks, Patios, Fences, Walls and Driveways                                       $800.00
                Swimming Pool or Spa (in ground)                                           $230.00
                Commercial Signs                                                           $1,200.00
                   New Sign                                                             $150.00
                   Replacement Sign                                                     $250.00
             Satellite Antennae                                                               $250.00
             Irrigation Systems
                Electrical Generators
                                                                                              $5,000*
Driveway     Where existing curb is to be cut, per opening onto a public right-of-way         *90% refundable upon completion and Village Engineer's inspection
Permit                                                                                        revealing acceptable work accomplished in a good and workman like
                                                                                              manner
Storm Sewer                                                                                  $100.00 minimum plus $l/ft over 50 lineal feet of sewer
Permit
Public
Property     Whenever it is anticipated there will be excavation within the public right-of-  $5,000*
Protection   way and/or cutting of the pavement                                               *90% refundable if restoration approved by Village Engineer
Fee
Permit                                                                                       10% of the building permit fee (good for 12 months)
Renewal Fee
Removal of
Stop Work                                                                                    $500.00
Order Fee
Reinspection                                                                                 $100.00
Fee
Building
Permit
Placard                                                                                      $50.00
Replacement
Fee
Building
Permit Plans                                                                                 $5.00 per sheet
Replacement
Fee
Partial                                                                                       $5,000*
Occupancy                                                                                    *90% refundable upon completion and Building Administrator's
Certificate                                                                                   inspection revealing acceptable work accomplished in a good and
                                                                                              workmanlike manner
Late Permit                                                                                  $150.00 for each 24-hour period or portion thereof
Fee
Building
Code Board                                                                                   $500.00
of Appeals
Application
   Fee Schedules - Engineering Services
Type         Notations                                                                        Amount of Engineering Fee
                                                                                              Fee based on rate of 1.5% of the Village Engineer estimate of
Plan Review                                                                                  construction cost;
                                                                                              $500.00 minimum
             The permittee shall be charged additional fees for re-inspection and independent Fee is based on a percent of final estimated construction costs and
Inspection   geotechnical testing; the fee shall equal the cost to the Village for the        shall be collected prior to recording of subdivision plat.
Fee          services performed                                                               •   The percentage shall be 2.5% for projects of $250,000 or more
                                                                                              •   The percentage shall be 5% for projects less than $250,000
   Grading Fees - Individual Lot of Record
Type         Engineering Review Fee Amount
Drainage,
Grading, and
other Site   $300.00 plus, where tree fencing is required, an additional $75.00 for tree location inspection
Engineering
Fees
Site Grading
Permit
Associated   2% of the Village Engineer's estimate of the site improvement (other than the building) costs; $1,000 minimum
with Non-
Residential
New Building
Plan         $100.00 per revision
Revision
Site Grading
Permit for
New Single-  $300.00 plus, where tree fencing is required, an additional $75.00 for tree location inspection
Family
Building
Site Grading $2,000 per builder's acres of development*
Fee          *80% refundable upon completion and Village Engineer's inspection revealing acceptable work accomplished in a good and workman like manner
Site Grading
Fee Not
Associated   2% of the Village Engineer's estimate of the cost of minimum restoration and landscaping of the project site; $200.00 minimum*
with New     *80% refundable upon completion and Village Engineer's inspection revealing acceptable work accomplished in a good workman like manner
Building
Construction
   Private Sanitary Sewage Septic Systems Development Fees
Type of Fee  Type of Construction                                                             Amount
General                                                                                       $800.00
Engineering  •   Sewage disposal systems for newly-constructed or enlarged home or major $350.00
Review Fees  repairs                                                                          $100.00 per submittal
Inspection   •   Minor repairs to an existing individual sewage disposal system          The permittee shall be charged additional fees for reinspection and
Fees         •   Plan revision                                                           independent geotechnical testing; the fee shall equal the costs to the
                                                                                              Village for services performed
   Watershed Development Fees
Type of Fee  Type of Construction                                                             Amount
             1.   Erosion Control Only                                                      
                a.   Distribution of >5,000 sf to 1 acre                                $600.00
                b.   Disturbance of >5,000 sf to 1 acre with Floodplain or Wetlands     $800.00
                c.   Disturbance of >1 acre to 5 acres                                  $1,000.00
                d.   Disturbance of >1 acre to 5 acres with Floodplain or Wetlands      $1,200.00
                e.   Disturbance of >5 acres to 20 acres                                $1,400.00
General         f.   Disturbance of >20 acres to 100 acres                              $2,000.00
Engineering     g.   Disturbance of >100 acres                                          $2,000 +$10/acres over 100 acres
Review and   2.   Minor Development without Detention                                      $1,000.00
Permit Fees  3.   Minor Development with Detention                                         $2,500.00+$10/acres over 100 acres
             4.   Major Development with Grading in Floodplain - No Detention              $1,000.00
             5.   Major Development with Detention - No Floodplain                         $4,000.00
             6.   Major Development with Detention and Floodplain <100 acres               $6,000.00
             7.   Major Development with Detention and Floodplain >100 acres               $6,000.00+$25/acres over 100 acres
             Note: Any Developments with Wetland Impacts (Isolated Waters of Lake County)     Add $ 1,000.00 (plus LCSMC fees)
             Requires Lake County Stormwater Management Commission Approval
Note: Acres are "Builder's" Acres (1 Acre = 40,000 square feet)
 
Article Code Section Amount of Fee
Article        Code Section Amount of Fee
Chapter 11: Health and Sanitation
Article II.                 A. Construction and installation of a private irrigation water well and
Private        11.202       installation of the appurtenant irrigation system Shall be five hundred
Irrigation     Inspections  dollars ($500)
Water Wells    and Fees     A.2. Shall be one hundred dollars ($100), which includes the fee for plan
                            review and inspection of the construction
Article III.   11.303
Regulations of License Fee;
the            Issuance of  -   Ten dollars ($10)
Collections of License
Solid Waste
Chapter 15: Zoning Regulations
               Application
               for
               Variation
               Notice of    -   Fee will be two hundred fifty dollars ($250)
Article XI.    Appeal       -   Fee will be two hundred fifty dollars ($250)
Zoning         Application  -   Fee will be two hundred fifty dollars ($250)
Administration for          -   Fee will be two hundred fifty dollars ($250)
               Amendment
               Application
               for Special
               Use
Chapter 17: Telecommunications
Article II.
Registration
of             17.202
Telecommuni-   Registration -   Shall be accompanied by a fee of twenty-five dollars ($25)
cations        Fee
Carriers and
Providers
                            A.   Shall be a fee of two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500) or one
               17.602       percent (1%) of the estimated cost
               Application  B. l.   An applicant whose license or franchise application has been
               and Review   withdrawn, abandoned or denied within sixty (60) days of its application
Article VI.    Fee          and review fee, be refunded the balance of its deposit less one thousand
Fees and                    five hundred dollars ($1,500)
Compensation   17.606       -   Shall a permit fee equal to five hundred dollars ($500) or 5% of the
               Construction estimated cost of constructing the tele- communication facility as
               Permit Fee   certified by the applicant's engineer and approved by the Village Engineer,
                            whichever is greater
               17.607       -   Fee to the Village equal to one thousand five hundred ($1,500)
               Annual Fees
Chapter 17: Telecommunications
               17.901
               Cable/Video  -   Fee in an amount equal to five percent (5%) of the holder's gross
Article IX.    Service      revenues is imposed
Cable/Video    Provider Fee
Service        Imposed
Provider       17.902 PEG
               Access       -   Fee in an amount equal to one percent (1%) of the holders' gross
               Support Fee  revenues
               Imposed
 
Chapter 18: Alcoholic Beverages
                             -   Shall be issued to the applicant, all
             18.302.         individuals will submit themselves for
             Application for fingerprinting by the said Lake County Sheriffs
             License         Police Department with a fee of twenty-five
Article III:                 dollars ($25) for each set
Licenses                     Class     Initial Fee (1st Annual Renewal
                                       License issued)  Fee
             18.306 License  C License $7,500           $2,500
             Fees            H License $7,500           $3,500
                             R License $2,500           $1,500
                             W License $7,500           $2,500
 
(Ord. 852, passed 10-20-2020)
SECTION 2.1003. FINE AND PENALTY SCHEDULE.
   Except as may otherwise be provided within this Code of Ordinances or by
law, any person violation the Village of Mettawa Code of Ordinances shall be
fined and/or subject to the penalties as set forth in the following Schedule of
Fines and Penalties:
   FINE/PENALTY SCHEDULE
Code Chapter and Article Section Fine Amount
Code Chapter   Section      Fine Amount
and Article
Chapter 5: Streets and Parks
Article X.     5.1004
Administration Penalties    -   Not less than one hundred dollars ($100) nor more than five hundred dollars
and            for          ($500) for each offense.
Enforcement    Misdemeanor
Chapter 7: Offenses and Miscellaneous Regulations
Article III.   7.305
Dutch Elm      Penalty      -   Not less than fifteen dollars ($15) for each offense
Disease
Article VII.   7.711        -   Not less than one thousand dollars of ($1,000) nor more than fifteen
Solicitors and Penalty      hundred dollars ($1,500)
Canvassers
                            -   Not less than five hundred dollars ($500) nor more than one thousand
Article X.     7.1003       dollars ($1,000) for each and every offense, depending upon the seriousness and
Fireworks      Penalties    frequency of the violations; and any person who violated the provisions of
                            Section 7.1001 of this Article with Class B fireworks shall be fined not less
                            than twenty thousand dollars ($20,000) for each and every offense
Article XI.    7.1102       -   Not less than five hundred dollars ($500) nor more than one thousand
Video Gaming   Violations;  dollars ($1,000) for each and every offense, depending upon the frequency of
               Penalties    the violations;
Article XIII.
Unpaid Charges 7.1303
and            Violation;   -   Not less than one hundred dollars ($100) nor more than one thousand dollars
Assessments    Penalty      ($1,000) for each offense
and Disclosure
of Interests
Article XIII.
Unpaid Charges              -   Not less than twenty-five dollars ($25) nor more than two hundred dollars
and            7.218        ($200) or be imprisoned in the county jail for a period not exceeding six (6)
Assessments    Penalty      months or be both so fined and imprisoned
and Disclosure
of Interests
Chapter 8: Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal Systems
Article XIV.   8.1401       -   Not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250) nor more than five thousand
Sanctions      Violations;  dollars ($5,000) for each offense
               Penalty
Chapter 9: Building Code
Article XV.    9.1505       A.2.   Not less than one hundred dollars ($100) nor more than one thousand
Occupancy      Penalties    dollars ($1,000) for each offense
Certificate;   and Unlawful B.2.   Not less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150) nor more than five
Penalties      Continuance  thousand dollars ($5,000) for each offense
Chapter 10: Signs
Article VII.   10.702       -   Not less than one hundred dollars ($100) nor more than one thousand dollars
Enforcement    Penalty      ($1,000) for each offense
Chapter 11: Health and Sanitation; Recapture
Article III.   11.308
Regulations of Declaration  -   Not less than one hundred dollars ($100) nor more than on thousand dollars
the Collection of           ($1,000) for each offense
of Solid Waste Nuisances-
               Penalty
                            B.   Not less than one hundred dollars ($100) nor more than one thousand
Article VI.    11.601       dollars ($1,000) for each offense
Violations     Penalties    C.   Not less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150) nor more than five thousand
                            dollars ($5,000) for each offense
Chapter 12: Animal Regulations
               12.120       -   Shall impose upon the owner a penalty of one hundred dollars ($100) that
               Impoundment  may at the discretion of the animal owner be paid to the Village Clerk within
                            seventy-two (72) hours in full satisfaction of the assessed penalty
               12.124
               Violations   -   Shall be deemed be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine
               and          of five hundred dollars ($500)
               Penalties
Chapter 15: Zoning Regulations
Article XIV.   15.1405      -   Not less than one hundred dollars ($100) nor more than one thousand dollars
Enforcement    Penalties    ($1,000) for each offense
Chapter 16: Subdivision Regulations
Article V.     16.506
Enforcement    Penalty
Article VIII.  16.801       -   Not less than five hundred dollars ($500) nor more than one thousand
Violations     Penalty      dollars ($1,000) for each offense
Chapter 17: Telecommunications
Article 1.     17.108       -   Not Less than three hundred dollars ($300) nor more than one thousand
General        Penalties    dollars ($1,000) for each offense
Chapter 18: Alcoholic Beverages
               18.504
               Penalties    -   Not less than one hundred dollars ($100) nor more than one thousand dollars
Article V.     Following    ($1,000) for the first violation within a twelve month period; fifteen hundred
Revocation and Hearing      dollars ($1,500) for the second violation within twelve (12) months of the
Suspension of  Before the   first violation; and twenty-five hundred dollars ($2,500) for the third and all
Licenses       Local Liquor subsequent violations within (12) months of the first violation
               Control
               Commissioner
               18.601       C.   Not less than one hundred dollars ($100) nor more than one thousand
Article VI.    Penalties    dollars ($1,000) for each offense
Violations and and          D.   Not less than twenty-five dollars ($25) nor more than fifty dollars ($50)
Penalties      Misdemeanor  and a second or subsequent offense, shall be fined not less than fifty dollars
                            ($50) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500)
Chapter 19: Taxation
Article I.     19.106       -   One thousand ($1,000) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be
Hotel-Motel    Penalty      deemed to have been committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs
Tax                         or continues
               19.207       -   One percent (1%) per month, commencing as the first day following the day
               Interest and when the tax become due. In addition, a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the tax
Article II.    Penalties    and interest due shall be assess and collected against any person failing to
Real Estate                 pay the tax imposed upon said person under the terms of this subchapter
Transfer Tax   19.209       A.   Not less than two hundred dollars ($200) nor more than one thousand
               Penalty Tax  dollars ($1,000)
               Violation    B.   Not less than two hundred dollars ($200) nor more than one thousand
                            dollars ($1,000)
Chapter 20: Village Code
               20.401
Article IV.    General      -   Not less than one hundred dollars ($100) nor more than one thousand
Violations     Penalty;     ($1,000)
               Supervision
 
(Ord. 883, passed 7-18-2023)
CHAPTER 3 - POLICE
SECTION
   
3.101   Department Created
   
3.102   Appointments
   
3.103   Duties of Chief
   
3.104   Duties
   
3.105   Serving Process
   
3.106   Conduct of Members
   
3.107   Witness Fees
   
3.108   Rules and Regulations
   
3.109   Special Police
   
3.110   Custody of Stolen Property
   
3.111   Matron
   
3.112   Chief; Tenure of Office
   
3.113   Implementation
SECTION 3.101. DEPARTMENT CREATED.
   There is hereby created a Police Department for the Village which shall
consist of a Chief of Police who shall be ex officio Superintendent of Police,
and such other members as may be provided for by the President and Board of
Trustees.
SECTION 3.102. APPOINTMENTS.
   The Chief of Police shall be appointed by the Village President with the
advice and consent of the President and Board of Trustees. All other police
personnel shall be appointed by the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners.
SECTION 3.103. DUTIES OF CHIEF.
   The Chief of Police shall be the keeper of the Village jail and shall have
custody of all persons incarcerated therein. He shall keep such records and
make such reports concerning the activities of his department as may be
required by statute or by the President and the Board of Trustees. The Chief
shall be responsible for the performance by the Police Department of its
functions, and all persons who are members of the Police Department shall serve
subject to the orders of the Chief of Police.
SECTION 3.104. DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the members of the Police Department to see to the
enforcement of all of the ordinances of the Village and all statutes applicable
therein; and to preserve order and prevent infractions of the law and arrest
violators thereof.
SECTION 3.105. SERVING PROCESS.
   No member of the Police Department, except the Chief, shall serve any
process except on command of the Chief of the Police Department.
SECTION 3.106. CONDUCT OF MEMBERS.
   It shall be the duty of every member of the Police Department to conduct
himself or herself in a proper and law-abiding manner at all times, and to
avoid the use of unnecessary force. Each member of the Department shall obey
the orders and directions of his superiors.
SECTION 3.107. WITNESS FEES.
   Every member of the Police Department shall appear as a witness whenever
this is necessary in the prosecution for a violation of any ordinance or of any
state or federal law. No such member shall retain any witness fee for services
as a witness in any action or suit to which the Village is a party. Any fees
paid for such services shall be turned over to the Chief who shall deposit the
same with the Village Treasurer.
SECTION 3.108. RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of Police may make or prescribe such rules and regulations as he
shall deem advisable. Such rules, when approved by the President and Board of
Trustees shall be binding on such members. Such rules and regulations may
cover, besides the conduct of the members, uniform and equipment to be worn or
carried, hours of service, vacations and all other similar matters necessary or
desirable for the better efficiency of the Department.
SECTION 3.109. SPECIAL POLICE.
   Any person of good character having duties which require it may be appointed
a special policeman by the President; provided that except upon authorization
by the Board of Trustees, no such special policeman shall be entitled to any
compensation from the Village nor shall such special policeman be considered an
employee of the Village by reason of such appointment. Special policemen shall
obey all of the rules of the Police Department applicable to them and may be
deprived of their appointment by the Chief at any time.
SECTION 3.110. CUSTODY OF STOLEN PROPERTY.
   The Chief of Police shall have the custody of all lost, abandoned or stolen
property recovered in the Village.
SECTION 3.111. MATRON.
   The President, with the consent of the Board of Trustees, may appoint a
police matron who shall perform such duties as may be assigned to her by the
Chief of Police or by the President.
SECTION 3.112. CHIEF; TENURE OF OFFICE.
   The Chief of the Police Department shall serve for such term as may be
provided by law and may be removed in the manner provided for the removal of
officers.
SECTION 3.113. IMPLEMENTATION.
   The provisions of this Chapter 3, other than Section 3.109 hereof, shall not
be effective until such time as the President and Board of Trustees of the
Village of Mettawa appropriate sufficient dollars to fund this Chapter.
CHAPTER 4 - BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
SECTION
Article I. Zoning, Planning and Appeals Commission
   
4.101   Established
   
4.102   Membership
   
4.103   Organization
   
4.104   Jurisdiction and Purpose
   
4.105   Meetings and Hearings of the Commission
   
4.106   Rules of the Commission
   
4.107   Definitions
Article II. Architectural Review Board
   
4.201   Architectural Review Board Codified
   
4.202   Jurisdiction and Purpose
   
4.203   Membership
   
4.204   Meetings; Quorum; Decision
   
4.205   Architectural Review; Appearance, Criteria
   
4.206   Definitions
ARTICLE I. ZONING, PLANNING AND APPEALS COMMISSION
SECTION 4.101. ESTABLISHED.
   A.   The Zoning, Planning and Appeals Commission is established hereby.
   B.   Whenever throughout the Municipal Code of the Village of Mettawa of
2001, as amended, reference is made to "Zoning Commission", "Plan Commission",
"Planning and Zoning Commission", and/or "Zoning, Board of Appeals" - such term
shall mean and/or refer to the "Zoning, Planning and Appeals Commission". (From
time to time hereafter in this Article: "Zoning, Planning and Appeals
Commission" may be referred to as "Commission".)
(Ord. 689, passed 5-17-2011; Am. Ord. 706, passed 10-18-2011 )
SECTION 4.102. MEMBERSHIP.
   A.   The Zoning, Planning and Appeals Commission shall consist of a Chairman
and six (6) other members appointed by the Village President with the advice
and consent of the President and Board of Trustees. All members of the
Commission shall be residents of the Village of Mettawa and all terms shall end
at 7:30 o'clock p.m. on the third Tuesday of May of the years set forth below,
provided a successor has been duly appointed and qualified.
      1.   The Village President shall appoint the Chairman for a term of four
(4) years, ending at 7:30 o'clock p.m., on May 19, 2015, provided his successor
has been duly appointed and qualified. Thereafter the Village President shall
appoint each succeeding Chairman for a term of four (4) years and until his
successor has been duly appointed and qualified. For all purposes, including
determining quorum and voting at meetings, the chairman shall be and is a
member of the Commission.
      2.   Upon the initial appointment of members to the Commission, the
Village President shall appoint two (2) members for a term ending at 7:30
o'clock p.m. on May 15, 2012; two (2) members for a term ending at 7:30 o'clock
p.m., on May 21, 2013; and two (2) members for a term ending at 7:30 o'clock
p.m., on May 20, 2014. Upon the ending of initial appointment terms, the
Village President shall appoint each such succeeding member to serve for a
three (3) year term and until the successor of such member has been duly
appointed and qualified.
      3.   The office of any Commission member who fails to attend three (3)
consecutive Commission meetings without a valid reason, or who fails to attend
one half of the total of all Commission meetings scheduled or called during any
one (1) fiscal year period, may be declared vacant by a majority vote of the
remaining members of the Commission and the Secretary shall notify the Village
President thereof. In the event of a vacancy, for any reason, prior to the
conclusion of any such given term, the Village President shall fill such
vacancy upon the Commission by appointment for the unexpired term of the member
whose place has become vacant.
      4.   The Village President shall have the power to remove any member of
the Commission at any time for cause. In the event such member desires to
appeal such removal, such member shall file with the Village Clerk a request
for a public hearing before the President and Board of Trustees. In the event
of such request, following the public hearing the President and Board of
Trustees may affirm or reverse the decision of the Village President.
      5.   The members of the Zoning, Planning and Appeals Commission shall
serve without compensation.
   B.   The Zoning Administrator shall serve as non-voting ex-officio member of
the Zoning, Planning and Appeals Commission and shall have the duty to
administer and enforce the provisions of this Chapter and Chapter 15 of this
Code, making such determinations, interpretations and orders as are necessary
therefor and requiring such plats, plans and other descriptive material in
connection with applications for permits as are necessary for the Zoning
Administrator to judge compliance herewith.
(Ord. 689, passed 5-17-2011; Am. Ord. 706, passed 10-18-2011)
SECTION 4.103. ORGANIZATION.
   A.   Chairman. For all purposes, including determining quorum and voting at
meetings, the chairman shall be and is a member of the Commission. The Chairman
shall have all of the power and authority of a chairman of a plan commission
and a chairman of a zoning board of appeals under the general law, including
the power to administer or authorize the administration of oaths and to compel
the attendance of witnesses.
   B.   Vice-Chairman. In the absence of the Chairman from meetings and
hearings or in the event the Chairman is disabled or out of the State of
Illinois, the Vice-Chairman shall perform all of the duties and have the right
to exercise all of the powers of the Chairman.
      1.   Immediately upon its organization, the Commission shall select from
its membership a vice chairman.
      2.   Thereafter, no later than its first regular meeting following May 1
of each year, the Commission shall choose a Vice-Chairman from among its
members, who shall undertake the duties of Chairman in the absence of the
Chairman from any meetings of the Commission.
   C.   Secretary. The Village Clerk shall act ex-officio as the Secretary of
the Commission and shall be responsible for all of the correspondence, minutes,
and records of the Commission. The Secretary shall not be a member of the
Commission.
      1.   The Secretary of the Commission shall be responsible for filing the
most current rules and procedures or bylaws of the Commission, the minutes of
meetings, the record of hearings and other documents and recommendations with
the Village Clerk and copies thereof with the Zoning Administrator.
      2.   The Secretary of the Commission shall keep minutes of all Commission
meetings showing the vote of each member upon every question or if absent or if
failing to vote, indicating that.
      3.   The Secretary shall perform such other duties as may be assigned
from time to time by the Commission.
      4.   The Secretary may be given such clerical assistance as the President
and Board of Trustees may provide.
   D.   The Commission shall adopt rules for the conduct of its hearings and
meetings, which rules shall not conflict with this Code.
      1.   In the case of meetings, four members of the Commission shall
constitute a quorum to conduct business.
      2.   In the case of hearings, in the event there is no quorum of the
Commission, any two or more members of the Commission present for a public
hearing, notice for which has been duly given, are hereby designated as a
committee of the Commission authorized to conduct such public hearing. However,
no recommendation regarding any public hearing may be made except at a properly
and legally convened meeting of the Commission at which a quorum of the
Commission members exists.
(Ord. 689, passed 5-17-2011; Am. Ord. 706, passed 10-18-2011)
SECTION 4.104. JURISDICTION AND PURPOSE.
   The Commission shall have the following functions:
   A.   To prepare and recommend to the President and Board of Trustees
adoption of a Comprehensive Plan and/or any amendment(s) thereto for the
present and future development or redevelopment within the Village of Mettawa.
      1.   Such plan may be adopted in whole or in separate geographical or
functional parts, each of which, when adopted by the President and Board of
Trustees, shall be the Official Comprehensive Plan, or part thereof, of the
Village of Mettawa.
      2.   This Plan may include reasonable requirements with reference to
streets, alleys, public grounds, and other public improvements.
      3.   The Plan shall be made applicable to all land situated within the
corporate limits of the Village of Mettawa as well as contiguous territory not
lying within the corporate limits of another village or city and not more than
one and one half (1-1/2) miles beyond the corporate limits of the Village of
Mettawa.
      4.   The Official Comprehensive Plan may establish reasonable standards
of design for subdivision or resubdivision of unimproved land and of areas
subject to redevelopment in respect to public improvements.
      5.   The Official Comprehensive Plan may establish reasonable
requirements governing the location, width, course, and surfacing of public
streets and highways, alleys, ways for public service facilities, curbs,
gutters, sidewalks, street lights, parks, playgrounds, school grounds, size of
lots to be used for residential purposes, storm water drainage, water supply
and distribution, sanitary sewers and sewage collection and treatment.
      6.   The Official Comprehensive Plan may designate land suitable for
annexation to the Village of Mettawa, along with recommended zoning
classification for such land upon annexation.
      7.   Such Official Comprehensive Plan shall be advisory and shall not be
construed to regulate or control the use of private property in any way, except
as to such part of the said plan as has been implemented by ordinances duly
enacted by the President and Board of Trustees.
      8.   Said Official Comprehensive Plan and the ordinance implementing same
shall be placed on file with the Village Clerk and shall be available at all
times during regular business hours for public inspection.
      9.   Copies of said Official Comprehensive Plan, all ordinances
implementing same, and the official map, shall be available to all interested
parties upon payment by said parties of a fee therefor as established from time
to time by resolution of the President and Board of Trustees, in order to
reimburse the general fund of the Village of Mettawa for the cost of printing
and distributing same.
      10.   No Comprehensive Plan or amendment thereto shall be adopted and
made official by the President and Board of Trustees that has not been
submitted to the Commission.
         a.   Upon submission by the President and Board of Trustees of any
suggested Comprehensive Plan, part thereof, or amendment to an existing
Comprehensive Plan to the Zoning, Planning and Appeals Commission for
consideration and recommendation, the President and Board of Trustees may
require a report thereon from the Commission with its recommendation within
ninety (90) days from the date of such submission.
         b.   If the Commission shall fail to make such report within the said
ninety (90) days, then the President and Board of Trustees may proceed to
consider for adoption such Comprehensive Plan, or part thereof, or an amendment
to an existing Official Comprehensive Plan, including arranging for and holding
a public hearing thereon in accordance with the provisions hereinafter
contained in the same manner as if the Commission had made its recommendation.
      11.   Upon submission of a Comprehensive Plan by the Commission, or the
submission of a proposed amendment to an existing Official Comprehensive Plan,
the President and Board of Trustees shall schedule a public hearing thereon to
be held at a meeting of the Zoning, Planning and Appeals Commission who shall
forward its written recommendation to the President and Board of Trustees
within thirty (30) days after the conclusion of said public hearing.
         a.   Not less than fifteen (15) days' notice of the proposed hearings,
and the time and date and place thereof, shall be given by publication in a
newspaper of general circulation in the County of Lake, in which the Village of
Mettawa and contiguous unincorporated areas are located.
         b.   The hearing shall be informal, but all persons desiring to be
heard in support of or opposed to the Comprehensive Plan or amendment shall be
afforded such opportunity to be heard - and may submit their statements orally
or in writing.
         c.   The hearing may be recessed to another date if not concluded,
provided notice of the time and place thereof is publicly announced at the
hearing at the time of such recess or notice is given by newspaper publication
not less than five (5) days prior to the recessed hearing.
      12.   Within ninety (90) days after the conclusion of the final hearing,
and after consideration of the recommendations of the Commission and of such
information as shall have been derived from the hearing, the President and
Board of Trustees shall either adopt the Comprehensive Plan or amendment in
whole or in part, or reject the entire Comprehensive Plan or amendment in whole
or in part, or make non-substantial modifications to the proposed Comprehensive
Plan or amendment and thereupon adopt the entire Comprehensive Plan or
amendment.
         a.   If adopted, such adoption shall be by ordinance enacted by the
President and Board of Trustees, which ordinance shall include a map or maps
drawn to scale, reasonably accurate, showing north point and section lines and
numbers, and consisting of the whole area included within the Official
Comprehensive Plan or, if an amendment, one or more separate geographical or
functional parts, and all of any part of the contiguous unincorporated area
within one and a half miles from the corporate limits of the Village.
         b.   If, at the expiration of such ninety (90) days, the President and
Board of Trustees have taken no formal action, the Comprehensive Plan or
amendment thereto may thereafter not be acted upon by the said President and
Board of Trustees without again complying with the provisions of notice and
hearing heretofore provided.
         c.   The Comprehensive Plan or amendment, if approved and adopted,
shall become effective upon the expiration of ten (10) days after the date of
adoption of the ordinance implementing the Official Comprehensive Plan or
amendment.
   B.   To prepare and make revisions to the Official Map as part of and to
correspond with the Official Comprehensive Plan.
   C.   To prepare and recommend to the President and Board of Trustees, from
time to time, suggestions for improvements in pursuance of the official
Comprehensive Plan, including a plan to implement the proper residential
development and economic balance within the corporate limits of the Village of
Mettawa.
   D.   To review and recommend the denial or the approval of plats of
subdivision.
      1.   Following the adopting of an official Comprehensive Plan in the
manner prescribed in the Zoning Ordinance, no map or plat of any subdivision or
resubdivision presented for record, affecting land within the corporate limits
of the Village of Mettawa or contiguous territory outside of but not more
distant than one and one half (1-1/2) miles from such limits of the Village of
Mettawa, shall be entitled to record or shall be valid unless the subdivision
thereon shall meet the subdivision regulations of the Village of Mettawa and
otherwise conform to any requirements thereto shown in the official
Comprehensive Plan of the Village of Mettawa.
      2.   The procedures for review of such maps or plats of subdivision shall
be as established within the subdivision regulations of the Village of Mettawa.
   E.   To hold public hearings on requests for amendments to the Zoning
Ordinance, to make and to forward findings of fact and recommendations thereon
to the President and Board of Trustees.
      1.   The regulations imposed and the districts created by the Zoning
Ordinance may be amended from time to time by ordinance after the ordinance
establishing same has gone into effect, but no amendments shall be made without
a public hearing having first been held before the Commission.
      2.   All applications for amendment to the Zoning Ordinance shall be
filed with the Secretary in such form and accompanied by such information as
required by the Commission and shall include a disclosure of beneficial
interests. In the case of applications to amend the Zoning Map, such
applications shall be filed by the legal or beneficial owner of the property
for which an amendment is sought. All such applications shall be forwarded to
the Commission at the Commission's next available agenda after all required
notices have been provided in accordance with applicable State statutes and
Village ordinances.
   F.   To hear all applications for special use permits and/or conditional use
permits and submit its recommendations thereon to the President and Board of
Trustees.
   G.   To prepare and recommend to the President and Board of Trustees schemes
for regulating or forbidding structures or activities which may hinder access
to solar energy necessary for the proper functioning of solar energy systems,
as defined in Section 1.2 of the Comprehensive Solar Energy Act of 1977, or to
recommend changes in such schemes.
   H.   As set forth in the Zoning Ordinance, to hear all applications for
variations from the regulations and restrictions contained in the Zoning
Ordinance and to submit its recommendations thereon to the President and Board
of Trustees.
   I.   As set forth in the Zoning Ordinance, to hear appeals from any order,
requirement, decision or determination made by the Zoning Administrator in the
administration or enforcement of the Zoning Ordinance and/or any other
ordinance of the Village of Mettawa upon which the Commission is required to
pass and to submit its recommendation thereon to the President and Board of
Trustees.
   J.   To hear and decide, or make recommendations on such other matters as
may from time to time be committed to its jurisdiction by the President and
Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 689, passed 5-17-2011; Am. Ord. 706, passed 10-18-2011)
SECTION 4.105. MEETINGS AND HEARINGS OF THE COMMISSION.
   A.   All hearings and all meetings of the Commission shall be open to the
public, and the records and minutes thereof shall be available for examination
in the office of the Village Clerk during regular business hours.
      1.   At hearings and meetings of the Commission, any interested person
may appear or may be represented by duly authorized attorneys.
      2.   Provided the Zoning, Planning and Appeals Commission adopts and
thereafter maintains rules consistent with the Illinois Open Meetings Act for
electronic attendance at meetings, the Commission is authorized hereby to
permit the attendance of its members at meetings, including public hearings, by
means other than by physical presence.
   B.   All regular meetings of the Commission shall be held in the Cottonwood
Room of the Hilton Garden Inn, 26225 N. Riverwoods Boulevard, Mettawa,
Illinois, on the first Tuesday of each month at the hour of 7:00 o'clock p.m.,
provided that when the day fixed for any regular meeting of the Commission
falls on a day designated by law as a legal or national holiday, no meeting
shall be held.
   C.   All special meetings of the Commission shall be held at the call of the
Chairman and at such other times as the Commission shall determine by rule.
   D.   No testimony shall be taken and no witness heard on any appeal,
variation, and/or zoning application (other than subdivision approval) except
at a properly convened public hearing of the Commission. All testimony at
hearings before the Commission shall be given under oath and a record of a
court reporter provided for each such hearing at the expense of the applicant
therein.
      1.   The Chairman or, in the absence of the Chairman, the Vice Chairman,
as the case may be, shall administer or authorize the administration of oaths
and may compel the attendance of witnesses, and shall otherwise have such
similar authority as the Chairman and/or Acting Chairman of a zoning board of
appeals under the general law.
      2.   No vote upon any recommendation of the Commission shall be had
during any hearing.
      3.    The petitioner shall reimburse the Village for two (2) certified
copies of the official court reporter's transcript of such hearing(s), one (1)
of which shall thereafter be maintained by the Village Clerk and one (1) by the
Secretary, the latter being maintained as part of the official record.
         a.   The Village Clerk is authorized hereby to make such additional
charges as may be necessary to reimburse the Village for the actual cost of
court reporter fees and the giving of required notices whenever the filing fees
authorized to be collected herein are insufficient to cover the cost of such
public hearing.
         b.   The amount of such additional charges shall be paid the Village
by the petitioner within ten (10) days of receipt of the invoice therefor from
the Village.
      4.   In addition, each application filed with the Commission for zoning
consideration shall be accompanied by the filing fees established from time to
time by resolution of the President and Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 689, passed 5-17-2011; Am. Ord. 706, passed 10-18-2011; Am. Ord. 714,
passed 12-13-2011)
SECTION 4.106. RULES OF THE COMMISSION.
   The Commission shall adopt rules governing its proceedings, a copy of which
shall be and remain on file in the office of the Village Clerk. The adoption,
revision or amendment of such rules shall be by majority vote of the
Commission, and the Secretary shall furnish each member of the Commission a
copy of such rules. In all instances, such rules shall not conflict with the
ordinances of the Village and shall include but not be limited to the
following:
   A.   All meetings and hearings of the Commission shall be open to the
public, and although a quorum of the Commission shall be necessary for the
conduct of Commission business at any regular and special meeting thereof, any
two (2) or more members thereof sitting at any lawfully noticed hearing of the
Commission shall constitute a committee of the Commission for the conduct of a
public hearing:
      1.   At meetings of the Commission, a quorum shall consist of four (4)
members; and
      2.   Any member who was absent during a public hearing may vote on any
motion of the Commission to make a recommendation in connection with such
hearing, provided such member certifies that he has read the court reporter's
transcript of such hearing;
   B.   Each member shall be entitled to one (1) vote upon the deliberations of
the Commission;
   C.   In the absence of the Secretary, the Commission shall keep minutes of
its meetings, showing the vote of each member upon every question, or if
absent, indicating that fact;
   D.   In cases wherein a public hearing is required by ordinance, decisions
and recommendations of the Commission shall be reached only after such a
hearing has been held pursuant to proper notice of such hearing and no
testimony shall be taken and no witness heard on any appeal, variation, and/or
zoning application (other than subdivision approval) except at a properly
convened public hearing of the Commission;
   E.   At all hearings, all testimony at hearings before the Commission shall
be given under oath and any interested party may appear in person or by agent
or by attorney, offer evidence and testimony and cross-examine witnesses;
   F.   The Chairman or, in the absence of the Chairman, the Vice Chairman, as
the case may be, shall administer or authorize the administration of oaths and
may compel the attendance of witnesses;
   G.   All testimony before the Commission shall be given under oath or
affirmation and a record of a court reporter provided by the petitioner therein
for each case so heard;
      1.   All evidence and testimony shall be presented publicly; and
      2.   The Commission may take judicial notice of facts to the same extent
and in the same manner as courts of record and may consider any relevant facts
within the personal knowledge of any member of the Commission which are stated
into the record by such member;
   H.   The petitioner shall provide two (2) certified copies of the official
court reporter's transcript of each hearing(s), which thereafter shall be
maintained by the Village Clerk as part of the official record of such case;
   I.   The Commission may reverse or confirm, wholly or partly modify or amend
any order, requirement, decision or determination, appealed from to the extent
and in the manner the Commission may decide to be fitting and proper subject to
the provisions contained in the Zoning Ordinance or in the applicable statutes
of the State of Illinois;
      1.   The concurring vote of five (5) members of the Commission shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or determination of the
Zoning Administrator; and
      2.   The concurring vote of four (4) members of the Commission shall be
necessary to make any recommendation to the President and Board of Trustees or
to grant a variation from the terms of the Zoning Ordinance, or to recommend or
decide in favor of the petitioner on any matter, upon which the Commission is
required to pass, under the Zoning Ordinance or any other ordinance of the
Village of Mettawa; and
   J.   Within its jurisdiction granted under the ordinances of the Village,
the Commission shall make its decision or its recommendation on all matters
presented to it during its meetings following such presentation within the time
prescribed by ordinance or, if none, within a reasonable time.
(Ord. 689, passed 5-17-2011; Am. Ord. 716, passed 10-18-2011)
SECTION 4.107. DEFINITIONS.
   A.   The language set forth in the text of this Chapter shall be interpreted
in accordance with the following rules of construction: (a) The word "may" is
permissive and the word "shall" is mandatory; and (b) except where the context
reveals the contrary: The singular includes the plural and the plural includes
the singular, and the masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
   B.   When the following words in bold font are used in this Chapter, such
words shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this Section,
except when the context otherwise indicates.
      ADMINISTRATOR or ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The Zoning Administrator of the
Village of Mettawa and such deputies or assistants as have been duly appointed.
      COMMISSION or PLANNING, ZONING AND APPEALS COMMISSION. The Planning,
Zoning and Appeals Commission of the Village of Mettawa.
      PERSON. Any human being, firm, partnership, limited partnership,
association, corporation, company or organization of any kind.
      PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES or BOARD OF TRUSTEES. The President and
Board of Trustees of the Village of Mettawa.
      SECRETARY. The Secretary of the Planning, Zoning and Appeals Commission.
      SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE or SUBDIVISION CODE. Chapter 16 of the Municipal
Code of the Village of Mettawa of 2001, as amended.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Mettawa, an Illinois municipal corporation and
home rule unit.
      VILLAGE CLERK. The Village Clerk of the Village of Mettawa.
      VILLAGE PRESIDENT. The Village President of the Village of Mettawa.
      ZONING ORDINANCE or ZONING CODE or CHAPTER 15. Chapter 15 of the
Municipal Code of the Village of Mettawa of 2001, as amended.
(Ord. 689, passed 5-17-2011; Am. Ord. 706, passed 10-18-2011)
ARTICLE II. ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW BOARD
SECTION 4.201. ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW BOARD CODIFIED.
   Originally established by an ordinance approving the December 9, 1998,
Annexation Agreement which governed the annexation to Mettawa of the Annexed
Territory, the Architectural Review Board is located hereby within the
Municipal Code of the Village of Mettawa of 2001 and set forth in this Article;
and shall also include the architectural review board established by the
ordinance approving the May 12, 1999, Development Agreement regulating the
development of the Office Park.
(Ord. 629, passed 6-16-2009)
SECTION 4.202. JURISDICTION AND PURPOSE.
   The Architectural Review Board shall have the following functions:
   A.   With respect to the Annexed Territory until December 9, 2018, to review
architectural aspects of the buildings to be located upon Village of Mettawa-
owned land and all commercial buildings located therein.
   B.   With respect to the Office Park until May 12, 2019, to review
architectural aspects all buildings proposed to be erected in the Office Park
upon an appeal from the determination of the Architectural Consultant rejecting
plans for any given building. In accordance with the Development Agreement and
in addition to the normal and usual review of the Building Permit Plans by the
Zoning Administrator, the Village shall retain, at the sole cost and expense of
the Developer, the services of an Architectural Consultant to review
architectural aspects of the buildings to be located in the Office Park.
(Ord. 629, passed 6-16-2009)
SECTION 4.203. MEMBERSHIP.
   A.   Appointments. The Architectural Review Board shall consist of five (5)
members, two Resident Members and three Contracted-for Members, who shall be
appointed by the Village President with the advice and consent of the President
and Board of Trustees. After December 9, 2018, the approval of Hamilton
Partners or their successor in interest shall no longer be required; and after
May 12, 2019, the approval of the developer of the Office Park or its successor
in interest shall no longer be required. Not more than one of the Contracted-
for Members shall be a licensed architect.
      1.   In appointing the members of the Architectural Review Board, the
Village President shall designate one of the Resident Members as the Chairman
and the other Resident Member shall serve as Vice-Chairman. Upon initial
appointment following the effective date of the ordinance establishing this
Section, the Chairman shall be appointed for the period ending at 11:59 o'clock
p.m. on April 30, 2010; the other Resident Member for the period ending at 11:
59 o'clock p.m. on April 30, 2011; and the three (3) Contracted-for Members,
for the period ending at 11:59 o'clock p.m. on April 30, 2012. Thereafter, each
such member shall be appointed to serve for a three (3) year term and until the
successor of such member has been appointed.
      2.   The Village President shall have the power at all times and from
time to time to remove from the Architectural Review Board any of the members
so appointed. Until December 9, 2018, Hamilton Partners shall pay the fees, if
any, of the Contracted-for Members reviewing the plans for buildings proposed
to be constructed in the Annexed Territory and shall also have the power at all
times and from time to time to remove from the Architectural Review Board any
of the said Contracted-for Members so appointed by the Village President; and,
until May 12, 2019, the developer of the Office Park shall pay the fees, if
any, of the Contracted-for Members reviewing the plans for buildings proposed
to be constructed in the Office Park and shall also have the power at all times
and from time to time to remove from the Architectural Review Board any of the
said Contracted-for Members so appointed by the Village President. The Village
President shall fill a vacancy for the unexpired term of the member whose seat
upon the Architectural Review Board has become vacant and all members shall be
appointed by the Village President with the understanding that the three
Contracted-for Members shall be persons whose appointments are approved: By
Hamilton Partners or their successor in interest until December 9, 2018, in the
case of the Annexed Territory; and by the developer or its successor in
interest until May 12, 2019, in the case of the Office Park.
   B.   Secretary. The Village Clerk shall act ex-officio as the Secretary of
the Architectural Review Board and shall be responsible for all of the
correspondence, minutes, and records of the Architectural Review Board. The
Secretary shall not be a member of the Architectural Review Board.
      1.   The Secretary shall keep the minutes of meetings and other documents
and shall file them with the Village Clerk and copies thereof with the Zoning
Administrator.
      2.   The Secretary shall perform such other duties as may be assigned
from time to time by the Architectural Review Board.
      3.   The Secretary may be given such clerical assistance as the President
and Board of Trustees may provide.
   C.   Chairman. The Chairman shall preside over all meetings of the
Architectural Review Board.
   D.   Vice-Chairman. The Vice-Chairman shall perform the duties of the
Chairman in the absence of the Chairman from any meetings of the Architectural
Review Board.
   E.   Compensation. The Village shall not compensate any member of the
Architectural Review Board and, after May 12, 2019, all members of the
Architectural Review Board shall serve without compensation: There shall be no
Contracted-for Members and all five (5) members may be Resident Members.
(Ord. 629, passed 6-16-2009)
SECTION 4.204. MEETINGS; QUORUM; DECISION.
   A.   All meetings of the Architectural Review Board shall be called in the
following manner: At least five (5) days prior to such meeting date, any member
of the Architectural Review Board shall give each of the other members as well
as the Secretary written notice of the time, date, and place thereof within the
corporate limits of the Village. There shall be no regularly scheduled meetings
of the Architectural Review Board and, when the day fixed for any meeting of
the Architectural Review Board falls on a day designated by law as a legal or
national holiday, no meeting shall be held.
   B.   All meetings of the Architectural Review Board shall be open to the
public and the records and minutes thereof shall be available for examination
in the office of the Village Clerk during regular business hours. Any person
may appear at such meetings or may be represented by duly authorized agents or
attorneys.
      1.   For the purpose of conducting business at any meeting thereof, a
quorum of the Architectural Review Board shall consist of at least two (2)
Contracted-for Members and one (1) Resident Member; provided however, in the
event none of the Village Resident Members is in attendance at two (2)
consecutive meetings (duly called pursuant to the terms of this Section), the
quorum at next succeeding meeting shall consist of three (3) Contracted-for
Members.
      2.   For the purpose of approving plans presented to it, approval of the
Architectural Review Board shall be given by either the affirmative votes of
one (1) Resident Member and one (1) Contracted-for Member; or two (2) Resident
Members; or the affirmative votes of three (3) Contracted-for Members. Each
member shall be entitled to one (1) vote and Architectural Review Board shall
not unreasonably delay making a decision. The decision of the Architectural
Review Board shall be final.
      3.   The Secretary shall keep minutes of the meetings of the
Architectural Review Board, showing the vote of each member upon every question
or, if absent or failing to vote, indicating that.
(Ord. 629, passed 6-16-2009)
SECTION 4.205. ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW; APPEARANCE, CRITERIA.
   The Architectural Review Board shall review the building design, building
materials and landscaping in light of the Criteria for Appearance set forth in
this Section. In addition, with respect to the Office Park, the Architectural
Review Board shall review the rationale of the Architectural Consultant in
rejecting the plans.
   A.   The Architectural Review Board shall have for its use during its review
the following component parts of the building permit plans: The architectural
elevations, the topographical map, the building location plan, the tree
preservation plan with the final landscape plan and the signage plan, if any.
The Criteria for Appearance shall be reflected in the design of all commercial
buildings and/or additions thereto and any building proposed to be erected upon
Village-owned land.
   B.   The following Criteria for Appearance are not intended to restrict
imagination, innovation, or variety, nor to create economic burdens out of
proportion to the objectives sought to be served, but rather are intended to
assist in focusing on design principles which can result in creating solutions
that will develop a satisfactory visual appearance, preserve taxable values,
and promote the public health, safety and welfare. The purpose of these
criteria is to provide a means of evaluating those items which may affect the
physical aspect of the development and with it, the environment of Mettawa.
      1.   Regarding relationship of the buildings to their sites:
         a.   In the Annexed Territory,
            i.   The site shall be planned to accomplish a desirable transition
of scale, style, line and mass of buildings within the site and adjoining
buildings so that, without restricting the permissible limits of December 9,
1998, Annexation Agreement, the scale of each building shall be compatible with
its site and existing (or anticipated) adjoining buildings; and
            ii.   Parking areas (including those located in structures) located
north of the north line of the Estate extended east onto the Annexed Territory
and more than 483 feet west of the westerlymost property line of the Interstate
94 shall be treated with decorative elements, such as building wall extensions,
plantings, berms or other innovative means so as to screen parking areas when
viewed from Bradley Road [It is understood that all parking decks located in
the foregoing area shall not exceed fifteen feet (15') in height and shall be
completely screened from the view of a six foot (6") tall person walking along
the non-vacated portions of Bradley Road.]; and
         b.   In Office Park, parking areas (including those located in
structures) shall be treated with decorative elements, such as building wall
extensions, plantings, berms or other innovative means;
      2.   The Architectural Review Board may take judicial notice of facts to
the same extent and in the same manner as courts of record and may consider any
relevant facts within the personal knowledge of any member of the Architectural
Review Board which are stated into the record by such member;
         a.   Scale of structures within the site to those adjoining the site
shall be made compatible by providing a gradual transition of building scale
from the boundaries of the site; and
         b.   Landscaping shall be developed so that:
            i.   It shall be consistent with and shall not be installed so as
to alter the Final Drainage and Grading Plan (See Group Exhibit VI hereto);
            ii.   Landscape elements consist of all forms of planting and
vegetation, ground forms, rock groupings, water patterns, and all visible
construction except buildings and utility structures and shall be provided to
enhance architectural vistas and to provide shade;
            iii.   In the Annexed Territory, grades of walks, parking spaces,
terraces, and other paved areas shall provide an interesting vista and stable
appearance for walking and, if seating is provided, for sitting;
            iv.   Landscape treatment, screens and materials shall be used to
provide a harmonious transition between buildings within the site and adjacent
to the site which may vary in architectural style [In the Annexed Territory,
screening shall include the planting of conifers east of the Conservation
Easement opposite Little Melody and Indian Ridge Roads where they intersect
with Bradley Road];
            v.   Unity of design shall be encouraged by use of consistent plant
varieties and other materials and by correlation with adjacent developments;
            vi.   Plant materials shall be selected for their structure,
texture, color and ultimate growth [Plants that are indigenous to the area and
others that will be hardy, harmonious to the design, and of good appearance
shall be used];
            vii.   Parking areas and driveway design shall be enhanced with
landscaped spaces containing trees or tree groupings [However, other landscape
materials of equal value may be substituted. Shrubs shall be used only where
they will not create traffic hazards by obscuring vision.];
            viii.   Where building sites limit planting, the placement of trees
in parkways or along paved areas shall be encouraged;
            ix.   Exterior lighting shall not be located at a height above the
first floor on the west walls of any Hotel and/or Office Complex building
located west of Interstate 94 and north of the north line of the Estate
extended eastward onto the Territory to be Annexed, and, in all cases when
used, exterior lighting shall enhance the landscape adjacent to any permanent
identification sign or, in the case of buildings, the building design and the
adjoining landscape [Lighting standards and building fixtures shall be of a
design and size compatible with the building and adjacent areas. Excessive
brightness shall be avoided. All lighting fixtures erected upon off-street
parking facilities shall reflect light downward and the face or globe of the
fixtures shall be recessed so as not to be visible from the west property line
of the Territory to be Annexed.]; and
         c.   Building design:
            i.   Evaluation of architectural appearance of a project shall be
based on quality of its design and relationship to surroundings;
            ii.   In the Annexed Territory, materials shall have good
architectural character and shall be selected for harmony with other buildings;
            iii.   Building components such as windows, doors, eaves, and
parapets shall have good proportions and relationship to one another; and
            iv.   Negative visual impact of mechanical equipment or other
utility hardware on roof, ground, or buildings as well as refuse and waste
removal areas, service yards, storage yards, and exterior work areas when
viewed from dedicated public rights-of-way shall be reduced by screening with
materials harmonious with the building or by locating such objects, areas or
yards so that visibility from public ways is eliminated.
(Ord. 629, passed 6-16-2009)
SECTION 4.206. DEFINITIONS.
   A.   The language set forth in the text of this Chapter shall be interpreted
in accordance with the following rules of construction: (a) The word "may" is
permissive and the word "shall" is mandatory; and (b) except where the context
reveals the contrary: The singular includes the plural and the plural includes
the singular, and the masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
   B.   When the following words in bold font are used in this Article, such
words shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this Section,
except when the context otherwise indicates.
      ADMINISTRATOR or ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The Zoning Administrator of the
Village and such deputies or assistants as have been or shall be duly
appointed.
      ANNEXED TERRITORY. Some eighty-five (85) acres, more or less, located
north of and adjacent to Illinois Route 60 (Townline Road), between Interstate
94 and Bradley Road extended from its current terminus southward to said
Illinois Route 60.
      ARCHITECTURAL CONSULTANT. An architect licensed as such by the State of
Illinois.
      ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW BOARD. The Architectural Review Board of the Village
of Mettawa, as set forth in this Article.
      CONTRACTED-FOR MEMBERS. Three members of the Architectural Review Board
whose appointments are approved by Hamilton Partners or their successor in
interest, in the case of the Annexed Territory; and by the developer or its
successor in interest, in the case of the Office Park.
      CRITERIA FOR APPEARANCE. The design criteria set forth in Section
4.205.
      DEVELOPER. The developer of any given building proposed to be constructed
in the Office Park.
      ESTATE. The residential planned unit development located immediately west
of the Annexed Territory and adjacent to and north of Illinois Route 60.
      OFFICE PARK.  The office-research park located within the corporate
limits of Mettawa, east of Interstate 94.
      PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES or BOARD OF TRUSTEES. The President and
Board of Trustees of the Village of Mettawa.
      RESIDENT MEMBERS. Members of the Architectural Review Board who are
residents of Mettawa.
      SECRETARY. The Secretary of the Architectural Review Board, being the
Village Clerk.
      VILLAGE or METTAWA.  The Village of Mettawa, an Illinois municipal
corporation and home rule unit.
      VILLAGE CLERK. The Village Clerk of the Village of Mettawa.
      VILLAGE PRESIDENT. The Village President of the Village of Mettawa.
(Ord. 629, passed 6-16-2009)
CHAPTER 5 - STREETS AND PARKS
Article I. General
SECTION
   
5.101   Purpose
   
5.102   Intent
   
5.103   Scope
   
5.104   Franchises, Licenses, or Similar Agreements
   
5.105   Encroachments
Article II. Construction in and Use of Public Ways
   
5.201   Annual Registration Required
   
5.202   Permit Required; Applications and Fees
   
5.203   Action on Permit Applications
   
5.204   Effect of Permit
   
5.205   Revised Permit Drawings
   
5.206   Insurance
   
5.207   Indemnification
   
5.208   Security
   
5.209   Permit Suspension and Revocation
   
5.210   Change of Ownership or Owner's Identity or Legal Status
   
5.211   General Construction Standards
   
5.212   Traffic Control
   
5.213   Location of Facilities
   
5.214   Construction Methods and Materials
   
5.215   Vegetation Control
   
5.216   Removal, Relocation, or Modifications of Utility Facilities
   
5.217   Clean-up and Restoration
   
5.218   Maintenance and Emergency Maintenance
   
5.219   Deviations
Article III. Driveways
   
5.301   Permit Required to Build Driveway Approach Over Sidewalk or Parkway
   
5.302   Nonconformance
   
5.303   Application for Driveway Permit
   
5.304   Approval of Driveway Permit Application
   
5.305   Conditions of Driveway Permit
   
5.306   Cash Bond Required of Contractor
   
5.307   Permit Fees
   
5.308   Driveway Work to Be Supervised and Inspected by Village
   
5.309   Temporary Driveways
   
5.310   Plans and Specifications for Driveways
   
5.311   Maintenance of Driveway Approach and Parkway
   
5.312   Unlawful to Cross Curbs or Parkways
   
5.313   Unlawful to Build Driveway Approach Over Sidewalk or Parkway Without a
Permit
   
5.314   Permit Expiration
Article IV. Restoration of Village Owned Land
   
5.401   No Work Without a Permit
   
5.402   Permits
   
5.403   Permit Fees and Financial Responsibility
Article V. Removal of Obstructions from Rights-of-Way
   
5.501   Removal of Fallen Trees
   
5.502   Failure to Remove Following Notice
   
5.503   Village Lien
   
5.504   Notice of Lien
   
5.505   Foreclosure of Lien
   
5.506   Penalty for Violation
Article VI. Small Wireless Facilities
   
5.601   Purpose
   
5.602   Interaction with Other Code Provisions and Laws
   
5.603   Definitions
   
5.604   Zoning
   
5.605   Permits; Application Process
   
5.606   Construction
   
5.607   Permit Duration
   
5.608   Height Limitations
   
5.609   General Requirements
   
5.610   Stealth, Concealment and Design Standards
   
5.611   Reservation of Village Utility Pole Space
   
5.612   Applicability of Existing Agreements
   
5.613   Collocation on Village Owned Infrastructure
   
5.614   Notice of Sale or Transfer
   
5.615   Abandonment
   
5.616   Dispute Resolution
   
5.617   Indemnification
   
5.618   Insurance
   
5.619   Maintenance of Small Wireless Facilities
   
5.620   Revocation of Permit
   
5.621   Exceptions to Applicability
Article VII. Parks and Recreation Department
   
5.701   Parks and Recreation Department Established
   
5.702   Village Park System
   
5.703   Reserved
   
5.704   Municipal Recreation Building; Setting of Rates; Employees; Maintenance
   
5.705   Closing Time of Parks
   
5.706   Land Designated as a Public Park of the Village of Mettawa
Article VIII. Reserved
Article IX. Definitions
   
5.901   Construction
Article X. Administration and Enforcement
   
5.1001   Sound Engineering Judgment
   
5.1002   Conflicts with Other Chapters
   
5.1003   Conflicts with State and Federal Laws
   
5.1004   Penalties for Misdemeanor
   
5.1005   Disposition of Fines and Penalties
   
5.1006   Severability
ARTICLE I. GENERAL
SECTION 5.101. PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this Chapter are to establish policies and procedures for
construction within rights-of-way within the Village's jurisdiction and use of
Village owned land, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe passage, and visual qualities of the
Village rights-of-way and the Village as a whole.
   To that end, the Village of Mettawa has established a Parks and Recreation
Department managed by the Parks and Recreation Committee of the President and
Board of Trustees and from time to time shall designate Village owned land for
use as Village park areas for active and/or passive recreation, and recreation
buildings.
(Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 5.102. INTENT.
   In enacting this Chapter, the Village intends to exercise its authority over
the rights-of-way in the Village and, in particular, the use of Village owned
land, including its parks; as well as the use of the public ways and Village
property by utilities and others, by establishing uniform standards to address
issues presented by utility facilities and the public including but not limited
to:
   A.   Preventing interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parkways and other public ways and places;
   B.   Preventing the creation of visual and physical obstructions and other
conditions that are hazardous to vehicular, equestrian and pedestrian traffic;
   C.   Preventing interference with the facilities and operations of the
Village and of utilities lawfully located in rights-of-way or public property;
   D.   Protecting against environmental damage, including damage to trees,
from the installation of utility facilities and use of parks and other Village
owned land;
   E.   Protecting against increased stormwater run-off due to structures and
materials that increase impermeable surfaces;
   F.   Preserving the character of the neighborhoods in which facilities are
installed and parks are located;
   G.   Preserving open space, including the tree-lined parkways that
characterize the Village's residential neighborhoods;
   H. Preventing visual blight from the proliferation of facilities in the
rights-of-way and upon Village owned land, including its parks; and
   I.   Assuring the continued safe use and enjoyment of private properties
adjacent to utility facilities locations and Village owned land.
(Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 5.103. SCOPE.
   Without limiting the scope hereof, this Chapter applies to all construction
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, and/or within and use of Village
owned land and the rights-of-way within the jurisdiction of the Village. A
facility lawfully established prior to the effective date of this Chapter may
continue to be maintained, repaired and operated as presently constructed and
located, except as may be otherwise provided in any applicable franchise,
license or similar agreement.
(Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 5.104. FRANCHISES, LICENSES, OR SIMILAR AGREEMENTS.
   In its discretion and as limited by law, the Village may require utilities
to enter into a franchise, license or similar agreement for the privilege of
locating their facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or
within Village owned land and the rights-of-way over which the Village has
jurisdiction. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the Village enter into such an agreement. Any such
agreement may contain terms and conditions inconsistent with the regulations
contained in this Chapter.
   A.   Utilities Other Than Telecommunications Providers. In the event that a
utility other than a telecommunications provider has a franchise, license or
similar agreement with the Village, such franchise, license or similar
agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement and any
lawful renewal or extension thereof.
   B.   Telecommunications Providers. In the event of any conflict with, or
inconsistency between, the provisions of this Chapter and the provisions of any
franchise, license or similar agreement between the Village and any
telecommunications provider, the provisions of such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
(Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 5.105. ENCROACHMENTS.
   In all cases, it shall be unlawful for any person to erect or cause to be
erected, to retain or cause to be retained, any encroachment within the limits
of a State project right-of-way or roadway right-of-way where no project right-
of-way lines have been established. Project right-of-way lines have been
established at the following locations: All of that area within the corporate
limits of the Village of Mettawa lying along the north and south sides of
Illinois Route 60 (Town Line Road) from its intersection with the east right-
of-way line of Illinois Route 21 (Milwaukee Avenue) to the intersection of
Illinois Route 60 with the east right-of-way line of Interstate 94 (Tri-State
Toll Road). In addition, it shall be unlawful:
   A.   To deposit, throw, or place upon any public sidewalk, street, alley,
parkway or public place any waste, garbage, ashes, cinders, barrels,
combustibles or any other article which might obstruct or interfere with the
use of the street or which might cause injury to person, vehicles, animals or
property; and/or
   B.   To cause, create or maintain any obstruction of any street, alley,
sidewalk, parkway, fire hydrant or public way except as may be authorized by
the Village Engineer.
(Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
ARTICLE II. CONSTRUCTION IN AND USE OF PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION 5.201. ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   Every utility that occupies any right-of-way within the corporate limits of
the Village shall register on or before February 1 of each year with the
Village Engineer, providing the utility's name, address and regular business
telephone and facsimile numbers, the name of one (1) or more contact persons
who can act on behalf of the utility in connection with emergencies involving
the utility's facilities in the right-of-way and a twenty-four (24)-hour
telephone number for each such person, and evidence of insurance as required in
Section
5.206 of this Chapter.
(Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 5.202. PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATIONS AND FEES.
   A.   Permit Required. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct any
facility on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within any Village
right-of-way which (1) changes the location of the facility, (2) adds a new
facility, (3) disrupts the right-of-way, or (4) materially increases the amount
of area or space occupied by the facility on, over, above, along, under across
or within the right-of-way, without first filing an application with the
Village Engineer and obtaining a Village permit therefor, except as otherwise
provided in this Chapter. No permit shall be required for installation and
maintenance of service connections to customers' premises where there will be
no disruption of the right-of-way.
   B.   Permit Application. All applications for permits pursuant to this
Chapter shall be filed on a form provided by the Village Engineer and shall be
filed in such number of duplicate copies as the Village Engineer may designate.
The applicant may designate those portions of its application materials that it
reasonably believes contain proprietary or confidential information as
"proprietary" or "confidential" by clearly marking each page of such materials
accordingly.
   C.    Minimum General Application Requirements. The application shall be
made by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at
a minimum, the following:
      1.   The utility's name, address, telephone and facsimile numbers;
      2.   The applicant's name and address, if different than the utility, its
telephone, facsimile numbers, e-mail address, and its interest in the work;
      3.   The names, addresses, telephone and facsimile numbers, and e-mail
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application;
      4.   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
      5.   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the Village
Engineer:
         a.   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the Illinois Manual
on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
         b.   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies, including but not limited to construction and hazardous
materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant. The intended
response shall include notification to the Village Engineer and shall promote
protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with ICC
regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with this
Section unless the Village Engineer finds that additional information or
assurances are needed;
      6.   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of an engineer that such drawings, plans, and
specifications comply with applicable codes, rules, and regulations;
      7.   Evidence of insurance as required in Section
5.206 of this Chapter;
      8.   Evidence of depositing of the security in the security fund as
required in Section
5.208 of this Chapter;
      9.   A request for a deviation, if one is sought, from one (1) or more
provisions of this Chapter (See Section
5.219); and
      10.   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
Village Engineer.
   D.   Supplemental Application Requirements for Specific Types of Utilities.
In addition to the requirements of Subsection C of this Section, the permit
application shall include the following items, as applicable to the specific
utility that is the subject of the permit application:
      1.   In the case of the installation of a new electric power,
communications, telecommunications, cable television service, video service or
natural gas distribution system, evidence that any "Certificate of Public
Convenience and Necessity" or other regulatory authorization that the applicant
is required by law to obtain, or that the applicant has elected to obtain, has
been issued by the ICC or other jurisdictional authority;
      2.   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class, and operating pressures;
      3.   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, Division of Public Water Supplies,
have been satisfied;
      4.   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency,
Division of Water Pollution Control, the County of Lake and any other local or
state entities with jurisdiction, have been satisfied; or
      5.   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or types
of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure, and the design
standard to be followed.
   E.   Applicant's Duty to Update Information. Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility in writing to the Village Engineer within thirty (30)
days after the change necessitating the amendment.
   F.   Application Fees. Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license, or
similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant to this Chapter shall
be accompanied by a fee in the amount set forth in Chapter 2, Village
Government, Article X, Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1002, Fee Schedule. No application fee is required to be paid by any
electricity utility that is paying the municipal electricity infrastructure
maintenance fee pursuant to the Electricity Infrastructure Maintenance Fee Act.
(Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009; Am. Ord. 852,
passed 10-20-2020)
SECTION 5.203. ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   A.   Village Engineer Review of Permit Applications. Completed permit
applications, containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the
Village Engineer within a reasonable time after filing. If the application does
not conform to the requirements of applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules,
and regulations, the Village Engineer shall reject such application in writing,
stating the reasons therefor. If the Village Engineer is satisfied that the
proposed work conforms to the requirements of this Chapter and applicable
ordinances, codes, laws, rules, and regulations, the Village Engineer shall
issue a permit therefor as soon as practicable. In all instances, it shall be
the duty of the applicant to demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Village
Engineer, that the construction proposed under the application shall be in full
compliance with the requirements of this Chapter.
   B.   Additional Village Engineer Review of Applications of
Telecommunications Retailers.
      1.   Pursuant to Section 4 of the Telephone Company Act, 220 ILCS 65/4, a
telecommunications retailer shall notify the Village Engineer that it intends
to commence work governed by this Chapter for facilities for the provision of
telecommunications services. Such notice shall consist of plans,
specifications, and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the purpose
and intent of the facilities, and shall be provided by the telecommunications
retailer to the Village Engineer not less than ten (10) days prior to the
commencement of work requiring no excavation and not less than thirty (30) days
prior to the commencement of work requiring excavation. The Village Engineer
shall specify the portion of the right-of-way upon which the facility may be
placed, used and constructed.
      2.   In the event that the Village Engineer fails to provide such
specification of location to the telecommunications retailer within either (i)
ten (10) days after service of notice to the Village Engineer by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work not involving excavation for
new construction or (ii) twenty-five (25) days after service of notice by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work involving excavation for new
construction, the telecommunications retailer may commence work without
obtaining a permit under this Chapter.
      3.   Upon the provision of such specification by the Village Engineer,
where a permit is required for work pursuant to this Chapter the
telecommunications retailer shall submit to the Village Engineer an application
for a permit and any and all plans, specifications and documentation available
regarding the facility to be constructed. Such application shall be subject to
the requirements of Subsection A of this Section.
   C.    Additional Village Engineer Review of Applications of Holders of State
Authorization Under the Cable and Video Competition Law of 2007. Applications
by a utility that is a holder of a State-issued authorization under the Cable
and Video Competition Law of 2007 shall be deemed granted forty-five (45) days
after submission to the Village Engineer, unless otherwise acted upon by the
Village Engineer, provided the holder has complied with applicable Village
codes, ordinances, and regulations.
(Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 5.204. EFFECT OF PERMIT.
   A.   Authority Granted; No Property Right or Other Interest Created. A
permit issued by the Village Engineer in accordance with this Article
authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain activities in accordance with
this Chapter on Village owned land and/or rights-of-way, and does not create a
property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon the rights
of others who may have an interest in such land and/or the rights-of-way.
   B.   Duration. No permit issued under this Chapter shall be valid for a
period longer than six (6) months unless construction is actually begun within
that period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion.
   C.   Pre-construction Meeting Required. No construction shall begin pursuant
to a permit issued under this Chapter prior to attendance by the permittee and
all major contractors and subcontractors who will perform any work under the
permit at a pre-construction meeting. The pre-construction meeting shall be
held at a date, time and place designated by the Village Engineer with such
other Village representatives in attendance as the Village Engineer deems
necessary. The meeting shall be for the purpose of reviewing the work under the
permit, and reviewing special considerations necessary in the areas where work
will occur, including but not limited to presence or absence of other utility
facilities in the area and their locations, procedures to avoid disruption of
other utilities, use of rights-of-way by the public during construction, and
access and egress by adjacent property owners.
   D.   Compliance with All Laws Required. The issuance of a permit by the
Village Engineer does not excuse the permittee from complying with other
requirements of the Village and applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules,
and regulations.
   E.   Notice Before Commencement of Construction. A minimum of twenty-four
(24) hours prior written notice must be given to the Village Engineer before
any work shall begin pursuant to a permit issued under this Chapter.
   F.   Copy of Permit at Site Location. A copy of the issued permit shall be
kept at the work site at all times.
(Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 5.205. REVISED PERMIT DRAWINGS.
   In the event that the actual locations of any facilities deviate in any
material respect from the locations identified in the plans, drawings and
specifications submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall
submit a revised set of drawings or plans to the Village Engineer within ninety
(90) days after the completion of the permitted work. The revised drawings or
plans shall specifically identify where the locations of the actual facilities
deviate from the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation from the
permit also deviates from the requirements of this Chapter, it shall be treated
as a request for deviation in accordance with Section
5.219 of this Chapter. If the Village Engineer denies the request for a
deviation, then the permittee shall either remove the facility from the right-
of-way or modify the facility so that it conforms to the permit and submit
revised drawings or plans therefor.
(Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 5.206. INSURANCE.
   A.   Required Coverages and Limits. Unless otherwise provided by franchise,
license, or similar agreement, each utility occupying right-of-way or
constructing any facility in the right-of-way shall secure and maintain the
following liability insurance policies insuring the utility as named insured
and naming the Village, and its elected and appointed officers, officials,
agents, and employees as additional insureds on the policies listed in
paragraphs 1 and 2 below:
      1.   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse, and underground hazard (commonly referred to
as "X," "C" and "U" coverages) and products-completed operations coverage with
limits not less than:
         a.   Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000) for bodily injury or death to
each person;
         b.   Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000) for property damage resulting
from any one (1) accident; and
         c.   Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000) for all other types of
liability;
      2.   Automobile liability for owned, non-owned and hired vehicles with a
combined single limit of One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) for personal injury
and property damage for each accident;
      3.   Worker's compensation with statutory limits; and
      4.   Employer's liability insurance with limits of not less than One
Million Dollars ($1,000,000) per employee and per accident.
If the utility is not providing such insurance to protect the contractors and
subcontractors performing the work, then such contractors and subcontractors
shall comply with this Section.
   B.   Excess or Umbrella Policies. The coverages required by this Section may
be in any combination of primary, excess, and umbrella policies. Any excess or
umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following-form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   C.   Copies Required. The utility shall provide copies of all of the
policies required by this Section to the Village Engineer within ten (10) days
following receipt of a written request therefor from the Village Engineer.
   D.   Maintenance and Renewal of Required Coverages. The insurance policies
required by this Section shall contain the following endorsement:
"It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled nor
the intention not to renew be stated until thirty (30) days after receipt by
the Village Engineer, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt
requested, of a written notice addressed to the Village Engineer of such intent
to cancel or not to renew."
Within ten (10) days after receipt by the Village Engineer of said notice, and
in no event later than ten (10) days prior to said cancellation, the utility
shall obtain and furnish to the Village Engineer evidence of replacement
insurance policies meeting the requirements of this Section.
   E.   Self-Insurance. A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by Subsection A of this
Section. A utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such
self-insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional
insureds under Subsection A or the requirements of Subsections B, C and D of
this Section. A utility that elects to self-insure shall provide to the Village
Engineer evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-
insure the insurance coverage and limit requirements required under Subsection
A of this Section, such as evidence that the utility is a "private self
insurer" under the Workers Compensation Act.
   F.   Effect of Insurance and Self-Insurance on Utility's Liability. The
legal liability of the utility to the Village and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this Section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
   G.   Insurance Companies. All insurance provided pursuant to this section
shall be effected under valid and enforceable policies, issued by insurers
legally able to conduct business with the licensee in the State of Illinois.
All insurance carriers and surplus line carriers shall be rated "A-" or better
and of a class size "X" or higher by A.M. Best Company.
(Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 5.207. INDEMNIFICATION.
   By occupying or constructing facilities in the right-of-way, a utility shall
be deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the Village and its elected
and appointed officials and officers, employees, agents and representatives
harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims, demands, judgments,
damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney's fees and costs of
suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise out of or
result from the negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to
act or misconduct of the utility or its affiliates, officers, employees,
agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction of facilities or
occupancy of the rights-of-way, and in providing or offering service over the
facilities, whether such acts or omissions are authorized, allowed or
prohibited by this Chapter or by a franchise, license, or similar agreement;
provided, however, that the utility's indemnity obligations hereunder shall not
apply to any injuries, claims, demands, judgments, damages, losses or expenses
arising out of or resulting from the negligence, misconduct or breach of this
Chapter by the Village, its officials, officers, employees, agents or
representatives.
(Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 5.208. SECURITY.
   A.   Purpose. The permittee shall establish a Security Fund in a form and in
an amount as set forth in this Section. The Security Fund shall be continuously
maintained in accordance with this Section at the permittee's sole cost and
expense until the completion of the work authorized under the permit. The
Security Fund shall serve as security for:
      1.   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements of
this Chapter;
      2.   Any expenditure, damage, or loss incurred by the Village occasioned
by the permittee's failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations,
orders, permits and other directives of the Village Engineer issued pursuant to
this Chapter; and
      3.   The payment by the permittee of all liens and all damages, claims,
costs, or expenses that the Village may pay or incur by reason of any action or
non-performance by the permittee in violation of this Chapter including but not
limited to any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this Chapter to perform that the Village must perform itself or
have completed as a consequence solely of the permittee's failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the Village from the permittee pursuant to
this Chapter or any other applicable law.
   B.   Form. The permittee shall provide the Security Fund to the Village in
the form, at the permittee's election, of cash, a surety bond in a form
acceptable to the Village Attorney, or an unconditional letter of credit in a
form acceptable to the Village Attorney. Any surety bond or letter of credit
provided pursuant to this Subsection shall, at a minimum:
      1.   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
Village Engineer and the permittee;
      2.   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by
the Village of any amounts covered by it; and
      3.   Provide a location convenient to the Village Engineer and within the
State of Illinois at which it can be drawn.
   C.   Amount. The dollar amount of the Security Fund shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right-of-way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the Village Engineer, and may also include reasonable,
directly related costs that the Village Engineer estimates are likely to be
incurred by or on behalf of the Village if the permittee fails to perform such
restoration. Where the construction of facilities proposed under the permit
will be performed in phases in multiple locations within the corporate limits
of the Village, with each phase consisting of construction of facilities in one
(1) location or a related group of locations, and where construction in another
phase will not be undertaken prior to substantial completion of restoration in
the previous phase or phases, the Village Engineer may, in the exercise of
sound discretion, allow the permittee to post a single amount of security which
shall be applicable to each phase of the construction under the permit. The
amount of the Security Fund for phased construction shall be equal to the
greatest amount that would have been required under the provisions of this
Subsection C for any single phase.
   D.   Withdrawals. The Village Engineer, upon fourteen (14) days' advance
written notice clearly stating the reason for, and its intention to exercise
withdrawal rights under this Subsection, may withdraw an amount from the
Security Fund, provided that the permittee has not reimbursed the Village for
such amount within the fourteen (14) day notice period. Withdrawals may be made
if the permittee:
      1.   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
      2.   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due and
unpaid;
      3.   Fails to reimburse the Village for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the Village has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or non-performance by the permittee; or
      4.   Fails to comply with any provision of this Chapter that the Village
Engineer determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the
Security Fund.
   E.   Replenishment. Within fourteen (14) days after receipt of written
notice from the Village Engineer that an amount has been withdrawn from the
Security Fund, the permittee shall restore the Security Fund to the amount
specified in Subsection C of this Section.
   F.   Interest. The permittee may request that any and all interest accrued
on the amount in the Security Fund be returned to the permittee by the Village,
upon written request for said return to the Village Engineer, provided that any
such return of interest does not reduce the Security Fund below the minimum
balance required in Subsection C of this Section.
   G.   Closing and Return of Security Fund. Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the Security Fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the Village for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
Chapter or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the permit,
the Security Fund, and any and all accrued interest therein, shall become the
property of the Village to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable costs,
loss or damage incurred by the Village as a result of said revocation, provided
that any amounts in excess of said costs, loss or damage shall be refunded to
the permittee.
   H.   Rights Not Limited. The rights reserved to the Village with respect to
the Security Fund are in addition to all other rights of the Village, whether
reserved by this Chapter or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to said Security Fund shall affect
any other right the Village may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
Village shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any
of its rights which may be infringed or otherwise violated.
(Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 5.209. PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   A.   Village Right to Revoke Permit. The Village Engineer may revoke or
suspend a permit issued pursuant to this Chapter for one (1) or more of the
following reasons:
      1.   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting, or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      2.    Non-compliance with this Chapter;
      3.   Permittee's physical presence or presence of permittee's facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights-of-way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety, or welfare;
or
      4.   Permittee's failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   B.   Notice of Revocation or Suspension. The Village Engineer shall send
written notice of the Village's intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued
pursuant to this Chapter stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or
suspension and the alternatives available to the permittee under this Section.
   C.   Permittee Alternatives Upon Receipt of Notice of Revocation or
Suspension. While (in its sole discretion and for good cause shown) the Village
Board may extend the time periods provided in this Subsection, upon receipt of
a written notice of revocation or suspension from the Village Engineer, the
permittee shall have the following options:
      1.   Immediately provide the Village Engineer with evidence that no cause
exists for the revocation or suspension;
      2.   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the Village Engineer,
the deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the Village Engineer within five (5) working days after receipt
of the written notice of revocation; or
      3.   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above, along,
upon, under, across, or within the rights-of-way and restore the rights-of-way
to the satisfaction of the Village Engineer providing written proof of such
removal to the Village Engineer within ten (10) days after receipt of the
written notice of revocation.
   D.   Stop Work Order. In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the Village Engineer may issue a stop work order immediately
upon discovery of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within Subsection
A of this Section.
   E.   Failure or Refusal of the Permittee to Comply. If the permittee fails
to comply with the provisions of Subsection C of this Section, the Village
Engineer or his designee may, at the option of the Village Engineer: (1)
correct the deficiencies; (2) upon not less than twenty (20) days notice to the
permittee, remove the subject facilities or equipment; or (3) after not less
than thirty (30) days notice to the permittee of failure to cure the non-
compliance, deem them abandoned and property of the Village. The permittee
shall be liable in all events to the Village for all costs of removal.
(Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 5.210. CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OR OWNER'S IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS.
   A.   Notification of Change. A utility shall notify the Village Engineer no
less than thirty (30) days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility
in the right-of-way or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the
utility or the facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed
by the former owner under the permit, if any, and applicable laws, ordinances,
rules and regulations, including this Chapter, with respect to the work and
facilities in the right-of-way.
   B.   Amended Permit. A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the Village's right-
of-way.
   C.   Insurance and Bonding. All required insurance coverage or bonding must
be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer and submitted to
the Village Engineer in accordance with Section
5.206.
(Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 5.211. GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   A.   Standards and Principles. All construction in the right-of-way shall be
consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations, and
commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction principles,
sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the principles and standards
set forth in the following IDOT publications, as amended from time to time:
      1.   Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction;
      2.   Supplemental Specifications and Recurring Special Provisions;
      3.   Highway Design Manual;
      4.   Highway Standards Manual;
      5.   Standard Specifications for Traffic Control Items;
      6.   Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (92 Ill. Adm.
Code § 545);
      7.   Flagger's Handbook; and
      8.   Work Site Protection Manual for Daylight Maintenance Operations.
   B.   Interpretation of Municipal Standards and Principles. If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
Chapter, the Village Engineer shall determine, in the exercise of sound
engineering judgment, which principles apply and such decision shall be final.
If requested, the Village Engineer shall state which standard or principle will
apply to the construction, maintenance, or operation of a facility in the
future.
(Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 5.212. TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   A.    Minimum Requirements. The Village's minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT's Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices and this Code.
   B.   Warning Signs, Protective Devices, and Flaggers. The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting applicable federal, state, and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility's workers when
performing any work on the rights-of-way.
   C.   Interference with Traffic. All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   D.   Notice When Access is Blocked. At least forty-eight (48) hours prior to
beginning work that will partially or completely block access to any residence,
business or institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business or
institution of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work;
provided, however, that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to
Section
5.218 of this Chapter, the utility shall provide such notice as is practicable
under the circumstances.
   E.   Compliance. The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility's attention by the Village Engineer.
(Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 5.213. LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   A.   General Requirements. In addition to location requirements applicable
to specific types of utility facilities, all utility facilities, regardless of
type, shall be subject to the general location requirements of this Subsection.
      1.   No Interference with Village Operations. No utility facilities shall
be placed in any location if the Village Engineer determines that the proposed
location will require the relocation or displacement of any Village facilities
or will otherwise interfere with Village operations.
      2.   Minimum Interference and Impact. The proposed location shall cause
only the minimum possible interference with the use of the right-of-way and
shall cause only the minimum possible impact upon, and interference with the
rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin said right-of-
way.
      3.   No Interference with Travel. No utility facility shall be placed in
any location that interferes with the usual travel on such right-of-way.
      4.   No Limitations on Visibility. No utility facility shall be placed in
any location so as to limit visibility of or by users of the right-of-way.
      5.   Size of Utility Facilities. The proposed installation shall use the
smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals, and/or
cabinets then in use by the facility owner, regardless of location, for the
particular application.
   B.   Parallel Facilities Located Within Highways.
      1.   Overhead Parallel Facilities. An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         a.   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right-of-way line
and as nearly parallel to the right-of-way line as reasonable pole alignment
will permit;
         b.   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable from
the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (0.6 m) behind the face of the
curb, where available;
         c.   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement
edge as practicable with minimum distance of four feet (1.2 m) outside the
outer shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
         d.   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
         e.   Any ground-mounted appurtenance is located within one (1) foot
(0.3 m) of the right-of-way line or as near as possible to the right-of-way
line.
      2.   Underground Parallel Facilities. An underground parallel facility
may be located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         a.   The facility is located as near the right-of-way line as
practicable and not more than eight (8) feet (2.4 m) from and parallel to the
right-of-way line;
         b.   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
highway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
         c.   In the case of an underground power or communications line, the
facility shall be located as near the right-of-way line as practicable and not
more than five (5) feet (1.5 m) from the right-of-way line and any above-
grounded appurtenance shall be located within one (1) foot (0.3 m) of the
right-of-way line or as near as practicable.
   C.   Facilities Crossing Highways.
      1.   No Future Disruption. The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of Village highways
may require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement
or additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      2.   Cattle Passes, Culverts, or Drainage Facilities. Crossing facilities
shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts, or drainage facilities.
      3.   90 Degree Crossing Required. Crossing facilities shall cross at or
as near to a ninety (90) degree angle to the centerline as practicable.
      4.   Overhead Power or Communication Facility. An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         a.   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ICC's
rules entitled, "Construction of Electric Power and Communication Lines" (83
Ill. Adm. Code 305);
         b.   Poles are located within one (1) foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way
line of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
         c.   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
      5.   Underground Power or Communication Facility. An underground power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         a.   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance-free service life; and
         b.   Capacity for the utility's foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
      6.   Markers. The Village Engineer may require the utility to provide a
marker at each right-of-way line where an underground facility other than a
power or communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify
the type of facility, the utility, and an emergency phone number. Markers may
also be eliminated as provided in current Federal regulations. (49 C.F.R.
§192.707 (1989)).
   D.   Facilities to be Located Within Particular Rights-of-Way. The Village
Engineer may require that facilities be located within particular rights-of-way
that are not highways, rather than within particular highways.
   E.   Freestanding Facilities.
      1.   The Village Engineer may restrict the location and size of any
freestanding facility located within a right-of-way.
      2.   The Village Engineer may require any freestanding facility located
within a right-of-way to be screened from view.
   F.   Facilities Installed Above Ground. Above ground facilities may be
installed only if:
      1.   No other existing facilities in the area are located underground;
      2.   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
      3.   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting
armless, single-pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and
cable. Existing utility poles and light standards shall be used wherever
practicable; the installation of additional utility poles is strongly
discouraged.
   G.   Facility Attachments to Bridges or Roadway Structures.
      1.   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive, or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk and such installations are not
permitted.
      2.   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
         a.   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
         b.   The type, length, value, and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
         c.   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
         d.   The proposed method of attachment;
         e.   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
         f.   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
         g.   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
         h.   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved.
   H.   Appearance Standards.
      1.   The Village Engineer may prohibit the installation of facilities in
particular locations in order to preserve visual quality.
      2.   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the right-of-way user or to adjacent residents and property owners, and if it
does not impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed.
(Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 5.214. CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS.
   A.   Standards and Requirements for Particular Types of Construction
Methods.
      1.   Boring or Jacking.
         a.   Pits and Shoring. Boring or jacking under rights-of-way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the Village
Engineer from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring or jacking shall be
excavated no more than forty-eight (48) hours in advance of boring or jacking
operations and backfilled within forty-eight (48) hours after boring or jacking
operations are completed. While pits are open, they shall be clearly marked and
protected by barricades. Shoring shall be designed, erected, supported, braced,
and maintained so that it will safely support all vertical and lateral loads
that may be imposed upon it during the boring or jacking operation.
         b.   Wet Boring or Jetting. Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
         c.   Borings with Diameters Greater Than six (6) Inches. Borings over
six (6) inches (0.15 m) in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and
following pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside
diameter of the following pipe by more than one (1) inch (25 mm).
         d.   Borings with Diameters six (6) Inches or Less. Borings of six (6)
inches or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with
auger, or auger and following pipe method.
         e.   Tree Preservation. Any facility located within the drip line of
any tree designated by the Village Engineer to be preserved or protected shall
be bored under or around the root system.
      2.   Trenching. Trenching for facility installation, repair, or
maintenance on rights-of-way shall be done in accord with the applicable
portions of Section 603 of IDOT's "Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction."
         a.   Length. The length of open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipe-line testing. Only
one-half (½) of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless
special permission is obtained from the Village Engineer.
         b.   Open Trench and Excavated Material. Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by Chapter 6 of the Illinois
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where right-of-way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off-road location.
         c.   Drip Line of Trees. The utility shall not trench within the drip
line of any tree designated by the Village Engineer to be preserved.
      3.   Backfilling.
         a.   Any pit, trench, or excavation created during the installation of
facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth, and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT's "Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction." When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
         b.   For a period of three (3) years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible for removal and
restoration of any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the
facility. If so ordered by the Village Engineer, the utility, at its expense,
shall remove any pavement and backfill material to the top of the installed
facility, place and properly compact new backfill material, and restore new
pavement, sidewalk, curbs, and driveways to the proper grades, as determined by
the Village Engineer.
      4.   Pavement Cuts. Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall be permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed
to traffic. If a deviation to the limitation set forth in this paragraph 4) is
permitted under Section
5.219, the following requirements shall apply:
         a.   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled and compacted
as soon as practicable with granular material of CA-6 or CA-10 gradation, as
designated by the Engineer.
         b.   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as soon
as practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the Village Engineer.
         c.   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
         d.   For all rights-of-way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last seven (7) years, or resurfaced in the last
three (3) years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to
be an emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before
the time of the reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a
J.U.L.I.E. locate.
      5.   Encasement.
         a.   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one-piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
Village Engineer.
         b.   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
(1) foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way line. No above-ground vent pipes shall be
located in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of
the highway.
         c.   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall
be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or Village Engineer
approved jointed pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if
pipe is installed prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous
or mechanical joints are of a type approved by the Village Engineer. Bell and
spigot type pipe shall be encased regardless of installation method.
         d.   In the case of gas pipelines of sixty (60) psig or less,
encasement may be eliminated.
         e.   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines with
installations of more than sixty (60) psig, encasement may be eliminated only
if: (1) extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or repair
and (2) cathodic protection of the pipe is provided;
         f.   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right-of-way.
      6.   Minimum Cover of Underground Facilities. Cover shall be provided and
maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for minimum
cover for the type of facility:
 
TYPE OF FACILITY                      MINIMUM COVER
Electric lines                        30 inches (0.8 m)
Communication, cable or video service 18 to 24 inches (0.6 m, as determined by
lines                                 Village Engineer)
Gas or petroleum products             30 inches (0.8 m)
Water line                            Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                      protection
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer, or       Sufficient cover to provide freeze
drainage line                         protection
 
   B.   Standards and Requirements for Particular Types of Facilities.
      1.   Electric Power or Communication Lines.
         a.   Code Compliance. Electric power or communications facilities
within Village rights-of-way shall be constructed, operated, and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Ill. Adm. Code Part 305 (formerly General
Order 160 of the Illinois Commerce Commission) entitled "Rules for Construction
of Electric Power and Communications Lines," and the National Electrical Safety
Code.
         b.   Overhead Facilities. Overhead power or communication facilities
shall use single pole construction and, where practicable, joint use of poles
shall be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the
installation so guys and braces will not be needed. Deviations may be allowed
if there is no feasible alternative and if guy wires are equipped with guy
guards for maximum visibility.
         c.   Underground Facilities. (1) Cable may be installed by trenching
or plowing, provided that special consideration is given to boring in order to
minimize damage when crossing improved entrances and side roads. (2) If a
crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement shall be provided
between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated only if: (a) the
crossing is installed by the use of "moles," "whip augers," or other approved
method which compress the earth to make the opening for cable installation or
(b) the installation is by the open trench method which is only permitted prior
to roadway construction. (3) Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the
National Electrical Safety Code.
         d.   Burial of Drops. All temporary service drops placed between
November 1 of the prior year and March 15 of the current year, also known as
snowdrops, shall be buried by May 31 of the current year, weather permitting,
unless otherwise permitted by the Village Engineer. Weather permitting,
utilities shall bury all temporary drops, excluding snowdrops, within ten (10)
business days after placement.
      2.   Underground Facilities Other than Electric Power or Communication
Lines. Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         a.   The use of "moles," "whip augers," or other approved methods
which compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         b.   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
         c.   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines
or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
         d.   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is not
possible by other means.
      3.   Gas Transmission, Distribution and Service. Gas pipelines within
rights-of-way shall be constructed, maintained, and operated in a Village
approved manner and in conformance with the Federal Code of the Office of
Pipeline Safety Operations, Department of Transportation, Part 192 -
Transportation of Natural and Other Gas by Pipeline: Minimum Federal Safety
Standards (49 CFR §192), IDOT's "Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction," and all other applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
      4.   Petroleum Products Pipelines. Petroleum products pipelines within
rights-of-way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI Standard Code
for Pressure Piping. (Liquid Petroleum Transportation Piping Systems ANSI-
B 31.4).
      5.   Waterlines, Sanitary Sewer Lines, Storm Water Sewer Lines or
Drainage Lines. Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines, and
drainage lines within rights-of-way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of
the current "Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in
Illinois."
      6.   Ground Mounted Appurtenances. Ground mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right-of-way, shall
be provided with a vegetation-free area extending one (1) foot (305 mm) in
width beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation-free area may
be provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or
similar material approved by the Village Engineer. With the approval of the
Village Engineer, shrubbery surrounding the appurtenance may be used in place
of vegetation-free area. The housing for ground-mounted appurtenances shall be
painted a neutral color to blend with the surroundings.
   C.   Materials.
      1.   General Standards. The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights-of-way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT's "Standards
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction," the requirements of the
Illinois Commerce Commission, or the standards established by other official
regulatory agencies for the appropriate industry.
      2.   Material Storage on Right-of-Way. No material shall be stored on the
right-of-way without the prior written approval of the Village Engineer. When
such storage is permitted, all pipe, conduit, wire, poles, cross arms, or other
materials shall be distributed along the right-of-way prior to and during
installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public or an obstacle to
right-of-way maintenance or damage to the right-of-way and other property.
      3.   Hazardous Materials. The plans submitted by the utility to the
Village Engineer shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in
the construction of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
   D.   Operational Restrictions.
      1.   Construction operations on rights-of-way may, at the discretion of
the Village Engineer, be required to be discontinued when such operations would
create hazards to traffic or the public health, safety, and welfare. Such
operations may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when
conditions are such that construction would result in extensive damage to the
right-of-way or other property.
      2.   These restrictions may be waived by the Village Engineer when
emergency work is required to restore vital utility services.
      3.   Unless otherwise permitted by the Village Engineer, the hours of
construction are those set forth in Chapter 9 of this Code.
   E.   Location of Existing Facilities. Any utility proposing to construct
facilities within the corporate limits of the Village shall contact J.U.L.I.E.
and ascertain the presence and location of existing above-ground and
underground facilities within the rights-of-way to be occupied by its proposed
facilities. The Village Engineer will make Village permit records available to
a utility for the purpose of identifying possible facilities. When notified of
an excavation or when requested by the Village Engineer or by J.U.L.I.E., a
utility shall locate and physically mark its underground facilities within 48
hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in accordance with the Illinois
Underground Facilities Damage Prevention Act (220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.)
(Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 5.215. VEGETATION CONTROL.
   A.   Electric Utilities - Compliance with State Laws and Regulations. An
electric utility shall conduct all tree-trimming and vegetation control
activities in the right-of-way in accordance with applicable Illinois laws and
regulations, and additionally, with such local franchise or other agreement
with the Village.
   B.   Other Utilities - Tree Trimming Permit Required. Tree trimming that is
done by any other utility with facilities in the right-of-way and that is not
performed pursuant to applicable Illinois laws and regulations specifically
governing same, shall not be considered a normal maintenance operation, but
shall require the application for, and the issuance of, a permit, in addition
to any other permit required under this Chapter.
      1.   Application for Tree Trimming Permit. Applications for tree trimming
permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by competent
workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning
practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the
interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
      2.   Damage to Trees. Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The Village will
require compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed
without authorization. The formula developed by the International Society of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The Village Engineer may
require the removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning
would leave them in an unacceptable condition.
   C.   Specimen Trees or Trees of Special Significance. The Village Engineer
may require that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees
of special significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles,
side arm extensions, covered wire or other means.
   D.   Chemical Use.
      1.   Except as provided in the following paragraph, no utility shall
spray, inject or pour any chemicals on or near any trees, shrubs or vegetation
within the corporate limits of the Village for any purpose, including the
control of growth, insects or disease.
      2.   Spraying of any type of brush-killing chemicals will not be
permitted on rights-of-way unless the utility demonstrates to the satisfaction
of the Village Engineer that such spraying is the only practicable method of
vegetation control.
(Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 5.216. REMOVAL, RELOCATION, OR MODIFICATIONS OF UTILITY FACILITIES.
   A.   Notice. Within ninety (90) days following written notice from the
Village Engineer, a utility shall, at its own expense, protect, support,
temporarily or permanently disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the
position of any utility facilities within the rights-of-way whenever the
corporate authorities have determined that such removal, relocation, change or
alteration, is reasonably necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance,
or installation of any Village improvement in or upon, or the operations of the
Village in or upon, the rights-of-way.
   B.   Removal of Unauthorized Facilities. Within thirty (30) days following
written notice from the Village Engineer, any utility that owns, controls, or
maintains any unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the rights-
of-way shall, at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or
appurtenances from the rights-of-way. A facility is unauthorized and subject to
removal in the following circumstances:
      1.   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee's license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      2.   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior grant
of a license or franchise, if required;
      3.   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this Chapter; or
      4.   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee's license or franchise.
   C.   Emergency Removal or Relocation of Facilities. The Village retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights-of-
way of the Village, as the Village Engineer may determine to be necessary,
appropriate or useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If
circumstances permit, the Village shall attempt to notify the utility, if
known, prior to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if
known, after cutting or removing a facility.
   D.   Abandonment of Facilities. Upon abandonment of a facility within the
rights-of-way of the Village, the utility shall notify the Village Engineer of
such abandonment within ninety (90) days. Following receipt of such notice, the
Village Engineer may direct the utility to remove all or any portion of the
facility, if the Village Engineer determines that such removal will be in the
best interest of the public health, safety and welfare. In the event that the
Village Engineer does not direct the utility to remove that abandoned facility,
by its having given the Village Engineer the aforesaid notice of abandonment,
the abandoning utility shall be deemed to have consented to the alteration or
removal of all or any portion of the facility by another utility or person.
(Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 5.217. CLEAN-UP AND RESTORATION.
   The utility shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and
terrain and other property within ten (10) days after any portion of the
rights-of-way are disturbed, damaged or destroyed due to construction or
maintenance by the utility, all to the satisfaction of the Village Engineer.
This includes restoration of entrances and side roads. Restoration of roadway
surfaces shall be made using materials and methods approved by the Village
Engineer. Such cleanup and repair may be required to consist of backfilling,
regrading, reseeding, resodding, or any other requirement to restore the right-
of-way to a condition substantially equivalent to that which existed prior to
the commencement of the project. The time period provided in this Section may
be extended by the Village Engineer for good cause shown.
(Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 5.218. MAINTENANCE AND EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE.
   A.   General. Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or
within rights-of-way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the Village Engineer and at the utility's expense.
   B.   Emergency Maintenance Procedures. Emergencies may justify noncompliance
with normal procedures for securing a permit:
      1.   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right-of-way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right-of-way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
      2.   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
Village Engineer or his duly authorized agent of the emergency, informing him
or her as to what steps have been taken for protection of the traveling public
and what will be required to make the necessary repairs. If the nature of the
emergency is such as to interfere with the free movement of traffic, the police
shall be notified immediately.
      3.   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to complete
repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to the
traveling public.
   C.   Emergency Repairs. The utility must file with the Village Engineer a
written description of the repairs undertaken in the right-of-way within forty-
eight (48) hours after an emergency repair.
(Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 5.219. DEVIATIONS.
   A.   Request for Deviation. A utility requesting a deviation from one (1) or
more of the provisions of this Chapter must do so in writing to the Village
Engineer as a part of the permit application. The request shall identify each
provision of this Chapter from which a deviation is requested and the reasons
why a deviation should be granted.
   B.   Authority to Grant Deviations. The Village Engineer shall decide
whether a deviation is authorized for each provision of this Chapter identified
in the deviation request on an individual basis.
   C.   Conditions for Granting of Deviation. The Village Engineer may
authorize a deviation only if the utility requesting the deviation has
demonstrated that:
      1.   One (1) or more conditions not under the control of the utility
(such as terrain features or an irregular right-of-way line) create a special
hardship that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the
public purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
      2.   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that
would conform with the provision from which a deviation is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
   D.   Additional Conditions for Granting a Deviation. As a condition for
authorizing a deviation, the Village Engineer may require the utility
requesting the deviation to meet reasonable standards and conditions that may
or may not be expressly contained within this Chapter but which carry out the
purposes of this Chapter.
   E.   Right to Appeal. Any utility aggrieved by any order, requirement,
decision or determination, including denial of a deviation, made by the Village
Engineer under the provisions of this Chapter shall have the right to appeal to
the Village Board, or such other board or commission as it may designate. The
application for appeal shall be submitted in writing to the Village Clerk
within thirty (30) days after the date of such order, requirement, decision or
determination. The Village Board shall commence its consideration of the appeal
at the Board's next regularly scheduled meeting occurring at least seven (7)
days after the filing of the appeal. The Village Board shall timely decide the
appeal.
(Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
ARTICLE III. DRIVEWAYS
SECTION 5.301. PERMIT REQUIRED TO BUILD DRIVEWAY APPROACH OVER SIDEWALK OR
PARKWAY.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall hereafter construct, replace,
reconstruct, build, establish or maintain any driveway approach over, across or
upon any portion of the public sidewalk or public parkway or improved portion
of any public right-of-way without first having obtained a written permit to do
so from the President and Board of Trustees. No such permit shall be issued
except in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter.
(Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 5.302. NONCONFORMANCE.
   Existing driveway approaches serving any single-family dwelling shall be
considered to be in compliance with this Chapter and need not be brought into
compliance with the several provisions of this Chapter except in cases where
the property served has been rezoned to other than single-family residential
and/or where the driveway approaches are replaced or significantly altered or
reconstructed and/or except in those cases which create or constitute a public
nuisance or interfere with drainage facilities.
(Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 5.303. APPLICATION FOR DRIVEWAY PERMIT.
   A.   Prior to commencing construction of any new building or excavation
therefor, application for a driveway approach permit shall be made to the
Director of Building and Zoning and subject to approval of the building permit,
a temporary driveway approach may be constructed under such permit in
compliance with the specifications hereinafter set forth.
   B.   Application for a driveway approach permit shall be made to the
Director of Building and Zoning upon forms prescribed and furnished by him, and
such driveway approach shall be constructed in compliance with standards and
specifications of the Village, and shall be subject to such fees as are
prescribed herein.
   C.   Such application shall contain the names and addresses of the owner and
lessee, if any, of the premises to be served by the proposed approach; and the
present and proposed use of all property to be served by said driveway.
   D.   Such application shall contain the names and addresses of the general
contractor and the contractor or contractors who will construct any portion of
said driveway, including the excavation contractor, concrete contractor and/or
black-top contractor.
   E.   Said application shall be accompanied by a plot plan of the site and
properly drawn to scale and showing proposed location and dimensions of said
approach and driveway, the location of adjacent streets and alleys and all
other approaches connected with or serving the property, and the location on
the public parkway of sidewalks, water meter vaults, manholes, fire hydrants,
trees, shrubbery and all other such appurtenances as may be located thereupon.
   F.   Said application shall be accompanied by complete plans and
specifications to Village standards of the proposed driveway approach, which
shall include grades of the proposed approach and driveway and shall indicate
any change in the existing grade of the parkway or sidewalk and whether, in
construction, it will be necessary to alter the street curb.
(Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 5.304. APPROVAL OF DRIVEWAY PERMIT APPLICATION.
   A.   An application shall be approved and a permit issued only upon a
determination by the President and Board of Trustees that the driveway approach
proposed will not create undue safety hazards in the use of the street, parkway
or sidewalk adjoining the property to be served by the proposed driveway or the
immediate vicinity thereof and upon its determination that the existing and
proposed uses of the property conform in all respects to existing traffic,
zoning, and building ordinances.
   B.   In no event shall a driveway permit application be approved for
property having frontage on two (2) or more roadways where one (1) of such
roadways is under the exclusive jurisdiction of the State of Illinois. In such
instance all driveways for access to and/or egress from such property shall be
located adjacent to such State of Illinois right-of-way and no such driveway
shall give access to or egress from such property from or to any roadway under
the jurisdiction and control of the Village of Mettawa.
(Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 5.305. CONDITIONS OF DRIVEWAY PERMIT.
   A.   Every permit for the construction of a driveway approach shall contain
express undertaking that the owner of the property served by such driveway will
at his own expense, remove such driveway approach and construct or restore the
curb, parkway, sidewalk, and street gradient upon a change from the use which
necessitated the existence of such driveway approach or upon the abandonment of
the use of such driveway approach; and maintain the same in good repair, free
from obstructions and openings, and in a safe condition for pedestrian or
vehicular travel, including the portions of the public parkway and public
sidewalk which said driveway approach crosses.
   B.   If a driveway approach for which a permit has been issued is not
completed in compliance with the provisions of this ordinance within six (6)
calendar months after the date of such permit, or prior to occupancy of the
building served by the driveway approach, the Director of Building and Zoning
shall, except as hereinafter provided, declare the applicant in default, the
permit expired and void, and then proceed to have the uncompleted driveway
approach removed and the site restored to the condition existing prior to
issuance of such permit, or, in the alternative, at his discretion, proceed to
have the driveway approach completed and the cost of such removal or completion
shall be deducted from the cash deposit.
   C.   The Director of Building and Zoning may, at his discretion and for good
cause shown, grant an extension of the time for completion of such driveway
approach, except such extension shall not exceed a total period of twelve (12)
calendar months from the date of issuance of said permit.
(Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 5.306. CASH BOND REQUIRED OF CONTRACTOR.
   A.   Before issuance of any such permit, the contractor or person proposing
to construct such driveway shall file with the Village Engineer, on a form
furnished by the Village and approved by the Village Attorney, a penal cash
bond in the sum of Five Thousand Dollars ($5,000), conditioned that the makers
shall faithfully observe and fully comply with the provisions of all applicable
ordinances of the Village and any other person who may be injured against all
and any loss, cost, damage or expense, including reasonable attorney's fees
incurred directly or indirectly by reason of:
      1.   Failure of the principal to observe any ordinance of the Village
pertaining to streets, sidewalks, parkways or driveways;
      2.   Failure of the principal to observe all rules and regulations
established under the authority of any ordinances of the Village pertaining to
streets, sidewalks, parkways or driveways;
      3.   Negligence of the firm or its employees performing or protecting any
work upon a street, sidewalk, parkway or driveway;
      4.   Failure of the principal to correct or complete any error or
omission which fails to comply with the applicable ordinances of the Village.
All such bonds shall be continuing, until terminated by the Village thirty (30)
days following completion of the driveway for which the permit was issued.
   B.   In those cases where extensive modifications of existing public
improvements are required, the cash deposit shall be increased to an amount
equal to one and one-quarter (1¼) times the cost estimated by the Village
Engineer to make such modifications.
   C.   If after ten (10) days' notice the contractor fails to repair or to
replace the damaged public property or to complete the driveway approach in
conformity with the standards provided herein, the Village shall deduct from
the amount of said cash bond the amount of the cost of repair or replacement
for any damage done to public property by the contractor in prosecution of the
work for which the permit has been issued or such costs of completion or
removal of said approach as the case may be. Such deposit or the residuum
thereof in the event of deduction for damage to public property or completion
or removal thereof, shall be returned upon application by the depositor or his
assignee after inspection and approval of the work by the Director of Building
and Zoning. In the event, however, of nonconformity by the contractor with any
ordinance of the Village, the full amount of said bond shall be forfeited to
the Village.
(Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 5.307. PERMIT FEES.
   For all new driveway approach construction, upon issuance of a driveway or
curb change permit, the applicant shall pay to the Village Clerk or Village
Collector permit and inspection fees in the amount set forth in Chapter 2,
Village Government, Article X, Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1002, Fee Schedule.
(Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009; Am. Ord. 852,
passed 10-20-2020)
SECTION 5.308. DRIVEWAY WORK TO BE SUPERVISED AND INSPECTED BY VILLAGE.
   A.   All driveway work shall be done under the jurisdiction and upon the
inspection of the Director of Building and Zoning in accordance with the
ordinances of the Village.
   B.   The applicant for a driveway permit shall notify the Director of
Building and Zoning not less than twenty-four (24) hours prior to the
commencement of construction that the site is ready for inspections as provided
herein:
      1.   Inspection of Temporary Driveways. Temporary driveways shall be
subject to inspection:
         a.   When the curbing has been removed and excavation completed prior
to backfilling;
         b.   Upon completion of backfilling.
      2.   Inspection of Permanent Driveways. Inspections shall be required:
         a.   Upon completion of removal of curb sections, excavation,
placement of forms for curb-gutter section and sidewalk section;
         b.   After placement of backfill material;
         c.   Upon completion of pouring of curb-gutter sections, sidewalk
sections; and
         d.   Upon completion of the surfacing of the driveway approach and
accessway.
(Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 5.309. TEMPORARY DRIVEWAYS.
   A.   Subject to approval of the Director of Building and Zoning, temporary
driveway approaches may be constructed as specified herein, except that a
permanent driveway approach complying with the provisions of this Chapter shall
be constructed and completed for use prior to completion and occupancy of the
building located upon the property served by such driveway.
   B.   Prior to commencing construction of any kind upon any lot or tract of
land, the street curb at the approved location of the driveway approach shall
be removed and the driveway excavated from the roadway surfacing to a distance
within such lot or tract of land, of fifty percent (50%) and not less than
twenty-five (25) feet of the distance from the lot line to the building line,
and such excavation shall be backfilled to grade level with granular materials
to form a base for driveway surfacing in compliance with the specifications of
the Village.
   C.   The surface of said temporary driveway and approach shall be maintained
at grade level at all times, shall have adequate drainage to avoid
accumulations or ponding of water, shall be maintained free of mud, debris and
construction materials and shall be kept open at all times for vehicular
traffic.
(Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 5.310. PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR DRIVEWAYS.
   All plans and specifications must conform to the following minimum
requirements before permit for construction or reconstruction shall be
permitted.
   A.   Driveways for other than residential uses shall be constructed of
Portland cement concrete at least six (6) inches in thickness. Concrete shall
conform with the specifications contain in this Code, and be in accordance with
sketches on file in the office of the Village Engineer and Director of Building
and Zoning at all times.
   B.   Driveways for the residential uses shall be constructed of Portland
cement concrete as set forth in Subsection A of this Section; provided,
however:
      1.   That where a bituminous concrete or seal coat surface without
Portland cement concrete curb or gutters exists in a public street, and an
asphaltic concrete surface is desired for the driveway, such surface shall be
permitted provided it shall be a minimum depth of four (4) inches (without any
loose material on top) and have a base of compacted crushed stone at least six
(6) inches in thickness.
      2.   That where an existing driveway is being replaced, the surface may
be of asphaltic concrete with a minimum depth of four (4) inches (without any
loose material on top) and have a base of compacted crushed stone.
   C.   Where a driveway of any kind of material is constructed across the
sidewalk space, it shall conform to the sidewalk grade as established by the
Village Engineer.
   D.   Where a driveway of any kind of material is constructed across an
existing sidewalk of less than six (6) inches in thickness, said sidewalk shall
be removed and replaced with Portland cement concrete for the full width of the
driveway of not less than six (6) inches in thickness and constructed in
accordance with sketches on file in the office of the Village Engineer, and in
accordance with the provisions of this Code.
   E.   Macadam, gravel, cinder and other types of driveways where permitted
herein shall be not less than six (6) inches thick, compacted depth.
   F.   Where paving in the public street is of concrete, and a concrete
driveway is constructed, a one (1) inch bituminous remolded expansion joint
with load transmission unit shall be placed approximately three (3) feet from
the edge of the said concrete paving and normal to the center line of the
driveway, in accordance with sketches illustrating such construction on file
with the Village Engineer.
   G.   The width of the driveways for other than residential or dwelling
houses shall not exceed thirty (30) feet at the outer or street edge of
sidewalk. Where two (2) or more adjoining driveways are provided for the same
property, a safety island of not less than ten (10) feet between the same,
measured at the outer or street side of the sidewalk shall be provided. No more
than one (1) such driveway shall be allowed for any lot, tract or parcel of
land, on any one (1) street for each one hundred (100) feet of continuous
frontage in common ownership thereon.
      1.   In any event, no more than two (2) driveway approaches shall be
permitted to serve any single-family or multi-family dwelling structure and
such driveway approaches shall be not less than sixty (60) feet apart measured
from the center line of each approach at the curb line.
      2.   The width of driveways for residential or dwelling houses shall be
not less than ten (10) feet nor more than eighteen (18) feet at the outer or
street edge of the sidewalk, or, where no sidewalk exists, at the property
line.
      3.   The width of the driveway opening at the curb line between the
points of curvature thereof, shall not exceed the width of the driveway at the
inner or property edge plus twenty (20) feet, nor be less than the width of the
driveway at the inner or property edge of the sidewalk plus ten (10) feet. The
center line of all driveways must be approximately at right angles to the curb
line of the pavement in the public street for a distance of at least ten (10)
feet from said curb line.
   H.   All driveways shall be so graded between the gutter and the sidewalk
that it will not be necessary to change the established grade of either and
will not elevate or depress any portion of either. No part of said driveway
shall extend beyond the curb line in such a manner as to change the grade of
said gutter or obstruct the free flow of water in said gutter. Where elevations
or depressions are necessary in a parkway strip between a curb and walk, and
parkway shall be graded on both sides of the driveway to a distance sufficient
to create a gradual ascent or descent. At no time shall such gradient exceed
one (1) foot vertical to ten (10) feet horizontal.
   J.   Location.
      1.   No driveway approach shall be located in contravention of Section
5.304 herein.
      2.   No portion of a driveway approach shall be less than five (5) feet
from a fire hydrant.
      3.   No portion of a driveway approach shall be less than five (5) feet
from any tree or shrubbery located on the public parkway.
      4.   Except when permitted under conditions of a street obstruction
permit, no excavation in any portion of the roadway, street or public parkway
shall be left open and unattended at any time.
      5.   Driveway approaches of corner lots shall be not less than twenty
(20) feet from the extended street curb line to the nearest point of the drive
approach measured along the curb line.
   K.   Where driveways cross open ditches in the parkways, culverts shall be
installed. Said culverts shall be of such size and shall be constructed of such
materials as shall be determined by the Director of Building and Zoning, to be
necessary to avert any diminution in the flow of water. In no event shall the
size of opening be less than that obtained by a twelve (12) inch diameter pipe.
The length of such culverts shall be determined by the following method: for
ditch depth of two (2) feet or less, the culvert shall extend not less than
five (5) feet beyond each edge of the driveway where it crosses the ditch; for
each additional foot of depth of ditch, two (2) additional lengths of culvert
is required; provided, however, that no culvert shall be less than twenty (20)
feet long, and provided further, that where head walls are constructed at the
ends of the culvert the length of culvert shall be as determined by the
Director of Building and Zoning.
   L.   The President and Board of Trustees may, in its discretion and after
having received the recommendations of the Director of Building and Zoning and
the Village Engineer, by special permit, vary the foregoing provisions of this
Section, when, in its sole discretion, such variation will not prejudice the
public health, safety, comfort or welfare.
(Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 5.311. MAINTENANCE OF DRIVEWAY APPROACH AND PARKWAY.
   A.   It shall be the duty of the owner of the property served by a driveway
approach to maintain same in good repair, free from obstruction and openings
and in a safe condition for pedestrian or vehicular travel, including the
portions of the public parkway and public sidewalk which said driveway approach
crosses.
   B.   Where the owner of a property served by a Portland cement concrete
driveway apron wishes to repair the area adjacent to the accessway pavement
material, either temporary or permanent in nature, may be placed alongside the
accessway between a straight line drawn from the end of the curb and gutter
section of the approach and the intersection of the accessway with the
sidewalk, or property line if no sidewalk exists.
(Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 5.312. UNLAWFUL TO CROSS CURBS OR PARKWAYS.
   A.   It shall be unlawful to operate, move or drive any vehicle (including
without limiting the generality of the foregoing, any vehicle or equipment
intended for use in construction, excavation, grading or clearing over, across
or upon any curb, parkway or sidewalk within the Village) except by way of an
authorized or approved driveway approach, to park or store any vehicle or
construction equipment upon any portion of a public parkway, or to unload,
store or stockpile any construction or other materials upon any portion of any
parkway.
   B.   Privately owned and operated maintenance equipment in actual operation
for maintenance purposes, and/or equipment and material used for public street
construction projects and other public improvements, and/or equipment of the
Village shall be excepted from the provisions of this Section.
(Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 5.313. UNLAWFUL TO BUILD DRIVEWAY APPROACH OVER SIDEWALK OR PARKWAY
WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   In view of the regulations contained in this Chapter, it shall be unlawful
for any person hereafter to change or remove any curb and/or to construct,
replace, reconstruct, build, establish or maintain any driveway approach over,
across, or upon any portion of the public sidewalk or public parkway without
first having obtained a written permit to do so from the Village Engineer.
Furthermore, following the issuance of such permit, it shall be unlawful for
such permittee to change such curb or to build such driveway approach or
otherwise sue any parking except in accordance with the provisions of this
Chapter.
(Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 5.314. PERMIT EXPIRATION.
   A permit issued pursuant to this Chapter shall expire automatically unless
work for which such permit had been issued shall be started within thirty (30)
days and be completed within one hundred twenty (120) days after issuance of
such permit. Thereafter a new permit shall be required before beginning or
completing the work.
(Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
ARTICLE IV. RESTORATION OF VILLAGE OWNED LAND
SECTION 5.401. NO WORK WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   It shall be unlawful for any Person to commence any Work without first
having obtained a Permit therefor.
(Ord. 605, passed 5-20-2008; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 5.402. PERMITS.
   Applications for Permits shall be made on forms provided by the Village
Engineer.
   A.   Action on Application. The Village Engineer shall examine or cause to
be examined all Applications for permits and amendments thereto within a
reasonable time after filing. If the Application or the Restoration plans do
not conform to the requirements of all applicable ordinances and laws, he shall
reject such Application in writing stating the reasons therefor. If he is
satisfied that the proposed Work conforms to the requirements of this Chapter
and all ordinances and laws applicable to the Work, he shall issue a permit
therefor as soon as practicable.
   B.   Extension and Expiration of Permit:
      1.   A permit shall be considered void, if the covered Work is not
commenced within ninety (90) days and completed within one (1) year of the
issuance of the permit.
      2.   At any time prior to its becoming void, a permit may be extended for
one (1) year for an additional fee as set forth in Chapter 2, Village
Government, Article X, Fees, Fines and Penalties, Section
2.1001, Fees, but in no case shall the fee be less than the minimum fee
specified on the most recent fee schedule approved by the President and Board
of Trustees. Permits may be extended for two (2) six (6) month periods by the
Village Engineer if Work has been delayed due to the large size of the project,
shortage of materials, or due to inclement weather conditions.
   C.   Compliance with Municipal Code. A permit shall not be issued for any
construction Work unless the premises is in compliance with the regulations of
Chapter 15 (the Zoning Ordinance) of the Mettawa Municipal Code and other
applicable ordinances of the Village.
   D.   Signature Required. The Village Engineer shall attach his signature to
every permit, or he may authorize a subordinate to affix such signature
thereto.
   E.   Change During Construction. If during the progress of Work under a
Permit, it is desired to change the plans upon which the permit was issued, or
to change contractors, notice of such change must be filed with the Village
Engineer. In the case of a change in plans, a written approval of the Village
Engineer must be obtained therefor before such changes are made. If the
valuation of the structure is increased by such changes, the additional
proportionate fee must be paid before approval of such change. Three (3) new
sets of plans showing the changes shall be furnished, and one (1) of these
sets, approved by the Village Engineer, shall replace those being kept with the
Permit card.
   F.   Notice of Start. At least twenty four (24) hours' notice of start of
Work under a Permit shall be given to the Village Engineer.
(Ord. 605, passed 5-20-2008; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009; Am. Ord. 852,
passed 10-20-2020)
SECTION 5.403. PERMIT FEES AND FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   A.   Fee. Each Application shall be accompanied by a Permit fee in the
amount set forth in Chapter 2, Village Government, Article X, Tax, Fee, Fine
and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1002, Fee Schedule.
   B.   Financial Responsibility. In order to guarantee payment of the Cost of
Restoration following completion of the Work, each Application shall be
accompanied by a suitable Financial Guarantee, which includes the Maintenance
Guarantee, which the Village Engineer will deposit with the Village Treasurer.
      1.   The Financial Guarantee submitted in accordance with this Subsection
to guarantee the completion of Restoration shall be in an amount equal to one
hundred fifteen percent (115%) of the Village Engineer's estimate of the Cost
of Restoration.
      2.   If the Financial Guarantee is a Letter of Credit, such Letter of
Credit shall be irrevocable and shall provide:
         a.   An expiration date not less than one (1) year from the date of
issuance or an express provision that such Letter of Credit will not expire
prior to completion and acceptance of said Restoration by the President and
Board of Trustees;
         b.   That the bank issuing the Letter of Credit shall give written
notice by certified or registered mail to the Village Clerk and the Village
Engineer not less than forty-five (45) days before the expiration of the Letter
of Credit, which Letter of Credit shall not expire absent such notice;
         c.   That failure of the Applicant to complete the Restoration secured
by such Letter of Credit prior to the scheduled completion date shall be
considered a default by the Applicant and the issuing institution, allowing the
Village to draw the entire amount of the initial Letter of Credit;
         d.   That failure of the Applicant to submit a successor Letter of
Credit not less than forty-five (45) days before the expiration of the initial
Letter of Credit, to be effective upon expiration of the initial Letter of
Credit shall be unlawful and considered a default by the Applicant and the
issuing institution, allowing the Village to draw the entire amount of the
initial Letter of Credit; and
         e.   That the issuer will pay all attorneys' fees and other costs
incurred by the Village in enforcing collection of such Letter of Credit in the
event that the issuer fails to honor the Village's demand for payment under the
terms of such Letter of Credit.
      3.   Reduction of the Amount of the Financial Guarantee.
         a.   Provided he approves of the Restoration following his inspection
and review of the completion of the Restoration, the Village Engineer shall
recommend to the President and Board of Trustees reduction of the initial
amount of the Financial Guarantee to a Maintenance Guarantee; and
         b.   Upon its receipt of the recommendation of the Village Engineer,
the President and Board of Trustees may authorize the reduction of the amount
of a Financial Guarantee to the initial amount of the Maintenance Guarantee -
it being understood that the total amount of the Maintenance Guarantee shall
not be reduced thereafter but shall be retained in the Financial Guarantee, to
be held by the Village Treasurer for the one (1) year period following approval
and acceptance of the Restoration by the President and Board of Trustees in
order to guarantee the installation and materials used in constructing the
Restoration.
(Ord. 605, passed 5-20-2008; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009; Am. Ord. 852,
passed 10-20-2020)
ARTICLE V. REMOVAL OF OBSTRUCTIONS FROM RIGHTS-OF-WAY
SECTION 5.501. REMOVAL OF FALLEN TREES.
   Following any Village official, including the Village Engineer, giving
written or oral notice to remove, it shall be unlawful for any owner of a
fallen tree to fail to remove or cause to be removed such fallen tree from any
part of a right-of-way within one (1) hour of receipt of such notice.
(Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 5.502. FAILURE TO REMOVE FOLLOWING NOTICE.
   A.   Upon failure of the owner of a fallen tree to remove such fallen tree
after receipt of notice to do so, such owner of a fallen tree shall be subject
to prosecution for violation of Section
5.501.
   B.   In addition, after the owner of a fallen tree receives such notice, if
such owner of a fallen tree shall not have taken immediate steps to cause and
thereafter diligently prosecute such removal and/or such removal has not been
effectuated within one (1) hour of such notice, any duly authorized employee of
the Village of Mettawa or contractor hired by the Village of Mettawa shall be
authorized to remove such fallen tree from such right-of-way.
(Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 5.503. VILLAGE LIEN.
   The cost removal of any fallen tree shall be a lien upon the real estate of
such owner of a fallen tree, and is superior to all other liens and
encumbrances, except tax liens; provided, that within sixty (60) days after a
statement of the amount of the cost and expense incurred for fallen tree
removal has remained unpaid sixty (60) days after it has been tendered to the
owner of a fallen tree, the Village or person performing the service by
authority of the Village, shall file in the office of the Lake County Recorder
of Deeds a notice of lien against the title to the real property owned by the
owner of a fallen tree.
   A.   The lien of the Village shall not be valid as to any purchaser whose
rights in and to such real estate have arisen subsequent to the fallen tree
removal and prior to the filing of such notice of lien, and the lien of the
Village shall not be valid as to any mortgagee, judgment creditor or other
lienor whose rights in and to such real estate have arisen prior to the filing
of such notice of lien.
   B.   Upon payment of the amount of the lien after notice of lien has been
filed, the Village shall provide the owner of a fallen tree interested in such
real property a release of lien in the name of the owner of the real property
against which the lien of the Village was recorded, which the owner may file
with the Lake County Recorder of Deeds for recordation against the title to
such real property.
(Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 5.504. NOTICE OF LIEN.
   A.   Notice of lien shall be personally served on, or sent via certified
mail to, the owner of a fallen tree, being the owner of the real the property
from which the fallen tree fell. The owner shall be the person to whom the tax
bill was sent for the general taxes for the taxable year immediately preceding
the removal activities. The notice must be delivered or sent after the removal
activities have been performed, and it must: (i) state the substance of this
Section and the substance of any other ordinance of the Village implementing
this Section; (ii) identify the underlying parcel of real estate, by common
description; and (iii) describe the removal activity.
   B.   Any such above notice of lien shall consist of a sworn statement
containing:
      1.   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof;
      2.   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or
payable for the service; and
      3.   The date or dates when such cost and expense was incurred by the
Village.
(Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 5.505. FORECLOSURE OF LIEN.
   A.   Within seven (7) years of the filing of the notice of lien, the real
estate that is subject to a lien for fallen tree removal shall be sold for
nonpayment of the amount of the lien; and the proceeds of such sale shall be
applied to pay the charges, after deducting costs including reasonable
attorney's fees, as in the case in the foreclosure of statutory liens. Such
foreclosures shall be by bill in equity filed in the name of the Village.
   B.   The Village Attorney is authorized and directed hereby to institute
such proceedings, in the name of the Village, in any court having jurisdiction
over such matters, against the owner of a fallen tree of any such real property
for which a statement for fallen tree removal has remained unpaid sixty (60)
days after it has been tendered to such owner of a fallen tree.
(Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 5.506. PENALTY FOR VIOLATION.
   Any owner of a fallen tree violating any provisions of this Ordinance shall
be assessed a fine in the manner and as set forth in Section
5.1004 of this Chapter. Imposition of any penalty for a violation of this
Ordinance shall not be construed as a waiver of any right of the Village to
file its notice of lien and/or collect the costs of removal of such fallen tree
in accordance with the provisions of this Article.
(Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
ARTICLE VI. SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
SECTION 5.601. PURPOSE.
   Consistent with the requirements of the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment
Act (Public Act 100-585), and in anticipation of a continued increased demand
for placement of small wireless facilities of the type regulated by the Act
both within the public rights-of-way and in other locations within the
jurisdiction of the Village, the Village Board has found it to be in the best
interests of the public health, safety and general welfare of the Village to
adopt the code amendments set forth in this chapter in order to establish
generally applicable standards for the design, permitting, location,
construction, deployment, regulation, operation, maintenance, repair and
removal of such small wireless facilities both within the public rights-of-way
and in other locations within the jurisdiction of the Village so as to, among
other things:
   A.   Prevent interference with the facilities and operations of the
Village's utilities and of other utilities lawfully located both within public
rights-of-way and in other locations within the jurisdiction of the Village;
   B.   Preserve the character of the neighborhoods in which such small
wireless facilities are installed;
   C.   Minimize any adverse visual impact of small wireless facilities and
prevent visual blight in the neighborhoods in which such facilities are
installed;
   D.   Ensure the continued safe use and enjoyment of private properties
adjacent to small wireless facilities;
   E.   Provide appropriate aesthetic protections to any designated historic
landmarks or districts within the Village; and
   F.   Ensure that the placement of small wireless facilities does not
negatively impact public safety and the Village's public safety technology.
(Ord. 828, passed 7-17-2018)
SECTION 5.602. INTERACTION WITH OTHER CODE PROVISIONS AND LAWS.
   A.   Other Code Provisions. The provisions of this chapter are intended to
supplement general requirements and standards relative to the siting of
telecommunication facilities and generally applicable requirements for
construction within public rights-of-way set forth elsewhere within this code,
including but not limited to the regulations set forth in
Chapter 5, Article II. In the event of a conflict, however, the provisions of
this chapter shall control in all matters involving small wireless facilities,
as defined below.
   B.   State and Federal Laws. In the event that applicable federal or State
laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this chapter, a wireless
provider shall comply with the requirements of this chapter to the maximum
extent possible without violating such federal or State laws or regulations.
(Ord. 828, passed 7-17-2018)
SECTION 5.603. DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
   ACT means the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act (Public Act 100-585).
   ANTENNA means communications equipment that transmits or receives
electromagnetic radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless
services.
   APPLICABLE CODES means uniform building, fire, electrical, plumbing, or
mechanical codes adopted by a recognized national code organization or local
amendments to those codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
   APPLICANT means any person who submits an application and is a wireless
provider.
   APPLICATION means a request submitted by an applicant to the Village for a
permit to collocate small wireless facilities, and a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such application.
   AUTHORITY means the Village or other unit of local government that has
jurisdiction and control for use of public rights-of-way as provided by the
Illinois Highway Code for placements within public rights-of-way or has zoning
or land use control for placements not within public rights-of-way.
   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION means to install, mount, maintain, modify, operate,
or replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure
or utility pole, whether existing or new.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE means cable service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(6),
as amended; information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(53), as amended; mobile
service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(33), as amended; or wireless service other
than mobile service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER means a cable operator, as defined in 47
U.S.C. 522(5), as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47
U.S.C. 153(24), as amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47
U.S.C. 153(51), as amended; or a wireless provider.
   FCC means the Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
   FEE means a one-time charge.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT or HISTORIC LANDMARK means a building, property, or site,
or group of buildings, properties, or sites that are either (i) listed in the
National Register of Historic Places or formally determined eligible for
listing by the Keeper of the National Register, the individual who has been
delegated the authority by the federal agency to list properties and determine
their eligibility for the National Register, in accordance with Section
VI.D.1.a.i through Section VI.D.1.a.v of the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement
codified at 47 CFR Part 1, Appendix C; or (ii) designated as a locally
landmarked building, property, site, or historic district by an ordinance
adopted by the Village pursuant to a preservation program that meets the
requirements of the Certified Local Government Program of the Illinois State
Historic Preservation Office or where such certification of the preservation
program by the Illinois State Historic Preservation Office is pending.
   LAW means a federal or State statute, common law, code, rule, regulation,
order, or local ordinance or resolution.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY means a small wireless facility that is not larger
in dimension than twenty-four (24) inches in length, fifteen (15) inches in
width, and twelve (12) inches in height and that has an exterior antenna, if
any, no longer than eleven (11) inches.
   PERMIT means a written authorization required by the Village or other
permitting authority to perform an action or initiate, continue, or complete a
project.
   PERSON means an individual, corporation, limited liability company,
partnership, association, trust, or other entity or organization, including an
authority.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY means the functional division of the federal
government, the State, a unit of local government, or a special purpose
district located in whole or in part within this State, that provides or has
authority to provide firefighting, police, ambulance, medical, or other
emergency services to respond to and manage emergency incidents.
   PUBLIC UTILITY shall have the same meaning as set forth in Section 3-105 of
the Public Utilities Act, 220 ILCS 5/3-105.
   RATE means a recurring charge.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY means the area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, public sidewalk, alley, or utility easement dedicated for compatible
use. RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include authority-owned aerial lines.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY means a wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications: (i) each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no
more than six (6) cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has
exposed elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within
an imaginary enclosure of no more than six (6) cubic feet; and (ii) all other
wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole associated with the
facility is cumulatively no more than twenty-five (25) cubic feet in volume.
The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not included in the
calculation of equipment volume: electric meter, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation box, ground-based enclosures, grounding
equipment, power transfer switch, cut-off switch, and vertical cable runs for
the connection of power and other services.
   STRUCTURAL ENGINEER means a person licensed under the laws of the State of
Illinois to practice structural engineering.
   UTILITY POLE means a pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in
part by a communications service provider or for electric distribution,
lighting, traffic control, or a similar function.
   VILLAGE means the Village of Mettawa.
   VILLAGE ENGINEER means that person appointed as Village Engineer or his
designee.
   VILLAGE UTILITY POLE means a utility pole owned or operated by the Village
in public rights-of-way.
   WIRELESS FACILITY means equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including:
(i) equipment associated with wireless communications; and (ii) radio
transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power
supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological configuration.
WIRELESS FACILITY includes small wireless facilities. WIRELESS FACILITY does
not include: (i) the structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated; or (ii) wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber
optic cable that is between wireless support structures or utility poles or
coaxial, or fiber optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or
directly associated with an antenna.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER means any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the State that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless  services provider but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the Village.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER means a wireless infrastructure provider and/or a wireless
services provider. This does not include, and expressly excludes, any person
who is providing service to or for a private niche market.
   WIRELESS SERVICES means any services provided to the general public,
including a particular class of customers, and made available on a
nondiscriminatory basis using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a
fixed location or mobile, provided using wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER means a person who provides wireless services.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE means a freestanding structure, such as a
monopole; tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing
or proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE does not include a utility pole.
(Ord. 828, passed 7-17-2018)
SECTION 5.604. ZONING.
   Small wireless facilities shall be classified as permitted uses and shall
not be subject to zoning review, if collocated in rights-of-way in any zoning
district, or outside rights-of-way in the following zoning districts:
O/R Planned Office Research District
H Office/Hotel District
   In all other zoning districts, the Village's normal zoning approvals,
processes and restrictions shall apply, if zoning approval, processes or
restrictions are required by the Village's zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 828, passed 7-17-2018)
SECTION 5.605. PERMITS; APPLICATION PROCESS.
   Unless otherwise specifically exempted in this chapter, a permit to
collocate a small wireless facility within the Village is required in all
cases. Permits are subject to the following:
   A.   Permit Applications: Permit applications for the collocation of small
wireless facilities shall be made on a form provided by the Village for such
purpose. In addition to any generally applicable information required of other
communications service providers or for other installations in the public
right-of-way, applicants must, when requesting to collocate small wireless
facilities on a utility pole or wireless support structure, provide the
following information:
      1.   Site specific structural integrity and, for a Village utility pole,
make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is defined
in Section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989;
      2.   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or utility
pole would be installed and digital photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed. The photographs shall include a digital
photo simulation of the proposed location providing "before and after" views
demonstrating the true visual impact of the proposed small wireless facilities
on the surrounding environment;
      3.   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer, as
that term is defined in Section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of
1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application as
it is proposed to be installed;
      4.   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all other
equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
      5.   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved;
      6.   Certification that, to the best of the applicant's knowledge, the
collocation complies with the written design standards established by the
Village, and with the various other requirements set forth in this chapter and
code;
      7.   Copies of all licenses, permits and approvals required by or from
the Village (i.e. zoning approval, where required), other agencies and units of
government with jurisdiction over the design, construction, location and
operation of said small wireless facility. The applicant shall maintain such
licenses, permits and approvals in full force and effect and provide evidence
of renewal or extension thereof when granted; and
      8.   In the event the small wireless facility is proposed to be attached
to an existing utility pole or wireless support structure owned by an entity
other than the Village, legally competent evidence of the consent of the owner
of such pole or wireless support structure to the proposed collocation.
   B.   Means of Submission: Permit applications, along with all supporting
information, for the collocation of small wireless facilities shall be
submitted by personal delivery or by other means approved by the Village.
   C.   Multiple Applications for Same Location: Multiple applications for
collocation on the same utility pole or wireless support structure shall be
processed based on a first fully complete application, first-served basis.
   D.   Permit Application Fees: All applications for collocation of small
wireless facilities shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable application fee in
the amount set forth in Chapter 2, Village Government, Article X, Tax, Fee,
Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1002, Fee Schedule.
   E.   Permit review timelines:
      1.   Completeness of Application: Requests for the collocation of small
wireless facilities shall be reviewed for conformance with the requirements of
the Act, this chapter, and other applicable provisions of this code. Within
thirty (30) days after receiving an application, the Village must determine
whether the application is complete and notify the applicant. If an application
is incomplete, the Village must specifically identify the missing information.
Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the Village sends a notice of
incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the missing information.
      An application shall be deemed complete if the Village fails to provide
notification to the applicant within thirty (30) days of the date when all
documents, information, and fees specifically enumerated in the Village's
permit application form are submitted by the applicant to the Village.
      2.   Existing Pole or Wireless Support Structure: Requests for the
collocation of small wireless facilities on an existing utility pole or
wireless support structure shall be processed on a nondiscriminatory basis and
either approved or denied within ninety (90) days of submission of a completed
application. A permit application shall be deemed approved if the Village fails
to approve or deny the application within ninety (90) days, subject to the
following: if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity on a
deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the Village in writing of its
intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than seventy-five (75)
days after the submission of a completed application. The permit shall be
deemed approved on the later of the ninetieth (90th) day after submission of
the completed application, or the tenth (10th) day after receipt of the deemed
approved notice by the Village. Receipt of a deemed approved notice by the
Village shall not preclude the Village from denying the permit within the
allowed time limit.
      3.   New Utility Pole: Requests for the collocation of small wireless
facilities that include the installation of a new utility pole shall be
processed on a nondiscriminatory basis and either approved or denied within one
hundred and twenty (120) days of submission of a completed application. A
permit application shall be deemed approved if the Village fails to approve or
deny the application within one hundred twenty (120) days, subject to the
following: if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity on a
deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the Village in writing of its
intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than one hundred five
(105) days after the submission of a completed application. The permit shall be
deemed approved on the later of the one hundred twentieth (120th) day after
submission of the completed application, or the tenth (10th) day after receipt
of the deemed approved notice by the Village. Receipt of a deemed approved
notice by the Village shall not preclude the Village from denying the permit
within the allowed time limit.
   F.   Tolling: The time limitations for approval or denial of applications
shall be tolled by notice to an applicant that its application is incomplete as
set forth above, upon mutual agreement of the parties, or by a local, State or
federal disaster declaration or similar emergency that causes a delay.
   G.   Pole Replacement: Permit approval shall be conditioned on the
replacement of a utility pole or wireless support structure at the applicant's
sole cost where such replacement is deemed necessary for compliance with the
requirements of this chapter or code relative to the siting of small wireless
facilities, or other applicable codes and regulations that concern public
safety.
   H.   Denial: The Village shall deny an application that does not meet the
requirements of this chapter. The reasons for any denial of a permit shall be
provided in a written notice of denial sent to the applicant, and shall include
the specific code provisions or application conditions on which the denial is
based.
   I.   Resubmittal After Denial: In the case of a permit denial, an applicant
may cure the deficiencies identified in the notice of denial and resubmit a
revised application once within thirty (30) days after the notice of denial is
sent without payment of an additional application fee. The Village shall have
thirty (30) days to approve or deny the resubmitted application or it is deemed
approved, if the applicant has notified the Village of its intention to proceed
with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, which notification may
be submitted with the resubmitted application. Review of a resubmitted
application is limited to the deficiencies cited in the original notice of
denial. This subsection does not apply if a revised application is not
resubmitted within thirty (30) days, or curing any deficiencies in the original
application requires review of a new location, new or different structure for
collocation, new antennas, or other wireless equipment associated with the
small wireless facility. In such cases, a new application and application fee
are required.
   J.   Consolidated Applications: Consolidated applications for small wireless
facilities for the collocation of up to twenty-five (25) small wireless
facilities shall be allowed if the collocations each involve substantially the
same type of small wireless facility and substantially the same type of
structure. Each consolidated application shall provide all the information
required by this chapter for each small wireless facility at each location. If
such an application includes incomplete information for one or more small
wireless facility collocations, or includes requests for small wireless
facilities that do not qualify for consolidated treatment, or that are
otherwise denied, the Village may remove such collocation requests from the
application and treat them as separate requests. Separate permits may be issued
for each collocation approved in a consolidated application.
   K.   Alternate Locations: If an applicant is seeking to install a new
utility pole as part of its application, the Village may propose that the small
wireless facility be located on an existing utility pole or existing wireless
support structure within one hundred (100) feet of the proposed collocation.
The applicant shall accept the proposed alternate location so long as it has
the right to use the location on reasonable terms and conditions, unless the
alternate location imposes technical limits or additional material costs as
determined by the applicant. If the applicant refuses an alternate location
based on the foregoing, the applicant shall provide legally competent evidence
in the form of a written certification, under oath, describing the property
rights, technical limits or material cost reasons that prevent the alternate
location from being utilized.
   L.   Exemptions: No application, permit approval or fee shall be required
from a communications service provider authorized to occupy the right-of-way
when the work in question is for:
      1.   Routine maintenance not requiring replacement of wireless facilities
if the wireless provider notifies the Village in writing at least forty-eight
hours prior to the planned maintenance;
      2.   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities that
are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless provider
notifies the Village in writing at least ten (10) days prior to the planned
replacement and includes equipment specifications, including (i) equipment type
and model numbers, for the replacement of equipment consistent with the
equipment specifications information required on a permit application for
original installation; and (ii) information sufficient to establish that the
replacement is substantially similar. The wireless provider shall provide all
information necessary and requested by the Village to establish that the
replacement is substantially similar. The Village has the sole right and
responsibility to determine if a proposed small wireless facility is
substantially similar to the existing small wireless facility; or
      3.   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or replacement
of micro wireless facilities that are suspended on cables that are strung
between existing utility poles in compliance with applicable safety codes.
   The foregoing shall not exempt communications service providers from Village
permitting requirements where traffic patterns are affected or lane closures
are required.
(Ord. 828, passed 7-17-2018; Am. Ord. 852, passed 10-20-2020)
SECTION 5.606. CONSTRUCTION.
   Collocations for which permits are approved shall be completed within one
hundred eighty (180) days of issuance of the permit, unless the Village agrees
to extend the period or a delay is caused by make-ready work for a Village
utility pole or by the lack of commercial power or backhaul availability at the
site, provided the applicant has made a timely request within sixty (60) days
after the issuance of the permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and
the additional time to complete installation does not exceed three hundred
sixty (360) days after issuance of the permit. Permits that are not completed
within applicable timelines shall be void absent an extension granted in
writing by the Village.
(Ord. 828, passed 7-17-2018)
SECTION 5.607. PERMIT DURATION.
   Permits issued for small wireless facilities pursuant to this chapter shall
be for a period of five (5) years. Permits are subject to renewal at the end of
the five (5) year permit period for a successive five (5) year term so long as
the installation complies with the applicable code provisions in force at the
time of renewal. A finding by the Village at the time of a request for renewal
that an installation does not comply with the applicable code provisions in
force at the time of the renewal request shall be in writing. If the Act is
repealed or found unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, all
permits granted by the Village under this chapter shall terminate at the end of
their current term.
(Ord. 828, passed 7-17-2018)
SECTION 5.608. HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   A.   Antenna Installations: The maximum permitted height of a small wireless
facility is ten (10) feet above the utility pole or wireless support structure
on which the small wireless facility is collocated.
   B.   New Poles: The maximum permitted height of new or replacement utility
pole or wireless support structure on which a small wireless facility is
collocated is the higher of:
      1.   Ten (10) feet in height above the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place
on the date the application is submitted, and that is located within three
hundred (300) feet of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless support
structure and that is in the same right-of-way within the Village. The Village
may designate which intersecting right-of-way within three hundred (300) feet
of the proposed utility pole or wireless support structures shall control the
height limitation for such facility; or
      2.   Forty-five (45) feet above ground level.
   C.   Waiver Process: A Wireless provider may receive a waiver from the
Village Engineer from the maximum permitted height of a new pole set forth in
this section, if the wireless provider can establish that:
      1.   Because of a particular unusual condition, a particular hardship or
practical difficulty to the wireless provider would result, as distinguished
from a mere inconvenience, and such hardship or difficulty has not been created
by the wireless provider; and
      2.   Existing utility poles or wireless support structures, or a new
utility pole at the maximum permitted height for a new pole allowed by this
section cannot accommodate the wireless facility at a height necessary to
function effectively, under reasonable terms and conditions; and
      3.   The use of existing utility poles or other wireless support
structures, or a new utility pole at the maximum permitted height for a new
pole allowed by this section, is not technically feasible.
(Ord. 828, passed 7-17-2018)
SECTION 5.609. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   A.   Public Safety Technology: A wireless provider's operation of a small
wireless facility may not interfere with the frequencies used by a public
safety agency for public safety communications. A wireless provider must
install small wireless facilities of the type and frequency that will not cause
unacceptable interference with a public safety agency's communications
equipment. Unacceptable interference is determined by and measured in
accordance with industry standards and the FCC's regulations addressing
unacceptable interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum
licenses by a public safety agency. If a small wireless facility causes such
interference, and the wireless provider has been given written notice of the
interference by the public safety agency, the wireless provider, at its own
expense, shall take all reasonable steps necessary to correct and eliminate the
interference, including, but not limited to, powering down the small wireless
facility and later powering up the small wireless facility for intermittent
testing, if necessary. The Village may terminate a permit for a small wireless
facility based on such interference if the wireless provider is not making a
good faith effort to remedy the problem in a manner consistent with the
abatement and resolution procedures for interference with public safety
spectrum established by the FCC, including 47 CFR 22.970 through 47 CFR 22.973
and 47 CFR 90.672 through 47 CFR 90.675. The burden to establish the good faith
effort shall be on the wireless provider, which shall timely deliver to the
Village all information necessary to demonstrate its efforts to resolve the
interference consistent with the Code of Federal Regulations sections cited
above. Failure to remedy the interference as required herein shall constitute a
public nuisance and the small wireless facility may be abated through the
procedures for abatement of such nuisances set forth in this code.
   B.   A wireless provider shall not construct or maintain any small wireless
facility that:
      1.   Obstructs, impedes or hinders the usual travel or public safety on a
right-of-way;
      2.   Obstructs the legal use of right-of-way by utility users;
      3.   Violates nondiscriminatory applicable codes;
      4.   Violates or conflicts with the provisions of this article, or other
applicable regulations set forth in this code or otherwise adopted by the
Village, except to the extent such chapters, sections or regulations may be
modified by the provisions of this chapter; or
      5.   Violates the federal Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42
U.S.C. Section 12101 et seq.)
   C.   Contractual Requirements: Wireless providers shall comply with all
requirements imposed by a contract between the Village and any private property
owner that concern design or construction standards applicable to utility poles
and ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way.
   D.   Ground-Mounted Equipment: Wireless providers shall comply with the
ground mounted equipment requirements within rights-of-way as set forth in
Chapter 5, article II of this code.
   E.   Undergrounding:
      1.   The wireless provider shall comply with Village code provisions or
regulations concerning undergrounding requirements, if any, that prohibit the
installation of new or the modification of existing utility poles or equipment
in the right-of-way.
      2.   A Wireless Provider may receive a waiver from the Village Engineer
to allow a small wireless facility to be located above ground in an area where
Village ordinances or regulations prohibit or restrict above ground facilities
if the wireless provider can establish that:
         a.   Underground equipment is not technically feasible and there is no
reasonable alternative or location that is more aesthetically favorable to
adjacent property owners and to effective use and management of the right-of-
way; and
         b.   An above ground small wireless facility at the proposed location
is necessary at the proposed location to provide coverage in a specified area;
and
         c.   An above ground small wireless facility at the proposed location
will not disrupt traffic or pedestrian circulation or constitute a safety
hazard; and
         d.   An above ground small wireless facility at the proposed location
will not interfere with public safety uses or frequencies; and
         e.   Space exists within the public right-of-way to accommodate the
above ground small wireless facility at the proposed location; and
         f.   An above ground small wireless facility at the proposed location
will not create a safety hazard; and
         g.   The above ground small wireless facility is located and designed
in such a way so as to minimize its visual impact on adjacent properties; and
         h.   In any historical area, that the above ground small wireless
facility will not detrimentally affect the historical nature of the area.
      3.   Screening for Ground Mounted Facilities. Where a ground-mounted
facility is allowed, such equipment shall be screened around the perimeter in
accordance with a landscape plan sealed by a professional landscape engineer.
Plant materials shall include a mixture of deciduous and coniferous planting
materials. The owner or wireless provider shall be responsible for maintenance
of all landscaping as provided in the approved landscape plan.
      4.   Future Undergrounding: The Village may, from time to time, make a
decision to eliminate above-ground utility poles of a particular type
generally, such as electric utility poles, in all or a significant portion of
the Village. In the event that such a utility pole has a collocated small
wireless facility in place at the time of such a decision, the Village shall
either:
         a.   Continue to maintain the utility pole, or install and maintain a
reasonable utility pole or wireless support structure for the collocation of
the small wireless facility; or
         b.   Offer to sell the utility pole to the wireless provider at a
reasonable cost, or allow the wireless provider to install its own utility pole
so it can maintain service from that location.
   F.   Collocation Limits: Wireless providers shall not collocate small
wireless facilities on Village utility poles that are part of an electric
distribution or transmission system within the communication worker safety zone
of the pole or the electric supply zone of the pole.
   However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless facility
may be located in the communications space on the Village utility pole and on
the top of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless provider
complies with applicable codes for work involving the top of the pole.
   For purposes of this subsection, the terms "communications space",
"communication worker safety zone", and "electric supply zone" have the
meanings given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published
by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
   G.   Code Compliance: Wireless providers shall comply with applicable codes
and local code provisions or regulations that concern public safety.
(Ord. 828, passed 7-17-2018)
SECTION 5.610. STEALTH, CONCEALMENT AND DESIGN STANDARDS.
   Every small wireless facility installation shall comply with the following
standards:
   A.   General Stealth, Concealment and Design Standards: Installations shall
comply with any stealth, concealment, design and aesthetic standards applicable
to utility installations in the public right-of-way, as set forth in
Chapter 5, article II of this code, as well as any written design standards
that are generally applicable for decorative utility poles, or reasonable
stealth, concealment, design and aesthetic requirements that are otherwise
identified by the Village in an ordinance, written policy adopted by the
Village Board of Trustees, in the Village's comprehensive plan, or in a written
design plan that applies to other occupiers of the rights-of-way, including on
a historic landmark or in a historic district.
   B.   Historic District or Landmark Limitations:
      1.   Any stealth, concealment and design standards, including
restrictions on a specific category of utility poles, may not have the effect
of prohibiting any provider's technology. Such stealth, concealment and design
measures shall not be considered a part of the small wireless facility for
purposes of the size restrictions of a small wireless facility.
      2.   This section shall not be construed to limit the Village's
enforcement of historic preservation in conformance with the requirements
adopted pursuant to the Illinois State Agency Historic Resources Preservation
Act or the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, 54 U.S.C. Section 300101
et seq., and the regulations adopted to implement those laws.
(Ord. 828, passed 7-17-2018)
SECTION 5.611. RESERVATION OF VILLAGE UTILITY POLE SPACE.
   The Village may reserve space on Village-owned utility poles for future
public safety uses or for Village electric utility uses. Such reservation may
preclude collocation of small wireless facilities if the Village reasonably
determines that the Village's utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
(Ord. 828, passed 7-17-2018)
SECTION 5.612. APPLICABILITY OF EXISTING AGREEMENTS.
   A.   Existing Installations: Subject to any applicable termination
provisions, where an existing agreement is in place between the Village and a
wireless provider relating to the collocation of small wireless facilities on
Village utility poles on June 1, 2018, such agreement shall remain in effect
for all small wireless facilities collocated on the Village's utility poles
pursuant to applications submitted prior to June 1, 2018.
   B.   Applications Received Between June 1, 2018 and June 1, 2020: Subject to
any applicable termination provisions, where an existing agreement is in place
between the Village and a wireless provider relating to the collocation of
small wireless facilities on Village utility poles on June 1, 2018, such
agreement shall remain in effect for all small wireless facilities collocated
on the Village's utility poles pursuant to applications submitted after June 1,
2018, but prior to June 1, 2020, until June 1, 2020 or receipt by the Village
from the wireless provider of a notice that it is opting to accept the rates,
fees and terms of this chapter and the Act received after June 1, 2020,
whichever is later.
   C.   Applications Received After June 1, 2020: Subject to any applicable
termination provisions, where an existing agreement is in place between the
Village and a wireless provider relating to the collocation of small wireless
facilities on Village utility poles on June 1, 2018, such agreement shall
remain in effect for all small wireless facilities collocated on the Village's
utility poles pursuant to applications submitted after June 1, 2020, until
receipt by the Village of a notice from the wireless provider that it is
accepting the rates, fees, terms and conditions of this chapter.
(Ord. 828, passed 7-17-2018)
SECTION 5.613. COLLOCATION ON VILLAGE OWNED INFRASTRUCTURE.
   A.   Fee: The annual fee to collocate a small wireless facility on a
Village-owned utility pole located in a right-of-way shall be the higher of the
amount set forth in Chapter 2, Village Government, Article X, Tax, Fee, Fine
and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1002, Fee Schedule, or the actual, direct, and reasonable costs related to
the wireless providers use of space on the pole.
   B.   Exception: Small wireless facilities collocated on Village-owned
utility poles located outside of public right-of-way are not subject to the
rate limitations in this section.
   C.   Attachment Agreement: An attachment agreement in a form approved by the
Village is required for any collocation upon any Village owned utility pole or
wireless support structure.
(Ord. 828, passed 7-17-2018; Am. Ord. 852, passed 10-20-2020)
SECTION 5.614. NOTICE OF SALE OR TRANSFER.
   A wireless provider shall, prior to any sale or transfer of ownership or
control of a small wireless facility located within the jurisdiction of the
Village, provide written notice to the Village of such sale or transfer of
control. Such notice shall include the name and contact information of the new
wireless provider.
(Ord. 828, passed 7-17-2018)
SECTION 5.615. ABANDONMENT.
   A.   A small wireless facility that is not operated for a continuous period
of twelve (12) months shall be considered abandoned and the owner of the
facility shall remove the small wireless facility within ninety (90) days after
receipt of written notice from the Village notifying it of the abandonment. The
notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested,
by the Village to the owner at its last known address. If the small wireless
facility is not removed within ninety (90) days after receipt of such notice,
such wireless facility shall be deemed to be a nuisance and the Village may
remove or cause the removal of such facility, and recover or place a lien for
its costs, pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment or other agreement for
Village utility poles or through the procedures for abatement of nuisances set
forth in this code.
   B.   In the event the Village suspects that the wireless provider is no
longer using the small wireless facilities to provide wireless service, it may
send the wireless provider written notice that requires the wireless provider
to remove the small wireless facility or provide proof that the small wireless
facility is operational and still being used within thirty (30) days, and
informs the wireless provider that failure to provide proof or to remove the
small wireless facility will result in the Village removing the small wireless
facility at the wireless provider's cost.
(Ord. 828, passed 7-17-2018)
SECTION 5.616. DISPUTE RESOLUTION.
   The Circuit Court of Lake County shall have exclusive jurisdiction to
resolve all disputes arising under the Act. Pending resolution of a dispute
concerning rates for collocation of small wireless facilities on Village
utility poles within the right-of-way, the Village shall allow the collocating
person to collocate on its poles at annual rates of no more than $200 per year
per pole, with rates to be determined upon final resolution of the dispute.
(Ord. 828, passed 7-17-2018)
SECTION 5.617. INDEMNIFICATION.
   Other than for liabilities and losses due to or caused by the sole
negligence of the Village or its employees or agents, a wireless provider shall
indemnify and hold the Village harmless against any and all liability or loss
from personal injury or property damage resulting from or arising out of, in
whole or in part, the use or occupancy of the Village infrastructure or
improvements, or right-of-way associated with such infrastructure or
improvements by the wireless provider or its employees, agents, or contractors
arising out of the rights and privileges granted under this chapter and the
Act. A wireless provider proceeding under this chapter waives any claims it may
have against the Village with respect to consequential, incidental, or special
damages, however caused, based on the theory of liability.
(Ord. 828, passed 7-17-2018)
SECTION 5.618. INSURANCE.
   At all times during the period in which a wireless provider's facilities are
located on Village infrastructure, improvements or in right-of-way, the
wireless provider shall, at its own sole cost and expense, carry the following
insurance coverages:
   A.   Property insurance for its property's replacement cost against all
risks;
   B.   Workers' Compensation insurance within statutory limits as required by
law; and
   C.   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its activities
on the Village infrastructure, improvements or rights-of-way, including
coverage for bodily injury and property damage, with limits not less than:
      1.   Five million dollars for bodily injury or death to each person;
      2.   Five million dollars for property damage resulting from any one
accident; and
      3.   Five million dollars for all other types of liability.
   The wireless provider shall include the Village as an additional insured on
the commercial general liability policy and shall provide certificates of
insurance and proof of inclusion of the Village in a commercial general
liability policy to the Village prior to the collocation of any small wireless
facility, and shall keep updated certificates and proof of inclusion on file
with the Village at all times that the provider maintains small wireless
facilities within the Village.
   D.   A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the insurance
coverage and limits required by the Village. A wireless provider that self-
insures is not required, to the extent of the self-insurance, to comply with
the requirement that the Village be named an additional insured. A wireless
provider that self-insures shall provide to the Village evidence sufficient to
demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure the insurance limits required
by the Village.
(Ord. 828, passed 7-17-2018)
SECTION 5.619. MAINTENANCE OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES.
   A.   A wireless provider shall maintain all small wireless facilities
installed within the Village in a condition that maintains the safety,
integrity and aesthetics of such facilities. Small wireless facilities shall
not appear to be unkempt. In the event of a failure to properly maintain such
facilities, the Village shall notify the wireless provider, in writing, who
shall have thirty (30) days to correct the identified maintenance violation. If
not corrected within such period, the Village reserves the right to take such
action as it deems necessary, including revocation of the permit. Maintenance
and replacement of small wireless facilities shall be performed by the wireless
provider at the wireless provider's sole cost and expense.
   B.   In the event of an emergency involving an imminent threat to life or
property, the Village may take corrective action to eliminate such emergency at
the wireless provider's expense.
(Ord. 828, passed 7-17-2018)
SECTION 5.620. REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   A.   A permit to collocate a small wireless facility may be revoked for one
or more of the following reasons:
      1.   The wireless provider obtained approval by means of fraud or made a
misrepresentation of a material fact with respect to the permit application, or
any required documentation or submittal.
      2.   The wireless provider failed to construct the small wireless
facility in accordance with the approved plans.
      3.   The wireless provider failed to comply within any material condition
of a permit issued.
      4.   The wireless provider substantially expanded or altered the use or
the structure of the small wireless facility beyond what was requested in the
permit application or approved, without the approval of the Village.
      5.   The wireless provider failed to notify the Village of the
replacement of small wireless facilities as required by this chapter.
      6.   A substantial change of law has occurred affecting the wireless
provider's authority to occupy or use the property upon which the small
wireless facility is located.
      7.   The small wireless facility interferes with vehicular or pedestrian
use of the public right of way.
      8.   The wireless provider has failed to make a safe and timely
restoration of the right-of-way or the property upon which the small wireless
facility is located.
      9.   The wireless provider has failed to properly maintain the small
wireless facility as required by this chapter.
      10.   The wireless provider has failed to abate interference with public
safety communications in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC
including 47 CFR 22.970 through 47 CFR 22.973 and 47 CFR 90.672 through 47 CFR
90.675.
      11.   The small wireless facility has been abandoned and the wireless
provider has failed to remove the small wireless facilities as provided in this
chapter.
   B.   Written notification of the permit revocation shall be sent by
certified mail or shall be personally delivered to the wireless provider
setting forth the basis for the revocation. The wireless provider shall, within
fourteen days of the notice of revocation, file a written response with the
Village Engineer setting forth the reasons why the permit should not be revoked
along with such evidence in opposition to the revocation as the wireless
provider determines necessary. Failure to file a response with the Village
Engineer shall be deemed an admission of the facts set forth in the
notification of written notification and shall result in automatic revocation
of the permit. The Village Engineer shall render findings and a decision within
twenty-one days of the date of receipt of the wireless provider's response, if
any.
   C.   If the Village Engineer revokes the permit, the wireless provider may
file a written notice of appeal with the Village Clerk within twenty-one (21)
days of notification of the permit revocation. Such notice shall contain a
response to the decision of the Village Engineer. The Village Board shall hear
the revocation appeal and render a decision on such appeal.
(Ord. 828, passed 7-17-2018)
SECTION 5.621. EXCEPTIONS TO APPLICABILITY.
   A.   Nothing in this chapter authorizes the collocation of small wireless
facilities on:
      1.   Property owned by a private party without the written consent of the
property owner;
      2.   Property owned or controlled by a unit of local government that is
not located within rights-of-way without the written consent of the unit of
local government (local governments are, however, required to authorize the
collocation of small wireless facilities on utility poles owned or controlled
by the local government or located within rights-of-way to the same extent the
local government permits access to utility poles for other commercial projects
or uses);
      3.   A privately-owned utility pole or wireless support structure,
without the consent of the property owner;
      4.   Property owned, leased or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation or
conservation purposes, without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code (605 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.);
or
      5.   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under Section 18c-7201
of the Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/18c-7201), Metra Commuter Rail or any
other public commuter rail service, or an electric utility as defined in
Section 16-102 of the Public Utilities Act (220 ILCS 5/16-102), without the
consent of the rail carrier, public commuter rail service, or electric utility;
   B.   The provisions of this chapter do not apply to:
      1.   Facilities of an electric or gas public utility or such utility's
wireless facilities if the facilities are being used, developed and maintained
consistent with the provisions of subsection (i) of Section 16-108.5 of the
Public Utilities Act; or
      2.   Small wireless facilities owned by the Village.
(Ord. 828, passed 7-17-2018)
ARTICLE VII. PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT
SECTION 5.701. PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   There is established hereby a Parks and Recreation Department to be managed
by the Parks and Recreation Committee of the President and Board of Trustees.
The Parks and Recreation Department shall operate and maintain the system of
public parks and recreation facilities established by the President and Board
of Trustees of the Village.
(Ord. 579, passed 2-20-2007; Am. Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638,
passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 5.702. VILLAGE PARK SYSTEM.
   A.   From time to time the President and Board of Trustees shall designate
Village owned land for use as Village park areas, so that the Village shall
have at least two (2) park areas within its corporate limits.
   B.   Designated park areas may include but not be limited to: Playgrounds,
parks for active and/or passive recreation, and recreation buildings.
(Ord. 579, passed 2-20-2007; Am. Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638,
passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 5.703. RESERVED.
SECTION 5.704. MUNICIPAL RECREATION BUILDING; SETTING OF RATES; EMPLOYEES;
MAINTENANCE.
   The Parks and Recreation Committee of the President and Board of Trustees
shall, upon adoption of this Section and during the first month of the first
fiscal year thereafter, submit to the Village President and Board of Trustees a
proposal setting forth a plan for the construction and use of Village owned,
commercially zoned, land for a municipal recreation building, which may include
commercial uses such as restaurants and shops selling goods at retail. Such
plan shall include an estimate of the costs thereof and for the operation and
maintenance of the recreation building following its construction.
(Ord. 579, passed 2-20-2007; Am. Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638,
passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 5.705. CLOSING TIME OF PARKS.
   All parks within the Village shall be closed between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
and 6:00 a.m., provided that for special occasions the Parks and Recreation
Committee or the President and Board of Trustees may authorize that a park be
kept open past closing time provided for herein upon giving written notice to
the Lake County Sheriffs Police Department.
(Ord. 579, passed 2-20-2007; Am. Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638,
passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 5.706. LAND DESIGNATED AS A PUBLIC PARK OF THE VILLAGE OF METTAWA.
   The following described land is designated a public park hereby and its use
shall be limited to passive recreation, with the understanding that it may be
used by bicyclists, pedestrians and equestrians, so long as such use is
confined to the trail located or hereafter located on and within the said
public park:
The Village owned property located at the northwest corner of the intersection
of Illinois State Route 60 (also known as Townline Road) and Riverwoods
Boulevard is designated hereby as a public park to be operated by the Parks and
Recreation Department of the Village of Mettawa; which real property is legally
described as:
THAT PART OF LOT 9 IN METTAWA WOODS SUBDIVISION, BEING A SUBDIVISION OF PART OF
THE EAST HALF OF SECTION 35, TOWNSHIP 44 NORTH, RANGE 11 EAST OF THE THIRD
PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN ACCORDING TO THE PLAT THEREOF RECORDED OCTOBER 29, 1999 AS
DOCUMENT NO. 4443514, IN LAKE COUNTY, ILLINOIS, DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:
BEGINNING AT THE SOUTHWEST CORNER OF SAID LOT 9 THENCE NORTH 00 DEGREES 05
MINUTES 46 SECONDS EAST, 272.91 FEET ALONG THE WEST LINE THEREOF; THENCE SOUTH
73 DEGREES 49 MINUTES 05 SECONDS EAST, 124.08 FEET; THENCE NORTHEASTERLY 122.02
FEET ALONG A NON-TANGENTIAL CURVE, CONCAVE SOUTHEAST, HAVING A RADIUS OF 104.22
FEET AND A CHORD BEARING NORTH 61 DEGREES 14 MINUTES 11 SECONDS EAST, 115.17
FEET TO A POINT OF REVERSE CURVATURE; THENCE EASTERLY 305.68 FEET ALONG A
CURVE, CONCAVE NORTH, HAVING A RADIUS OF 1,527.97 FEET AND A CHORD BEARING
NORTH 89 DEGREES 02 MINUTES 44 SECONDS EAST, 305.17 FEET TO A POINT OF
TANGENCY; THENCE NORTH 83 DEGREES 18 MINUTES 53 SECONDS EAST, 107.27 FEET TO A
POINT OF CURVATURE; THENCE NORTHEASTERLY 632.14 FEET ALONG A CURVE CONCAVE
NORTHWEST, HAVING A RADIUS OF 599.48 FEET AND A CHORD BEARING NORTH 53 DEGREES
06 MINUTES 22 SECONDS EAST, 603.26 FEET TO A POINT OF TANGENCY; THENCE NORTH 22
DEGREES 53 MINUTES 51 SECONDS EAST, 405.42 FEET TO A POINT OF CURVATURE; THENCE
NORTHEASTERLY 83.94 FEET, ALONG A CURVE, CONCAVE SOUTHEASTERLY, HAVING A RADIUS
OF 154.59 FEET AND A CHORD BEARING OF NORTH 61 DEGREES 41 MINUTES 11 SECONDS
EAST, 115.17 FEET TO A POINT ON THE WESTERLY LINE HAMILTON OFFICE SUBDIVISION
RECORDED SEPTEMBER 8, 1999 AS DOCUMENT 4416298; THENCE SOUTH 00 DEGREES 03
MINUTES 07 SECONDS WEST ALONG SAID WEST LINE, 25.80 FEET TO A POINT ON A NON-
TANGENT CURVE; THENCE SOUTHWESTERLY 57.86 FEET, ALONG A NON-TANGENT CURVE,
CONCAVE SOUTHEASTERLY, HAVING A RADIUS OF 134.59 FEET AND A CHORD BEARING OF
SOUTH 35 DEGREES 12 MINUTES 51 SECONDS WEST, 57.42 FEET; THENCE SOUTH 22
DEGREES 53 MINUTES 51 SECONDS WEST 375.37 FEET TO A POINT ON THE SOUTHERLY LINE
OF METTAWA WOODS DRIVE PER DOCUMENT NUMBER 4443514; THENCE SOUTHEASTERLY, 58.94
FEET, ALONG SAID SOUTHERLY LINE, BEING A CURVE, CONCAVE NORTHEAST, HAVING A
RADIUS OF 383.00 FEET, AND A CHORD BEARING OF SOUTH 65 DEGREES 48 MINUTES 15
SECONDS EAST, 58.89 FEET TO A POINT OF CURVATURE; THENCE SOUTH 70 DEGREES 12
MINUTES 47 SECONDS EAST CONTINUING ALONG SAID LINE, 103.29 FEET TO A POINT ON
THE EAST LINE OF SAID LOT 9, SAID POINT ALSO BEING ON THE WEST LINE OF
RIVERWOODS BOULEVARD PER DOCUMENT NUMBER 4443514; THENCE SOUTHERLY 249.92 FEET
ALONG SAID LINE, BEING A CURVE, CONCAVE EAST, HAVING A RADIUS OF 791.00 FEET,
AND A CHORD BEARING OF SOUTH 09 DEGREES 08 MINUTES 12 SECONDS WEST, 248.88 FEET
TO A POINT OF CURVATURE; THENCE CONTINUING SOUTH 00 DEGREES 03 MINUTES 07
SECONDS WEST, CONTINUING ALONG SAID LINE, 197.54 FEET; THENCE SOUTH 01 DEGREES
59 MINUTES 39 SECONDS WEST CONTINUING ALONG SAID LINE, 164.97 FEET TO THE
SOUTHEAST CORNER OF SAID LOT 9; THENCE SOUTH 87 DEGREES 17 MINUTES 59 SECONDS
WEST, 163.04 FEET ALONG THE SOUTH LINE OF SAID LOT 9, SAID LINE ALSO BEING THE
NORTH LINE OF ILLINOIS ROUTE 60 PER DOCUMENT NUMBER 4443514; THENCE SOUTH 73
DEGREES 22 MINUTES 34 SECONDS WEST, CONTINUING ALONG SAID LINE 52.01 FEET;
THENCE SOUTH 87 DEGREES 57 MINUTES 07 SECONDS WEST, CONTINUING ALONG SAID LINE,
134.63 FEET; THENCE NORTH 89 DEGREES 55 MINUTES 16 SECONDS WEST, CONTINUING
ALONG SAID LINE, 407.19 FEET TO THE SOUTHEAST CORNER OF LOT 10 IN SAID METTAWA
WOODS SUBDIVISION; THENCE NORTH 00 DEGREES 04 MINUTES 44 SECONDS EAST, 267.00
FEET ALONG THE EAST LINE OF SAID LOT 10 TO THE NORTHEAST CORNER THEREOF; THENCE
NORTH 89 DEGREES 55 MINUTES 16 SECONDS WEST, 300.00 FEET ALONG THE NORTH LINE
OF SAID LOT 10 TO THE NORTHWEST CORNER THEREOF; THENCE SOUTH 00 DEGREES 04
MINUTES 44 SECONDS WEST, 267.00 FEET ALONG THE WEST LINE OF SAID LOT 10 TO THE
SOUTHWEST CORNER THEREOF, SAID CORNER ALSO BEING ON THE SOUTH LINE OF SAID LOT
9 AND NORTH LINE OF SAID ILLINOIS ROUTE 60; THENCE NORTH 89 DEGREES 55 MINUTES
16 SECONDS WEST ALONG SAID LINE, 196.00 FEET TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING.
(Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
ARTICLE VIII. RESERVED
ARTICLE IX. DEFINITIONS
SECTION 5.901. CONSTRUCTION.
   A.   The language in this Chapter shall be interpreted in accordance with
the following rules of construction: (i) The word "may" is permissive and the
word "shall" is mandatory; and (ii) except where the context reveals the
contrary: The singular includes the plural and the plural includes the
singular, and the masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
   B.   As used in this Chapter and unless the context clearly requires
otherwise, the words and terms listed below shall have the meanings ascribed to
them in this Subsection. Any term not defined in this Section shall have the
meaning ascribed to it in 92 Ill. Adm. Code § 530.30, unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      AASHTO. American Association of State Highway and Transportation
Officials.
      ANSI. American National Standards Institute.
      APPLICANT. A person applying for a permit under this Chapter.
      APPLICATION. The form provided by the Village Engineer and submitted by
an Applicant to begin the permitting process for a pennit issued pursuant to
this Chapter.
      ASTM. American Society for Testing and Materials.
      BACKFILL. The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a
trench or pit.
      BORE or BORING. To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the
insertion of a pipe or electrical conductor.
      CABLE OPERATOR. That term as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(5).
      CABLE SERVICE. That term as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(6).
      CABLE SYSTEM. That term as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(7).
      CARRIER PIPE. The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be
transported.
      CASING. A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such
as: carrier pipes, electrical conductors, and fiber optic devices.
      CLEAR ZONE. The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a non-recoverable slope, and a clear run-out
area. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and
on the roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO Roadside Design
Guide.
      COATING. Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
      CODE. The Municipal Code of the Village of Mettawa of 2001, as amended.
      CONDUCTOR. Wire carrying electrical current.
      CONDUIT. A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
      CONSTRUCTION or CONSTRUCT. The installation, repair, maintenance,
placement, alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in
place of facilities.
      CONSTRUCTION BASE AREA. The area lying between the project right-of-way
limits and the platted street limits within which the Village, by concurrence
in the establishment of the project right-of-way lines, will permit the State
to enter to perform all of its necessary construction operations.
      COST OF RESTORATION. The estimate of the Village Engineer of the
expenditure that will be necessary to bring about Restoration, including the
amount necessary to reimburse the Village for the inspections of the
Restoration work performed by the Village Engineer.
      COVER. The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or
conductor.
      CROSSING FACILITY. A facility that crosses one or more right-of-way lines
of a right-of-way.
      DISRUPT THE RIGHT-OF-WAY. For the purposes of this Chapter, any work
(other than fallen tree removal) that obstructs the right-of-way or causes a
material adverse effect on the use of the right-of-way for its intended use.
Such work may include, but not limited to, the following: excavating or other
cutting; placement (whether temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment,
devices, or structures; damage to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of
the soil, and shall not include the parking of vehicles or equipment in a
manner that does not materially obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
      EMERGENCY.  Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the
safety of the public using or in the vicinity of the right-of-way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
      ENCASEMENT.  Provision of a protective casing.
      ENCROACHMENT. Any building, fence, sign or any other structure or object
of any kind (with the exception of utilities and public road signs), which is
placed, located or maintained in, on, under or over any portion of the project
right-of-way or the roadway right-of-way where no project right-of-way line has
been established.
      EQUIPMENT. Materials, tools, implements, supplies, and/or other items
used to facilitate construction of facilities.
      EXCAVATION. The making of a hole or cavity by removing material, or
laying bare by digging.
      EXTRA HEAVY PIPE. Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
      FACILITY. All structures, devices, objects, and materials (including, but
not limited to, track and rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, antennas,
vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, cabinets, pedestals, poles, conduits,
grates, covers, pipes, cables, and appurtenances thereto) located on, over,
above, along, upon, under, across, or within rights-of-way under this Chapter.
For purposes of this Chapter, the term FACILITY shall not include any facility
owned or operated by the Village.
      FALLEN TREE. Any tree and/or part of a tree that has left its erect,
growing position on privately owned real estate to recline or fall upon any
part of a right-of-way, whether suddenly or over time.
      FINANCIAL GUARANTEE. Either an irrevocable Letter of Credit issued by a
bank (in a form to be approved by the Village Attorney) or currency issued by
the United States of America.
      FREESTANDING FACILITY. A facility that is not a crossing facility or a
parallel facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump, or meter station.
      FRONTAGE ROAD. Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land
adjacent to the highway where it is precluded by control of access to a
highway.
      HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any substance or material which, due to its
quantity, form, concentration, location, or other characteristics, is
determined by the Village Engineer to pose an unreasonable and imminent risk to
the life, health or safety of persons or property or to the ecological balance
of the environment, including, but not limited to explosives, radioactive
materials, petroleum or petroleum products or gases, poisons, etiology
(biological) agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance determined to be
hazardous or toxic under any federal or state law, statute or regulation.
      HIGHWAY CODE. The Illinois Highway Code, 605 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq., as
amended from time to time.
      HIGHWAY. A specific type of right-of-way used for vehicular traffic
including rural or urban roads or streets. HIGHWAY includes all highway land
and improvements, including roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges,
drainage structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances
necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
      HOLDER. A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or
provide cable or video service from the ICC pursuant to the Illinois Cable and
Video Competition Law, 220 ILCS 5/21-401.
      ICC. Illinois Commerce Commission.
      IDOT or STATE. Illinois Department of Transportation.
      JACKING.  Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means
with or without boring.
      JETTING.  Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to
create a cavity ahead of the pipe.
      JOINT USE. The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two or
more utilities.
      J.U.L.I.E. The Joint Utility Locating Information for Excavators utility
notification program.
      LETTER OF CREDIT. An irrevocable letter issued by a sound and reputable
bank to the Village whereby a certain sum of money is set aside and the Village
is authorized to draw drafts on the issuing bank up to the certain sum
restricted as payment of the Cost of Restoration for the performance of
Restoration and guaranteeing to accept such drafts if duly made.
      MAJOR INTERSECTION. The intersection of two or more major arterial
highways.
      MAINTENANCE GUARANTEE. The reduction of the amount of the Financial
Guarantee to an amount equal to fifteen percent (15%) of the Cost of
Restoration and held by the Village Treasurer for a period of one (1) year
following acceptance of the Restoration by the President and Board of Trustees.
      MUNICIPAL CODE. The Municipal Code of the Village of Mettawa of 2001, as
same may be amended from time to time hereafter.
      OCCUPANCY. The presence of facilities on, over or the under right-of-way.
      OFFICIAL VILLAGE STANDARDS. Those standards of installation, construction
and design on file for public inspection in the office of the Village Engineer,
as the same may be adopted and amended from time to time by the President and
Board of Trustees.
      OWNER. Any person having legal or equitable title to and/or control of
any land within the corporate limits of the Village.
      OWNER OF A FALLEN TREE. The owner of the privately owned real estate from
which a fallen tree fell.
      PARALLEL FACILITY. A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal
to the centerline of a right-of-way.
      PARKWAY. Any portion of the right-of-way not improved by street or
sidewalk.
      PAVEMENT CUT. The removal of an area of pavement for access to the
facility or for the construction of a facility.
      PERMISSIBLE ENCROACHMENT. Any existing awning, marquee, advertising sign
or similar overhanging structure supported from a building immediately adjacent
to the limits of a platted street where there is a sidewalk extending to the
building line and which does not impair the free and safe flow of traffic on
the highway; the permissive retention of overhanging signs is not to be
construed as being applicable to those signs supported from poles constructed
outside the project right-of-way line and not confined by adjacent buildings.
      PERMIT. Authorization issued in writing by the Village Engineer to
commence Work or take any other action for which a Permit is required by this
Chapter.
      PERMITTEE. That entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to this
Chapter.
      PERSON. Any natural human being, firm or corporation, including any
utility or unit of local government or agency thereof, and any contractor or
subcontractor thereof
      PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES. Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane, or coal-slurry.
      PRACTICABLE. That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than
that which is simply convenient.
      PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES. The President and Board of Trustees of
the Village.
      PRESSURE. The internal force acting radially against the walls of a
carrier pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
      PROJECT RIGHT-OF-WAY. Those areas within the project right-of-way lines
established jointly by the Village and the State which will be free of
encroachments.
      PROMPT. That which is done within a period of time specified by the
Village Engineer. If no time period is specified, the period shall be thirty
(30) days.
      PUBLIC ENTITY. A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the
government, whether at local, state or federal level.
      RESTORATION. Bringing and restoring the surface of and repairing a right-
of-way, highway, roadway, or other area Village Property disrupted by the
construction of a facility to its condition prior to commencement of the Work.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHTS-OF-WAY or ROADWAY RIGHT-OF-WAY. The entire width
of every road street, alley, thoroughfare, trail, temporary construction
easement, way, waterway or other land conveyed to the Village or other public
agency by fee simple or acquired by dedication or by prescription or plat or
other instrument for use by the general public or commonly and primarily used
for carrying pedestrian, equestrian or vehicular traffic or for highway
purposes or for other similar purposes, including utility easements, and other
easements in which the Village Engineer has the right and authority to
authorize, regulate or permit the location of facilities other than those
belonging to the Village. RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHTS-OF-WAY or ROADWAY RIGHT-OF-WAY
shall not include any real or personal Village property that is not
specifically described in the previous two (2) sentences and shall not include
government owned buildings, fixtures and other structures or improvements,
regardless of whether they are situated in the right-of-way.
      ROADWAY. That part of the highway that includes the pavement and
shoulders.
      SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL.  The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
      SECURITY FUND. That amount of security required pursuant to Section
5.208.
      SHOULDER. A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
      SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT. A decision(s) consistent with generally
accepted engineering principles, practices and experience.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected or any production artificially
built up or composed of parts joined together in some definite manner, the use
of which requires permanent or temporary location in or upon the land or
requires attachment to something having a permanent location above, on, or
below the ground, including but not limited to: Street pavement, curb, gutter,
walkway, gas line, sanitary sewer, storm sewer, water line or main, platform,
radio and/or television antenna (including supporting towers), telephone and
electric line, fiber optic or other cable, and telephone and electric poles.
The term also includes any storage tank or any temporary structure having no
foundation or footings and which may be removed when the designated time
period, activity or use for which the temporary structure was erected has
ceased.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS. This term includes, but is not limited to, messages
or information transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone
service, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer
exchange service, private line services, mobile radio services, cellular mobile
telecommunications services, stationary two-way radio, paging service and any
other form of mobile or portable oneway or two-way communications, and any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. PRIVATE LINE means a dedicated non-traffic
sensitive service for a single customer that entitles the customer to exclusive
or priority use of a communications channel, or a group of such channels, from
one or more specified locations to one or more other specified locations.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include value added services in which computer
processing applications are used to act on the form, content, code and protocol
of the information for purposes other than transmission. TELECOMMUNICATIONS
shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a telecommunications
service provider for use as a component part of the service provided by such
provider to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or terminates the end-
to-end communications. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include the provision of
cable services through a cable system as defined in the Cable Communications
Act of 1984 (47 U.S.C. Sections 521 and following), as now or hereafter
amended, or cable or other programming services subject to an open video system
fee payable to the Village through an open video system as defined in the Rules
of the Federal Communications Commission (47 C.F.R. § 76.1500 and following),
as now or hereafter amended.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER. Means any person that installs, owns,
operates or controls facilities in the right-of-way used or designed to be used
to transmit telecommunications in any form.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER.  Means and includes every person engaged in
making sales of telecommunications at retail as defined herein.
      TRENCH. A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
      UTILITY. The individual or entity owning or operating any facility as
defined in this Chapter.
      VENT. A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or
vapors from an underground casing.
      VIDEO SERVICE. That term as defined in section 21-201 (v) of the Illinois
Cable and Video Competition Law of 2007, 220 ILCS 21-201 (v).
      VILLAGE ATTORNEY. The Village Attorney of the Village or his designee.
      VILLAGE BOARD or PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES.  The President and
Board of Trustees of the Village.
      VILLAGE CLERK.  The Village Clerk of the Village or his designee.
      VILLAGE ENGINEER. The Village Engineer of the Village or his designee.
      VILLAGE OF METTAWA or VILLAGE or METTAWA. The Village of Mettawa, an
Illinois municipal corporation and home rule unit as such term is described in
the Illinois Constitution.
      VILLAGE PROPERTY ox VILLAGE OWNED PROPERTY. Any right-of-way or other
real estate dedicated to, owned by or under the jurisdiction of the Village,
including its parks.
      WATER LINES. Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
      WET BORING. Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to
soften the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material.
      WORK. Any activity involving elimination, modification, construction,
placement or maintenance of any facility and/or structure upon, in, under or
over the surface of any Village Property, including a right-of-way.
(Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
ARTICLE X. ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION 5.1001. SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT.
   The Village Engineer shall use sound engineering judgment when administering
this Chapter and may deviate from the standards, conditions, and requirements
expressed in this Chapter when the Village Engineer so determines. Nothing
herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the Village Engineer to
regulate the use and the condition of rights-of-way under the jurisdiction of
the Village for the protection of the public health, safety and welfare.
Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the Village Engineer may have for enforcement of this
Chapter.
(Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 5.1002. CONFLICTS WITH OTHER CHAPTERS.
   This Chapter supersedes all Chapters or parts of Chapters adopted and made
part of this Code prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to the extent of
such conflict.
(Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 5.1003. CONFLICTS WITH STATE AND FEDERAL LAWS.
   In the event that applicable federal or State laws or regulations conflict
with the requirements of this Chapter, the utility shall comply with the
requirements of this Chapter to the maximum extent possible without violating
federal or State laws or regulations.
(Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 5.1004. PENALTIES FOR MISDEMEANOR.
   A.   It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to violate or fail to comply
with any of the provisions of this Chapter.
   B.   Any person who violates any provisions of this Chapter shall be fined
as set forth in Chapter 2, Village Government, Article X, Tax, Fee, Fine and
Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1003, Fine and Penalty Schedule. Each and every day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
   C.   In addition, there may be times when the Village will incur other
costs, including third party claims, because the utility or permittee will not
or cannot perform its duties under its permit and this Chapter. Unless the
utility shows that another allocation of the cost of undertaking the requested
action is appropriate, the utility shall bear the Village's costs of damages
and its costs of installing, maintaining, relocating, or removing the facility
that is the subject of the permit. No other administrative agency or commission
may review or overrule a permit related cost apportionment by the Village
Engineer. The Village Board may impose sanctions upon a utility that does not
pay the costs apportioned to it.
(Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009; Am. Ord. 852,
passed 10-20-2020)
SECTION 5.1005. DISPOSITION OF FINES AND PENALTIES.
   For offenses committed within the corporate limits of the Village of Mettawa
or within the limits of the jurisdiction of the Village, fines and penalties
recovered under the provisions of this Chapter shall be paid to the Village
Treasurer of the Village of Mettawa for placement into the Village's General
Fund.
(Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 5.1006. SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this
Chapter is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and
independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions hereof.
(Ord. 594, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 638, passed 11-17-2009)
CHAPTER 6 - TRAFFIC CODE
SECTION
Article I. Definitions
   
6.101   Definitions of Words and Phrases
   
6.102   Alley
   
6.103   Area
   
6.104   Bicycle
   
6.105   Bumper
   
6.106   Department
   
6.107   Districts
   
6.108   Drag Racing
   
6.109   Driver
   
6.110   Explosives
   
6.111   Fire Lane
   
6.112   Flammable Liquid
   
6.113   Holidays
   
6.114   Muffler
   
6.115   Official Time
   
6.116   Official Traffic Control Devices
   
6.117   Park or Parking
   
6.118   Parking Meter
   
6.119   Person
   
6.120   Property
   
6.121   Property Line
   
6.122   Public Building
   
6.123   Push Car
   
6.124   Racing of Motor
   
6.125   Railroad
   
6.126   Railroad-Highway Grade Crossing
   
6.127   Railroad Train
   
6.128   Right-of-Way
   
6.129   Safety Glazing Materials
   
6.130   Seat Safety Belts
   
6.131   Shopping Center
   
6.132   Situs or Base of Vehicle
   
6.133   Stand or Standing
   
6.134   Stop
   
6.135   Street or Highway
   
6.136   Stunting
   
6.137   Suspension System
   
6.138   Terminal
   
6.139   Tires
   
6.140   Touring
   
6.141   Traffic
   
6.142   Vehicles
   
6.143   Village
   
6.144   Weight
   
6.145   Yield Right-of-Way
Article II. Obedience to and Effect of Traffic Laws
   
6.201   Adoption of Provisions of Illinois Vehicle Code and Child Passenger
Protection Act by Reference
   
6.202   Penalties and Related Provisions
   
6.203   Obedience to Police Officers
   
6.204   Traffic Laws Apply to Persons Riding Animals or Driving Animal-Driven
Vehicles
   
6.205   Unauthorized Direction of Traffic
Article III. Traffic Signs, Signals and Markings
   
6.301   Temporary Controls
   
6.302   Unlawful Possession of Highway Sign or Marker
   
6.303   Interference with Official Traffic Control Devices or Railroad Signs or
Signals
   
6.304   Unlawful Use or Damage to Highways, Appurtenances and Structures
   
6.305   Obedience to Traffic Control Devices
   
6.306   Traffic Control Signal Legend
   
6.307   Pedestrian Control Signals
   
6.308   Lane-Control Signals
   
6.309   Flashing Signals
   
6.310   Display of Unauthorized Signs, Signals, Markings, or Advertising Signs
Article IV. Accidents
   
6.401   Accidents Involving Death or Personal Injuries
   
6.402   Accident Involving Damage to Vehicle
   
6.403   Duty to Give Information and Render Aid
   
6.404   Duty Upon Damaging Unattended Vehicle or Other Property
   
6.405   Striking Unattended Vehicles, Fixtures or Other Property Prohibited
   
6.406   Duty to Report Accident
   
6.407   Immediate Notice of Accident
   
6.408   Police to Report
   
6.409   False Reports
   
6.410   When Driver Fails to Report
   
6.411   Accident Report Forms
   
6.412   Accident Reports Confidential
   
6.413   Furnishing Copies; Fees
Article V. Reckless Driving
   
6.501   Reserved
   
6.502   Transportation or Possession of Alcoholic Liquor in Motor Vehicle
   
6.503   Reckless Driving
   
6.504   Drag Racing
   
6.505   Reserved
   
6.506   Reserved
Article VI. Speed Restrictions
   
6.601   General Speed Restrictions
   
6.602   Prima Facie Evidence of Violation
   
6.603   Motor Vehicles of the Second Division
   
6.604   Electronic Speed-Detecting Devices
   
6.605   Special Speed Limit While Passing Schools
   
6.606   Maximum Attainable Speed
   
6.607   Emergency Vehicles
   
6.608   Special Speed Limitation on Elevated Structures
   
6.609   Violations; Charges, Effect on Civil Action
   
6.610   Minimum Speed Regulation
Article VII. Driving on Right Side of Roadway; Overtaking and Passing
   
6.701   Driving on Right Side of Roadway; Exceptions
   
6.702   Passing Vehicles Proceeding in Opposite Directions
   
6.703   Overtaking a Vehicle on the Left
   
6.704   When Overtaking on the Right Is Permitted
   
6.705   Limitations on Overtaking on the Left
   
6.706   Further Limitations on Driving to the Left of Center of Roadway
   
6.707   No-Passing Zones
   
6.708   One-Way Roadways and Rotary Traffic Islands
   
6.709   Driving on Roadways Laned for Traffic
   
6.710   Following Too Closely
   
6.711   Restrictions on Use of Controlled Access Highway
   
6.712   Approaching, Overtaking, and Passing School Bus
Article VIII. Turning and Starting and Signals on Stopping and Turning
   
6.801   Required Position and Methods of Turning at Intersections
   
6.802   Limitations on U-Turns
   
6.803   Starting Parked Vehicle
   
6.804   When Signal Required
   
6.805   Signal by Hand and Arm or Signal Device
   
6.806   Method of Giving Hand and Arm Signals
   
6.807   Prohibited Turns
Article IX. Right-of-Way
   
6.901   Vehicles Approaching or Entering Intersection
   
6.902   Vehicle Turning Left
   
6.903   Vehicles Entering Stop Crosswalk
   
6.904   Vehicle Entering Stop or Yield Intersection
   
6.905   Merging Traffic
   
6.906   Vehicle Entering Highway from Private Road or Driveway
   
6.907   Operation of Vehicles on Approach of Authorized or Emergency Vehicles
   
6.908   Vehicle Approaching Highway Construction or Maintenance Area
   
6.909   Funeral Processions
Article X. Pedestrians' Rights and Duties
   
6.1001   Pedestrian Obedience to Traffic Control Devices and Traffic
Regulations
   
6.1002   Pedestrians' Right-of-Way at Crosswalks
   
6.1003   Crossing at Other Than Crosswalks
   
6.1004   Blind, Hearing Impaired or Physically Handicapped Right-of-Way
   
6.1005   Pedestrians to Use Right Half of Crosswalks
   
6.1006   Pedestrians Soliciting Rides or Business
   
6.1007   Pedestrians Walking on Roadway
   
6.1008   Right-of-Way on Sidewalk
   
6.1009   Pedestrians Yield to Authorized Emergency Vehicles
   
6.1010   Pedestrians Under Influence of Alcohol or Drugs
   
6.1011   Bridge and Railroad Signals
Article XI. Motorcycles
   
6.1101   Riding on Motorcycles
   
6.1102   Riding on Motorized Pedal Cycles
   
6.1103   Operating Motorcycle on One Wheel
   
6.1104   Special Equipment for Persons Riding Motorcycles
   
6.1105   Required Equipment on Motorcycles
Article XII. Special Stops Required
   
6.1201   Obedience to Signal Indicating Approach of Train
   
6.1202   Certain Vehicles Must Stop at All Railroad Grade Crossings
   
6.1203   Moving Heavy Equipment at Railroad Grade Crossing
   
6.1204   Stop and Yield Signs
   
6.1205   Emerging from Alley, Building, Private Road or Driveway
Article XIII. Stopping, Standing, and Parking
   
6.1301   Stopping, Standing or Parking Outside of Business or Residence
District
   
6.1302   Officers Authorized to Remove Illegally Stopped Vehicles
   
6.1303   Stopping, Standing, or Parking Prohibited in Specific Place
   
6.1304   Angle Parking; One-Way Roadways
   
6.1305   Lessors of Visitor Vehicles; Duty Upon Receiving Notice of Violation
of Parking Regulations
   
6.1306   School Bus Stopping on 4-Lane Highway
   
6.1307   Interference With Fire Apparatus Prohibited
   
6.1308   Handicapped Persons; Parking and Exemptions
   
6.1309   Alleys
   
6.1310   Cab Stands; Bus Stands
   
6.1311   Loading Zone
   
6.1312   Truck Loading and Parking in Residence Districts
   
6.1313   Parking of Vehicle for Sale
   
6.1314   No Parking During Snow Removal
   
6.1315   No Parking Any Time
   
6.1316   Obstructing Fire Lanes
   
6.1317   Penalty
Article XIV. Miscellaneous Laws
   
6.1401   Unattended Motor Vehicles
   
6.1402   Limitations on Backing
   
6.1403   Clinging to Vehicles
   
6.1404   Passengers Boarding or Exiting a School Bus
   
6.1405   Operation of Religious Organization Bus
   
6.1406   Obstruction of Driver's View or Driving Mechanism
   
6.1407   Opening Vehicle Doors
   
6.1408   Riding in House Trailers
   
6.1409   Coasting Prohibited
   
6.1410   Following Fire Apparatus Prohibited
   
6.1411   Direction of Traffic at Scene of Fire
   
6.1412   Crossing Fire Hose
   
6.1413   Putting Glass, Etc., on Highway Prohibited
   
6.1414   Approaching, Overtaking, and Passing School Bus
   
6.1415   School Buses; Stopping, Loading and Discharging Passengers on Highways
Having Four or Five Lanes
   
6.1416   Obstructing Person on Highways
   
6.1417   Travel Regulated
   
6.1418   Farm Tractor Operation Regulated
   
6.1419   Operation of Motor Vehicles; Duration and Exceptions
   
6.1420   Funeral Processions
   
6.1421   Illegal Operation of Ambulance or Rescue Vehicle; Penalty
   
6.1422   Spilling Loads on Highways Prohibited
   
6.1423   Snowmobiles, Go-Carts, Mini-Bikes, Etc.
   
6.1424   Driver and Passenger Required to Use Safety Belts; Exceptions and
Penalty
   
6.1425   Operation of All-Terrain Vehicles and Off-Highway Motorcycles on
Streets, Roads and Highways
Article XV. Equipment of Vehicles
   
6.1501   Scope and Effect of Equipment Requirements
   
6.1502   When Lighted Lamps Are Required
   
6.1503   Clearance, Identification and Side Marker Lamps
   
6.1504   Lamps on Parked Vehicles
   
6.1505   Lamp or Flag on Projecting Load
   
6.1506   Lamps on Other Vehicles
   
6.1507   Lamps and Other Equipment on Bicycles and Pedal Cycles
   
6.1508   Spot Lamps and Auxiliary Driving Lamps
   
6.1509   Signal Lamps and Signal Devices
   
6.1510   Additional Lighting Equipment
   
6.1511   Use of Head Lamps
   
6.1512   Number of Driving Lamps Required or Permitted
   
6.1513   Special Restrictions on Lamps
   
6.1514   Special Lighting Equipment on School Buses
   
6.1515   Special Lighting Equipment in Rural Mail Delivery Vehicles
   
6.1516   Oscillating, Rotating or Flashing Lights on Motor Vehicles
   
6.1517   Operation of Oscillating, Rotating or Flashing Lights
   
6.1518   Brakes
   
6.1519   Brake Fluid
   
6.1520   Restriction as to Tire Equipment
   
6.1521   Sale or Offer of Sale of First Division Motor Vehicle Tires With Other
Than Original Grooves
   
6.1522   Sale or Offer of Sale of Second Division Motor Vehicles With Other
Than Original Grooves
   
6.1523   Sale or Offer of Sale of Any Intergrooved Motor Vehicle Tires Without
Marking
   
6.1524   Use of Unsafe Tire; Criteria
   
6.1525   Safety Glazing Material in Motor Vehicles
   
6.1526   Mirrors
   
6.1527   Windshields Must Be Unobstructed and Equipped With Wipers
   
6.1528   Horns and Warning Devices
   
6.1529   Mufflers, Prevention of Noise
   
6.1530   Seat Safety Belts
   
6.1531   Television Receivers
   
6.1532   Tow-Trucks; Identification, Equipment and Insurance
   
6.1533   Suspension System
   
6.1534   Bumpers
   
6.1535   Disposal of Motor Vehicles Bearing Police Markings
   
6.1536   Headset Receivers
   
6.1537   Tractors, Traction Engines and Motor Trucks; Operation on Highways;
Turning on Highways During Farming Operations; Violations
   
6.1538   Certain Vehicles to Carry Flares or Other Warning Devices
   
6.1539   Road Oil Vehicles; Dripping on Certain Highways Forbidden
   
6.1540   Vehicles Transporting Explosives or Radioactive Materials
   
6.1541   Vehicles Transporting Flammable Liquids When Lights Required; Marked
With Reflectorized Paint
   
6.1542   School Buses; Special Requirements
   
6.1543   Slow-Moving Vehicle Emblem
   
6.1544   Rear Fender Splash Guards
   
6.1545   Special Regulations for Religious Organization Buses
   
6.1546   Vehicle Passenger Capacity
   
6.1547   Operator Protective Frames on Tractor-Mower Combinations
   
6.1548   Driver and Passenger Required to Use Safety Belts, Exceptions and
Penalty
   Article XVI. Bicycles
   
6.1601   Application of Rules
   
6.1602   Traffic Laws Apply to Persons Riding Bicycles
   
6.1603   Riding on Bicycles
   
6.1604   Clinging to Vehicles
   
6.1605   Position of Bicycles and Motorized Pedal Cycles on Roadway (Riding on
Roadways and Bicycle Paths)
   
6.1606   Riding Bicycles or Motorized Pedal Cycles on Roadways
   
6.1607   Carrying Articles
   
6.1608   Lamps and Other Equipment on Bicycles
   
6.1609   License Required
   
6.1610   License Application
   
6.1611   Issuance of License
   
6.1612   Transfer or Ownership
   
6.1613   Rental Agencies
   
6.1614   Bicycle Identifying Number
   
6.1615   Inspecting Bicycles
   
6.1616   Left Turns
   
6.1617   Turn and Stop Signals
   
6.1618   Bicycles on Sidewalks
   
6.1619   Bicycle Parking
   
6.1620   Bicycle Racing
   
6.1621   Use of Sirens Prohibited
   
6.1622   Penalties
Article XVII. Regulation of Commercial Traffic
   
6.1701   Operation of Certain Vehicles Prohibited
   
6.1702   Exemptions
   
6.1703   Definitions
Article XVIII. Abandoned, Lost, Stolen or Unclaimed Vehicles
   
6.1801   Abandonment of Vehicles Prohibited
   
6.1802   Abandoned, Lost, Stolen or Unclaimed Vehicle; Notification to Law
Enforcement Agencies
   
6.1803   Removal of Motor Vehicles or Other Vehicles; Towing or Hauling Away
   
6.1804   Reports on Towed Vehicles
   
6.1805   Record Searches
   
6.1806   Identifying and Tracing of Vehicle Ownership
   
6.1807   Reclaimed Vehicles; Expenses
   
6.1808   Disposal of Unclaimed Vehicles
   
6.1809   Disposal of Unclaimed Vehicles Without Notice
   
6.1810   Police Reports After Vehicle Is Reclaimed or Disposed of
   
6.1811   Disposition of Proceeds of Sale of Unclaimed Vehicles
   
6.1812   Liability
   
6.1813   Penalties
Article XIX. Construction, Penalties and Disposition of Fines
   
6.1901   Effect of Headings
   
6.1902   Severability
   
6.1903   Traffic Violation Tickets
   
6.1904   Arrests
   
6.1905   Penalties for Misdemeanor
   
6.1906   Disposition of Fines
Article XX. Appendix
SCHEDULE
   
I   Speed Restrictions
   
II   One-Way Streets
   
III   Prohibited Turns
   
IV   Stop and Yield Signs
   
V   No Stopping, Standing, or Parking
   
VI   No Parking Any Time
   
VII   Fire Lanes
   
VIII   Reserved
ARTICLE I. DEFINITIONS
SECTION 6.101. DEFINITIONS OF WORDS AND PHRASES.
   Whenever in this Chapter the following words and phrases are used, they
shall, for the purposes of this Chapter, have the meanings respectively
ascribed to them in this Article, except when the context otherwise indicates.
SECTION 6.102. ALLEY.
   A public way within a block, generally giving access to the rear of lots or
buildings and not used for general traffic circulation.
SECTION 6.103. AREA.
   The geographical boundaries within which an operating motorcycle or
operating motor-driven cycle can be heard.
SECTION 6.104. BICYCLE.
   Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may ride, having
two tandem wheels either of which is more than sixteen (16) inches in diameter.
SECTION 6.105. BUMPER.
   Every device or system of devices protruding from and attached to the front
and rear of a motor vehicle which has been designed to be used to absorb the
impact of a collision.
SECTION 6.106. DEPARTMENT.
   The Police Department of the Village of Mettawa or that Police Department of
another Unit of Local Government with which the Village of Mettawa contracts
for police protection and services.
SECTION 6.107. DISTRICTS.
   The word “district” may be used with reference to:
   A.   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory of the Village contiguous to and
including a highway when within six hundred (600) feet along such highway there
are buildings in use for office and research purposes as set forth in the
Zoning Ordinance of the Village of Mettawa (Chapter 15 thereof), including but
not limited to office buildings and public buildings which occupy at least
three hundred (300) feet of frontage on one side or three hundred (300) feet
collectively on both sides of the highway.
   B.   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory of the Village contiguous to and
including a highway not comprising a business district when the property on
such highway for a distance of three hundred (300) feet or more is the main
improved with residences or residences and buildings in use for business.
   C.   SUBURBAN DISTRICT. A portion of the Village other than business and
residence districts.
   D.   URBAN DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including any street
which is built up with structures devoted to business, industry or dwelling
houses situated at intervals of less than one hundred (100) feet for a distance
of a quarter of a mile or more.
SECTION 6.108. DRAG RACING.
   The act of two (2) or more individuals competing or racing on any street or
highway in this Village in a situation in which one of the motor vehicles is
beside or to the rear of a motor vehicle operated by a competing driver and the
one driver attempts to prevent the competing driver from passing or overtaking
him, either by acceleration or maneuver, or one or more individuals competing
in a race against time on any street or highway in this Village.
SECTION 6.109. DRIVER.
   Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
SECTION 6.110. EXPLOSIVES.
   Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is commonly used or
intended for the purpose of producing an explosion and which contains any
oxidizing and combustive units or other ingredients in such proportions,
quantities, or packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by
percussion, or by detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause
such a sudden generation of highly heated gases that the resultant gaseous
pressures are capable of producing destructive effects on contiguous objects or
of destroying life or limb.
SECTION 6.111. FIRE LANE.
   Any travel lanes reserved for fire fighting equipment so that such fire
equipment can move freely.
SECTION 6.112. FLAMMABLE LIQUID.
   Any liquid which has a flash point of 70 degrees F., or less, as determined
by a tagliabue or equivalent closed cup test device.
SECTION 6.113. HOLIDAYS.
   When used in this Chapter or on official signs authorized by this Chapter,
HOLIDAYS shall mean: New Year's Day, Good Friday, Memorial Day, Independence
Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day.
SECTION 6.114. MUFFLER.
   A device consisting of a series of chambers or baffle plates or other
mechanical design for the purpose of receiving exhaust gas from an internal
combustion engine and effective in reducing noise.
SECTION 6.115. OFFICIAL TIME.
   Standard or daylight-saving time, whichever may be in current use in this
Village.
SECTION 6.116. OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   All signs, signals, markings, and devices which conform with the State of
Illinois Manual and not inconsistent with this Chapter, placed or erected by
authority of a public body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of
regulating, warning, or guiding traffic, including:
   A.   LANE CONTROL SIGNAL. An electrically controlled and illuminated signal
of a square or rectangular design and employing distinctive colors or symbols
used to control the direction of vehicular flow on the particular lane to which
the indication applies.
   B.   RAILROAD SIGNS OR SIGNALS. Any sign, signal, or device other than an
official traffic control signal or device, erected in accordance with the laws
governing same and intended to give notice of the presence of railroad tracks
or the approach of a railroad train.
   C.   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL. Any official traffic control other than a
railroad sign or signal device, whether manually, electrically, or mechanically
operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to proceed.
SECTION 6.117. PARK OR PARKING.
   When prohibited means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading of merchandise or passengers.
SECTION 6.118. PARKING METER.
   A mechanical device located upon a public street, sidewalk, or other place
designated as a parking meter zone, which device may be activated by the
deposit of the appropriate United States coin or coins, which deposit activates
a timer which clocks the number of minutes of parking privilege thereby
extended to the person depositing such coin or coins.
SECTION 6.119. PERSON.
   Every natural person, firm, co-partnership, association, or corporation,
including:
   A.   CHAUFFEUR.
      1.   All persons employed by another for the principal purpose of driving
a motor vehicle;
      2.   All persons who drive a school bus transporting children;
      3.   All persons employed in connection with the operation of any school,
day camp, summer camp, or nursery school, who drive any motor vehicle
transporting children to or from any school, day camp, summer camp, or nursery
school;
      4.   All persons who drive any motor vehicle when in use for the
transportation of persons or property for compensation; and
      5.   All persons, except those who are engaged in a ridesharing
arrangement, who are employed to drive a commuter van while transporting
persons to and from their place of employment.
   B.   CROSSING GUARD. An adult civilian authorized by the Department to
supervise and expedite the crossing of pedestrians at assigned crossings.
   C.   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   D.   HANDICAPPED PERSON. Every natural person who is unable to walk two
hundred (200) feet or more unassisted by another person or without the aid of a
walker, crutches, braces, prosthetic device or a wheelchair or without great
difficulty or discomfort due to the following impairments: neurologic,
orthopedic, respiratory, cardiac, arthritic disorder, blindness, or the loss of
function or absence of a limb or limbs.
   E.   MOTOR CARRIER. An operator of for-hire vehicles pursuant to the
Illinois State Motor Carrier of Property Law.
   F.   NON-RESIDENT. Every person who is not a resident of the State of
Illinois.
   G.   OPERATOR. Every person, other than a chauffeur, who drives or is in
actual physical control of a motor vehicle upon a highway or who is exercising
control over or steering a vehicle being towed by a motor vehicle.
   H.   OWNER. A person who holds the legal title of a motor vehicle or in the
event a motor vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale
or lease thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions
stated in the agreement and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagee of such motor vehicle
is entitled to possession, then such conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagee
shall be deemed the OWNER for the purpose of this Chapter.
   J.   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   K.   PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED PERSONS. Every person who drives, who is in
actual physical control of, or who owns, any vehicle, provided that any such
vehicle so driven, controlled, or owned, bears registration plates marked with
special designations made by the Secretary of State, in his discretion,
indicating that such vehicle is being driven, controlled, or owned by such
physically handicapped person or disabled veteran.
   L.   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic
or to make arrests for violation of traffic regulations, including but not
limited to Conservators of the Peace as such term is defined in the Statutes of
the State of Illinois, made and provided.
   M.   RESIDENT.
      1.   Every natural person who resides in this State shall be deemed a
RESIDENT of the State of Illinois.
      2.   In the case of a firm, co-partnership, or association, if the
principal place of business of such firm, co-partnership, or association is
located in the State of Illinois, then such firm, co-partnership, or
association shall be deemed a RESIDENT of the State of Illinois.
      3.   In the case of a corporation, if the corporation was incorporated
under the laws of the State of Illinois, or if the principal place of business
of such corporation is in the State of Illinois, then such corporation shall be
deemed a RESIDENT of the State of Illinois.
   N.   SECRETARY or SECRETARY OF STATE. The Secretary of State of the State of
Illinois.
   O.   TRANSPORTER. Every person engaged in the business of transporting
vehicles, not his own, by driving, either singly or by the tower, saddle mount,
or full mount methods or any combinations thereof or by drawing or towing house
trailers; including their coupling devices, and using the public streets or
highways of the Village of Mettawa therefor.
SECTION 6.120. PROPERTY.
   Any real property within the Village of Mettawa which is not a street or
highway.
SECTION 6.121. PROPERTY LINE.
   The line of demarcation between a public way and private property abutting
thereon.
SECTION 6.122. PUBLIC BUILDING.
   Any building or portion of any building occupied and used by any
governmental agency.
SECTION 6.123. PUSH CAR.
   A conveyance designed to be propelled by a person on foot.
SECTION 6.124. RACING OF MOTOR.
   A sudden acceleration or deceleration of the motor of a motorcycle or motor-
driven cycle.
SECTION 6.125. RAILROAD.
   A carrier of persons or property upon cars, other than street cars,
operating upon stationary rails.
SECTION 6.126. RAILROAD-HIGHWAY GRADE CROSSING.
   The intersection of stationary rails owned or used in the operation of a
railroad corporation across a highway.
SECTION 6.127. RAILROAD TRAIN.
   A steam engine, electric, or other motor, with or without cars coupled
thereto, operating upon rails, except street cars.
SECTION 6.128. RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful manner in
preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such
circumstances of direction, speed, and proximity as to give rise to danger of
collision unless one grants precedence to the other.
SECTION 6.129. SAFETY GLAZING MATERIALS.
   Glazing materials so constructed, treated, or combined with other materials
as to reduce substantially, in comparison with ordinary sheet glass or plate
glass, the likelihood of injury to persons by objects from exterior sources or
by these safety glazing materials when they may be cracked or broken.
SECTION 6.130. SEAT SAFETY BELTS.
   A set of belts or a harness meeting the specifications established by the
State of Illinois Department of Public Safety and installed in such manner as
to prevent or materially reduce the movement of the person using the same in
the event of collision or upset of the vehicle.
SECTION 6.131. SHOPPING CENTER.
   Premises having one or more stores or business establishments in connection
with which there is provided on privately-owned property near or contiguous
thereto an area or areas of land used by the public as the means of access to
and egress from the stores and business establishments on such premises and for
the parking of motor vehicles of customers and patrons of such stores and
business establishments on such premises.
SECTION 6.132. SITUS OR BASE OF VEHICLE.
   The place where a vehicle is principally garaged, or from whence it is
principally dispatched, or where the movements of such vehicle usually
originate.
SECTION 6.133. STAND OR STANDING.
   The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise than when
temporarily and actually engaged in receiving or discharging passengers.
SECTION 6.134. STOP.
   When required means complete cessation from movement.
   A.   STOP or STOPPING. When prohibited means any halting even momentarily of
a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic control sign or signal.
   B.   BUS STOP. A designated area in the roadway, parallel and adjacent to
the curb or shoulder, used for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers.
SECTION 6.135. STREET OR HIGHWAY.
   The entire width between boundary lines of every way or place of whatever
nature when any part thereof is open to the use of the public, as a matter of
right, for the purpose of vehicular traffic other than public ways for
vehicular traffic within the parking lots of shopping centers wherein authority
to patrol has not been given by the owners thereof and other than public ways
for vehicular traffic within a park district for which such park district has
maintenance responsibility but otherwise including:
   A.   ARTERIAL OR MAJOR STREET. Any United States or Illinois State numbered
route, controlled access highway, or other major radial or circumferential
street or highway designated by the President and Board of Trustees of the
Village of Mettawa within the corporate limits of the Village of Mettawa as
part of a major arterial system of streets or highways, used for through
traffic and usually on a continuous route.
   B.   BUS STAND. A designated area in the roadway, parallel and adjacent to
the curb or shoulder to be occupied exclusively by buses for purposes of
maintaining schedules, or awaiting passengers.
   C.   COLLECTOR OR SECONDARY STREETS. Any street which provides for traffic
movement between arterial and local streets, and direct access to abutting
property.
   D.   CONTROLLED ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every highway, street, or roadway in respect
to which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal
right of access to or from the same except at such points only and in the
manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over
such highway, street or roadway.
   E.   CROSSWALK.
      1.   That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway and in the absence of a sidewalk on one side of the
highway, that part of the highway included within the extension of the lateral
line of the existing sidewalk to the side of the highway without the sidewalk,
with such extension forming a right angle to the centerline of the highway;
      2.   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
   F.   IMPROVED HIGHWAY. Any roadway of concrete, brick, asphalt, macadam and
crushed stone or gravel.
   G.   INTERSECTION.
      1.   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if not, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways
of two highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right angles or
the area within which vehicles traveling upon different roadways joining at any
other angle may come in conflict.
      2.   Where a highway includes two roadways forty (40) feet or more apart,
then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
   H.   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into two (2) or more clearly
marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
   J.   LOCAL OR MINOR STREET. A street primarily for access to residence,
business, or other abutting property.
   K.   LOADING ZONE. A designated area in the roadway, adjacent to the curb or
shoulder, to be occupied exclusively by vehicles during the loading or
unloading of passengers and/or material.
   L.   ONE-WAY STREET or ONE-WAY ALLEY. A public way in which traffic is
permitted to travel in only one direction.
   M.   PARKING METER ZONE. A designated and marked off area in the roadway,
adjacent to the curb or shoulder or any other place designated, to be occupied
exclusively by vehicles for the purpose of parking for the period of time
allocated to the zone by a parking meter.
   N.   PARKWAY. That area of a street between the edge of the curb or edge of
the paved portion of the roadway (where there is no curb) and the public
sidewalk or (where there is no public sidewalk) the real estate adjacent to the
street.
   O.   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership and
used for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner but not by other persons.
   P.   PUBLIC WAY. Any sidewalk, roadway, alley or other thoroughfare open to
the use of the public as a matter of right, for the purpose of travel.
   Q.   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the beret or shoulder. In the event a
highway includes two (2) or more separate ROADWAYS, the term ROADWAY, as used
herein, shall refer to any such ROADWAY separately but not to all such
ROADWAYS, collectively.
   R.   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart with a roadway for
the exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a SAFETY ZONE.
   S.   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the
lateral lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the
use of pedestrians.
   T.   STATE HIGHWAYS. Whenever the term is used in this Chapter, it shall be
construed to include the STATE HIGHWAYS, as defined in the “Illinois Vehicle
Code,” as the same may from time to time be amended.
   U.   TAXICAB STAND. A designated area in the roadway, adjacent to the curb
or shoulder, to be occupied exclusively by taxicabs for purposes of standing or
awaiting passengers.
   V.   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every highway or portion thereof on which vehicular
traffic is given preferential right-of-way, and at the entrances to which
vehicular traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to yield right-
of-way to vehicles on such through highway in obedience to either a stop sign
or a yield sign, when such signs are erected as provided in this Chapter.
SECTION 6.136. STUNTING.
   Operation of a vehicle in a manner causing it to weave or suddenly change
course, or the loss of body contact with seat by a driver or passenger, and not
for the purpose of safe operation of such vehicle.
SECTION 6.137. SUSPENSION SYSTEM.
   The system of devices consisting of but not limited to: springs, spring
shackles, shock absorbers, tension bars, frame or any other supporting members
used to attach the body of a motor vehicle to its axle.
SECTION 6.138. TERMINAL.
   A designated area, including buildings, structures, and equipment located at
the origin or destination of a transportation movement, and used for the
transferring, handling, delivery, and receiving of passengers and/or property.
SECTION 6.139. TIRES.
   TIRES shall include:
   A.   METAL TIRE. Every tire with surface of which in contact with the
highway is wholly or partly of metal or other hard, nonresilient material.
   B.   PNEUMATIC TIRE. Every tire in which compressed air is designed to
support the load.
   C.   SOLID TIRE. Every tire of rubber or other resilient material which does
not depend upon compressed air for the support of the load.
SECTION 6.140. TOURING.
   Any repetitious driving of motorcycles or motor-driven cycles in the same
area which causes a disturbance or is done with the intent of calling attention
to an operator of a motorcycle or motor-driven cycle.
SECTION 6.141. TRAFFIC.
   A.   Pedestrians, riding or herded animals, vehicles, street cars, and other
conveyances either singly or together while using any highway for purposes of
travel.
   B.   MERGING TRAFFIC. A maneuver executed by the drivers of vehicles on
converging roadways to permit simultaneous or alternate entry into the junction
thereof, wherein the driver of each vehicle involved is required to adjust his
vehicular speed and lateral position so as to avoid a collision with any other
vehicle.
SECTION 6.142. VEHICLES.
   A.   Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks and snowmobiles as defined in
the Snowmobile Registration and Safety Act.
   B.   The meaning of the word VEHICLE includes but shall not be limited to
the following:
      1.   ABANDONED VEHICLES. A motor vehicle standing or parked on a public
way which is either:
         a.   In such a state of disrepair as to be incapable of being driven
or operated in its condition; or
         b.   Unmoved or unused for seven (7) consecutive days or more.
      2.   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES. Any motorized off-highway device fifty (50)
inches or less in width, having a manufacturer's dry weight of six hundred
(600) pounds or less, traveling on three (3) or more low-pressure tires,
designed with a seat or saddle for operator use, and handlebars or steering
wheel for steering control.
      3.   AMBULANCE. Any publicly or privately owned vehicle which is
specifically designed, constructed or modified and equipped, and is intended to
be used for, and is maintained or operated for the emergency transportation of
persons who are sick, injured, wounded or otherwise incapacitated or helpless.
      4.   ANTIQUE VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle that is more than twenty five
(25) years of age or a bona fide replica thereof and which is driven on the
highways only going to and returning from an antique auto show or an
exhibition, or for serving or demonstration, or a fire-fighting vehicle more
than twenty (20) years old which is not used as fire-fighting equipment but is
used only for the purpose of exhibition or demonstration.
      5.   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Emergency vehicles of the municipal
departments of the Village of Mettawa or public service corporations as may be
designated or authorized from time to time by the Village of Mettawa President
and Board of Trustees; police vehicles, vehicles of the fire department and
ambulances.
      6.   BUS. Every motor vehicle other than a commuter van designed for
carrying more than ten (10) passengers and used for the transportation of
persons; and every motor vehicle, other than a taxicab, designed and used for
the transportation of persons for compensation.
      7.   COMMERCIAL VEHICLES. Any vehicle operated for the transportation of
persons or property in the furtherance of any commercial or industrial
enterprise, for-hire or not-for-hire, but not including a commuter van, a
vehicle used in a ridesharing arrangement when being used for that purpose, or
a recreational vehicle not being used commercially.
         a.   FLEET. Three (3) or more commercial motor vehicles.
         b.   NON-FLEET. Any one (1) or two (2) commercial motor vehicles not
part of a fleet.
      8.   COMMUTER VAN. A motor vehicle designed for the transportation of not
less than nine (9) nor more than sixteen (16) passengers, which is:
         a.   Used in a ridesharing arrangement; or
         b.   Owned or leased by or on behalf of a company or an employee
organization and operated on a non-profit basis with the primary purpose of
transporting employees of the company between the employees homes and the
company's place of business or a public transportation station and in which the
operating, administrative, maintenance and reasonable depreciation costs are
paid principally by the persons utilizing the COMMUTER VAN.
      9.   FUNERAL PROCESSION.
         a.   A caravan or motorcade consisting of two (2) or more motor
vehicles, in combinations of any of the following:Automobiles designed and used
for carrying not more than seven (7) passengers, funeral hearses, and funeral
cars, when such vehicles are proceeding to places of burial.
         b.   For purposes of this Chapter, pedestrian or equestrian units may
also constitute a FUNERAL PROCESSION either alone or in combinations of any of
the motor vehicles described in this subsection.
      10.   HOUSE TRAILER.
         a.   A recreational trailer or semi-trailer equipped and used for
living quarters or for human habitation (temporarily or permanently) rather
than for the transportation of freight, goods, wares, and merchandise; or
         b.   A house trailer or a semi-trailer which is used commercially
(temporarily or permanently), that is, for the advertising, sales, display or
promotion of merchandise or services, or for any other commercial purpose
except that transportation of property for hire or the transportation of
property for distribution by a private carrier.
      11.   IMPLEMENT OF HUSBANDRY. Every vehicle designed and adapted
exclusively for agricultural, horticultural, or livestock raising operation,
including farm wagons, wagon trailers, or like vehicles, used in connection
therewith, or for lifting or carrying an implement of husbandry, provided that
no farm wagon, wagon trailer or like vehicle having a capacity of more than 400
bushels or of a gross weight of more thirty thousand (30,000) pounds, shall be
included hereunder.
      12.   MEDICAL CARRIER. Any publicly or privately owned vehicle which is
specifically designed, constructed or modified and equipped, and is intended to
be used for, and is maintained or operated for the nonemergency transportation
of persons for compensation for the purpose of obtaining medical services.
      13.   MOTORCYCLES. Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the
use of the rider and designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in
contact with the ground but excluding a tractor.
      14.   MOTOR DRIVEN CYCLES. Every motorcycle and every motor scooter with
less than one hundred fifty (150) cubic centimeter piston displacement
including motorized pedal cycles.
      15.   MOTORIZED PEDAL CYCLE. A motor-driven cycle whose speed attainable
in one (1) mile is 30 m.p.h. or less, which is equipped with a motor that
produces two (2) brake horsepower or less. If an internal combustion engine is
used, the displacement shall not exceed fifty (50) cubic centimeter
displacement and the power drive system shall not require the operator to shift
gears.
      16.   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every
vehicle which is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley
wires, but not operated upon rails. For this Chapter, MOTOR VEHICLES are
divided into two (2) divisions:
         a.   FIRST DIVISION. Those motor vehicles which are designed for the
carrying of not more than ten (10) persons.
         b.   SECOND DIVISION. Those motor vehicles which are designed for
carrying more than ten (10) persons, those designed or used for living
quarters, and those motor vehicles which are designed for pulling or carrying
freight or cargo, and those motor vehicles of the First Division remodeled for
use and used as motor vehicles of the Second Division.
      17.   MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR. Any self-propelled vehicle designed for and
used by a handicapped person, that is incapable of a speed in excess of eight
(8) miles per hour on level ground.
      18.   NONCOMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any vehicle that is not a commercial
vehicle.
      19.   PASSENGER CAR. A motor vehicle of the First Division that is
designed for carrying not more than ten (10) persons.
      20.   PUBLIC PASSENGER VEHICLE. A motor vehicle used for the
transportation of passengers for hire, except those devoted exclusively to
funeral purposes or to the operation of metropolitan transit authorities or
public utilities under the laws of the State of Illinois.
      21.   RECONSTRUCTED VEHICLE. Every vehicle originally designed or
permanently converted and used for living quarters or for human habitation and
not used as a commercial vehicle, including any house car, house trailer,
camper or private living coach.
      22.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Every vehicle originally designed or
permanently converted and used for living quarters or for human habitation and
not used as a commercial vehicle including any house car, house trailer, camper
or private living coach.
         a.   CAMPER. A recreational motor vehicle of the Second Division
converted or equipped and used for living quarters or for human, habitation,
rather than for the transportation of freight, goods, wares, and merchandise.
         b.   CAMPING TRAILER. A trailer, not used commercially, constructed
with partial side walls which fold for towing and unfold to provide temporary
living quarters for recreational camping or travel use and of a size or weight
not requiring an over-dimension permit when towed on a highway.
         c.   HOUSE CAR. A recreational motor vehicle of the First Division
converted or equipped and used for living quarters or for human habitation,
rather than as a passenger car.
         d.   MOTOR HOME, MINI MOTOR HOME, or VAN CAMPER. A self-contained
motor vehicle, not used commercially, designed or permanently converted to
provide living quarters for recreational, camping or travel use, with direct
walk through access to the living quarters from the drivers seat.
         e.   PRIVATE LIVING COACH. A recreational motor vehicle of the Second
Division equipped and used for living quarters, human habitation, or for mobile
living, rather than for the transportation of persons, and with direct access
to the living quarters from the driver's seat.
      23.   RURAL MAIL DELIVERY VEHICLE. Every vehicle used to deliver U.S.
Mail on a rural mail delivery route.
      24.   SCHOOL BUS.
         a.   Every motor vehicle, except as provided in paragraph b.ii of this
subsection, owned or operated by or for any of the following entities for the
transportation of persons regularly enrolled as students in grade 12 or below
or in connection with any activity of the entity. Any public or private primary
or secondary school; any primary or secondary school operated by a religious
institution; or any public, private or religious nursery school, including:
            i.   TYPE I SCHOOL BUS. A school bus with provision for thirteen
(13) inches of seating space for each of seventeen (17) or more passengers
exclusive of the driver.
            ii.   TYPE II SCHOOL BUS. A school bus with provision for thirteen
(13) inches of seating space for each of sixteen (16) or fewer passengers
exclusive of the driver.
         b.   This definition does not include the following:
            i.   A bus operated by a public utility, municipal corporation or
common carrier authorized to conduct local or interurban transportation of
passengers when such bus is on a regularly scheduled route for the
transportation of other fare paying passengers or furnishing charter service
for the transportation of groups on field trips or other special trips or in
connection with special events or for shuttle service between attendance
centers or other educational facilities and not over a regular or customary
SCHOOL BUS route;
            ii.   A motor vehicle designed for carrying not more than nine (9)
passengers which is not registered as a SCHOOL BUS under Section 3-808, Chapter
95½ of the 1983 Illinois Revised Statutes.
      25.   SNOWMOBILE. A self-propelled device designed for travel on snow or
ice, or natural terrain steered by skis or runners, and supported in part by
skis, belts, or cleats.
      26.   SPECIALLY CONSTRUCTED VEHICLE. Every vehicle of a type required to
be registered hereunder not originally constructed under a distinctive name,
make, model or type by a generally recognized manufacturer of vehicles and not
materially altered from its original construction.
      27.   SPECIAL MOBILE EQUIPMENT. Every vehicle not designed or used
primarily for the transportation of persons or property and only incidentally
operated or moved over a highway, including but not limited to: ditch digging
apparatus, well boring apparatus, and road construction and maintenance
machinery such as asphalt spreaders, bituminous mixers, bucket loaders,
tractors other than truck tractors, ditchers, leveling graders, finishing
machines, motor graders, road rollers, scarifiers, earth-moving carry-alls and
scrapers, power shovel and drag lines, and self-propelled cranes and earth
moving equipment. The term does not include house trailers, dump trucks, truck
mounted transit mixers, cranes or shovels, or other vehicles designed for the
transportation of persons or property to which machinery has been attached.
      28.   TRACTORS. Tractors shall include:
         a.   FARM TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as
a farm implement for drawing wagons, plows, mowing machines, and other
implements of husbandry, and every implement of husbandry which is self-
propelled.
         b.   ROAD TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used for drawing
other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry any load thereon either
independently or any part of the weight of a vehicle and load so drawn.
         c.   TRUCK TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily
for drawing other vehicles not so constructed as to carry a load other than a
part of the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
      29.   TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power in operation, other
than a pole trailer, designed for carrying persons or any property and for
being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that no part of its weight
rests upon the towing vehicle.
         a.   POLE TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power designed to be
drawn by another vehicle and attached to the towing vehicle by means of a reach
or pole, or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing vehicle, and
ordinarily used for transporting long or irregularly shaped loads such as
poles, pipes, or structural members capable, generally, of sustaining
themselves as beams between the supporting connections.
         b.   SEMI-TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power, other than a
pole trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by
a motor vehicle and so constructed that some part of its weight and that of its
load rests upon or is carried by another vehicle.
         c.   STINGER-STEERED SEMI-TRAILER. Every semi-trailer which has its
kingpin on a projection to the front of the structure of such semi-trailer and
is combined with the fifth (5th) wheel of the truck tractor at a point not less
than two (2) feet to the rear of the center of the rear-most sale of such
tractor.
      30.   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle designed, used, or maintained primarily
for the transportation of property.
      31.   USED MOTOR VEHICLE. Every motor vehicle which has been sold,
bargained, exchanged, given away, or title transferred from the person who
first acquired it from the manufacturer or importer, dealer, or agent of the
manufacturer or importer and so used as to have become what is commonly known
as “secondhand” within the ordinary meaning thereof. A new motor vehicle shall
not be considered as a USED MOTOR VEHICLE until it has been placed in a bona
fide consumer use, notwithstanding the number of transfers of such motor
vehicle. The term “bona fide consumer use” means actual operation by an owner
who acquired the vehicle for use in business or for pleasure purposes and who
has been granted a certificate of title on such motor vehicle and has
registered such motor vehicle, all in accordance with the laws of the residence
of the owner.
(Am. Ord. 346, passed 9-26-96)
SECTION 6.143. VILLAGE.
   The Village of Mettawa, Illinois.
SECTION 6.144. WEIGHT.
   The gross weight of a vehicle, whether operated singly or in combination
without a load, plus the WEIGHT of any load thereon.
SECTION 6.145. YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   When required by an official sign, the act of granting the privilege of the
immediate use of the intersecting roadway to traffic within the intersection
and to vehicles approaching from the right or left, but when the roadway is
clear may proceed into the intersection.
ARTICLE II. OBEDIENCE TO AND EFFECT OF TRAFFIC LAWS
SECTION 6.201. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE AND CHILD
PASSENGER PROTECTION ACT BY REFERENCE.
   A.   The Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/100 et seq., as amended from time
to time, is hereby adopted by reference as the traffic code of the village, to
be applied within the corporate limits of the village to the extent permitted
by law and to the extent that its subject matter is not regulated by or
inconsistent with any lawful provisions of the Village of Mettawa Code of
Ordinances.
   B.   All references in sections of the Illinois Vehicle Code to a state
employee or official may be to a corresponding designated official where such
reference is applicable or necessary. Any provisions of the Illinois Vehicle
Code adopted herein may be cited by placing by the corresponding Illinois
Vehicle Code section (i.e., 11-501, Mettawa Traffic Code).
   C.   The Illinois Child Passenger Protection Act, 625 ILCS 25/1 et seq., as
amended from time to time is hereby adopted by reference to be applied within
the corporate limits of the village to the extent permitted by law and to the
extent that its subject matter is not regulated by the Village of Mettawa Code
of Ordinances or inconsistent with any lawful provisions of said Code of
Ordinances.
   D.   All references in sections of the Illinois Child Passenger Protection
Act to a state employee or official may be to a corresponding designated
official where such reference is applicable or necessary. Any provisions of the
Illinois Child Passenger Protection Act adopted herein may be cited by the
corresponding Illinois Child Passenger Protection Act section (i.e., 25/1),
Mettawa Traffic Code).
   E.   The burden of proof for any offense classified as a “petty” offense or
“business” offense in the Illinois Vehicle Code or the Illinois Child Passenger
Protection Act adopted herein shall be by a preponderance of the evidence.
Offenses classified therein as “misdemeanor” offenses shall be proven beyond a
reasonable doubt.
(Ord. 883, passed 7-18-2023)
SECTION 6.202. PENALTIES AND RELATED PROVISIONS.
   A.   A violation of any provision of this title, unless otherwise specified,
or of an offenses classified as “petty” offenses under the aforesaid provisions
of the Illinois Vehicle Code shall be punishable by a fine of not less than
$100, nor more than $1,000, for each offense. Offenses classified as business
offenses under the provisions of the Illinois Vehicle Code, adopted by
reference pursuant to this chapter, shall be punishable as set forth herein.
   B.   Offenses classified as “misdemeanors” under the provisions of the
Illinois Vehicle Code, adopted by reference pursuant to this chapter, shall be
subject to a fine or imprisonment for a determinant term according to the
following limitations:
      1.   For a class A misdemeanor, imprisonment for any term less than one
year and/or a fine of not less than $1,000 and not to exceed $2,500, except as
provided in division (B)(4) below;
      2.   For a class B misdemeanor, imprisonment for not more than six months
and/or a fine of not less than $300 and not to exceed $1,500;
      3.   For a class C misdemeanor imprisonment for not more than 30 days
and/or a fine of not less than $150 and not to exceed $1,500;
      4.   The court, upon making a finding of guilty for any offense under §
11-501 or 11-503 of this code, in addition to any sentence alternative elected
by the court, shall impose a fine of not less than $2,000 if the defendant has
previously been convicted of driving under the influence of alcohol or any
prohibited controlled substance under any local code or under § 11-503 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code, or a similar provision under local ordinance;
      5.   The court, upon making a finding of guilty of any offense under §
11-501 of this code, in addition to any sentencing alternative elected by the
court, shall impose an additional fine of $500 if the defendant had a breath
alcohol content of 0.160 or higher in the case for which he or she is being
sentenced; and'
      6.   In addition to any other alternative sentence imposed by the court,
an individual found guilty of a violation of § 11-501, whose operation of a
motor vehicle while in violation of § 11-501, proximately caused an incident
resulting in an appropriate emergency response, shall be required to make
restitution to a public agency for the costs of that emergency response. The
restitution may not exceed $1,000 per public agency for each emergency
response. As used in this division (B)(6), EMERGENCY RESPONSE means any
incident requiring a response by a police officer, a firefighter carried on the
rolls of a regularly constituted Fire Department or an ambulance.
   C.   All fines recited herein are in addition to all costs, including DUI
tech fees mandated by state statute which is adopted herein by reference.
   D.   The court, upon making a finding of guilty for any offense under §11-
501(a)(3), 11- 501(a)(4), 11-501 (a)(5) or 11-501(6) of this code, in addition
to any sentence alternative elected by the court, shall impose a fee in the
amount of $100 for costs incurred by the village for equipment and the handling
of drug samples.
   E.   The fine for a violation of §11-1301.3(a) of this Traffic Code shall be
$350. Any person found guilty or liable of violating the provisions of
subsection (a-1) a first time shall be fined $600. Any person found guilty or
liable of violating subsection (a-1) a second or subsequent time shall be fined
$1,000. Any person found guilty or liable of violating subsection (a-2) shall
be fined $2,500.
(Ord. 883, passed 7-18-2023)
SECTION 6.203. OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICERS.
   No person shall wilfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any police officer invested by law with authority to direct,
control, or regulate traffic.
(Ord. 883, passed 7-18-2023)
SECTION 6.204. TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY TO PERSONS RIDING ANIMALS OR DRIVING ANIMAL-
DRAWN VEHICLES.
   Every person riding an animal or driving an animal-drawn vehicle upon a
roadway shall be granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the
duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this Chapter, except those
provisions of this Chapter which by their very nature can have no application.
(Ord. 883, passed 7-18-2023)
SECTION 6.205. UNAUTHORIZED DIRECTION OF TRAFFIC.
   Except in emergencies, it shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by
law to direct or attempt to direct traffic.
(Ord. 883, passed 7-18-2023)
ARTICLE III. TRAFFIC SIGNS, SIGNALS AND MARKINGS
SECTION 6.301. TEMPORARY CONTROLS.
   In cases of emergency, or when public health, safety or convenience require,
the Village President may establish temporary traffic controls, including the
designation of one-way streets and the regulation or restriction of parking on
any street or alley; provided that controls shall not become effective until
the posting of proper signs which must remain conspicuously displayed while
said regulation is in effect.
SECTION 6.302. UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF HIGHWAY SIGN OR MARKER.
   The Department of Transportation and the Village of Mettawa, with reference
to traffic control signs, signals, or markers owned by the Department of
Transportation or the Village of Mettawa, are authorized to indicate the
ownership of the signs, signals, or markers on the back of such devices in
letters not less than -inch or more than ¾-inch in height, by use of a metal
stamp, etching, or other permanent means and, except for employees of the
Department of Transportation or the Village of Mettawa, police officers,
contractors and their employees engaged in a highway construction contract or
work on the highway approved by the Department of Transportation or the Village
of Mettawa, it is unlawful for any person to possess such sign, signal, or
marker so identified.
SECTION 6.303. INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES OR RAILROAD
SIGNS OR SIGNALS.
   A.   No person shall without lawful authority attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down, or remove any official traffic control device, or
any railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or
any other part thereof.
   B.   Any person failing to comply with Subsection A of this Section shall
upon conviction be fined as set forth in Chapter 2, Village Government, Article
X, Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1003, Fine and Penalty Schedule.
(Am. Ord. 852, passed 10-20-2020)
SECTION 6.304. UNLAWFUL USE OR DAMAGE TO HIGHWAYS, APPURTENANCES AND
STRUCTURES.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully injure or damage any
public highway or street or any bridge or culvert, or to wilfully damage,
injure or remove any sign, signpost, or structure upon or used or constructed
in connection with any public highway or street for the protection thereof or
for protection or regulation, of traffic thereon by any wilfully unusual,
improper or unreasonable use thereof, or by wilfully careless driving or use of
any vehicle thereon, or by willful mutilation, defacing, destruction, or
removal thereof.
   B.   Any person failing to comply with Subsection A of this Section shall
upon conviction be fined as set forth in Chapter 2, Village Government, Article
X, Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1003, Fine and Penalty Schedule.
(Am. Ord. 852, passed 10-20-2020)
SECTION 6.305. OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   A.   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the
provisions of this Chapter, unless at the time otherwise directed by a police
officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle in this Chapter or in any applicable Section of the Illinois
Revised Statutes.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to leave the roadway and travel across
private property to avoid an official traffic control device.
   C.   No provision of this Chapter for which official traffic control devices
are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the time and
place of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper position and
sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a
particular section does not state that official traffic control devices are
required, such section shall be effective even though no official traffic
control devices are erected or in place.
   D.   Whenever official traffic control devices are placed in position
approximately conforming to the requirements of this Chapter, such devices
shall be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of
lawful authority, unless the contrary shall be established by competent
evidence.
   E.   Any official traffic control device placed pursuant to the provisions
of this Chapter and purporting to conform to the lawful requirements pertaining
to such devices shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of this
Chapter, unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence.
   F.   The driver of a vehicle approaching a traffic control signal on which
no signal light facing such vehicle is illuminated shall stop before entering
the intersection in accordance with rules applicable in making a stop at a stop
sign.
SECTION 6.306. TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic control signals exhibiting
different colored lights successively one at a time, or with lighted green or
yellow arrows, only the following colors shall be used and such terms and
lights and lighted green or yellow arrows shall indicate and apply to drivers
of vehicles and pedestrians as follows:
   A.   Circular Green (alone).
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through or
turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits either such turn. But
vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to
pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time such signal is
exhibited.
      2.   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
any marked or unmarked crosswalk unless directed otherwise by a pedestrian
signal as provided under Section 6.307 of this Chapter.
   B.   Steady Yellow.
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow
signal is thereby warned that the respective green movement is being terminated
or that a red indication will be exhibited immediately thereafter.
      2.   Pedestrians facing a steady yellow signal unless otherwise directed
by a pedestrian control signal, as provided in Section 6.307 of this Chapter,
are thereby advised that there is insufficient time to cross the roadway, and
no pedestrian shall start to cross.
   C.   Steady Red Indication.
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing a steady red signal alone must stop at a
clearly marked stop line, but if not, before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of an intersection, or if none, then before entering the intersection and
shall remain standing until an indication to proceed is shown except as
provided in paragraphs C.2 and C.3 of this Section.
      2.   Unless otherwise prohibited by Section 6.807, vehicular traffic on a
one-way highway facing a steady red signal may at an intersection turn right
after stopping as required in paragraph C.1 of this Section but shall yield the
right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within an adjacent crosswalk and to other
traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      3.   Unless otherwise prohibited by Section 6.807, vehicular traffic on a
one-way highway facing a steady red signal may, after stopping as required by
paragraph C.1 of this Section, cautiously enter the intersection and make a
left turn onto an intersecting one-way highway on which traffic travels to the
left but shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within an
adjacent crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      4.   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless a
separate “Walk” indication is shown.
   D.   Green Straight-Through Arrow (alone).
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through,
but shall not turn right or left. Such vehicular traffic shall yield the right-
of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians legally within the intersection at
the time such signal is exhibited.
      2.   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
the appropriate marked or unmarked crosswalk unless directed otherwise by a
pedestrian signal as provided in Section 6.307 of this Chapter.
   E.   Green Turn Arrow (with circular green, with steady yellow, with steady
red, or with green straight-through arrow).
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall comply with the meaning of
the circular green, steady yellow, steady red, or green straight-through arrow
indication as if it were shown alone, except that such vehicular traffic may
cautiously enter the intersection to make the movement indication by the green
turn arrow. Vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians
lawfully within a crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the
intersection.
      2.   Pedestrians facing such signal shall comply with the meaning of the
circular green, steady yellow, steady red, or straight-through arrow indication
as if it were shown alone, unless directed otherwise by a pedestrian signal as
provided in Section
6.307 of this Chapter.
   F.   In the event an official traffic control signal flashing red signal is
erected and maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of
this Section and Section
6.309 shall be applicable except as to provisions which by their nature can
have no application. Any stop required shall be at a traffic sign or a marking
on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made or, in the absence of
such sign or marking, the stop shall be made at the signal.
   G.   The motorman of any street car shall obey the above signals as
applicable to vehicles.
SECTION 6.307. PEDESTRIAN CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian control signals exhibiting the words “Walk” or
“Don't Walk” or the illuminated symbols are in place such signals shall
indicate as follows:
   A.   Walk or Walking Person Symbol. If a walking person or an upraised palm,
pedestrians facing such signals may proceed across the roadway in the direction
of the signal, and shall be given the right-of-way by the drivers of all
vehicles.
   B.   Don't Walk or Upraised Palm Symbol. No pedestrian shall start to cross
the roadway in the direction of the signal, but any pedestrian who has partly
completed his crossing on the walk signal or walking person symbols shall
proceed to a sidewalk, or to a safety island while the “Don't Walk” signal or
upraised palm symbol is illuminated, steady or flashing.
SECTION 6.308. LANE-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever lane-control signals are used in conjunction with official signs,
they shall have the following meanings:
   A.   Downward-Pointing Green Arrow. A driver facing this indication is
permitted to drive in the lane over which the arrow signal is located.
Otherwise he shall obey all other traffic controls present and follow normal
safe driving practices.
   B.   Red X Symbol. A driver facing this indication shall not drive in the
lane over which the signal is located, and this indication shall modify
accordingly the meaning of all other traffic controls present. Otherwise he
shall obey all other traffic controls and follow normal safe driving practices.
   C.   Yellow X (Steady). A driver facing this indication should prepare to
vacate the lane over which the signal is located, in a safe manner to avoid, if
possible, occupying that lane when a steady red X is displayed.
   D.   Flashing Yellow Arrow. A driver facing this indication may use the lane
only for the purpose of approaching and making a left turn.
SECTION 6.309. FLASHING SIGNALS.
   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in conjunction
with a traffic control device it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic
as follows:
   A.   Flashing Red (Stop Signal). When a red lens is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or if none, then at a point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering the intersection and the right to proceed shall be subject to
the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
   B.   Flashing Yellow (Caution Signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or pass such signal only with caution.
   C.   This Section does not apply at railroad grade crossings. Conduct of
drivers of vehicles approaching railroad grade crossings shall be governed by
Section 6.1201 of this Chapter.
SECTION 6.310. DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS, MARKINGS, OR ADVERTISING
SIGNS.
   A.   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to be
or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic control device or
railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic,
nor shall any person place, maintain or display upon or in view of any street
any other sign which hides from view or interferes with the movement of traffic
or the effectiveness of any traffic control device or any railroad sign or
signal; nor shall it be lawful to maintain or operate on or within view of any
street or highway any red beacon or light.
   B.   No person may place or maintain nor may any public authority permit
upon any street any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any commercial
advertising.
   C.   Every such prohibited sign, signal, or marking is a public nuisance and
the same shall be removed without notice.
ARTICLE IV. ACCIDENTS
SECTION 6.401. ACCIDENTS INVOLVING DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURIES.
   A.   The driver of any vehicle involved in a motor vehicle accident
resulting in injury to or death of any person shall immediately stop such
vehicle at the scene of such motor vehicle accident, or as close thereto as
possible and shall then forthwith return to, and in every event shall remain
at, the scene of the accident until he has fulfilled the requirements of
Section 6.403. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more
than is necessary.
   B.   Any person who has failed to stop or to comply with said requirements
shall, within forty-eight (48) hours after such motor vehicle accident, or if
hospitalized and incapacitated from reporting at any time during such period,
within forty-eight (48) hours after being discharged from the hospital, report
the place of accident, the date, the approximate time, his name, address, the
registration number of the vehicle driven, and the names of all other
occupants, if any, of such vehicle, at the Department. No report made as
required under this subsection shall be used, directly or indirectly, as a
basis for the prosecution of any violation of Subsection A of this Section.
   C.   Any person failing to comply with Subsection A of this Section shall
upon conviction be fined as set forth in Chapter 2, Village Government, Article
X, Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1003, Fine and Penalty Schedule.
   D.   Any person failing to comply with Subsection B of this Section shall
upon conviction be fined as set forth in Chapter 2, Village Government, Article
X, Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1003, Fine and Penalty Schedule.
(Am. Ord. 852, passed 10-20-2020)
SECTION 6.402. ACCIDENT INVOLVING DAMAGE TO VEHICLE.
   A.   The driver of any vehicle involved in a motor vehicle accident
resulting only in damage to a vehicle which is driven or attended by any person
shall immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of such motor vehicle accident
or as close thereto as possible, but shall forthwith return to and in every
event shall remain at the scene of such accident until he has fulfilled the
requirements of Section 6.403 of this Chapter. Every such stop shall be made
without obstructing traffic more than is necessary.
   B.   Any person failing to comply with Subsection A of this Section shall
upon conviction be fined as set forth in Chapter 2, Village Government, Article
X, Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1003, Fine and Penalty Schedule.
(Am. Ord. 852, passed 10-20-2020)
SECTION 6.403. DUTY TO GIVE INFORMATION AND RENDER AID.
   A.   The driver of any vehicle involved in a motor vehicle accident
resulting in injury to or death of any person or damage to any vehicle which is
driven or attended by any person shall give his name, address, and the
registration number and owner of the vehicle the driver is operating and shall
upon request and if available exhibit his driver's license to the person struck
or the driver or occupant of or person attending any vehicle collided with and
shall render to any person injured in such accident reasonable assistance,
including the carrying or the making of arrangements for the carrying of such
person to a physician, surgeon, or hospital for medical or surgical treatment,
if it is apparent that such treatment is necessary or if such carrying is
requested by the injured person.
   B.   If none of the persons entitled to information pursuant to this Section
is in condition to receive and understand such information and no police
officer is present, such driver after rendering reasonable assistance shall
forthwith report such accident at the Department, disclosing the information
required by this Section.
   C.   Any person failing to comply with Subsection A of this Section shall
upon conviction be fined as set forth in Chapter 2, Village Government, Article
X, Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1003, Fine and Penalty Schedule.
(Am. Ord. 852, passed 10-20-2020)
SECTION 6.404. DUTY UPON DAMAGING UNATTENDED VEHICLE OR OTHER PROPERTY.
   A.   The driver of any vehicle which collides with or is involved in a motor
vehicle accident with any vehicle which is unattended, or other property,
resulting in any damage to such other vehicle or property shall immediately
stop and shall then and there either locate and notify the operator or owner of
such vehicle or other property of his name, address, registration number, and
the owner of the vehicle the driver was operating or shall attach securely in a
conspicuous place on or in the vehicle or other property struck a written
notice giving name, address, registration, and the owner of the vehicle the
driver was operating and shall without unnecessary delay notify the Department,
and shall make a written report of such accident when and as required in
Section 6.406 of this Chapter. Every such stop shall be made without
obstructing traffic more than is necessary.
   B.   Any person failing to comply with Subsection A of this Section shall
upon conviction be fined as set forth in Chapter 2, Village Government, Article
X, Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1003, Fine and Penalty Schedule.
(Am. Ord. 852, passed 10-20-2020)
SECTION 6.405. STRIKING UNATTENDED VEHICLES, FIXTURES OR OTHER PROPERTY
PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to strike unattended
vehicles, fixtures, or other property legally upon or adjacent to a street.
SECTION 6.406. DUTY TO REPORT ACCIDENT.
   A.   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an accident
within this State, resulting in injury to or death of any person, or in which
damage to the property of any one person, including himself, in excess of Two
Hundred Fifty Dollars ($250) is sustained, shall, as soon as possible but not
later than ten (10) days after such accident, forward a written report of such
accident to the Department.
   B.   Whenever a school bus is involved in an accident in this Village,
caused by a collision, a sudden stop or otherwise, resulting in any property
damage, personal injury or death and whenever an accident occurs within fifty
(50) feet of a school bus in this Village resulting in personal injury to or
the death of any person while awaiting or preparing to board the bus or
immediately after exiting the bus, the driver shall as soon as possible, but
not later than ten (10) days after the accident, forward a written report to
the Department. If a report is also required under Subsection A of this
Section, that report and the report required by this subsection shall be
submitted on a single form.
   C.   The Department may require any driver, occupant or owner of a vehicle
involved in an accident of which report must be made as provided in this
Section or Section
6.410 of this Chapter to file supplemental reports whenever the original report
is insufficient in the opinion of the Secretary of State or the Department, and
may require witnesses of the accident to submit written reports to the
Department. The report may include photographs, charts, sketches, and graphs.
   D.   Should the Department learn through other reports of accidents required
by law or the occurrence of an accident reportable under this Article and the
driver, owner, or witness has not reported as required under Subsections A, B,
or C of this Section or Section
6.410, within the time specified, such person is not relieved of the
responsibility and the Department shall notify such person by first class mail
directed to his last known address of his legal obligation. However, such
notification is not a condition precedent to impose the penalty for failure to
report as provided in Subsection E.
   E.   The Secretary of State shall suspend the driver's license or any non-
resident's driving privilege of any person who fails or neglects to make report
of a traffic accident as herein required or as required by any other law of the
State of Illinois.
SECTION 6.407. IMMEDIATE NOTICE OF ACCIDENT.
   A.   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an accident
described in Section 6.406 of this Chapter, if no police officer is present,
shall immediately and by the fastest available means of communication submit
notice of the accident at the Department.
   B.   Whenever the driver of a vehicle is physically incapable of giving
immediate notice of an accident as required in Subsection A above and there was
another occupant in the vehicle at the time of the accident capable of doing
so, that occupant must give notice as required in Subsection A above.
SECTION 6.408. POLICE TO REPORT.
   A.   Every Village law enforcement officer who investigates a vehicle
accident for which a report is required by this Article or who prepares a
written report as a result of an investigation either at the time and scene of
such motor vehicle accident or thereafter by interviewing participants or
witnesses of such accident shall forward a written report of such accident to
the Department on forms provided by the Department under Section
6.411 of this Chapter within ten (10) days after investigation of the accident,
or within such other time as is prescribed by the Department. Such written
reports required to be forwarded by Village law enforcement officers and the
information contained therein are privileged as to the Department but shall not
be held confidential by the reporting Village law enforcement officer or his
agency. However, the Department may require a supplemental report from the
reporting Village law enforcement officer and such supplemental report shall be
for the privileged use of the Department and shall be held confidential.
   B.   The Department at its discretion may also provide for in-depth
investigation of an accident by individuals or special investigation groups,
including but not limited to police officers, photographers, engineers,
doctors, mechanics, and as a result of the investigation may require the
submission of written reports, photographs, charts, sketches, graphs, or a
combination of all. Such individual written reports, photographs, charts,
sketches, or graphs may be used only for accident studies and statistical or
analytical purposes, shall be for the privileged use of the Department and held
confidential, and shall not be used in any trial, civil or criminal.
SECTION 6.409. FALSE REPORTS.
   Any person who provides information in an oral or written report required by
this Article with knowledge or reason to believe that the information is false,
shall, upon conviction, be fined as set forth in Chapter 2, Village Government,
Article X, Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1003, Fine and Penalty Schedule.
(Ord. 852, passed 10-20-2020)
SECTION 6.410. WHEN DRIVER FAILS TO REPORT.
   Whenever the driver of a vehicle is physically incapable of making a
required accident report and if there was another occupant in the vehicle at
the time of the motor vehicle accident capable of making a report, such
occupant shall make or cause to be made such report. If said driver fails for
any reason to make such report, the owner of the vehicle involved in such
accident, shall, as soon as practicable, make said report to the Department.
SECTION 6.411. ACCIDENT REPORT FORMS.
   A.   The Department must prepare and upon request supply to every Village
law enforcement officer, forms for written accident reports as required
hereunder, suitable with respect to the persons required to make such reports
and the purposes to be served. The written reports must call for sufficiently
detailed information to disclose with reference to a vehicle accident the
cause, conditions then existing, and the persons and vehicles involved or any
other data concerning such accident that may be required for a complete
analysis of all related circumstances and events leading to the accident or
subsequent to the occurrence.
   B.   Every accident report required to be made in writing must be made on an
appropriate form approved or provided by the Department and must contain all
the information required therein unless that information is not available.
   C.   Should special accident studies be required by the Department, the
Department may provide the supplemental forms for the special studies.
SECTION 6.412. ACCIDENT REPORTS CONFIDENTIAL.
   A.   All required written motor vehicle accident reports and supplemental
reports shall be without prejudice to the individual so resorting and shall be
for the confidential use of the Department except that the Department may
disclose the identity of a person involved in an accident when such identity is
not otherwise known or when such person denies his presence at such accident
and the Department shall disclose the identity of the insurance carrier, if
any, upon demand.
   B.   The Department may furnish copies of its accident reports to federal
and State agencies that are engaged in highway safety research and studies.
Reports furnished to any agency other than the Secretary of State or the
Illinois Commerce Commission may be used only for statistical or analytical
purposes and shall be held confidential by that agency.
   C.   No such written report shall be used as evidence in any trial, civil or
criminal, arising out of a motor vehicle accident, except that the Department
shall furnish upon demand of any person who has, or claims to have, made such a
written report, or upon demand of any court, a certificate showing that a
specified accident report has or has not been made to the Department solely to
prove a compliance or a failure to comply with the requirement that such
written report be made to the Department.
SECTION 6.413. FURNISHING COPIES; FEES.
   The Department may furnish copies of any traffic accident report that has
been investigated by the Department and shall be paid a fee of Five Dollars
($5) for each such copy; or in the case of an accident which was investigated
by an accident reconstruction officer or accident reconstruction team, a fee of
Twenty Dollars ($20) shall be paid.
ARTICLE V. RECKLESS DRIVING
SECTION 6.501. RESERVED.
SECTION 6.502. TRANSPORTATION OR POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR IN MOTOR
VEHICLE.
   A.   Except as provided in paragraph C of this Section, no person shall
transport, carry, possess or have any alcoholic liquor within the passenger
area of any motor vehicle upon a highway in the Village except in the original
container and with the seal unbroken.
   B.   Except as provided in paragraph C, no passenger may carry, possess, or
have any alcoholic liquor within any passenger area of any motor vehicle upon a
highway in the Village except in the original container and with the seal
unbroken.
   C.   This Section shall not apply to the passengers on a chartered bus when
it is being used for purposes for which chartered buses are ordinary used or on
a motor home or mini motor home as defined in Section
6.142. However, the driver of any such vehicle is prohibited from consuming or
having any alcoholic liquor in or about the driver's area. Any evidence of
alcoholic consumption by the driver shall be prima facie evidence of such
driver's failure to obey this Section.
   D.   The exemption applicable to chartered buses under paragraph C does not
apply to any chartered bus being used for such purposes.
SECTION 6.503. RECKLESS DRIVING.
   A.   Any person who drives any vehicle with a willful or wanton disregard
for the safety of persons or property is guilty of reckless driving.
   B.   Every person convicted of reckless driving shall be punished upon
conviction by a fine as set forth in Chapter 2, Village Government, Article X,
Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1003, Fine and Penalty Schedule.
(Ord. 852, passed 10-20-2020)
SECTION 6.504. DRAG RACING.
   Any person who, as an operator of a motor vehicle, is convicted of being a
participant in drag racing shall be punished upon conviction by a fine as set
forth in Chapter 2, Village Government, Article X, Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty
Schedules, Section
2.1003, Fine and Penalty Schedule.
(Ord. 852, passed 10-20-2020)
SECTION 6.505. RESERVED.
SECTION 6.506. RESERVED.
ARTICLE VI. SPEED RESTRICTIONS
SECTION 6.601. GENERAL SPEED RESTRICTIONS.
   A.   No vehicle may be driven upon any highway of this Village at a speed
which is greater than is reasonable and proper with regard to traffic
conditions and the use of the highway, or endangers the safety of any person or
property. The fact that the speed of a vehicle does not exceed the applicable
maximum speed limit does not relieve the driver from the duty to decrease speed
when approaching and crossing an intersection, when approaching and going
around a curve, when approaching a hill crest, when traveling upon any narrow
or winding roadway, or when special hazard exists with respect to pedestrians
or other traffic or by reason of weather or highway conditions. Speed must be
decreased as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person or vehicle on
or entering the highway in compliance with legal requirements and the duty of
all persons to use due care.
   B.   No person may drive a vehicle upon any highway in this Village at a
speed which is greater than the applicable statutory maximum speed limit
established by Subsection C of this Section, or by Section
6.606.
   C.   Unless some other speed restriction is established under this Chapter,
the maximum speed limit in an urban district for all vehicles is:
      1.   Thirty (30) miles per hour;
      2.   Fifteen (15) miles per hour in an alley; and
      3.   The said urban speed limit may be increased as posted but not in
excess of fifty-five (55) miles per hour and may be diminished as posted but
not less than twenty (20) miles per hour, when such determination is passed and
approved by ordinance, signposted, and included in Schedule I of the Appendix
to this Chapter.
SECTION 6.602. PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE OF VIOLATION.
   If any person shall drive a vehicle in excess of the speed limits
established in this Article, such excessive speed shall be deemed prima facie
evidence that such person is driving at a speed greater than is reasonable,
proper and safe, having regard to traffic conditions and the use of the street,
or endangers the safety of any person or property.
SECTION 6.603. MOTOR VEHICLES OF THE SECOND DIVISION.
   No person shall drive any vehicle of the second division, which has a gross
weight of fifteen thousand (15,000) pounds or more, at a speed greater than
twenty-five (25) miles per hour in any district in this Village,
notwithstanding the provisions of any other Section of this Article.
SECTION 6.604. ELECTRONIC SPEED-DETECTING DEVICES.
   Electronic speed detecting devices shall not be used within 600 feet beyond
any speed regulatory sign in the direction of travel; if so used in violation
hereof, evidence obtained thereby shall be inadmissible in any prosecution for
speeding. However, nothing in this Section prohibits the use of such electronic
speed-detecting devices within 600 feet of a sign within a special school speed
zone indicating such zone, conforming to the requirements of Section 6.606 of
this Article, nor shall evidence obtained thereby be inadmissible in any
prosecution for speeding provided the use of such device shall apply only to
the enforcement of the speed limit in such special school speed zone.
SECTION 6.605. SPECIAL SPEED LIMIT WHILE PASSING SCHOOLS.
   A.   On a school day when school children are present and so close thereto
that a potential hazard exists because of the close proximity of the motorized
traffic, no person shall drive a motor vehicle at a speed in excess of twenty
(20) miles per hour while passing a school zone or while traveling upon any
public thoroughfare where children pass going to and from school. For the
purpose of this Section, a school day shall begin at seven a.m. and shall
conclude at four p.m.
   B.   This Section shall not be applicable unless appropriate signs are
posted upon streets and highways under the respective jurisdictions maintained
by the State of Illinois, township, county, park district, or village wherein
the school zone is located. Such signs shall give proper due warning that a
school zone is being approached and shall indicate the school zone and the
maximum speed limit in effect during school days when school children are
present. Nothing in this Chapter shall prohibit the use of electronic speed-
detecting devices within 500 feet of signs within a special school speed zone
indicating such zone, as defined in this Section, nor shall evidence obtained
thereby be inadmissible in any prosecution for speeding provided the use of
such device shall apply only to the enforcement of the speed limit in such
special school speed zone.
SECTION 6.606. MAXIMUM ATTAINABLE SPEED.
   No person shall drive or operate any motor vehicle on any street or highway
in the Village where the minimum allowable speed on that street or highway, as
posted, is greater than the maximum attainable operating speed of the vehicle.
Maximum attainable operating speed shall be determined by the manufacturer of
the vehicle and clearly published in the manual of specifications and
operations.
SECTION 6.607. EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The speed limits established by this Article or by regulation or ordinance
made pursuant to the provisions of this Article do not apply, except as
otherwise provided in Article XIV as to ambulances, to an authorized emergency
vehicle in motion when responding to an emergency call and when the driver
thereof sounds an audible signal by bell, siren, or exhaust whistle, as may
reasonably necessary, provided that the vehicle is equipped and has in
operation at least one (1) lighted lamp displaying an oscillating, rotating, or
flashing red beam visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance
of 500 feet to the front of such vehicles. An authorized emergency fire
department vehicle may be equipped and have in operation a triple eight moving
white beam light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of
500 feet to the front of such vehicle, in lieu of, or in addition to a rotating
or flashing red beam, in order to be exempt from the speed limits established
by this Article or by regulation or ordinance made pursuant to the provisions
of this Article. No other authorized emergency vehicle shall use any
oscillating triple eight moving white beam light other than fire department
vehicles. However, this provision does not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the street, nor does it protect the driver of any such vehicle
from the consequence of a reckless disregard of the safety of others.
SECTION 6.608. SPECIAL SPEED LIMITATION ON ELEVATED STRUCTURES.
   A.   No person shall drive a vehicle over any bridge or other elevated
structure constituting a part of a highway at a speed which is greater than the
maximum speed which can be maintained with safety to such bridge or structure,
when such structure is signposted as provided by ordinance.
   B.   Upon the trial of any person charged with a violation of this Section,
proof of the determination of the maximum speed by said Ordinance and the
existence of such signs is conclusive evidence of the maximum speed which can
be maintained with safety to such bridge or structure.
SECTION 6.609. VIOLATIONS; CHARGES, EFFECT ON CIVIL ACTION.
   A.   In every charge of violation of any speed regulation in this Article,
the complaint, and also the summons or notice to appear, shall specify the
speed at which the defendant is alleged to have driven and the maximum speed
applicable within the district or at the location of the alleged violation.
   B.   The provisions of this Article declaring maximum speed limitations
shall not be construed to relieve the plaintiff in any civil action from the
burden of proving negligence on the part of the defendant as the proximate
cause of the accident.
SECTION 6.610. MINIMUM SPEED REGULATION.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede or
block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic except when reduced speed
is necessary for safe operation of his vehicle or in compliance with law.
ARTICLE VII. DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; OVERTAKING AND PASSING
SECTION 6.701. DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; EXCEPTIONS.
   A.   Upon all roadways of sufficient width a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      1.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movements;
      2.   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the roadway; provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the roadway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      3.   Upon a roadway divided into three (3) marked lanes for traffic lanes
for traffic under the rules applicable thereon;
      4.   Upon a roadway restricted to one-way traffic; and
      5.   Whenever there is a single track paved road on one side of the
public highway and two (2) vehicles meet thereon, the driver on whose right is
the wider shoulder shall give the right-of-way on such pavement to the other
vehicle.
   B.   Upon all roadways any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal speed
of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing shall
be driven in the right-hand lane available for traffic, or as close as
practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway.
   C.   Upon any roadway having four (4) or more lanes for moving traffic and
providing for 2-way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to the left
of the center line of the roadway except when authorized by official traffic
control devices designating certain lanes to the left side of the center of the
roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use such lanes, or except
as permitted under Subsection A2. However, this subsection shall not be
construed so prohibiting the crossing of the center line in making a left turn
into or from an alley, private road or driveway.
SECTION 6.702. PASSING VEHICLES PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions, except as provided in
Sections
6.701 shall pass each other to the right and upon roadways having width for not
more than one (1) line of traffic in each direction each driver shall give to
the other at least one-half (½) of the main traveled portion of the roadway as
nearly as possible.
SECTION 6.703. OVERTAKING A VEHICLE ON THE LEFT.
   The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles proceeding
in the same direction, subject to those limitations, exceptions, and special
rules otherwise stated in this Chapter:
   A.   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall not
again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle. In no event shall such movement be made by driving off the
pavement or the main traveled portion of the roadway.
   B.   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his
vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
   C.   The driver of a two (2) wheeled vehicle may not, in passing upon the
left of any vehicle proceeding in the same direction, pass upon the right of
any vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless there is an unobstructed
lane of traffic available to permit such passing maneuver safely.
SECTION 6.704. WHEN OVERTAKING ON THE RIGHT IS PERMITTED.
   A.   The driver of a vehicle with three (3) or more wheels may overtake and
pass upon the right of another vehicle only under the following conditions:
      1.   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
      2.   Upon a street or highway with unobstructed pavement not occupied by
parked vehicles of sufficient width for two (2) or more lines of moving
vehicles in each direction; and
      3.   Upon a one-way street, or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two (2) or more lines of moving
vehicles.
   B.   The driver of a two (2) wheeled vehicle may not pass upon the right of
any other vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless the unobstructed
pavement to the right of the vehicle being passed is of a width of not less
than eight (8) feet.
   C.   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon the
right only under conditions permitting such movement in safety. In no event
shall such movement be made by driving off the pavement or main traveled
portion of the roadway.
SECTION 6.705. LIMITATIONS ON OVERTAKING ON THE LEFT.
   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the roadway in
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless
authorized by the provisions of this Chapter and unless such left side is
clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient distance ahead
to permit such overtaking and passing to be completely made without interfering
with the safe operation of any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction
or any vehicle overtaken. In every event, the overtaking vehicle must return to
an authorized lane of travel as soon as practicable and in the event the
passing movement involves the use of a lane authorized for vehicles approaching
from the opposite direction, before coming within two hundred (200) feet of any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction.
SECTION 6.706. FURTHER LIMITATIONS ON DRIVING TO THE LEFT OF CENTER OF ROADWAY.
   A.   No vehicle may, in overtaking and passing another vehicle, be driven to
the left side of the roadway under the following conditions:
      1.   When approaching or upon the crest of a grade or curve in the
highway where the driver's view is obstructed within such distance as to create
a hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite
direction.
      2.   When approaching within one hundred (100) feet of or traversing any
intersection or railroad grade crossing.
   B.   The limitations in subparagraphs 1 and 2 do not apply upon a one-way
roadway nor upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for
two (2) or more lanes of moving traffic in each direction nor to the driver of
a vehicle turning left into or from an alley, private road or driveway when
such movements can be made with safety.
SECTION 6.707. NO-PASSING ZONES.
   A.   The Department is authorized to determine those portions of any roadway
under its jurisdiction where overtaking and passing or driving to the left of
the roadway would be especially hazardous and may by appropriate signs or
markings on the roadway indicate the beginning and end of such zone, and when
such signs or markings are in place and clearly visible to an ordinarily
observant person, every driver of a vehicle shall obey the directions thereof.
   B.   Where signs or markings are in place to define a no passing zone, as
set forth in paragraph A, no driver may at any time drive on the left side of
the roadway within the no-passing zone or on the left side of any pavement
striping designated to mark such no-passing zone throughout its length.
   C.   This Section does not apply under the conditions described in Section
6.701A2, nor to the driver of a vehicle turning left into or from an alley,
private road or driveway. The pavement striping designated to mark the no-
passing zone may be crossed from the left-hand lane for the purpose of
completing a pass that was begun prior to the beginning of the zone in the
driver's direction of travel.
SECTION 6.708. ONE-WAY ROADWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   A.   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle upon a street or roadway
designated and signposted for one-way traffic other than in the direction
designated by ordinances passed, approved, and published by the President and
Board of Trustees of the Village of Mettawa and included in Schedule II of the
Appendix to this Chapter.
   B.   Upon a roadway so designated for one-way traffic, a vehicle shall be
driven only in the direction designated at all or such times as shall be
indicated by official traffic control devices.
   C.   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island must be driven only to
the right of such island.
   D.   Whenever any highway has been divided into two (2) or more roadways by
leaving an intervening space or by a physical barrier or a clearly indicated
dividing section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle
must be driven only upon the right-hand roadway unless directed or permitted to
use another roadway by official traffic control devices or police officers. No
vehicle may be driven near, across, or within any such dividing space, barrier,
or section, except through an opening in the physical barrier, or dividing
section, or space, or at a cross-over or intersection as established by public
authority.
SECTION 6.709. DRIVING ON ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC.
   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two (2) or more clearly marked
lanes for traffic the following rules in addition to all others consistent
herewith shall apply:
   A.   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
   B.   Upon a roadway which is divided into three (3) lanes and provides for
two-way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center lane
except when overtaking and passing another vehicle traveling in the same
direction when such center line is clear of traffic within a safe distance or
in preparation for making a left turn or where such center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the same direction that the vehicle
is proceeding and such allocation is designated by official traffic control
devices.
   C.   Official traffic control devices may be erected directing specific
traffic to use a designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by
traffic moving in a particular direction regardless of the center of the
roadway and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
   D.   Official traffic control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadways and drivers of vehicles shall obey
the directions of every such device.
SECTION 6.710. FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   A.   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another motor vehicle
more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of
such vehicles and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway.
   B.   The driver of any motor vehicle of the second division or motor vehicle
drawing another vehicle when traveling upon a roadway outside of a business or
residence district shall not follow within 300 feet of another motor vehicle of
the second division or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle. The provisions of
this subdivision shall not be construed to prevent overtaking said passing nor
shall the same apply upon any lane specially designated for use by motor
vehicles of the second division.
   C.   Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway outside of a business or
residence district in a caravan or motorcade whether or not towing other
vehicles shall be so operated as to allow sufficient space between each such
vehicle or combination of vehicles so as to enable any other vehicle to enter
and occupy such without danger. This provision shall not apply to funeral
processions.
SECTION 6.711. RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF CONTROLLED ACCESS HIGHWAY.
   No person may drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled access highway
except at entrances and exits established by public authority.
SECTION 6.712. APPROACHING, OVERTAKING, AND PASSING SCHOOL BUS.
   A.   The driver of a vehicle upon a street upon meeting or overtaking from
either direction, any school bus which has stopped on the street for the
purpose of receiving or discharging pupils shall stop the vehicle before
reaching the school bus when there is in operation on the school bus the visual
signals as specified in Article XV of this Chapter and the driver shall not
proceed until the school bus resumes motion or the driver of the vehicle is
signaled by the school bus driver to proceed or they visual signals are no
longer actuated.
      1.   The Illinois Secretary of State shall suspend for thirty (30) days
the driver's license of any driver convicted of violating this Subsection A.
   B.   The stop signal arm required by Article XV of this Chapter shall be
extended after the school bus has come to a complete stop for the purpose of
loading or discharging pupils and shall be closed before starting out again.
The stop signal arm shall not be extended at any other time.
   C.   The alternately flashing red signal lamps of a 4-lamp or 8-lamp
flashing signal system required by Article XV of this Chapter shall be actuated
after the school bus has come to a complete stop for the purpose of loading or
discharging pupils and shall be turned off before starting out again. The red
signal lamps shall not be actuated at any other time except as provided in
Subsection D of this Section.
   D.   The alternately flashing amber signal lamps of an 8-lamp flashing
signal system, or the alternately flashing red signal lamps of a 4-lamp
flashing signal system, required by Article XV of this Chapter shall be
actuated continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the
bus before stopping for the purpose of loading or discharging pupils within a
business or residential district and during not less than the last 200 feet
traveled by the bus outside a business or residential district. The amber
signal lamps shall remain actuated until the bus is stopped. The amber signal
lamps shall not be actuated at any other time.
   E.   The driver of a vehicle upon a highway of which the roadways for
traffic moving in opposite directions are separated by a strip of ground which
is not surfaced or suitable for vehicular traffic need not stop his vehicle
upon meeting or passing a school bus which is on the opposite roadway and need
not stop his vehicle when driving upon a controlled access highway when a
school bus is stopped in the loading zone adjacent to the surfaced or improved
part of the controlled access highway where pedestrians are not permitted to
cross such controlled access highway.
(Am. Ord. 852, passed 10-20-2020)
ARTICLE VIII. TURNING AND STARTING AND SIGNALS ON STOPPING AND TURNING
SECTION 6.801. REQUIRED POSITION AND METHODS OF TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows:
   A.   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as
close as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   B.   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any intersection
shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane lawfully
available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such vehicle, and
after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the
intersection in a lane lawfully available to traffic moving in such direction
upon the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable the left turn shall be
made in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the
intersection.
   C.   The several highway authorities in their respective jurisdictions
within the corporate limits of the Village of Mettawa may cause official
traffic control devices to be placed within or adjacent to intersections and
thereby require and direct that a different course from that specified in this
Section be traveled by vehicles turning at an intersection, and when such
devices are so placed no driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an
intersection other than as directed and required by such devices.
   D.   Where a special lane for making left turns by drivers proceeding in
opposite directions has been indicated by official traffic control devices:
      1.   A left turn shall not be made from any other lane.
      2.   A vehicle shall not be driven in the lane except when preparing for
or making left turn from or into the roadway or when preparing for or making a
U-turn when otherwise permitted by law.
   E.   When a motor vehicle and a mass transit bus are traveling in the same
direction on the same multi-laned highway, street or road, the operator of the
vehicle overtaking such bus, which is stopped at an intersection on the right
side of the roadway to receive or discharge passengers, shall pass to the left
of the bus at a safe distance and shall not turn to the right in front of the
bus at that intersection.
SECTION 6.802. LIMITATIONS ON U-TURNS.
   A.   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed
in the opposite direction unless such movement can be made in safety and
without interfering with other traffic.
   B.   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction
upon any curve, or upon the approach to or near the crest of a grade, where
such vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of any other vehicle approaching from
either direction within five hundred (500) feet.
SECTION 6.803. STARTING PARKED VEHICLE.
   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or parked unless
and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety, nor shall any
person start any motor vehicle so as to cause its wheels to spin on the
pavement before the vehicle itself is in motion.
SECTION 6.804. WHEN SIGNAL REQUIRED.
   A.   No person may turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the vehicle is
in proper position upon the roadway as required in Section
6.801, or turn a vehicle to enter a private road or driveway, or otherwise turn
a vehicle from a direct course or move right or left upon a roadway unless and
until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. No person may so turn
any vehicle without giving an appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter
provided.
   B.   A signal of intention to turn right or left when required must be given
continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the vehicle
before turning within a business or residence district, and such signal must be
given continuously during not less than the last 200 feet traveled by the
vehicle before turning outside a business or residence district.
   C.   No person may stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle without
first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided in this Chapter to
the driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to
give such a signal.
   D.   The electric turn signal device required in Article XV of this Chapter
must be used to indicate an intention to turn, change lanes or start from a
parallel parked position but must not be flashed on one side only on a parked
or disabled vehicle or flashed as a courtesy or “Do Pass” signal to operators
of other vehicles approaching from the rear. However, such signal devices may
be flashed simultaneously on both sides of a motor vehicle to indicate the
presence of a vehicular traffic hazard requiring unusual care in approaching,
overtaking, and passing.
SECTION 6.805. SIGNAL BY HAND AND ARM OR SIGNAL DEVICE.
   Any stop or turn signal when required herein shall be given either by means
of the hand and arm or by an electric turn signal device conforming to the
standards established by statute of the State of Illinois.
SECTION 6.806. METHOD OF GIVING HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   All signals herein required given by hand and arm shall be given from the
left side of the vehicle in the following manner and such signals shall
indicate as follows:
   A.   Left turn, hand and arm extended horizontally.
   B.   Right turn, hand and arm extended upward.
   C.   Stop or decrease of speed, hand and arm extended downward.
SECTION 6.807. PROHIBITED TURNS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle so as to make any of the
following turning movements:
   A.   To turn so as to proceed in the opposite direction where prohibited or
otherwise unless such movement can be made in safety and without backing into
traffic or otherwise interfering with traffic.
   B.   As prohibited by ordinance passed, approved, and published by the
President and Board of Trustees of the Village of Mettawa, signposted and
included in Schedule III of the Appendix to this Chapter.
ARTICLE IX. RIGHT-OF-WAY
SECTION 6.901. VEHICLES APPROACHING OR ENTERING INTERSECTION.
   A.   When two (2) vehicles approach or enter an intersection from different
roadways at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left
must yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
   B.   The right-of-way rule declared in Subsection A of this Section is
modified at through-highways and otherwise as stated in this Chapter.
   C.   The driver of a vehicle approaching the intersection of a highway from
a highway which terminates at the intersection, not otherwise regulated by this
Article or controlled by traffic control signal or signals, shall stop, yield,
and grant the privilege of immediate use of the intersection to another vehicle
which has entered the intersection from the non-terminating highway or is
approaching the intersection on the non-terminating highway in such proximity
as to constitute a hazard and after stopping may proceed when the driver may
safely enter the intersection without interference or collision with the
traffic using the non-terminating highway.
SECTION 6.902. VEHICLE TURNING LEFT.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an intersection
or into an alley, private road, or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is so close as to
constitute an immediate hazard, but said driver, having so yielded may proceed
at such time as a safe interval occurs.
SECTION 6.903. VEHICLES ENTERING STOP CROSSWALK.
   Where stop signs or flashing red signals are in place at an intersection or
flashing red signals are in place at a plainly marked crosswalk between
intersections, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the nearest
crosswalk and pedestrians within or entering the crosswalk at either edge of
the roadway shall have the right-of-way over vehicles so stopped. Drivers of
vehicles having so yielded the right-of-way to pedestrians entering or within
the nearest crosswalk at an intersection shall also yield the right-of-way to
pedestrians within any other crosswalk at the intersection.
SECTION 6.904. VEHICLE ENTERING STOP OR YIELD INTERSECTION.
   A.   Preferential right-of-way at an intersection may be indicated by stop
or yield signs as authorized by the Village President, signposted, and included
in Schedule IV of the Appendix to this Chapter.
   B.   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or official traffic
control signals, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection
indicated by a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none,
before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none,
then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view
of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection. After having stopped, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to
any vehicle which has entered the intersection from another roadway or which is
approaching so closely on the roadway as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when the driver is moving across or within the intersection,
but said driver having so yielded may proceed at such time as a safe interval
occurs.
   C.   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall, in obedience to
such sign, slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions and, if
required for safety to stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if
none, before entering the cross walk on the near side of the intersection, or
if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver
has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. After slowing or
stopping, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time such driver is moving across or within the
intersection.
   D.   If a driver is involved in a collision at an intersection or interferes
with the movement of other vehicles after driving past a yield right-of-way
sign, such collision or interference shall be deemed prima facie evidence of
the driver's failure to yield right-of-way.
SECTION 6.905. MERGING TRAFFIC.
   Notwithstanding the right of any provision in Section
6.901 of this Chapter, at an intersection where traffic lanes are provided for
merging traffic, the driver of each vehicle on the converging roadway is
required to adjust his vehicular speed and lateral position so as to avoid a
collision with another vehicle.
SECTION 6.906. VEHICLE ENTERING HIGHWAY FROM PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY.
   The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from an alley,
building, private road or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles
approaching on the highway to be entered.
SECTION 6.907. OPERATION OF VEHICLES ON APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED OR EMERGENCY
VEHICLES.
   A.   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making
use of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of this Chapter or a
police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible or visual signal:
      1.   The driver of every other vehicle on the same roadway shall yield
the right-of-way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel to and as
close as possible to the right hand edge or curb of the highway clear of any
intersection and shall if necessary to permit the safe passage of the emergency
vehicle stop if possible and remain in such position until the authorized
emergency vehicle has passed, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
      2.   The motorman of every streetcar shall immediately stop if possible
and remain in such position until the authorized emergency vehicle has passed,
unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   B.   This Section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the highway.
SECTION 6.908. VEHICLE APPROACHING HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION OR MAINTENANCE AREA.
   A.   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any authorized
vehicle or pedestrian actually engaged in work upon a highway within any
highway construction or maintenance area indicated by official traffic control
devices.
   B.   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any authorized
vehicle obviously and actually engaged in work upon a highway whenever the
vehicle engaged in construction or maintenance work displays flashing lights as
provided by statute of the State of Illinois.
SECTION 6.909. FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   A.   Funeral processions have the right-of-way at intersections when
vehicles comprising such procession have their headlights lighted, subject to
the following conditions and exceptions:
      1.   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the right-
of-way upon the approach of an authorized emergency vehicle giving an audible
or visible signal;
      2.   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the right-
of-way when directed to do so by a traffic officer; and
      3.   The operator of the leading vehicle in a funeral procession shall
comply with stop signs and traffic control signals but when the leading vehicle
has proceeded across an intersection in accordance with such signal or after
stopping as required by the stop sign, all vehicles in such procession may
proceed without stopping, regardless of the sign or signal and the leading
vehicle and the vehicles in procession shall proceed with due caution.
   B.   The operator of a vehicle not in the funeral procession shall not drive
his vehicle in the funeral procession except when authorized to do so by a
traffic officer or when such vehicle is an authorized emergency vehicle giving
audible or visual signal.
   C.   Operators of vehicles not a part of a funeral procession may not form a
procession or convoy and have their headlights lighted for the purpose of
securing the right-of-way granted by this Section to funeral processions.
   D.   The operator of a vehicle not in a funeral procession may overtake and
pass the vehicles in such procession if such overtaking and passing can be
accomplished without causing a traffic hazard or interfering with such
procession.
   E.   The lead vehicle in the funeral procession may be equipped with a
flashing amber light which may be used only when such vehicle is used as a lead
vehicle in such procession. Vehicles comprising a funeral procession must
utilize funeral pennants or flags or windshield stickers to identify the
individual vehicles in such a procession.
ARTICLE X. PEDESTRIANS' RIGHTS AND DUTIES
SECTION 6.1001. PEDESTRIAN OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES AND TRAFFIC
REGULATIONS.
   A.   A pedestrian shall obey the instructions of any official traffic
control device specifically applicable to him, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer.
   B.   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic and pedestrian control signals
provided in Section
6.306 and
6.307 of this Chapter, but at all other places pedestrians shall be accorded
the privileges and shall be subject to the restrictions stated in this Article.
SECTION 6.1002. PEDESTRIANS' RIGHT-OF-WAY AT CROSSWALKS.
   A.   When traffic control signals are not in place or not in operation, the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if
need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is
traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite
half of the roadway as to be in danger.
   B.   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and
walk or run into the path of a moving vehicle which is so close as to
constitute an immediate hazard.
   C.   Subsection A hereof shall not apply under the conditions stated in
Section
6.1003B of this Article.
   D.   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
   E.   Whenever stop signs or flashing red signals are in place at an
intersection or at a plainly marked crosswalk between intersections, drivers
shall yield right-of-way to pedestrians as set forth in Section
6.903 of this Chapter.
SECTION 6.1003. CROSSING AT OTHER THAN CROSSWALKS.
   A.   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   B.   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way to all
vehicles upon the roadway.
   C.   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic control signals are in
operation pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
   D.   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic control devices; and, when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic control devices pertaining to such crossing movements.
   E.   Notwithstanding other provisions of this Chapter, every driver of a
vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian, or any
person operating a bicycle or other device propelled by human power and shall
give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and shall exercise proper
precaution upon observing any child or any obviously confused, incapacitated or
intoxicated person.
SECTION 6.1004. BLIND, HEARING IMPAIRED OR PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of-way to any blind, hearing
impaired, or physically handicapped pedestrian carrying a clearly visible white
cane or accompanied by a support or a guide dog.
SECTION 6.1005. PEDESTRIANS TO USE RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALKS.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
SECTION 6.1006. PEDESTRIANS SOLICITING RIDES OR BUSINESS.
   A.   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting rides
from drivers of vehicles.
   B.   Outside a business or residence district, no person shall stand on or
upon the proximity of a roadway for the purpose of soliciting employment,
business, or contributions from the occupant of any vehicle.
   C.   No person shall stand on a street for the purpose of soliciting
contributions from the occupant of any vehicle within the Village, except when
permitted expressly by other ordinance of this Village. Solicitation on streets
within the Village of Mettawa shall be allowed only at intersections where all
traffic is required to come to a full stop. The soliciting agency shall be:
      1.   Registered with the Attorney General of the State of Illinois as a
charitable organization as provided by “An Act to Regulate Solicitation and
Collection of Funds for Charitable Purposes, Providing for Violations Thereof,
and Making An Appropriation Therefor,” approved July 26, 1963, as amended;
      2.   Engaged in a Statewide fund raising activity;
      3.   Liable for any injuries to any person or property during the
solicitation which is causally related to an act of ordinary negligence of the
soliciting agent; and
   Any person engaged in the act of solicitation shall be sixteen (16) years of
age or more and shall be wearing a high visibility vest.
   D.   No person shall stand on or in the proximity of a roadway for the
purpose of soliciting the watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked or
about to be parked upon a street or highway.
SECTION 6.1007. PEDESTRIANS WALKING ON ROADWAY.
   A.   Where a sidewalk is provided and its use is practicable, it shall be
unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   B.   Where a sidewalk is not available, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall walk only on a shoulder, as far as practicable from the
edge of the roadway.
   C.   Where neither a sidewalk nor a shoulder is available, any pedestrian
walking along and upon a highway shall walk as near as practicable to an
outside edge of a roadway, and, if on a two-way roadway, shall walk only on the
left side of the roadway.
   D.   Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, any pedestrian entering a
roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
SECTION 6.1008. RIGHT-OF-WAY ON SIDEWALK.
   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian on a
sidewalk.
SECTION 6.1009. PEDESTRIANS YIELD TO AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle using an
audible signal and visual signals meeting the requirements of Section 6.1616 of
this Chapter, or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an
audible signal only, every pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to the
authorized emergency vehicle.
SECTION 6.1010. PEDESTRIANS UNDER INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL OR DRUGS.
   A pedestrian who is under the influence of alcohol or any drug to a degree
which renders himself a hazard shall not walk or be upon a highway except on a
sidewalk.
SECTION 6.1011. BRIDGE AND RAILROAD SIGNALS.
   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over, or under any crossing gate
or barrier at a railroad grade crossing or bridge while such gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed.
ARTICLE XI. MOTORCYCLES
SECTION 6.1101. RIDING ON MOTORCYCLES.
   A.   The operator of a motorcycle shall ride only astride the permanent and
regular seat or saddle attached thereto, and the operator shall not permit more
than one (1) other person to ride thereon nor shall such other person ride on
the motorcycle unless it is designed to carry two (2) people, in which event
the passenger shall also ride astride the permanent and regular seat or saddle
if it is designed for two (2) persons, or astride another seat or saddle firmly
attached to the rear of the operator. Any seat or saddle designed for a
passenger must be equipped with permanent handgrips and, in addition, the
motorcycle must be equipped with footrests adjusted to fit such passenger. A
sidecar may be attached to a motorcycle in which additional persons may ride.
SECTION 6.1102. RIDING ON MOTORIZED PEDAL CYCLES.
   A.   The operator of a motorized pedal cycle shall ride only astride the
permanent and regular seat attached thereto, and shall not permit two (2)
persons to ride thereon at the same time, unless the motorized pedal cycle is
designed to carry two (2) persons; any motorized pedal cycle designed for two
(2) persons must be equipped with a passenger seat and permanent handgrips and
footrests for use of a passenger.
   B.   Neither the operator nor any passenger on a motorized pedal cycle shall
be required to wear any special goggles, shield, helmet or glasses.
   C.   The provisions of this Chapter shall be applicable to the operation of
motorized pedal cycles, except for those provisions which by their nature can
have no application to motorized pedal cycles.
SECTION 6.1103. OPERATING MOTORCYCLE ON ONE WHEEL.
   Any person who operates a motorcycle on one wheel is guilty of reckless
driving as defined in this Chapter.
SECTION 6.1104. SPECIAL EQUIPMENT FOR PERSONS RIDING MOTORCYCLES.
   The operator of a motorcycle and every passenger thereon shall be protected
by glasses, goggles or a transparent shield. The Illinois Department of
Transportation shall determine the standards for this equipment. These
standards shall establish requirements based upon those set forth in Vehicle
Equipment Safety Commission Regulation VESC-8, “Minimum Requirements for
Motorcyclists' Eye Protection.”
SECTION 6.1105. REQUIRED EQUIPMENT ON MOTORCYCLES.
   A.   No person shall operate any motorcycle with handlebars higher than the
height of the shoulders of the operator when seated in the normal driving
position astride that portion of the seat or saddle occupied by the operator.
   B.   Any motorcycle carrying a passenger, other than in a sidecar or
enclosed cab, shall be equipped with permanent handgrips on the seat or saddle
carrying such passenger, and with footrests adjusted to fit such passenger.
ARTICLE XII. SPECIAL STOPS REQUIRED
SECTION 6.1201. OBEDIENCE TO SIGNAL INDICATING APPROACH OF TRAIN.
   A.   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing such person must exercise due care and caution as the existence of a
railroad track across a street is a warning of danger, and under any of the
circumstances stated in this Section, the driver shall stop within fifty (50)
feet but not less than fifteen (15) feet from the nearest rail of the railroad
and shall not proceed until he can do so safely. The foregoing requirements
shall apply when:
      1.   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives warning
of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
      2.   A crossing gate is lowered or a human flagman gives or continues to
give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train;
      3.   A railroad train approaching a street crossing emits a warning
signal and such railroad train, by reason of its speed or nearness to such
crossing, is an immediate hazard;
      4.   An approaching railroad train is plainly visible and is in hazardous
proximity of such crossing; and
      5.   A railroad train is approaching so closely that an immediate hazard
is created.
   B.   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while such gate or barrier is closed or
is being opened or closed.
SECTION 6.1202. CERTAIN VEHICLES MUST STOP AT ALL RAILROAD GRADE CROSSINGS.
   A.   The driver of any second division motor vehicle carrying passengers for
hire, or of any vehicle, which is required by Federal or State law to be
placarded when carrying hazardous material as defined in the “Illinois
Hazardous Materials Transportation Act,” approved August 26, 1877, as a cargo
or part of a cargo, before crossing at grade any track or tracks of a railroad,
shall stop such vehicle within fifty (50) feet but not less than fifteen (15)
feet from the nearest rail of such railroad and while so stopped shall listen
and look in both directions along such track for any approaching train, and for
sign indicating the approach of a train, except as hereinafter provided, and
shall not proceed until he can do so safely. After stopping as required in this
Section, the driver shall proceed only in a gear not requiring a change of
gears during the crossing, and the driver shall not shift gears while crossing
the track or tracks.
   B.   This Section shall not apply at:
      1.   Any railroad grade crossing at which traffic is controlled by a
police officer or human flagman;
      2.   Any railroad grade crossing at which traffic is regulated by a
traffic control signal;
      3.   Any abandoned, industrial or spur track railroad grade crossing
designated as exempt by the Illinois Commerce Commission and marked with an
official sign as authorized in the State Manual of Uniform Traffic Control
Devices for Streets and Highways.
   C.   This Section does not apply to streetcar grade crossings within a
business or residence district.
   D.   All school buses shall stop at all railroad crossings when carrying
passengers, except at any railroad grade crossing located upon a 4-lane highway
where the posted speed limit is in excess of 45 miles per hour or any railroad
grade crossing at which traffic is controlled by a police officer or human
flagman.
SECTION 6.1203. MOVING HEAVY EQUIPMENT AT RAILROAD GRADE CROSSING.
   A.   No person shall operate or move any crawler-type tractor, power shovel,
derrick, roller, or any equipment or structure having a normal operating speed
of ten (10) or less miles per hour, or, for such equipment with eighteen (18)
feet or less distance between two adjacent axles, having a vertical body or
load clearance of less than nine (9) inches above level surface, or, for such
equipment with more than eighteen (18) feet between two adjacent axles, having
a vertical body or load clearance of less than one-half (½) inch per foot of
distance between such adjacent axles above a level surface upon or across any
tracks at a railroad grade crossing without first complying with this Section.
   B.   Notice of any such intended crossing shall be given to a superintendent
of such railroad and a reasonable time be given to such railroad to provide
proper protection at such crossing.
   C.   Before making any such crossing the person operating or moving any such
vehicle or equipment shall first stop the same not less than fifteen (15) feet
nor more than fifty (50) feet from the nearest rail of such railway and while
so stopped shall listen and look in both directions along such track for any
approaching train and for signals indicating the approach of a train, and shall
not proceed until the crossing can be made safely.
   D.   No such crossing shall be made when warning is given by automatic
signal or crossing gates or a flagman or otherwise of the immediate approach of
a railroad train or car.
SECTION 6.1204. STOP AND YIELD SIGNS.
   A.   Preferential right-of-way at an intersection may be indicated by stop
signs or yield signs as authorized in Section
6.302 of this Chapter and Schedule IV of the Appendix hereto.
   B.   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicated by
a stop sign shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly
marked stop line, but if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting
roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting
roadway before entering the intersection.
   C.   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign if required for safety
to stop shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, in the event there is no cross walk, at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the
driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway.
SECTION 6.1205. EMERGING FROM ALLEY, BUILDING, PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, building, private road or
driveway shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving into the sidewalk
area extending across such alley, building entrance, road or driveway, or in
the event there is no sidewalk area, shall stop at the point nearest the street
to be entered where the driver has a view of approaching traffic thereon, and
shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid
collision, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all
vehicles approaching on such roadway.
ARTICLE XIII. STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING
SECTION 6.1301. STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING OUTSIDE OF BUSINESS OR RESIDENCE
DISTRICT.
   A.   Outside of a business or residence district no person shall stop, park
or leave standing any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon the roadway
when it is practical to stop, park, or so leave such vehicle off the roadway,
but in every event an unobstructed width of the roadway opposite such standing
vehicle shall be left for the free passage of other vehicles and a clear view
of such stopped vehicle shall be available from a distance of 200 feet in each
direction upon such roadway.
   B.   The Village President shall have authority to prohibit the stopping,
standing, or parking of vehicles or to prescribe time limits for parking on any
street or highway under the control and jurisdiction of the Village for the
maintenance of which the Village is responsible, in such manner as he shall
deem necessary to promote public convenience and safety and so as to facilitate
traffic. Any such regulations adopted by the President and Board of Trustees or
the Village President regarding the stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles
upon any specific street, streets, or highways shall become effective on and
after the date of the erection of appropriate signs indicating such regulations
and such designation is included in Schedule V of the Appendix to this Chapter.
   C.   This Section, Section
6.1303 and Section
6.1304 shall not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is disabled in such
manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and
temporarily leaving the vehicle in such position.
SECTION 6.1302. OFFICERS AUTHORIZED TO REMOVE ILLEGALLY STOPPED VEHICLES.
   A.   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle in violation of any of the
provisions of Section
6.1301, such officer is hereby authorized to move such vehicle, or require the
driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to move the same, to a position
off the roadway.
   B.   Any police officer is hereby authorized to remove or cause to be
removed to a place of safety any unattended vehicle left standing upon any
street, highway, bridge, causeway, or a tunnel in such a position or under such
circumstances as to obstruct the normal movement of traffic.
   C.   Any police officer is hereby authorized to remove or cause to be
removed to the nearest garage or other place of safety any vehicle found upon
any street or highway when:
      1.   Report has been made that such vehicle has been stolen or taken
without the consent of its owner;
      2.   The person or persons in charge of such vehicle are unable to
provide for its custody or removal; or
      3.   When the person driving or in control of such vehicle is arrested
for an alleged offense for which the officer is required by law to take the
person arrested before a proper judicial official without unnecessary delay.
SECTION 6.1303. STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIC PLACE.
   A.   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer or official traffic
control device, no person shall:
      1.   Stop, stand or park a vehicle:
         a.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         b.   On a sidewalk;
         c.   Within an intersection;
         d.   On a crosswalk;
         e.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty (30)
feet of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone,
unless a different length is indicated by signs or markings;
         f.   Along side or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
         g.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
         h.   On any railroad tracks;
         j.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping; and
         k.   In the area between roadways of a divided highway, including
crossovers.
      2.   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except momentarily
to pick up or discharge passengers:
         a.   In front of a public or private driveway;
         b.   Within fifteen (15) feet of a fire hydrant;
         c.   Within twenty (20) feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         d.   Within thirty (30) feet upon the approach to any flashing signal,
stop sign, yield sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of a
roadway;
         e.   Within twenty (20) feet of the driveway entrance of any fire
station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within seventy-five (75) feet of such entrance (when properly sign-posted); and
         f.   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
      3.   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or
passengers:
         a.   Within fifty (50) feet of the nearest rail of a railroad
crossing; and
         b.   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to park on private property without the consent of
the owner of the private property or to park in any parking lot which is not
licensed according to law.
SECTION 6.1304. ANGLE PARKING; ONE-WAY ROADWAYS.
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this Section, every vehicle stopped or
parked upon a two-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked with the right-hand
wheels parallel to and within twelve (12) inches of the right-hand curb or as
close as practicable to the right edge of the right-hand shoulder.
   B.   Except when otherwise provided in this Chapter, every vehicle stopped
or parked upon a one-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked parallel to the
curb or edge of the roadway, in the direction of authorized traffic movement,
with its right-hand wheels within twelve (12) inches of the right-hand curb or
as close as practicable to the right edge of the right-hand shoulder, or its
left-hand wheels within twelve (12) inches of the left-hand curb or as close as
practicable to the left edge of the left-hand shoulder.
SECTION 6.1305. LESSORS OF VISITOR VEHICLES; DUTY UPON RECEIVING NOTICE OF
VIOLATION OF PARKING REGULATIONS.
   A.   Every person in whose name a vehicle is registered pursuant to law and
who leases such vehicle to others, after receiving written notice of a
violation of this Article or a parking regulation of the Department involving
such vehicle, shall upon request provide such police officers as have authority
of the offense, and the court having jurisdiction thereof, with a written
statement of the name and address of the lessee at the time of such offense and
the identifying number upon the registration plates and registration sticker or
stickers of such vehicle.
   B.   A person who violates any provisions of this Section, shall be fined as
set forth in Chapter 2, Village Government, Article X, Tax, Fee, Fine and
Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1003, Fine and Penalty Schedule.
(Am. Ord. 852, passed 10-20-2020)
SECTION 6.1306. SCHOOL BUS STOPPING ON 4-LANE HIGHWAY.
   A.   A school bus traveling on a highway having four (4) or more lanes for
vehicular traffic shall stop for the loading or discharging of passengers only
on the right side of the highway and when so stopped shall load or discharge
only those passengers whose residences are located to the right of the highway.
   B.   The routes of school buses shall be so arranged that no child shall be
required to cross such a four (4) or more lane highway to board a school bus or
to reach his residence after leaving the bus. This subsection shall not apply
when children are escorted by competent persons designated by the school
authorities or by law enforcement officers.
SECTION 6.1307. INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE APPARATUS PROHIBITED.
   The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business shall not park
such vehicle within the block where fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a
fire alarm.
SECTION 6.1308. HANDICAPPED PERSONS; PARKING AND EXEMPTIONS.
   A.   A motor vehicle bearing registration plates issued to a physically
handicapped person pursuant to Section 3.616 or a disabled veteran pursuant to
Section 3.609 of the “Illinois Vehicle Code,” as amended, or a special decal or
device issued pursuant to Subsection B of this Section is exempt from any
statute or ordinance imposing time limitations on parking in a business
district; but otherwise is subject to the laws which prohibit parking in “no
stopping” and “no standing” zones in front of or near fire hydrants, driveways,
public building entrances and exits, bus stops and loading areas, and is
prohibited from parking where the motor vehicle constitutes a traffic hazard
and the motor vehicle must be moved at the instruction and request of a police
officer to a location designated by the officer. Any motor vehicle bearing
registration plates specified in this Section or such devices as the President
and Board of Trustees of the Village of Mettawa deem proper as evidence that
the vehicle is operated by or for a handicapped person or disabled veteran may
park, in addition to any other lawful place, in any parking place specifically
reserved, by posting of an official sign, for such vehicles:
      1.   Parking privileges granted by this Section are strictly limited to
the person to whom the special registration plate, special decal or device were
issued to qualified operators acting under his express direction while the
disabled person is present.
      2.   No person shall use any area for the parking of any motor vehicle
pursuant to Section
6.1303 of this Chapter or where an official sign controlling such area
expressly prohibits parking at any time during certain hours.
   B.   In accord with the statutes of the State of Illinois, made and
provided, the Secretary of State shall provide for, by administrative rules the
design, size and color of a handicapped motorist decal or device which shall be
used by the Village in the issuance thereof to handicapped persons.
      1.   This decal or device shall be property of such handicapped
individual and may be used by that person to designate and identify a vehicle
not owned or displaying a registration plate as provided in the statutes of the
State of Illinois to designate when the vehicle is being used to transport said
handicapped licensed vehicle.
      2.   The Village shall be responsible for the provision of such decal or
device, its issuance and designated placement within the vehicle. The cost of
such decal or device shall be in the amount set forth in Chapter 2, Village
Government, Article X, Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1002, Fee Schedule.
   C.   It shall be prohibited to park any motor vehicle which is not bearing
registration plates issued to a physically handicapped person pursuant to
Section 3.616 or disabled veteran pursuant to Section 3.609 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code, as amended, or such devices as the President and Board of
Trustees of the Village of Mettawa deem proper as evidence that the vehicle is
operated by or for a handicapped person or disabled veteran, in any parking
place specifically reserved by the posting of an official sign, for motor
vehicles bearing such registration plates.
(Am. Ord. 852, passed 10-20-2020)
SECTION 6.1309. ALLEYS.
   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or under
such conditions as to leave available less than ten (10) feet of the width of
the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall
stop, stand, or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to block
the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
SECTION 6.1310. CAB STANDS; BUS STANDS.
   No vehicle other than a licensed taxicab shall be parked in any area
designated as a cab stand; and no vehicle other than a bus shall be parked in a
space so designated as a bus loading zone; when such cab and bus stands are
designated by ordinance, signposted and included on Schedule VI of the Appendix
to this Chapter.
   A.   Only taxicabs in such numbers and of such kinds as are set forth on the
metal sign at a taxicab stand may remain at such stand while waiting for
employment; they shall wait in single file, positioned in accordance with the
traffic rules.
   B.   No taxicab standing at the head of any such line shall refuse to carry
any orderly person applying for a taxicab who agrees to pay the proper fare,
but this shall not prevent any person from selecting any taxicab he may desire
on the stand, whether it be at the head of the line or not.
   C.   As the taxicabs leave the line with passengers, those in the rear shall
move up, and any taxicab seeking a space on the stand shall approach only from
the rear of the stand and shall stop as near as possible to the last cab
already on the line.
   D.   No taxicab shall stand at the curb within fifteen (15) feet of the
entrance of any building adjacent to a taxicab stand located as designated in
Schedule VI, which distance shall be determined by measuring fifteen (15) feet
on each side of the point of the curb opposite the middle of the entrance to
the adjacent building.
SECTION 6.1311. LOADING ZONE.
   During the times specified herein, it shall be unlawful for the driver of a
vehicle to stand a passenger vehicle for a period of time longer than is
necessary for the loading or unloading of passengers, not to exceed three (3)
minutes and for the driver to stand any freight carrying vehicle for a period
of time longer than is necessary to load, unload, and deliver materials, not to
exceed thirty (30) minutes, in any of the following places:
   A.   In any public alley, during any hour of the day or night;
   B.   At any place not to exceed seventy-five (75) feet along the curb before
the entrance to any hospital, motel, or hotel at any time;
   C.   At any place not to exceed seventy-five (75) feet along the curb before
the entrance to a public building between 8:00 o'clock a.m. and 6:00 o'clock
p.m. except on Sunday; and
   D.   Directly in front of the entrance to any theater at any time the
theater is open for business.
SECTION 6.1312. TRUCK LOADING AND PARKING IN RESIDENCE DISTRICTS.
   No person, firm or corporation shall stand or park any truck, tractor, semi-
trailer or bus on any street in any residence district within the Village for a
longer period than is necessary for the expeditious loading or unloading of
such vehicle.
SECTION 6.1313. PARKING OF VEHICLE FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon any street for the purpose of
displaying it for sale, or to park any vehicle upon any business street from
which vehicle merchandise is peddled.
SECTION 6.1314. NO PARKING DURING SNOW REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful to park, or have parked, any vehicle on any unplowed
public street within twenty-four (24) hours after a snowfall of two (2) inches
or more has occurred.
SECTION 6.1315. NO PARKING ANY TIME.
   Except in compliance with direction of a police officer or traffic signal,
it shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle to stand, stop, or park in any of
the places designated by the Village President and signposted and included on
Schedule VI of the Appendix to this Chapter.
SECTION 6.1316. OBSTRUCTING FIRE LANES.
   A.   It shall be unlawful at any time for any person to block or obstruct,
wholly or partially, or to park or stand in any duly designated and posted fire
lane described on Schedule VII of the Appendix to this Chapter.
   B.   The Department is hereby authorized to have any vehicle illegally
parking or standing in a fire lane towed away and stored and the cost of towing
and storing said vehicle shall be assessed against the driver or owner and be
in addition to any fine otherwise established by this Code.
SECTION 6.1317. PENALTY.
   A.   Notwithstanding the provisions of Article XV of this Chapter, whenever
a police officer is authorized to arrest a person without a warrant because of
a violation of any Sections of this Article, said police officer may, in lieu
of the filing of a Complaint in Court, in the first instance issue to such
alleged violator, a citation:
      1.   Advising said person that he has violated a specified Section
herein;
      2.   Requesting him to make payment in an amount applicable to said
alleged violation as set forth in Subsection E of this Section as settlement of
said violation claim; and
      3.   Informing him that upon failure to so settle, a complaint will be
filed in the Circuit Court of Lake County, charging him with such violation.
   B.   Pursuant to said citation, the person so accused of said violation may
settle and compromise the violation claim in respect to such Section violation
by paying to the Village the applicable amount as shown in the Schedule set
forth in this Subsection E of this Section, within a period to be specified in
said citation, not more than thirty (30) days of the time said alleged offense
was committed.
   Such payment shall be made in accordance with the instructions contained in
the aforesaid citation, at the office of the Village Collector who shall issue
a receipt for the money so received and promptly remit said amount to the
Village Treasurer to be credited to the proper municipal fund.
   C.   In the event that the person to whom said citation is issued fails to
settle and pay said violation claim within the prescribed time or within a
period of time specified in a final notice (if one is served upon him) then the
peace officer is authorized to cause a notice to appear to be served upon said
alleged violator and is authorized to file a complaint and to prosecute the
same in the Circuit Court of Lake County.
   D.   The fact that an automobile or motor vehicle which is illegally
operated or parked is registered with the Secretary of State in the name of
said alleged violator, shall be considered prima facie proof that said alleged
violator was in control of or was the operator of the automobile or motor
vehicle at the time of such alleged violation.
   E.   The violation described in said citation issued pursuant to the terms
of this Article, may be settled, compromised and paid in the respective amounts
set forth in the schedule as set forth in Chapter 2, Village Government,
Article X, Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1003, Fine and Penalty Schedule.
(Am. Ord. 852, passed 10-20-2020)
ARTICLE XIV. MISCELLANEOUS LAWS
SECTION 6.1401. UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand
unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition, removing
the key from the ignition, and effectively setting the brake thereon and, when
standing upon any perceptible grade turning the front wheels to the curb or
side of the street.
SECTION 6.1402. LIMITATIONS ON BACKING.
   A.   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement
can be made with safety and without interfering with other traffic.
   B.   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same upon any controlled
access highway.
SECTION 6.1403. CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person on any street riding a bicycle,
motorcycle or any toy vehicle to cling to or attach himself or his vehicle to
any moving motor vehicle or vehicle attached thereto, or to ride upon the
fenders, running board or outside step of any vehicle.
SECTION 6.1404. PASSENGERS BOARDING OR EXITING A SCHOOL BUS.
   A.   At all pickup points where it is necessary for a school bus passenger
to cross the roadway to board the bus, the school bus driver shall signal the
awaiting passenger when it is safe to cross the roadway ahead of the bus.
   B.   At all discharge points where it is necessary for a school bus
passenger to cross the roadway, the school bus driver shall direct the
passenger to a point approximately ten (10) feet in front of the bus on the
shoulder and shall then signal the passenger when it is safe to cross the
roadway.
SECTION 6.1405. OPERATION OF RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION BUS.
   A.   No religious organization bus may be operated on any street or highway
unless all passengers, except for supervisory personnel, are seated in seats
permanently mounted to the vehicle, and the aisle of the bus is kept clean and
open.
   B.   No religious organization bus may be operated on any street or highway
while carrying more than the manufacturer's rated passenger capacity for such
bus, or at a gross weight in excess of the chassis manufacturer's gross vehicle
weight rating (GVWR) or gross axle weight rating (GAWR), or in excess of the
weight load ratings of the tires on such bus. For buses or trailers on which
the manufacturer has not shown such ratings, by a label, embossment, molding or
equivalent means, the Department of Transportation shall provide, or assist in
obtaining, the necessary ratings and may publish such ratings.
   C.   In loading or unloading passengers, the religious organization bus
driver shall stop the bus out of the lane of moving traffic at any bus stop,
officially designated as such by the Village or in a parking lane on the
pavement of the highway or on the shoulder off of the highway, if wide enough
to permit the safe loading or unloading of passengers. If, however, there is no
such bus stop, parking lane or shoulder within fifty (50) feet of the residence
or temporary residence of the passenger transported or to be transported by the
bus or within fifty (50) feet of the religious facility, the driver may stop
the bus on the pavement of the highway after activating unison amber warning
lights for not less than two hundred (200) feet before the bus is brought to a
stop and while passengers are being loaded or unloaded, or if the bus is
equipped as a school bus and meets the requirements of Section
6.712 of this Chapter.
   D.   At all pickup points where it is necessary for a religious organization
bus passenger under the age of twelve (12) years to cross the roadway to board
the bus, a responsible supervisor on the bus shall personally escort the
awaiting passenger when it is safe to cross the roadway ahead of the bus.
   E.   At all discharge points where it is necessary for a religious
organization bus passenger under the age of twelve (12) years to cross the
roadway, a responsible supervisor on the bus shall personally escort the
passenger to a point approximately 10 feet in front of the bus on the shoulder
and then, when it is safe to cross the roadway, across the roadway to a place
of safety.
   F.   If a school bus is used by a religious organization bus for the
purposes specified in Subsections B, C, and D of Section
6.712 when picking up or discharging passengers, compliance with Subsections D
and E of this Section is optional.
SECTION 6.1406. OBSTRUCTION OF DRIVER'S VIEW OR DRIVING MECHANISM.
   A.   No person may drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there are
in the front seat such number of persons, exceeding three (3), as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or as to interfere
with the driver's control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   B.   No passenger on a school bus may ride or stand in a position as to
interfere with the driver's view ahead or to the side or to the rear, or to
interfere with his control of the driving mechanism of the bus.
SECTION 6.1407. OPENING VEHICLE DOORS.
   No person shall open the door of a vehicle on the side available to moving
traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, and can be done
without interfering with the movement of other traffic, nor shall any person
leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic for a
period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers.
SECTION 6.1408. RIDING IN HOUSE TRAILERS.
   No person or persons shall occupy a house trailer or travel trailer while it
is being moved upon a public street.
SECTION 6.1409. COASTING PROHIBITED.
   A.   The driver of any motor vehicle traveling upon a down grade shall not
coast with the gears or transmission of such vehicle in neutral.
   B.   The driver of a motor vehicle of the second division when traveling
upon a down grade shall not coast with the clutch disengaged.
SECTION 6.1410. FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS PROHIBITED.
   The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business shall not
follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than 500
feet or drive into or park such vehicle within the block where the fire
apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
SECTION 6.1411. DIRECTION OF TRAFFIC AT SCENE OF FIRE.
   Any Fire Department officer in command, or any fireman designated by him,
may exercise the power and authority of a police officer in directing traffic
at the scene of a fire or where the Fire Department has responded to any
emergency call for so long as Fire Department equipment is on the scene, in the
absence of or in assisting police.
SECTION 6.1412. CROSSING FIRE HOSE.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of a Fire Department
when laid down on any street, private road, or driveway to be used at any fire
or alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Department official in
command.
SECTION 6.1413. PUTTING GLASS, ETC., ON HIGHWAY PROHIBITED.
   A.   No person shall throw or deposit upon any street any glass, bottles,
nails, tacks, wire, cans, or any other substance likely to injure any person,
animal or vehicle upon such street.
   B.   Any person who drops, or permits to be dropped or thrown on any street
any destructive, dangerous, hazardous or injurious material shall immediately
remove the same or cause it to be removed.
   C.   Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a street shall
remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped up the street from such
vehicle.
SECTION 6.1414. APPROACHING, OVERTAKING, AND PASSING SCHOOL BUS.
   A.   The driver of a vehicle upon a street upon meeting or overtaking, from
either direction, any school bus which has stopped on the street for the
purpose of receiving or discharging pupils shall stop the vehicle before
reaching the school bus when there is in operation on the school bus the visual
signals as specified in Article XV of this Chapter and the driver shall not
proceed until the school bus resumes motion or the driver of the vehicle is
signaled by the school bus driver to proceed or the visual signals
are no longer actuated.
      1.   Any person convicted of violating this Section, upon conviction,
shall be fined as set forth in Chapter 2, Village Government, Article X, Tax,
Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1003, Fine and Penalty Schedule.
      2.   The Illinois Secretary of State shall suspend for thirty (30) days
the driver's license of any driver convicted of violating this Subsection A.
   B.   The stop signal arm required by Article XV of this Chapter shall be
extended after the school bus has come to a complete stop for the purpose of
loading or discharging pupils and shall be closed before starting out again.
The stop signal arm shall not be extended at any other time.
   C.   The alternately flashing signal lamps of a 4-lamp or 8-lamp flashing
signal system required by Article XV of this Chapter shall be actuated after
the school bus has come to a complete stop for the purpose of loading or
discharging pupils and shall be turned off before starting out again. The red
signal lamps shall not be actuated at any other time except as provided in
Subsection D of this Section.
   D.   The alternately flashing amber signal lamps of a 8-lamp flashing signal
system, or the alternately flashing red signal lamps of a 4-lamp flashing
signal system, required by Article XV of this Chapter shall be actuated
continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the bus before
stopping for the purpose of loading or discharging pupils within a business or
residential district and during not less than the last 200 feet traveled by the
bus outside a business or residential district. The amber signal lamps shall
remain actuated until the bus is stopped. The amber signal lamps shall not be
actuated at any other time.
   E.   The driver of a vehicle upon a highway of which the roadways for
traffic moving in opposite directions are separated by a strip of ground which
is not surfaced or suitable for vehicular traffic need not stop his vehicle
upon meeting or passing a school bus which is on the opposite roadway; and need
not stop his vehicle when driving upon a controlled access highway when a
school bus is stopped in a loading zone adjacent to the surfaced or improved
part of the controlled access highway where pedestrians are not permitted to
cross such controlled access highway.
(Am. Ord. 852, passed 10-20-2020)
SECTION 6.1415. SCHOOL BUSES; STOPPING, LOADING AND DISCHARGING PASSENGERS ON
HIGHWAYS HAVING FOUR OR FIVE LANES.
   A.   A school bus traveling on a highway having four (4) or more lanes for
vehicular traffic shall stop for the loading or discharging of passengers only
on the right side of the highway and when so stopped shall load or discharge
only those passengers whose residences are located to the right of the highway.
   B.   The routes of school buses shall be so arranged that no child shall be
required to cross such a four (4) or more lane highway to board a school bus or
to reach his residence after leaving the bus.
   C.   This Section shall not apply when children are escorted by competent
persons designated by the school authorities or by law enforcement officers.
SECTION 6.1416. OBSTRUCTING PERSON ON HIGHWAYS.
   No person shall willfully and unnecessarily hinder, obstruct or delay, or
willfully and unnecessarily attempt to delay, hinder or obstruct any other
person in lawfully driving or traveling along or upon any street or offer or
barter or sell merchandise on said street so as to interfere with the effective
movement of traffic.
SECTION 6.1417. TRAVEL REGULATED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or cause to be driven a vehicle
of any description in or upon any portion of the street immediately after the
same has been dragged and before such portion of the street shall have
partially dried or frozen; provided, that nothing in this Section shall apply
in those instances where it is impossible to drive with safety at one aisle of
said dragged portion of the road, or where a vehicle does not make a rut on
each dragged portion of the road, injurious to the work accomplished by use of
the road drag or where a vehicle does not make a rut nearer than nine (8) feet
from the center of the dragged portion of the road.
SECTION 6.1418. FARM TRACTOR OPERATION REGULATED.
   A.   No person shall operate a farm tractor on a highway unless such tractor
is being used as an implement of husbandry in connection with farming
operations.
   B.   For the purpose of this Section, use of a farm tractor or an implement
of husbandry in connection with farming operations shall be deemed to include
use of such tractor in connection with the transportation of agricultural
products and of farm machinery, equipment and supplies as well as
transportation of such tractors in connection with the obtaining of repairs
thereto, and the towing of a registered truck not more than 8,000 pounds for
use or return transportation after the tractor is left at the place of work or
repair.
SECTION 6.1419. OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES; DURATION AND EXCEPTIONS.
   It is unlawful for any owner to require, permit, allow, or suffer any
operator of any of his motor vehicles of the second division to operate any
such motor vehicle for a longer period than ten (10) hours following eight (8)
consecutive hours off-duty or drive for any period after having been on duty
fifteen (15) hours following eight (8) consecutive hours off-duty, or to be or
remain on duty more than sixty (60) hours in any seven (7) consecutive days,
and whenever any such operator has operated such motor vehicle for ten (10)
hours following eight (8) consecutive hours off-duty, he shall be relieved and
not required, permitted, allowed, or suffered again to operate any such motor
vehicle until he has had at least eight (8) consecutive hours off-duty.
   A.   However, the Illinois Department of Law Enforcement may fix by general
rule or temporary order the circumstances and regulations under which in case
of emergency or unusual temporary demands for transportation any such operator
may be permitted to operate any such motor vehicle or to stay on duty for
longer periods of time than set by this Section.
   B.   The provisions of this Section shall not apply to any public utility in
the operation of any motor vehicle not for hire in case of emergency or in case
of unusual temporary necessity for transportation of persons or property or
safeguarding of vehicles and their loads, nor shall such provisions apply to
operation of any motor vehicle as part of the agricultural operations of
canning, packing, or freezing establishments engaged in the growing and
processing of perishable fruits and vegetables, including the hauling of such
products between fields and such canning, packing or freezing establishments
and between such establishments, nor shall such provisions apply to operation
of any motor vehicle being used for transportation of construction materials or
equipment to, on or from construction sites within a radius of fifty (50) miles
of such construction sites, nor to driver salesmen operating within a radius of
fifty (50) miles of their principal place of business.
SECTION 6.1420. FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   A.   Funeral processions have the right-of-way at intersections when
vehicles comprising such procession have their headlights lighted, subject to
the following conditions and exceptions:
      1.   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the right-
of-way upon the approach of an authorized emergency vehicle giving an audible
or visible signal.
      2.   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the right-
of-way when directed to do so by a traffic officer.
      3.   The operator of the leading vehicle in a funeral procession shall
comply with stop signs and traffic control signals but when the leading vehicle
has proceeded across an intersection in accordance with such signal or after
stopping as required by the stop sign, all vehicles in such procession may
proceed without stopping, regardless of the sign or signal and the leading
vehicle and the vehicles in procession shall proceed with due caution.
   B.   The operator of a vehicle not in the funeral procession shall not drive
his vehicle in the funeral procession except when authorized to do so by a
traffic officer or when such vehicle is an authorized emergency vehicle giving
audible or visible signal.
   C.   Operators of vehicles not a part of a funeral procession may not form a
procession or convoy and have their headlights lighted for the purpose of
securing the right-of-way granted by this Section to funeral processions.
   D.   The operator of a vehicle not in a funeral procession may overtake and
pass the vehicle in such procession if such overtaking and passing can be
accomplished without causing a traffic hazard or interfering with such
procession.
   E.   The lead vehicle in the funeral procession may be equipped with a
flashing amber light which may be used only when each vehicle is used as a lead
vehicle in such procession. Vehicles comprising a funeral procession may
utilize funeral pennants or flags or windshield stickers to identify the
individual vehicles in such a procession.
SECTION 6.1421. ILLEGAL OPERATION OF AMBULANCE OR RESCUE VEHICLE; PENALTY.
   A person who operates an ambulance or rescue vehicle in violation of Section
6.1421 shall be subject to the penalty prescribed by the applicable law,
regulation or ordinance of the State of Illinois or the Village of Mettawa.
SECTION 6.1422. SPILLING LOADS ON HIGHWAYS PROHIBITED.
   A.   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway unless such vehicle
is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its load from dropping,
shifting, leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand may be
dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or water or other substance may
be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining such roadway.
   B.   No person shall operate on any highway any vehicle with any load unless
said load and any covering thereon is securely fastened so as to prevent said
covering or load from becoming loose, detached, or in any manner a hazard to
other users of the highway.
SECTION 6.1423. SNOWMOBILES, GO-CARTS, MINI-BIKES, ETC.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile, go-cart,
mini-bike or any similar engine powered vehicle or device upon any street,
highway, sidewalk, aboveground, or any other public property within the
Village. This Section shall not apply to any motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or
pedal cycle lawfully registered under the laws of the State of Illinois, the
use of which on public streets is not prohibited by laws of the State of
Illinois.
   B.   No person shall permit the operation of such a vehicle upon or within
any of the areas prohibited in Subsection A of this Section.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to go upon any privately owned
property in violation of the provision of this Section without the express
invitation and consent of the owner or occupant of such property and in
accordance with the provision of this Section.
   D.   Notice of the owner or occupant of any parcel of land forbidding the
operation of a snowmobile, go-cart, mini-bike, or similar engine powered
vehicle upon such property may be given by posting in prominent places at main
entrances to the property, and at intervals on the boundaries of the property
abutting streets or other public places, signs clearly indicating such
intention, such as “NO SNOWMOBILES ALLOWED,” or “NO SNOWMOBILES, MOTOR BIKES,
GO-CARTS ALLOWED.”
SECTION 6.1424. DRIVER AND PASSENGER REQUIRED TO USE SAFETY BELTS; EXCEPTIONS
AND PENALTY.
   A.   Each driver and front seat passenger of a motor vehicle operated on a
street or highway in this Village shall wear a properly adjusted and fastened
seat safety belt; except that a child less than six (6) years of age shall be
protected as required pursuant to the Child Passenger Protection Act. Each
driver of a motor vehicle transporting a child six (6) years of age or more,
but less than sixteen (16) years of age, in the front seat of the motor vehicle
shall secure the child in a properly adjusted and fastened seat safety belt.
   B.   Paragraph A hereinabove shall not apply to any of the following:
      1.   A driver or passenger frequently stopping and leaving the vehicle or
delivering property from the vehicle, if the speed of the vehicle between stops
does not exceed fifteen (15) miles per hour;
      2.   A driver or passenger possessing a written statement from a
physician that such person is unable, for medical or physical reasons, to wear
a seat safety belt;
      3.   A driver or passenger possessing an official certificate or license
endorsement issued by the appropriate agency in another state or country
indicating that the driver is unable for medical, physical, or other valid
reasons to wear a seat safety belt;
      4.   A driver operating a motor vehicle in reverse;
      5.   A motor vehicle with a model year prior to 1965;
      6.   A motorcycle or motor-driven cycle;
      7.   A motorized pedal cycle;
      8.   A motor vehicle which is not required to be equipped with seat
safety belts under federal law; and
      9.   A motor vehicle operated by a rural letter carrier of the United
States postal service while performing duties as a rural letter carrier.
   C.   Failure to wear a seat safety belt in violation of this Section shall
not be considered evidence of negligence, shall not limit the liability of an
insurer, and shall not diminish any recovery for damages arising out of the
ownership, maintenance, or operation of a motor vehicle.
   D.   A violation of this Section shall be a petty offense and subject to a
fine as set forth in Chapter 2, Village Government, Article X, Tax, Fee, Fine
and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1003, Fine and Penalty Schedule.
(Am. Ord. 852, passed 10-20-2020)
SECTION 6.1425. OPERATION OF ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES AND OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLES
ON STREETS, ROADS AND HIGHWAYS.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate any all-terrain
vehicle or off-highway motorcycle upon any street, highway or roadway in this
Village.
   B.   Except as provided under Subsection C of this Section, all-terrain
vehicles and off-highway motorcycles may make a direct crossing provided:
      1.   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the street, road or highway and at a place where no obstruction
prevents a quick and safe crossing;
      2.   The all-terrain vehicle or off-highway motorcycle is brought to a
complete stop before attempting a crossing; and
      3.   The operator of the all-terrain vehicle or off-highway motorcycle
yields the right-of-way to all pedestrian and vehicular traffic which
constitutes a hazard.
   C.   No person operating an all-terrain vehicle or off-highway motorcycle
shall make a direct crossing upon or across any tollroad, interstate highway,
or controlled access highway in this Village.
ARTICLE XV. EQUIPMENT OF VEHICLES
SECTION 6.1501. SCOPE AND EFFECT OF EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to drive or move or for the owner to
cause or knowingly permit to be driven or moved on any street or highway in the
Village of Mettawa any vehicle or combination of vehicles which are in such
unsafe condition as to endanger any person or property, or which do not contain
those parts or are not at all times equipped with such lamps and other
equipment in proper condition and adjustment as required in this Article or
which are equipped in any manner in violation of this Article, or for any
person to do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act required under this
Chapter.
   B.   The provisions of this Article with respect to equipment on vehicles
shall not apply to implements of husbandry, road machinery, road rollers, or
farm tractors or to farm-wagon type trailers having a fertilizer spreader
attachment permanently mounted there on, having a gross weight of not to exceed
10,000 pounds and used only for the transportation of bulk fertilizer or to
farm-wagon type tank trailers of not to exceed 1,200 gallons capacity, used
during the liquid fertilizer season as field-storage “nurse tanks” supplying
the fertilizer from a local source of supply to farm or field or from one farm
or field to another.
SECTION 6.1502. WHEN LIGHTED LAMPS ARE REQUIRED.
   A.   When upon any highway in this Village, during the period from sunrise
to sunset, every motorcycle shall at all times exhibit at sunset one lighted
lamp, showing a white light visible for at least 500 feet in the direction the
motorcycle is proceeding.
   B.   All other motor vehicles shall, during the period from sunset to
sunrise, or at any other time when visibility is so limited as to require the
use of lights for safety, exhibit two (2) such lighted driving lamps showing
white lights, or lights of a yellow or amber tint, visible for at least 500
feet in the direction the motor vehicle is proceeding. Parking lamps may be
used in addition to but not in lieu of any such driving lamps. Every motor
vehicle, trailer, or semi-trailer shall also exhibit at least two (2) lighted
lamps, commonly known as tail lamps, which shall be mounted on the left rear
and right rear of the vehicle so as to throw a red light visible for at least
500 feet in the reverse direction, except that a motorcycle or a truck tractor
or road tractor manufactured before January 1, 1968, need to be equipped with
only one (1) such lamp.
   C.   Either a tail lamp or a separate lamp shall be so constructed and
placed to illuminate with a white light a rear registration plate when required
and render it clearly legible from a distance of 50 feet to the rear. Any tail
lamp or tail lamps, together with any separate lamp or lamps for illuminating a
rear registration plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted whenever the head
lamps or auxiliary driving lamps are lighted.
SECTION 6.1503. CLEARANCE, IDENTIFICATION AND SIDE MARKER LAMPS.
   A.   Every motor vehicle of the second division, the length of which
together with any trailer or trailers in tow thereof is more than twenty-five
(25) feet or the width of which is more than eighty (80) inches exclusive of
mirrors, bumpers and other required safety devices, while being operated on the
streets of this Village during the period from sunset to sunrise, shall display
on the front of the vehicle two (2) yellow or amber lights, one on each upper
front corner of the vehicle, which shall be plainly visible at a distance of at
least 500 feet; also on the rear thereof in a horizontal line, three (3) red
lights plainly visible at a distance of not less than 500 feet; also on the
front of the body of that vehicle near the lower left hand corner one (1)
yellow or amber tinted reflector, and near the lower right hand corner one (1)
yellow or amber tinted reflector; colored reflectors in the rear of the body of
that vehicle, not more than twelve (12) inches from the lower left hand and
right hand corners. All motor vehicles of the second division more than twenty
(20) feet long, and all trailers and semi-trailer, except trailers and semi-
trailer having a gross weight of 3,000 pounds or less including the weight of
the trailer and maximum load, while being operated on the streets of this
Village during the period from sunset to sunrise, shall display on each side of
the vehicle at approximately one-third () points of the length of the same, at
a height not exceeding five (5) feet above the surface of the road, and
reflecting on a line approximately at right angles to the center line of the
vehicle, two (2) amber tinted reflectors. After January, 1974, all new motor
vehicles of the second division more than twenty (20) feet long, and all
trailers and semi-trailer except trailers and semi-trailer having a gross
weight of 3,000 pounds or less including the weight of the trailer on the
highways of the Village of Mettawa during the period from sunset to sunrise,
shall display on each side of the vehicle, not more than twelve (12) inches
from the front, one amber tinted reflector, and not more than twelve (12)
inches from the rear one red reflector at a height not exceeding five (5) feet
above the surface of the road, and reflecting on the line approximately at
right angles to the center line of the vehicle, approved by the Illinois
Department of Transportation.
   B.   Every trailer and semi-trailer having a gross weight of 3,000 pounds or
less including the weight of the trailer and maximum load, towed either by a
motor vehicle of the first division or a motor vehicle of the second division
shall be equipped with two (2) red reflectors, which will be visible when hit
by headlight beams 300 feet away at night, on the rear of the body of such
trailer, not more than twelve (12) inches from the lower left hand and lower
right hand corners.
   C.   Every vehicle designated in Subsections A or B of this Section that is
manufactured after December 31, 1973, shall, at the places and times specified
in Subsections A or B of this Section, display reflectors and clearance,
identification, and side marker lamps in conformance with the specifications
prescribed by the Illinois Department of Transportation.
SECTION 6.1504. LAMPS ON PARKED VEHICLES.
   A.   During that period from sunset to sunrise every motorcycle or motor
vehicle which is standing on any highway shall display a parking light on the
front and at the rear of the same, unless the Village by ordinance designates
any part or parts of any streets as parking places in which motorcycles and
motor vehicles may be parked without having their lamps lighted as otherwise
required by this Section.
   B.   Any lighted driving lamps upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or
dimmed.
SECTION 6.1505. LAMP OR FLAG ON PROJECTING LOAD.
   Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four (4) feet or more
beyond the bed or body of such vehicle there shall be displayed at the extreme
rear end of the load at the times specified in Section
6.1502 hereof, a red light or lantern plainly visible from a distance of at
least 500 feet to the sides and rear. The red light or lantern required under
this Section shall be in addition to the red rear light required upon every
vehicle. At any other time there shall be displayed at the extreme rear end of
such a load a red flag or cloth not less than twelve (12) inches square.
SECTION 6.1506. LAMPS ON OTHER VEHICLES.
   A.   Every vehicle, including animal drawn vehicles, referred to in
Subsection B of Section
6.1505, not specifically required by the provisions of this Article to be
equipped with lamps or other lighting devices, shall at all times specified in
Section
6.1502 of this Article be equipped with at least two (2) lamps displaying a
white light visible from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the front of
such vehicle and shall also be equipped with two (2) lamps displaying a red
light visible from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the rear of such
vehicle.
   B.   The preceding subsection does not apply to antique vehicles. An antique
vehicle shall be equipped with lamps of the same type originally installed by
the manufacturer as original equipment and in working order.
   C.   Every animal drawn vehicle, farm tractor, implement of husbandry and
special mobile equipment, except when used for road construction or maintenance
within the limits of a construction or maintenance project where traffic
control devices are used in compliance with the applicable provisions of the
manual and specifications adopted under Section 11-301 of the Illinois Vehicle
Code (Chapter 73, Ill. Rev. Stat.), when operated on a street during a time
when lighted lamps are required by Section
6.1502 of this Chapter, shall display to the rear at least one (1) flashing
amber signal lamp mounted as high as practicable and of sufficient intensity to
be visible for a distance of at least 500 feet in normal sunlight; provided
that only the rearmost vehicle of a combination of vehicles coupled together
need display such lamp.
SECTION 6.1507. LAMPS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT ON BICYCLES AND PEDAL CYCLES.
   A.   Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp on
the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
500 feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type approved
by the Illinois Department of Transportation which shall be visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 500 feet to the rear when directly in front of
lawful lower beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red
light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be used in addition
to the red reflector.
   B.   A bicycle shall not be equipped with, nor shall any person use upon a
bicycle, any siren.
   C.   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will adequately
control movement of and stop and hold such bicycle.
   D.   No person shall sell a new bicycle or pedal for use on a bicycle that
is not equipped with a reflex reflector conforming to specifications prescribed
by the Illinois Department of Transportation, on each pedal, visible from the
front and rear of the bicycle during darkness from a distance of 200 feet.
   E.   No person shall sell or offer for sale a new bicycle that is not
equipped with side reflectors. Such reflectors shall be visible from each side
of the bicycle from a distance of 500 feet and shall be red to the rear of the
center of the bicycle and amber to the front of the center of the bicycle
provided, the requirements of this subsection may be met by reflective
materials which shall be at least 3 /16 of an inch wide on each side of each
tire or rim to indicate as clearly as possible the continuous circular shape
and size of the tires or rims of such bicycle and which reflective material may
be of the same color on both the front and rear tire or rim. Such reflectors
shall conform to specifications prescribed by the Illinois Department of
Transportation.
   F.   Every motorized pedal cycle, when in use at nighttime, shall be
equipped with a lamp on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a
distance of at least 500 feet to the front, and with a red reflector on the
rear of a type approved by the Illinois Department of Transportation which
shall be visible from all distances from 100 feet to 500 feet to the rear when
in front of lawful, low-powered beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp
emitting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be
used in addition to the red reflector.
SECTION 6.1508. SPOT LAMPS AND AUXILIARY DRIVING LAMPS.
   A.   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not to exceed one (1) spot lamp
and every lighted spot lamp shall be so aimed and used upon approaching another
vehicle that no part of the high-intensity portion of the beam will be directed
to the left of the prolongation of the extreme left side of the vehicle nor
more than 100 feet ahead of the vehicle.
   B.   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not to exceed three (3)
auxiliary driving lamps mounted on the front at a height not less than twelve
(12) inches nor more than forty-two (42) inches above the level surface upon
which the vehicle stands.
   C.   The restrictions of Subsections A and B of this Section shall not apply
to authorized emergency vehicles.
SECTION 6.1509. SIGNAL LAMPS AND SIGNAL DEVICES.
   A.   Every vehicle other than an antique vehicle displaying an antique plate
operated in this Village shall be equipped with a stop lamp or lamp on the rear
of the vehicle which shall display a red or amber light visible from a distance
of not less than 500 feet to the rear in normal sunlight and which shall be
actuated upon application of the service (foot) brake, and which may but need
not be incorporated with other rear lamps. During times when lighted lamps are
not required, an antique vehicle may be equipped with a stop lamp or lamps on
the rear of such vehicle of the same type originally installed by the
manufacturer as original equipment and in working order. However, at all other
times, such antique vehicle must be equipped with stop lamps meeting the
requirements of this Section 6.1509.
   B.   Every motor vehicle other than an antique vehicle displaying an antique
plate shall be equipped with an electric turn signal device which shall
indicate the intention of the driver to turn to the right or to the left in the
form of flashing lights located at and showing to the front and rear of the
vehicle on the side of the vehicle toward which the turn is to be made. The
lamps showing to the front shall be mounted on the same level and as widely
spaced laterally as practicable, and, when signaling, shall emit a white or
amber light, or any shade of light between white and amber. The lamps showing
to the rear shall be mounted on the same level and as widely spaced laterally
as practicable and, when signaling, shall emit a red or amber light. An antique
vehicle shall be equipped with a turn signal device of the same type originally
installed by the manufacturer as original equipment and in working order.
   C.   Every trailer and semi-trailer shall be equipped with an electric turn
signal device which indicates the intention of the driver in the power unit to
turn to the right or to the left in the form of flashing red or amber lights
located at the rear of the vehicle on the side towards which the turn is to be
made and mounted on the same level and as widely spaced laterally as
practicable.
   D.   Turn signal lamps must be visible from a distance of not less than 300
feet in normal sunlight.
   E.   Motorcycles and motor driven cycles need not be equipped with electric
turn signals. Antique vehicles need not be equipped with turn signals unless
such were installed by the manufacturer as original equipment.
SECTION 6.1510. ADDITIONAL LIGHTING EQUIPMENT.
   A.   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than two (2) side cowl
or fender lamps which shall emit an amber or white light without glare.
   B.   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than one (1) running
board courtesy lamp on each side thereof which shall emit a white or amber
light without glare.
   C.   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with one (1) or more back-up lamps
either separately or in combination with other lamps; except that any such
back-up lamp or lamps shall not be lighted when the motor vehicle is in forward
motion.
SECTION 6.1511. USE OF HEAD LAMPS.
   A.   Whenever the driver of any vehicle equipped with an electric driving
head lamp or head lamps is within 500 feet of another vehicle approaching from
the opposite direction, the driver shall dim or drop such head lamp or head
lamps.
   B.   The driver of any vehicle equipped with an electric driving head lamp
or head lamps shall dim or drop such head lamp or head lamps when there is
another vehicle traveling in the same direction less than 300 feet to the front
of him.
SECTION 6.1512. NUMBER OF DRIVING LAMPS REQUIRED OR PERMITTED.
   A.   At all times specified in Section
6.1502, at least two (2) lighted driving lamps shall be displayed, one on each
side of the front of every motor vehicle other than a motorcycle, except when
such vehicle is parked subject to the regulations governing lights or parked
vehicles.
   B.   Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with driving lamps as herein required
is also equipped with any auxiliary driving lamps or a stop lamp or any other
lamp on the front thereof projecting a beam of an intensity greater than 300
candle-power, not more than a total of four (4) of any such lamps on the front
of a vehicle shall be lighted at any one time when upon a highway or street.
SECTION 6.1513. SPECIAL RESTRICTIONS ON LAMPS.
   Except as provided in Sections
6.1514 and
6.1516:
   A.   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or equipment upon any street
with any lamp or device thereon displaying a red light visible from directly in
front thereof.
   B.   Subject to the restrictions in this Chapter, flashing lights are
prohibited on motor vehicles except as means for indicating a right or left
turn or the presence of a vehicular traffic hazard requiring unusual care in
approaching, overtaking, or passing.
SECTION 6.1514. SPECIAL LIGHTING EQUIPMENT ON SCHOOL BUSES.
   A.   Each school bus purchased as a new vehicle after December 31, 1976,
shall be equipped with an 8-lamp flashing signal system.
      1.   Until December 31, 1976, all other school buses shall be equipped
with either a 4-lamp or an 8-lamp flashing signal system.
      2.   After December 31, 1976, all school buses shall be equipped with an
8-lamp flashing signal system.
   B.   A 4-lamp flashing signal system shall have two (2) alternately flashing
red lamps mounted as high and as widely spaced laterally on the same level as
practicable at the front of the school bus and two (2) such lamps mounted in
the same manner at the rear.
   C.   An 8-lamp flashing signal system shall have, in addition to a 4-lamp
system, four (4) alternately flashing amber lamps. Each amber lamp shall be
mounted next to a red lamp and at the same level but closer to the centerline
of the school bus.
   D.   Each signal lamp shall be a sealed beam at least 5½ inches in diameter
and shall have sufficient intensity to be visible at 500 feet in normal
sunlight. Both the 4-lamp and 8-lamp system shall be actuated only by means of
a manual switch. There shall be a device for indicating to the driver that the
system is operating properly or is inoperative.
   E.   Each Type I school bus shall be equipped with an amber 3-bar clearance
light on the front of the bus. The light shall be illuminated at all times when
the bus is being operated between sunset and sunrise and in conditions of
reduced visibility.
   F.   Strobe lamp on school bus.
      1.   A school bus may be equipped with one strobe lamp that will emit 60
to 120 flashes per minute of white or bluish-white light visible to a motorist
approaching the bus from any direction. The lamp shall be of sufficient
brightness to be visible in normal sunlight when viewed directly from a
distance of at least one mile.
      2.   The strobe lamp shall be mounted on the rooftop of the bus with the
light generating element in the lamp located equidistant from each side and
either at or behind the center of the rooftop. The maximum height of the
element above the rooftop shall not exceed 1 /30 of its distance from the rear
of the rooftop. If the structure of the strobe lamp obscures the light
generating element, the element shall be deemed to be in the center of the lamp
with a maximum height of ¼-inch less than the maximum height of the strobe lamp
unless otherwise indicated in rules and regulations promulgated by the Illinois
Department of Transportation. The Illinois Department of Transportation may
promulgate rules and regulations to govern measurements, glare, effectiveness
and protection of strobe lamps on school buses, including higher strobe lamps
on school buses, including higher strobe lamps than authorized in this
subparagraph.
      3.   The strobe lamp may be lighted only when atmospheric conditions so
severely restrict visibility of bus lamps and signals as to require the bright
strobe lamp to alert motorists to the presence of a school bus. No strobe lamp
may be lighted unless the school bus is actually being used as a school bus
and:
         a.   Is stopping or stopped for loading or discharging pupils on a
highway; or
         b.   Is bearing one or more pupils and is either stopped or, in the
interest of safety, is moving very slowly at a speed:
            i.   Less than the posted minimum speed limit; or
            ii.   Less than 30 miles per hour on a highway.
SECTION 6.1515. SPECIAL LIGHTING EQUIPMENT IN RURAL MAIL DELIVERY VEHICLES.
   If a rural mail delivery vehicle is equipped with special signal lamps,
there shall be displayed to the front two (2) such alternately flashing amber
lamps located at the same level and mounted as high and as widely spaced
laterally as practicable and to the rear two (2) alternately flashing amber
lamps located at the same level and mounted as high and as widely spaced
laterally as practicable. Such lamps shall be of sufficient intensity to be
visible at 500 feet in normal sunlight and shall be controlled so that they
will only be used to indicate to other traffic that a stop is being made for
the purpose of picking up or delivering U.S. mail.
SECTION 6.1516. OSCILLATING, ROTATING OR FLASHING LIGHTS ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter:
   A.   Red oscillating, rotating or flashing lights, whether lighted or
unlighted, are prohibited except on:
      1.   Law enforcement vehicles of the State, Federal government and/or the
Department;
      2.   Law enforcement vehicles owned by other local authorities;
      3.   A vehicle operated by a police officer or county coroner and
designated or authorized by local authorities, in writing, as a law enforcement
vehicle; however, such designation or authorization shall be carried in the
vehicle;
      4.   Fire department vehicles or other local fire departments and
firefighting vehicles of the State or Federal government; and
      5.   Vehicles which are designated as ambulances; furthermore, such
lights shall not be lighted except while responding to an emergency call for
the purpose of conveying sick or injured persons.
   B.   Amber oscillating, rotating or flashing lights, whether lighted or
unlighted, are prohibited except on:
      1.   Second division vehicles designed for towing or hoisting disabled
vehicles; furthermore, such lights shall not be lighted except when such
vehicles are actually being used for such purposes;
      2.   Motor vehicles or equipment of the State of Illinois, Village of
Mettawa and other local authorities and contractors; furthermore, such lights
shall not be lighted except while such vehicles are engaged in maintenance or
construction operations within the limits of the construction project;
      3.   Vehicles or equipment used by engineering or survey crews;
furthermore, such lights shall not be lighted except while such vehicles are
actually engaged in work on a highway;
      4.   Vehicles of public utilities and municipal departments; furthermore,
such lights shall not be lighted except while such vehicles are engaged in
maintenance or construction operations within the limits of construction
projects;
      5.   Oversized vehicle or load moving under permit issued by the State
Department of Public Safety;
      6.   The front and end of motorized equipment owned and operated by the
State of Illinois or the Village of Mettawa, or any other political subdivision
of the State of Illinois, which is designed and used for removal of snow and
ice from highways;
      7.   Fleet safety vehicles registered in another state, furthermore, such
lights shall not be lighted except as provided for in this Chapter; and
      8.   Such other vehicles as may be authorized by the Village of Mettawa
and/or other local authorities.
   C.   Blue oscillating, rotating, or flashing lights, whether lighted or
unlighted, are prohibited except on:
      1.   The front, or any part from the back of the front seat forward to
the windshield, and said light may be permanently or temporarily mounted and
covered or uncovered, of any motor vehicle owned or fully operated by a
volunteer fireman, paid fireman, part-paid fireman, or call fireman, such
lights to be used only while responding to a fire call or other fire department
emergency, or the vehicle of any volunteer, paid or unpaid or on call, member
of a rescue squad responding to a rescue squad emergency;
      2.   Vehicles of rescue squads when on the way to an emergency call; or
      3.   Police department vehicles in cities having a population of 500,000
or more inhabitants.
   D.   All oscillating, rotating or flashing lights referred to in this
Section shall be of sufficient intensity, when illuminated, to be visible at
500 feet in normal sunlight.
   E.   Nothing in this Section shall prohibit a manufacturer of oscillating,
rotating or flashing lights or his representative from temporarily mounting
such lights on a vehicle for demonstration purposes only.
SECTION 6.1517. OPERATION OF OSCILLATING, ROTATING OR FLASHING LIGHTS.
   Oscillating, rotating or flashing lights located on top of police vehicles
in this Village shall be lighted whenever a police officer is in pursuit of a
violator of a traffic law or regulation.
SECTION 6.1518. BRAKES.
   A.   Brake Equipment Requirement.
      1.   Every motor vehicle, other than a motor-driven cycle and an antique
vehicle displaying an antique plate, when operated upon a street or highway
shall be equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop
and hold such vehicle, including two (2) appropriate means of applying the
brakes, each of which means shall be effective to apply the brakes to at least
one (1) wheel on a motorcycle and at least two (2) wheels on all other first
division and second division vehicles. If these two (2) separate means of
applying the brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that
failure of any one part of the operating mechanism shall not leave the motor
vehicle without brakes.
      2.   Every motor-driven cycle when operated upon a street shall be
equipped with at least one (1) brake which may be operated by hand or foot.
      3.   Every antique vehicle shall be equipped with the brakes of the same
type originally installed by the manufacturer as original equipment and in
working order.
      4.   Every trailer or semi-trailer of a gross weight of 3,000 pounds or
more, when operated upon a street must be equipped with brakes adequate to
control the movement of, to stop and to hold such vehicle, and designed so as
to be operable by the driver of the towing vehicle from its cab. Such brakes
must be so designed and connected that in case of an accidental breakaway of a
towed vehicle 6,000 pounds or more, the brakes are automatically applied.
      5.   Every motor vehicle, trailer, pole trailer or semi-trailer operated
upon the streets or highways of this Village shall be equipped with service
brakes upon all wheels of every such vehicle, except any motor-driven cycle,
and except that any trailer, pole trailer or semi-trailer with a gross weight
of 3,000 pounds but under 5,000 pounds need be equipped with brakes on only one
wheel on each side of the vehicle.
         a.   Any motor vehicle and truck tractor having three (3) or more
axles need not have brakes on the front wheels, except when such vehicles are
equipped with at least two (2) steerable axles, and wheels of one such axle
need not be equipped with brakes.
         b.   However, a vehicle that is more than thirty (30) years of age and
which is driven on the streets or highways only in going to and returning from
an antique auto show or for servicing or for a demonstration need be equipped
with two (2) wheel brakes only.
   B.   Performance Ability of Brakes.
      1.   The service brakes upon any motor vehicle or combination of vehicles
operating on a level surface shall be adequate to stop such vehicle or vehicles
when traveling twenty (20) miles per hour within a distance or thirty (30) feet
when upon dry asphalt or concrete pavement surface free from loose material.
      2.   Under the above conditions the hand brake shall be adequate to stop
such vehicle or vehicles, except any motorcycle, within a distance of fifty-
five (55) feet and the hand brake shall be adequate to hold such vehicle or
vehicles stationary on any grade upon which operated.
      3.   Under the above conditions the service brakes upon an antique
vehicle shall be adequate to stop the vehicle within a distance of forty (40)
feet and the hand brake adequate to stop the vehicle within a distance of
fifty-five (55) feet.
      4.   All braking distances specified in this Section apply to all
vehicles mentioned, whether such vehicles are unloaded or loaded to the maximum
capacity permitted under this Chapter.
      5.   All brakes shall be maintained in good working order and shall be so
adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable with respect to the wheels on
opposite sides of the vehicles.
SECTION 6.1519. BRAKE FLUID.
   No person shall sell, offer for sale or distribute brake fluid for use on
motor vehicles for repair purposes unless such fluid conforms to specifications
prescribed by the Illinois Department of Transportation.
SECTION 6.1520. RESTRICTION AS TO TIRE EQUIPMENT.
   A.   No metal-tired vehicle, including tractors, motor vehicles of the
second division, traction engines and other similar vehicles, shall be operated
over any improved street of this Village, if such vehicle has on the periphery
of any of the road wheels any block, stud, flange, cleat, ridge, lug or any
projection of metal or wood which projects radially beyond the tread of traffic
surface of the tire. This prohibition does not apply to pneumatic tires with
metal studs until April 1, 1976, and thereafter this prohibition shall not
apply to pneumatic tires with metal studs used on vehicles operated by rural
letter carriers who are employed or enjoy a contract with the United States
Postal Service for the purpose of delivering mail if such vehicle is actually
used for such purpose during operations between November 16 of any year and
April 1 of the following year or to tract type motor vehicles when that part of
the vehicle coming in contact with the road surface does not contain any
projections of any kind likely to injure the surface of the road; however,
tractors, traction engines and similar vehicles may be operated which have upon
their road wheels V-shaped, diagonal or other cleats arranged in such a manner
as to be continuously in contact with the road surface, provided that the gross
weight upon such wheels per inch of width of such cleats in contact with the
road surface, when measured in the direction of the axle of the vehicle, does
not exceed 800 pounds. Studded tires may be used between November 16 of any
year and April 1 of the following year until April 1, 1976, and only on single
tire vehicles with a rated capacity of not more than 10,000 pounds gross
vehicle weight on which there are wheel walls or other hems of a similarly
protective nature, whether permanently or temporarily attached thereto.
   B.   All motor vehicles and all other vehicles in tow thereof, or thereunto
attached, operating under any roadway, shall have tires of rubber or some
material of equal resiliency. Solid tires shall be considered defective and
shall not be permitted to be used if the rubber or other material has been worn
or otherwise reduced to a thickness of less than ¾ of an inch or if such tires
have been so worn or otherwise damaged as to cause undue vibration when the
vehicle is in motion or to cause undue concentration of the wheel load on the
surface of the road. The requirements of this Section do not apply to
agricultural tractors or traction engines or to agricultural machinery,
including wagons being used for agricultural purposes in tow thereof, or to
road rollers or road building machinery operated at a speed not in excess of
ten (10) miles per hour. All motor vehicles of the second division, operating
upon any roadway shall have pneumatic tires, unless exempted herein.
   C.   Nothing in this Section shall be deemed to prohibit the use of tire
chains of reasonable proportion upon any vehicle when required for safety
because of snow, ice, or other conditions tending to cause a vehicle to skid.
SECTION 6.1521. SALE OR OFFER OF SALE OF FIRST DIVISION MOTOR VEHICLE TIRES
WITH OTHER THAN ORIGINAL GROOVES.
   It is unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale any tire for use on
any motor vehicle of the first division into which any groove, other than the
original grooves made by the manufacturer thereof, is deliberately made by
cutting, burning, or other means to within of an inch of the cord.
SECTION 6.1522. SALE OR OFFER OF SALE OF SECOND DIVISION MOTOR VEHICLES WITH
OTHER THAN ORIGINAL GROOVES.
   It is unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale any tire for use on
any motor vehicle of the second division into which any groove, other than the
original grooves made by the manufacturer thereof, is deliberately made by
cutting, burning or other means to within 7/32 of an inch of the cord.
SECTION 6.1523. SALE OR OFFER OF SALE OF ANY INTERGROOVED MOTOR VEHICLE TIRES
WITHOUT MARKING.
   It is unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale any tire, for use on
any motor vehicle, into which any groove, other than the original grooves made
by the manufacturer thereof, is made by cutting, burning, or other means,
unless the words “Regrooved Tire” are branded thereon in letters not less than
one (1) inch in height.
SECTION 6.1524. USE OF UNSAFE TIRE; CRITERIA.
   A.   Use of Unsafe Tire. No person or organization shall drive or move or
cause to be driven or to be moved on the public streets or the Village of
Mettawa any vehicle equipped with one or more passenger car tires considered to
be unsafe under the provisions of Subsection D of this Section. This
restriction, however, shall not apply to a person or organization towing or
moving a wrecked, damaged, disabled, or impounded vehicle to a repair,
collection, or storage point either with a driver in the towed vehicle or by
means of a vehicle (wrecker) designed for this special use.
   B.   Sale, Lease, or Installation of Tires. No person or organization shall
sell or lease, or offer for sale or lease, or mount or install, or cause to be
mounted or to be installed for use on the public streets of this Village any
passenger car tire considered to be unsafe under Subsection D of this Section.
A person or organization offering a vehicle for sale or lease shall, prior to
its being driven or moved on a public street, correct any unsafe tire
condition.
   C.   Compliance and Enforcement. Any police officer, upon reasonable cause
to believe that a person or organization has acted or is acting in violation of
the provisions of Subsections A or D of this Section shall require the driver,
owner, or other appropriate custodian of the vehicle to submit the area on the
vehicle to an inspection. The driver shall stop at a designated location and
permit the tires to be inspected or shall move the vehicle to a location that
is reasonably convenient and is suitable for the inspection when, in the
judgment of the officer, such actions are essential to an efficient and safe
inspection of the tires.
   D.   Criteria for Unsafe Passenger Car Tires. A passenger car tire shall be
considered to be unsafe if it has:
      1.   Any part of a ply or cord exposed;
      2.   A tread or sidewall crack, cut, snag, or other surface interruption
deep enough to expose a ply or cord;
      3.   Any bulge or separation;
      4.   Tread wear indicators flush with the tread outer surface in any two
(2) or more adjacent tread grooves at three (3) locations around the
circumference of the tire;
      5.   A depth of tread less than 1/16 of an inch measured in any two (2)
or more adjacent tread grooves at three (3) locations essentially equally
spaced around the circumference of the tire, at least one of which in the
judgment of the inspecting officer is a location at which the tread is
thinnest, exclusive of the bars or tread wear indicators, provided that with
regard to vehicles offered for sale or lease, a depth of tread less than 3/32
of an inch shall be deemed to be unsafe;
      6.   A marking which indicates that the tire is not intended for use on
public streets or highways, such as “not for highway use,” “for racing purposes
only,” or “unsafe for highway use;”
      7.   Deep regrooved or recut below the original tread design depth,
except special regroovinate tires, or taxicab type tires, which have extra
undertread rubber and are identified as such; or
      8.   Other conditions, or markings, or lack of markings that may be
reasonably demonstrated to identify the tire as unsuitable for highway use,
including inflation or load conditions seriously incompatible with the tire
size, construction, or other pertinent markings.
SECTION 6.1525. SAFETY GLAZING MATERIAL IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
   A.   No person shall knowingly sell any 1936 or later model motor vehicle
unless such vehicle is equipped with safety glazing material conforming to
specifications prescribed by the Illinois Department of Transportation wherever
glazing material is used in doors, windows and windshields. These provisions
apply to all motor vehicles of the first and second division but with respect
to trucks, including truck tractors, the requirements as to safety glazing
material apply to all glazing material used in doors, windows, and windshields
in the drivers compartments of such vehicles.
   B.   It is unlawful for the owner or any other person knowingly to install
or cause to be installed in any motor vehicle any glazing material other than
safety glazing material conforming to the specifications prescribed by the
Illinois Department of Transportation.
SECTION 6.1526. MIRRORS.
   Every motor vehicle, operated singly or when towing another vehicle, shall
be equipped with a mirror so located as to reflect to the driver a view of the
highway for a distance of at least 200 feet to the rear of such motor vehicle.
SECTION 6.1527. WINDSHIELDS MUST BE UNOBSTRUCTED AND EQUIPPED WITH WIPERS.
   A.   No person shall drive any motor vehicle with any sign, poster, window
application, reflecting material or non-reflective material upon the front
windshield, sidewings, or side windows immediately adjacent to each side of the
driver which materially obstructs, obscures, or impairs the view from both
within or without the vehicle. A tinted film may be used along the upper
portion of the windshield if such material does not extend more than 6 inches
down from the top.
   B.   Nothing contained in this Section shall prohibit the use of
nonreflective, smoked or tinted glass; nonreflective film; perforated window
screen; or other decorative window application on windows to the rear of the
driver's seat subject to the provisions of this Section.
   C.   No person shall drive a motor vehicle with any objects placed or
suspended between the driver and the front windshield or rear window which
materially obstructs the driver's view.
   D.   Every motor vehicle, except motorcycles, shall be equipped with a
device controlled by the driver for cleaning rain, snow, moisture, or other
obstructions from the windshield; and no person shall drive a motor vehicle
with snow, ice, moisture or other material on any of the windows or mirrors,
which materially obstructs the driver's clear view of the street.
   E.   No person shall drive any motor vehicle when the windshield, side, or
rear windows are in such defective condition or repair as to materially impair
the driver's view to the front, side, or rear. A vehicle equipped with an
unobstructed rear view mirror will be deemed to be in compliance in the event
the rear window of the vehicle is materially obscured.
   F.   Subsections A and B of this Section shall not apply to:
      1.   Motor vehicles manufactured prior to January 1, 1982; or
      2.   To those motor vehicles properly registered in another jurisdiction.
SECTION 6.1528. HORNS AND WARNING DEVICES.
   A.   Every motor vehicle, when operated upon a highway shall be equipped
with a horn in good working order and capable of emitting sounds audible under
normal conditions from a distance of not less than 200 feet, but no horn or
other warning device shall emit an unreasonably loud or harsh sound or a
whistle. The driver of a motor vehicle shall, when reasonably necessary to
insure safe operation, give audible warning with his horn but shall not
otherwise use such horn when upon a highway or street.
   B.   No vehicle shall be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a
vehicle any siren, whistle, or bell, except as otherwise permitted in this
subsection. Any authorized emergency vehicle as defined in Article I of this
Chapter, may be equipped with a siren, whistle, or bell, capable of emitting
sound audible under normal conditions from a distance of not less than 500
feet, but such siren, whistle or bell, shall not be used except when such
vehicle is operated in response to an emergency call or in the immediate
pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law in either of which events
the driver of such vehicle shall sound said siren, whistle or bell, when
necessary to warn pedestrians and other drivers of the approach thereof.
   C.   No bicycle shall be equipped with, nor shall a person use upon a
bicycle, any siren or whistle.
SECTION 6.1529. MUFFLERS, PREVENTION OF NOISE.
   A.   Every motor vehicle driven or operated upon the highways or streets of
this Village shall at all times be equipped with an adequate muffler or exhaust
system in constant operation and properly maintained to prevent any excessive
or unusual noise.
   B.   No such muffler or exhaust system shall be equipped with a cutout,
bypass, or similar device. No person shall modify the exhaust system of a motor
vehicle or squeal the tires thereof or unnecessarily race his motor while
running idle in a manner which will amplify or increase the noise of such
vehicle above that emitted by the muffler originally installed on the vehicle
or above that emitted by tires normally or above that emitted at normal idle.
No person shall use any sound amplifying device, recorded music, or radio in or
from any vehicle on any street in such manner as to attract the attention of
persons outside of such vehicle to the sounds issuing therefrom, excepting
herefrom persons in vehicles and devices officially used by governmental units
in the exercise of official functions and except as provided elsewhere in this
Municipal Code.
SECTION 6.1530. SEAT SAFETY BELTS.
   A.   No person shall sell any 1966 or later model motor vehicle of the first
division unless the front seat of such motor vehicle is equipped with two (2)
sets of seat safety belts. Motorcycles are exempted from the provisions of this
Section.
   B.   No person shall operate any 1961 or later model motor vehicle or the
first division that is titled or licensed by the Secretary of the State unless
the front seat of such motor vehicle is equipped with two (2) sets of seat
safety belts.
SECTION 6.1531. TELEVISION RECEIVERS.
   A.   No motor vehicle operated on the streets of the Village of Mettawa
shall be equipped with television-type receiving equipment so located that the
viewer or screen is visible from the driver's seat.
   B.   This Section does not prohibit the use of television-type receiving
equipment used exclusively for safety or traffic engineering studies.
SECTION 6.1532. TOW-TRUCKS; IDENTIFICATION, EQUIPMENT AND INSURANCE.
   A.   Every tow-truck, except those owned by governmental agencies, shall
have displayed on each side thereof, a sign with letters not less than two (2)
inches in height, contrasting in color to that of the background, stating the
name, address and telephone number of the owner or operator thereof.
   B.   Every tow-truck shall be equipped with:
      1.   One or more brooms and shovels;
      2.   One or more trash cans at least 18 inches in height; and
      3.   One fire extinguisher of the dry chemical or carbon dioxide type
with an aggregate rating of at least 4-B, C units, and bearing the approval of
a laboratory qualified by the Division of Fire Prevention for this purpose.
   C.   Every owner or operator and driver of a tow-truck shall comply with
Section 11-1413 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, as amended, and shall remove or
cause to be removed all glass and debris deposited upon any street or highway
by the disabled vehicle being serviced, and shall in addition, spread dirt or
sand upon that portion of any street or highway where oil or grease has been
deposited by the disabled vehicle being serviced.
   D.   Every tow-truck operator shall in addition provide an indemnity bond or
insurance policy which shall indemnify or insure the tow-truck operator for his
liability for loss or damage to any disabled or damaged vehicle towed or stored
by the tow-truck operator in an amount not less than Five Thousand Dollars
($5,000) for any one accident or claim. Any such bond or policy shall be issued
only by a bonding or insuring firm properly qualified to do business as such in
the State of Illinois, and a certificate of such bond or policy shall be
carried in the cab of each tow truck.
SECTION 6.1533. SUSPENSION SYSTEM.
   A.   It shall be unlawful to operate a motor vehicle on any street of this
Village when the suspension system has been modified from the original
manufactured design by lifting the body from the chassis in excess of three (3)
inches or to cause the horizontal line from the front to the rear bumper to
vary over three (3) inches in height when measured from a level surface of the
street to the lower edge of the bumper.
   B.   Nothing in this Section shall prevent the installation of manufactured
heavy duty equipment to include shock absorbers and overhead springs, nor shall
anything contained in this Section prevent a person to operate a motor vehicle
on any street of this Village with normal wear of the suspension system if
normal wear does not affect the control or safe operation of the vehicle. This
Section shall not apply to motor vehicles designed or modified primarily for
off-street racing purposes while such vehicles are in tow or to motorcycles or
motor-driven cycles.
SECTION 6.1534. BUMPERS.
   A.   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle of the first division or
any vehicle registered as a recreational vehicle on any street in this Village
unless such vehicle is equipped with both a front and rear bumper.
      1.   The bumper height shall not be modified to vary more than three (3)
inches from the original manufactured bumper height for that vehicle when
measured from a level surface of the street to the lower edge of the bumper.
      2.   Nothing in this Section shall prevent the installation of
manufactured bumper guards.
   B.   This Section shall not apply to motor vehicles designed or modified
primarily for off-street racing purposes while such vehicle is in tow or to
motorcycles or motor-driven cycles, nor to any antique vehicle, when registered
as such, when the original design did not include bumpers.
SECTION 6.1535. DISPOSAL OF MOTOR VEHICLES BEARING POLICE MARKINGS.
   No official or employee of this Village shall sell, trade or otherwise
dispose of any motor vehicle bearing equipment, markings, or other indicia of
police authority unless, prior to delivery of the vehicle, the equipment and
markings have been sufficiently altered or obliterated to remove the appearance
of such authority.
SECTION 6.1536. HEADSET RECEIVERS.
   A.   No driver of a motor vehicle on the streets and highways of the Village
of Mettawa shall wear headset receivers while driving.
   B.   This Section does not prohibit the use of a headset type receiving
equipment used exclusively for safety or traffic engineering studies or by law
enforcement personnel on duty.
SECTION 6.1537. TRACTORS, TRACTION ENGINES AND MOTOR TRUCKS; OPERATION ON
HIGHWAYS; TURNING ON HIGHWAYS DURING FARMING OPERATIONS; VIOLATIONS.
   A.   No tractor, traction engine, motor truck or other similar vehicle shall
be operated across, over, or along any public highway of this village which has
been oil treated, if any such vehicle has on the periphery of any of the road
wheels any block, stud, flange, cleat, ridge, lug, or any projection of metal
or wood which projects radially beyond the tread or traffic surface of the
tire; except that this prohibition shall not apply to tractors or traction
engines equipped with what is known as crawler-type tractors, when the same
does not contain any projections of any kind likely to injure the surface of
the road, nor to tractors, traction engines and similar vehicles which have
upon their road wheels V-shaped, diagonal or other cleats arranged in such a
manner as to be continuously in contact with the road surface. In no event
shall the oil mat surface of any oil treated public road be used as an area or
space for turning any tractor or other farm machinery in carrying on or
performing any farming operations upon the adjacent land. Provided, that
nothing in this Section contained shall prohibit the operation of tractors,
traction engines or motor trucks across any oil treated road in order to reach
adjacent lands or the operation of any such vehicles upon the treated portion
of such oil treated roads if there is no untreated portion thereof over which
they may be operated or the operation of any such vehicles on oil treated roads
if in passing along said road they travel over the portion of said road which
does not constitute the oil mat surface created by said oil treatment or the
use of flexible tire chains on any tractor, traction engine, motor truck or
other similar vehicle being operated upon any such oil treated road.
   B.   Any person who operates a tractor, traction engine, motor truck or
other similar vehicle over and along any public street of this Village, which
has been oil treated, in violation of the provisions of this Section, is guilty
of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be guilty of a petty
offense and shall be fined not less than Twenty-Five Dollars ($25) nor more
than One Hundred Dollars ($100) for each such offense.
SECTION 6.1538. CERTAIN VEHICLES TO CARRY FLARES OR OTHER WARNING DEVICES.
   A.   No person shall operate any motor vehicle of the second division or any
motor vehicle towing a house trailer upon any highway outside an urban district
at any time unless there is carried in such vehicle the following equipment,
except as provided in Subsection B of this Section.
      1.   At least three (3) liquid-burning flares, or three (3) red electric
lanterns or three (3) portable red emergency reflectors, each of which is
capable of being seen and distinguished at a distance of not less than 500 feet
when lighted lamps are required, provided that emergency reflectors meeting the
requirements of Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 125 shall be deemed
acceptable as regards visibility and color; and
      2.   At least three (3) red-burning 6-minute fusees unless red electric
lanterns or portable red emergency reflectors are carried; and
      3.   At least two (2) red-cloth flags, not less than twelve (12) inches
square, with standards to support flags or in lieu thereof, two (2) portable
emergency reflectors meeting the requirements of Federal Motor Vehicle Safety
Standard No. 125.
   B.   No person shall operate at the time and under the conditions stated in
Subsection A of this Section any motor vehicle used for the transportation of
explosives, any cargo tank truck used for the transportation of flammable
liquids or compressed gases or any motor vehicle using compressed gas as a fuel
unless there is carried in such vehicle three (3) red electric lanterns or
three (3) portable red emergency reflectors meeting the requirements of
Subsection A of this Section, and such vehicle shall not carry any flares,
fusees or signals produced by flame.
   C.   Whenever any motor vehicle of the second division or any motor vehicle
towing a house trailer is disabled upon the roadway of any highway or the
shoulder thereof outside an urban district or on any controlled access highway
within an urban district at any time when lighted lamps are required, the
driver of such vehicle shall display the following warning devices upon the
highway during the time the vehicle is so disabled, except as provided in
Subsection D of this Section.
      1.   A lighted fusee, a lighted red electric lantern or a portable red
emergency reflector shall be immediately placed at the traffic side of the
vehicle in the direction of the nearest approaching traffic. However, the
driver of such vehicle upon learning of the disability may simultaneously flash
the two (2) front and two (2) rear turn signals as a vehicular traffic warning
and continue such flashing until the portable signals have been placed as
required by this Section and during the time such portable emergency signals
tire being picked up for storage prior to the movement of the Vehicle.
      2.   As soon thereafter as possible, but in any event within the burning
period of the fusee (15 minutes), the driver shall place three (3) liquid-
burning flares, or three (3) lighted, red electric lanterns or three (3)
portable red emergency reflectors on the roadway or shoulder of the highway in
the following order:
         a.   One approximately 100 feet from the disabled vehicle in the
center of the lane or shoulder occupied by such vehicle and toward traffic
approaching in that lane; and
         b.   One approximately 100 feet in the opposite direction from the
disabled vehicle and in the center of the traffic lane or shoulder occupied by
such vehicle; and
         c.   One at the traffic side of the disabled vehicle not less than ten
(10) feet to the rear or forward thereof in the direction of the nearest
approaching traffic. If a lighted red electric lantern or a portable red,
emergency reflector has been placed at the traffic side of the vehicle in
accordance with Subsection C 1 of this Section, it may be used for this
purpose.
   D.   Whenever any vehicle referred to in this Section is disabled within 500
feet of a curve, hill crest or other obstruction to view, the warning signal in
that direction shall be so placed as to afford ample warning to other users of
the highway, but in no case less than 100 feet nor more than 500 feet from the
disabled vehicle.
   E.   Whenever any vehicle of a type referred to in this Section is disabled
upon any roadway or shoulder of a divided highway during the time that lighted
lamps are required, the appropriate warning devices prescribed in Subsections A
1 and 2 of this Section shall be placed as follows:
      1.   One at least a distance of approximately 200 feet from the vehicle
in the center of the lane or shoulder occupied by the stopped vehicle and in
the direction of traffic approaching in that lane;
      2.   One at a distance of approximately 100 feet from the vehicle in the
center of the lane or shoulder occupied by the vehicle and in the direction of
traffic approaching in that lane; and
      3.   One at the traffic side of the vehicle and approximately ten (10)
feet from the vehicle in the direction of the nearest approaching traffic.
   F.   Whenever any vehicle of a type referred to in this Section is disabled
upon the roadway or any highway or the shoulder thereof outside an urban
district or on any controlled access highway within an urban district at any
time when the display of fusses, flares, red electric lanterns or portable red
emergency reflectors are not required, the driver of the vehicle shall display
two (2) red-cloth flags or two (2) portable emergency reflectors meeting the
requirements of Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 126 upon the roadway
or shoulder in the lane of traffic occupied by the disabled vehicle in the
following order:
      1.   One at a distance of approximately 100 feet in advance of the
vehicle; and
      2.   One at a distance of approximately 100 feet in the rear of the
vehicle.
   G.   Whenever any vehicle of a type referred to in this Section is disabled
upon any roadway or shoulder of a divided highway during the time that lighted
lamps are not required, the driver of such vehicle shall display two (2) red-
cloth flags or two (2) portable emergency reflectors meeting the requirements
of Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 125 upon the roadway or shoulder
in the center of the lane of traffic occupied by the disabled vehicle in the
following order:
      1.   One at a distance of approximately 200 feet to the rear of the
vehicle; and
      2.   One at a distance of approximately 100 feet to the rear of the
vehicle.
   H.   Whenever any motor vehicle used for the transportation of explosives,
or any cargo tank truck used for the transportation of any flammable liquid or
compressed flammable gas or any motor vehicle using compressed gas as a fuel is
disabled upon a street in this Village at any time or place mentioned in
Subsection C of this Section, the driver of such vehicle shall immediately
display three (3) red electric lanterns or portable red emergency reflectors
placed in the following order:
      1.   One at the traffic side of the vehicle and approximately ten (10)
feet from the vehicle in the direction of the nearest approaching traffic;
      2.   One at a distance of approximately 100 feet to the front of the
disabled vehicle in the center of the lane of traffic or shoulder occupied by
such vehicle; and
      3.   One at a distance of approximately 100 feet to the rear of the
disabled vehicle in the center of the lane of traffic or shoulder occupied by
such vehicle. Flares, fusses, or signals produced by flame shall not be used as
warning devices for disabled vehicles of the type mentioned in this subsection.
   J.   The flares, fusses, red electric lanterns, portable red emergency
reflectors and flags to be displayed as required in this Section shall conform
with the requirements of Subsections A and B of this Section applicable
thereto.
SECTION 6.1539. ROAD OIL VEHICLES; DRIPPING ON CERTAIN HIGHWAYS FORBIDDEN.
   No person shall operate, on a durable all-weather street or highway of a
type other than gravel or crushed stone, any vehicle used for the purpose of
applying road oil, liquid asphalt or similar material to road surfaces unless
such vehicle is so equipped as to absolutely prevent such material from,
dripping on such highway, nor shall such material be allowed to drip on any
such street or highway.
SECTION 6.1540. VEHICLES TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES OR RADIOACTIVE MATERIALS.
   A.   Any person operating any vehicle transporting any explosive as a cargo
or part of a cargo upon a street or highway of this Village shall at all times
comply with the following provisions of this Section:
      1.   Such vehicle shall be marked or placarded on each side and the rear
with the word “explosives” in letters not less than four (4) inches high, or
there shall be displayed on the rear of such vehicle a red flag not less than
twenty-four (24) inches square marked with the word “hanger” in white letters
six (6) inches high.
      2.   Every such vehicle shall be equipped with not less than two (2) fire
extinguishers, filled and ready for immediate use, and placed at a convenient
point on the vehicle used.
   B.   Highway vehicles used for transport of packages bearing Radioactive
Yellow-III labels as defined in the Code of Federal Regulations, Title 49,
Chapter 1, Paragraph 173.399(a) must be placarded by the carrier, or by the
shipper for sole use vehicles containing full loads of low specific activity
materials. Placards printed “Radioactive” with black letters four (4) inches
high and 5/8-inch wide of stroke on a yellow background must be applied on the
front, rear and on each side of the vehicle.
SECTION 6.1541. VEHICLES TRANSPORTING FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS WHEN LIGHTS REQUIRED;
MARKED WITH REFLECTORIZED PAINT.
   No person shall operate upon the streets or highways of this Village any
second division motor vehicle customarily used in cargo transportation of
flammable liquids or explosives during the hours when lighted lamps are
required under Section
6.1502 of this Chapter unless such vehicle is marked or placarded in
reflectorized paint on each side and rear with the word “Flammable,”
“Explosives,” or “Gasoline” in letters not less than four (4) inches high,
except that any vehicle which is required to be placarded pursuant to “An Act
to require labeling of equipment and facilities for the use, transportation,
storage and manufacture of hazardous materials and to provide for a uniform
response system to hazardous materials emergencies,” enacted by the 79th
General Assembly, shall be placarded in accordance with the provisions of that
Act.
SECTION 6.1542. SCHOOL BUSES; SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS.
   A.   Color. The exterior of each school bus shall be painted national school
bus chrome yellow except as follows:
      1.   The fenders of school buses manufactured before January 1, 1976, may
be black.
      2.   Body trim, rub rails, lettering other than on a stop signal arm and
bumpers on a Type I school bus shall be glossy black.
      3.   Lettering on a stop signal arm shall be white on a red background.
      4.   Bumpers on a Type II school bus may be glossy black or a bright
finish.
      5.   The hood on a Type I school bus may be lusterless black.
      6.   Grilles on a Type II school bus and hubcaps may be a bright finish.
      7.   Name or emblem of a manufacturer may be colorless or any color.
      8.   The following colors shall match the specified color numbers of
Federal Standard No. 595a: National school bus chrome yellow (13432); glossy
black (17038); and lusterless black (37038).
   B.   Identification. Each school bus shall have the sign “SCHOOL BUS”
painted on both the front and rear of the bus as high as practicable in letters
at least eight (8) inches high.
      1.   The rated seating capacity and vehicle weight shall be painted on
the body to the left of the service door in letters at least two (2) inches
high.
      2.   The name of the owner or the entity for which the school bus is
operated or both shall be painted on both sides, centered as high as
practicable below the window line in letters at least four (4) inches high.
      3.   A school bus identification number shall be painted as high as
practical on both the front and rear of the bus in letters at least four (4)
inches high.
      4.   In complying with the requirements of this Section, decals may be
used instead of painting.
   C.   Stop Signal Arm. On or before December 31, 1975, each school bus shall
be equipped with a stop signal arm on the driver's side of the school bus which
may be operated either manually or mechanically.
      1.   The arm shall be a hexagon shaped semaphore approximately eighteen
(18) inches wide and eighteen (18) inches long and of 16-gauge metal.
      2.   “STOP” shall be painted on both sides in white letters at least six
(6) inches high with a brush stroke approximately -inch wide and on a red
background approximately eight (8) inches by sixteen (16) inches.
      3.   In complying with the requirements of this Section, decals may be
used instead of painting.
      4.   The remaining area of the stop signal arm shall be painted white and
shall either be reflectorized or shall have two (2) double faced lamps with
plain, red lens approximately four (4) inches in diameter located one at the
topmost and one at the bottommost position of the arm. Such lamps shall light
and flash when the arm is extended and shall turn off and stop flashing when
the arm is closed.
   D.   Other Vehicles; Color, Stop Signal Arm and Identification. No vehicle
other than a school bus shall be painted national school bus chrome yellow, and
shall be identified with tire sign “SCHOOL BUS,” shall be equipped with a stop
signal arm, or shall be equipped with a warning lamp system as described in
this Section and Section 6.1514.
   E.   Special Lighting Equipment. Each school bus purchased as a new vehicle
after December 31, 1975, shall be equipped with an 8-lamp flashing signal
system. Until December 31, 1978, all other school buses shall be equipped with
either a 4-lamp or an 8-lamp flashing signal system. After December 31, 1978,
all school buses shall be equipped with an 8-lamp flashing signal system.
      1.   A 4-lamp flashing signal system shall have two (2) alternately
flashing red lamps mounted as high and as widely spaced laterally on the same
level as practicable at the front of the school bus and two (2) such lamps
mounted in the same manner at the rear.
      2.   An 8-lamp flashing signal system shall leave, in addition to a 4-
lamp system, 4 alternately flashing amber lamps. Each amber lamp shall be
mounted near to a red lamp and at the same level but closer to the center line
of the school bus.
      3.   Each signal lamp shall be a sealed beam at least 6½ inches in
diameter and shall have sufficient intensity to be visible at 600 feet in
normal sunlight. Both the 4-lamp and 8-lamp system shall be actuated only by
means of a manual switch. There shall be a device for indicating to the driver
that the system is operating properly or is inoperative.
   F.   Identification, Stop Signal Arms and Special Lighting When Not Used As
a School Bus. Whenever a school bus is operated for the purpose of transporting
passengers other than persons in connection with an activity of the entity
which owns the school bus or for which the school bus is operated, the “SCHOOL
BUS” signs shall be covered or concealed and the stop signal arm and flashing
signal system shall not be operable through normal controls.
   G.   Seat Belt for Driver. Each school bus shall be equipped with a
retractable lap belt assembly for the driver's seat. No school bus shall be
operated unless the driver has properly restrained himself with the lap belt
assembly.
   H.   Fire Extinguisher. Each school bus shall be equipped with at least one
(1) dry chemical gauge type fire extinguisher mounted in the extinguisher
manufacturer's automobile type bracket in a position readily accessible to the
driver.
   J.   First Aid Kit. Each school bus shall be equipped with a first aid kit
mounted in full view of and readily accessible to the driver.
   K.   Restraining Devices for Handicapped Passengers. Each school bus which
is operated for transporting handicapped passengers shall be equipped with an
appropriate restraining or safety device for each handicapped passenger.
   L.   Liability Insurance. No school bus or motor vehicle owned by or used
for hire by and in connection with the operation of private or public schools,
day camps, summer camps or nursery schools shall be operated for such purposes
unless the owner thereof shall carry a minimum of personal injury liability
insurance in the amount of Twenty-Five Thousand Dollars ($25,000) for any one
person in any one accident, and subject to said limit for one person, One
Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000) for two or more persons injured by reason
of the operation of said vehicle in any one accident.
   M.   Strobe Lamp on School Bus.
      1.   A school bus may be equipped with one strobe lamp that will emit 60
to 100 flashes per minute of white or bluish-white light visible to a motorist
approaching the bus from any direction. The lamp shall be of sufficient
brightness to be visible in normal sunlight when viewed directly from a
distance of at least one mile.
      2.   The strobe lamp shall be mounted on the rooftop of the bus with the
light generating element in the lamp located equidistant from each side and
either at or behind the center of the rooftop. The maximum height of the
element above the rooftop shall not exceed 1/30 of its distance from the rear
of the rooftop. If the structure of the strobe lamp obscures the light
generating element, the element shall be deemed to be in the center of the lamp
with a maximum height ¼-inch less than the maximum height of the strobe lamp
unless otherwise indicated in rules and regulations promulgated by the
Department of Transportation. The Department of Transportation may promulgate
rules and regulations to govern measurements, glare, effectiveness and
protection of strobe lamps on school buses, including higher strobe lamps than
authorized in this subparagraph.
      3.   The strobe lamp may be lighted only when atmospheric conditions so
severely restrict visibility of bus lamps and signals as to require the bright
strobe lamp to alert motorists to the presence of a school bus. No strobe lamp
may be lighted unless the school bus is actually being used as a school bus
and:
         a.   Is stopping or stopped for loading or discharging pupils on a
highway; or
         b.   Is bearing one or more pupils and is either stopped or, in the
interest of safety, is moving very slowly at a speed:
            i.   Less than the posted minimum speed limit; or
            ii.   Less than 30 miles per hour on a highway.
SECTION 6.1543. SLOW-MOVING VEHICLE EMBLEM.
   A.   Every animal drawn vehicle, farm tractor, implement of husbandry and
special mobile equipment when operated on a street must display a slow moving
vehicle emblem mounted on the rear except as provided in Subsection B of this
Section. Special mobile equipment is exempt when operated within limits of a
construction or maintenance project where traffic control devices are used in
compliance with the applicable provisions of the manual and specifications
adopted under Section 11-301 of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
   B.   Every vehicle or unit described in Subsection A of this Section when
operated in combination on a street must display a slow-moving emblem as
follows:
      1.   Where the towed unit or any load thereon partially or totally
obscures the slow-moving vehicle emblem on the towing unit, the towed unit
shall be equipped with a slow-moving vehicle emblem. In such cases the towing
unit need not display the emblem.
      2.   Where the slow-moving vehicle emblem on the towing unit is not
obscured by the towed unit or its load, then either or both may be equipped
with the required emblem but it shall be sufficient if either displays it.
      3.   A registered truck towed behind a farm tractor in conformity with
provisions of Section
6.1418 of this Chapter must display a slow-moving vehicle emblem in the manner
provided in Subsection C while being towed on a street if the emblem on the
towing vehicle is partially or totally obscured.
   C.   The slow-moving vehicle emblem required by Subsections A and B of this
Section must meet the specifications and mounting requirements established by
the Illinois Department of Transportation. Such specifications and mounting
requirements shall be based on the specifications adopted by the American
Society of Agricultural Engineers and published by that body as ASAE S 276.2
dated March, 1968. No advertising or other marking shall appear upon the
emblem.
   D.   A slow-moving vehicle emblem is intended as a safety identification
device and shall not be displayed on any vehicle nor displayed in any manner
other than as described in Subsections A, B, and C of this Section.
SECTION 6.1544. REAR FENDER SPLASH GUARDS.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate any motor vehicle of the second
division, except a truck tractor, to which this Section is applicable upon the
streets or highways of this Village unless such vehicle is equipped with rear
fender splash guards of either the contour type or the flap type which comply
with the specifications provided in this Section for the type of splash guards
used on the vehicle, and which are so attached as to prevent the splashing of
mud or water upon the windshield of other motor vehicles.
   A.   Specifications for Contour Type Splash Guards. When contour type rear
fender splash guards are used, they shall contour the wheel in such a manner
that the relationship of the inside surface of any such splash guard to the
tread surface of the tire or wheel shall be relatively parallel, both,
laterally and across the wheel, at least throughout the top 90 degrees of the
rear 180 degrees, of the wheel surface; provided however, on vehicles which
have a clearance of less than five (5) inches between the top of the tire or
tread and that part of the body of the vehicle directly above the tire or wheel
when the vehicle is loaded to maximum legal capacity, the curve portion of the
splash guard need only extend from a point directly behind the center of the
rear axle and to the rear of the wheel surface upwards to within at least two
(2) inches of the bottom line of the body when the vehicle is loaded to maximum
legal capacity. There shall be a downward extension of the curved surface which
shall end not more than twelve (12) inches from the ground when the vehicle is
loaded to maximum legal capacity. This downward extension shall be part of the
curved surface or attached directly to such curved surface, but it need not
contour the wheel. Such contour type splash guards shall be wide enough to
cover the full tread width of the tire or tires being protected and shall be
installed not more than six (6) inches from the tread surface of the tire or
wheel when the vehicle is loaded to maximum legal capacity. The splash guard
shall have a lip or flange on its outside edge to minimize side throw and
splash. The lip or flange shall extend toward the center of the wheel, and
shall be perpendicular to and extend toward the center of the wheel, and shall
be perpendicular to and extend not less than two (2) inches below the inside or
bottom surface line or place of the guard. Such contour type splash guards may
be constructed of either a rigid or flexible material, but shall be attached in
such a manner that, regardless of movement either by the splash guards or the
vehicle, the splash guards will retain their general parallel relationship to
the tread surface of the tire or wheel under all ordinary operating conditions.
   B.   Specifications for Flap Type Splash Guards. When flap type splash
guards are used, they shall be wide enough to cover the full tread width of the
tire or tires being protected; shall be so installed that they extend from the
underside of the vehicle in a vertical plane behind the rear wheels to within
twelve (12) inches of the ground, when the vehicle is loaded to maximum legal
capacity; shall be so constructed and attached so that when the vehicle is in
forward motion such splash guard will not deviate or move backward from the
vertical plane by an angle of more than thirty (30) degrees measured from the
vertical plane and so that when the forward motion of the vehicle causes such
splash guard to deviate from the vertical plane, the bottom of such flap type
splash guard will not be more than fifteen (15) inches from the ground, when
the vehicle is loaded to maximum legal capacity. Such flap type splash guard
may be constructed of either a rigid or flexible material.
   C.   Exemptions. This Section shall not apply to vehicles the construction
or design of which does not require such splash guards, nor to vehicles in-
transit and capable only of using temporary splash guards prescribed by the
Illinois Department of Transportation nor to pole trailers.
SECTION 6.1545. SPECIAL REGULATIONS FOR RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION BUSES.
   A.   Each religious organization bus may be of any color and have any
markings designating its purpose other than those required for school buses
under Section 6.1642.
   B.   Any religious organization bus may be equipped with a 4-lamp flashing
signal system having unison flashing amber lamps, two (2) at the front and two
(2) at the rear of the bus, mounted as high and as widely spaced laterally on
the same level as is practicable. If such equipment is installed:
      1.   Each lamp must be a sealed beam at least 5½ inches in diameter and
have sufficient intensity to be visible at 500 feet in normal sunlight;
      2.   The system shall be actuated only by means of a manual switch; and
      3.   There shall be a device for indicating to the driver that the system
is operating properly or is inoperative.
SECTION 6.1546. VEHICLE PASSENGER CAPACITY.
   No school bus, commuter van or motor vehicle owned by or used for hire by
and in connection with the operation of private or public schools, day camps,
summer camps or nursery schools or in charter operations shall be operated if
it is occupied by more passengers than recommended by the manufacturer thereof
if the vehicle is manufactured as a passenger vehicle; if the vehicle is
manufactured for use other than passenger, then it shall not accommodate more
passengers than provided for by the manufacturer in passenger vehicles of like
style or rating.
SECTION 6.1547. OPERATOR PROTECTIVE FRAMES ON TRACTOR-MOWER COMBINATIONS.
   No tractor unit over 16 engine horsepower designed for mowing or tractor-
mower combination unit over 16 engine horsepower owned or leased by the
Department of Transportation or the Village of Mettawa shall be operated for
the purpose of mowing vegetation on highway right-of-way unless the tractor of
such unit is equipped with an operator protective frame conforming to the
specifications prescribed by regulations under the United States Occupational
Safety and Health Act of 1970, as amended, and with a seat safety belt.
   A.   The operator protective frame may be incorporated into a cab, which
design shall conform to the specifications established by the United States
Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, as amended.
   B.   The seat safety belt must meet the requirements provided in Section 12-
603 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, as amended.
SECTION 6.1548. DRIVER AND PASSENGER REQUIRED TO USE SAFETY BELTS, EXCEPTIONS
AND PENALTY.
   A.   Each driver and front seat passenger of a motor vehicle operated on a
street or highway in this Village shall wear a properly adjusted and fastened
seat safety belt; except that, a child less than six (6) years of age shall be
protected as required pursuant to the Child Passenger Protection Act. Each
driver of a motor vehicle transporting a child six (6) years of age or more,
but less than sixteen (16) years of age, in the front seat of the motor vehicle
shall secure the child in a properly adjusted and fastened seat safety belt.
   B.   Paragraph A shall not apply to any of the following:
      1.   A driver or passenger frequently stopping and leaving the vehicle or
delivering property from the vehicle, if the speed of the vehicle between stops
does not exceed fifteen (15) miles per hour.
      2.   A driver or passenger possessing a written statement from a
physician that such person is unable, for medical reasons, to wear a seat
safety belt.
      3.   A driver or passenger possessing an official certificate or license
endorsement issued by the appropriate agency in another state or country
indicating that the driver is unable for medical, physical, or other valid
reasons to wear a seat safety belt.
ARTICLE XVI. BICYCLES
SECTION 6.1601. APPLICATION OF RULES.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required in this Article.
   B.   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this Chapter.
   C.   These regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a bicycle
is operated upon any highway or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use
of bicycles subject to those exceptions stated herein.
SECTION 6.1602. TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY TO PERSONS RIDING BICYCLES.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a street or highway shall be granted all
of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the
driver of a vehicle by this Chapter, except as to special regulations in this
Article and except as to those provisions of this Chapter which by their nature
can have no application.
SECTION 6.1603. RIDING ON BICYCLES.
   A.   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a
permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   B.   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped, except that an adult rider may
carry a child securely attached to his person in a back pack or sling.
SECTION 6.1604. CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled or toy
vehicle shall attach the same or himself to any vehicle upon a roadway.
SECTION 6.1605. POSITION OF BICYCLES AND MOTORIZED PEDAL CYCLES ON ROADWAY
(RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS).
   A.   Any person operating a bicycle or motorized pedal cycle upon a roadway
at less than the normal speed of traffic at the time and place and under the
conditions then existing shall ride as close as practicable to the right-hand
curb or edge of the roadway except under the following situations:
      1.   When overtaking and passing another bicycle, motorized pedal cycles
or vehicles proceeding in the same direction;
      2.   When preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into private
road or driveway;
      3.   When reasonably necessary to avoid conditions including, but not
limited to, fixed or moving objects, parked or moving vehicles, bicycles,
motorized pedal cycles, pedestrians, animals, surface hazards, or substandard
width lanes that make it unsafe to continue along the right-hand curb or edge;
For purposes of this subsection, a “substandard width lane” means a lane that
is too narrow for a bicycle or motorized pedal cycle and a vehicle to travel
safely side by side within the lane.
   B.   Any person operating a bicycle or motorized pedal cycle upon a one-way
highway with two or more marked traffic lanes may ride as near the left-hand
curb or edge of such roadway as practicable.
   C.   Wherever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a
roadway, bicycle riders shall use such path and shall not use the roadway.
SECTION 6.1606. RIDING BICYCLES OR MOTORIZED PEDAL CYCLES ON ROADWAYS.
   Persons riding bicycles or motorized pedal cycles upon a roadway shall not
ride more than two (2) abreast, except on paths or parts of roadways set aside
for their exclusive use. Persons riding two (2) abreast shall not impede the
normal and reasonable movement of traffic and, on a laned roadway, shall ride
within a single lane subject to the provisions of Section
6.1605.
SECTION 6.1607. CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or article
which prevents the use of both hands in control and operation of the bicycle. A
person operating a bicycle shall keep at least one hand on the handlebars at
all times.
SECTION 6.1608. LAMPS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT ON BICYCLES.
   A.   Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp on
the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
500 feet to the front and with a red reflector an the rear of a type approved
by the Illinois Department of Transportation which shall be visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 500 feet to the rear when directly in front of
lawful lower beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red
light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be used in addition
to the red reflector.
   B.   A bicycle shall not be equipped with, nor shall any person use upon a
bicycle, any siren.
   C.   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will adequately
control movement of and stop and hold such bicycle.
   D.   No person shall sell a new bicycle or pedal for use on a bicycle that
is not equipped with a reflex reflector conforming to specifications prescribed
by the Illinois Department of Transportation, on each pedal, visible from the
front and rear of the bicycle during darkness from a distance of 200 feet.
   E.   No person shall sell or offer for sale a new bicycle that is not
equipped with side reflectors. Such reflectors shall be visible from each side
of the bicycle from a distance of 500 feet and shall be red to the rear of the
center of the bicycle and amber to the front of the center of the bicycle
provided, the requirements of this subsection may be met by reflective
materials which shall be at least 3 /16 of an inch wide on each side of each
tire or rim to indicate as clearly as possible the continuous circular shape
and size of the tires or rims of such bicycle and which reflective materials
may be of the same color on both the front and rear tire or rim. Such
reflectors shall conform to specifications prescribed by the Illinois
Department of Transportation.
   F.   No person shall sell or offer for sale a new bicycle that is not
equipped with an essentially colorless front-facing reflector.
SECTION 6.1609. LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person who resides within the Village shall ride or propel a bicycle upon
any street or upon any public way within the Village unless such bicycle has
been licensed and a license plate or sticker is attached thereto as provided
herein.
SECTION 6.1610. LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Application for a bicycle license and a license plate or sticker shall be
made upon a form provided by the Village and shall be made to the Department.
SECTION 6.1611. ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   A.   The Department upon receiving proper application therefor is authorized
to issue a bicycle license without charge which shall be effective until the
next succeeding first day of May.
   B.   The Department, or other person assigned such responsibility by the
Department, shall not issue a license for any bicycle when he knows or has
reasonable grounds to believe that the applicant is not the owner or entitled
to possession of such bicycle.
   C.   The Department, or other person assigned such responsibility by the
Department, shall inspect each bicycle before licensing and shall refuse a
license for any bicycle when he determines it is in unsafe mechanical
condition, or when the bicycle is not properly equipped in accordance with the
provisions of this Chapter.
   D.   The Department shall keep a record of the number of each license, the
date issued, the name and address of the person to whom issued and the number
on the frame of the bicycle for which issued.
   E.   The Department upon issuing a bicycle license shall also issue a
license plate or sticker bearing the license number assigned to the bicycle,
the name “METTAWA” and the period for which issued and such plate or sticker
shall be firmly attached to the bicycle in such position as to be plainly
visible from the rear.
SECTION 6.1612. TRANSFER OR OWNERSHIP.
   Bicycle licenses are not transferable. Upon the sale or transfer of a
licensed bicycle, the licensee shall notify the Department of same. The
purchaser or transferee, if he resides within the Village, shall make
application for a new license as provided herein.
SECTION 6.1613. RENTAL AGENCIES.
   A rental agency shall not rent or offer any bicycle for rent unless the
bicycle is licensed and a license plate or sticker is attached thereto as
provided herein and such bicycle is equipped in accordance with the provisions
of this Chapter.
SECTION 6.1614. BICYCLE IDENTIFYING NUMBER.
   A person engaged in the business of selling bicycles at retail shall not
sell any bicycle unless the bicycle has an identifying number permanently
stamped or cast on its frame.
SECTION 6.1615. INSPECTING BICYCLES.
   A uniformed police officer may at any time upon reasonable cause to believe
that a bicycle is unsafe or not equipped as required by law, or that its
equipment is not in proper adjustment or repair, require the person riding the
bicycle to stop and submit the bicycle to an inspection and such test with
reference thereto as may be appropriate.
SECTION 6.1616. LEFT TURNS.
   A.   A person riding a bicycle or motorized pedal cycle intending to turn
left shall follow a course described in Subsection B of this Section.
   B.   A person riding a bicycle or motorized pedal cycle intending to turn
left shall approach the turn as close as practicable to the right curb or edge
of the roadway. After proceeding across the intersecting roadway, the turn
shall be made as close as practicable to the curb or edge of the roadway on the
far side of the intersection. After turning, the bicycle or motorized pedal
cycle shall comply with any official traffic control device or police officer
regulating traffic on the highway along which he intends to proceed.
   C.   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, the Department of
Transportation and the Village in their respective jurisdictions may cause
official traffic control devices to be placed and thereby require and direct
that a specific course be traveled by turning bicycles and motorized pedal
cycles, and when such devices are so placed, no person shall turn a bicycle or
motorized pedal cycle other than as directed and required by such devices.
SECTION 6.1617. TURN AND STOP SIGNALS.
   A.   Except as provided in this Section, a person riding a bicycle shall
comply with Section
6.804.
   B.   A signal of intention to turn right or left when required shall be
given during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the bicycle before
turning, and shall be given while the bicycle is stopped waiting to turn. A
signal by hand and arm need not be given continuously if the hand is needed in
the control or operation of the bicycle.
SECTION 6.1618. BICYCLES ON SIDEWALKS.
   A.   A person propelling a bicycle upon and along a sidewalk, or across a
roadway upon and along a crosswalk, shall yield the right-of-way to any
pedestrian and shall give audible signal before overtaking and passing such
pedestrian.
   B.   A person shall not ride a bicycle upon and along a sidewalk, or across
a roadway upon and along a crosswalk, where such use of bicycles is prohibited
by official traffic control devices.
   C.   A person propelling a bicycle upon and along a sidewalk, or across a
roadway upon and along a crosswalk, shall have all the rights and duties
applicable to a pedestrian under the same circumstances.
SECTION 6.1619. BICYCLE PARKING.
   A.   A person may park a bicycle on a sidewalk unless prohibited or
restricted by an official traffic control device.
   B.   A bicycle parked on a sidewalk shall not impede the normal and
reasonable movement of pedestrian or other traffic.
   C.   A bicycle may be parked on the roadway at any angle to the curb or edge
of the roadway at any location where parking is allowed.
   D.   A bicycle may be parked on the roadway abreast of another bicycle or
bicycles near the side of the roadway at any location where parking is allowed.
   E.   A person shall not park a bicycle on a roadway in such a manner as to
obstruct the movements of a legally parked motor vehicle.
   F.   In all other respects, bicycles parked anywhere on a highway shall
conform with the provisions of this Chapter regulating the parking of vehicles.
SECTION 6.1620. BICYCLE RACING.
   A.   Bicycle racing on a highway shall not be unlawful when a racing event
has been approved by State or local authorities on any highway under their
respective jurisdictions. Approval of bicycle highway racing events shall be
granted only under conditions which assure reasonable safety for all race
participants, spectators and other highway users, and which prevent
unreasonable interference with traffic flow which would seriously inconvenience
other highway users.
   B.   By agreement with the approving authority, participants in an approved
bicycle highway racing event may be exempted from compliance with any traffic
laws otherwise applicable thereto, provided that traffic control is adequate to
assure the safety of all highway users.
SECTION 6.1621. USE OF SIRENS PROHIBITED.
   No bicycle shall be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a bicycle
any siren or whistle.
SECTION 6.1622. PENALTIES.
   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this Article shall be
punished by a fine as set forth in Chapter 2, Village Government, Article X,
Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1003, Fine and Penalty Schedule.
(Ord. 852, passed 10-20-2020)
ARTICLE XVII. REGULATION OF COMMERCIAL TRAFFIC
SECTION 6.1701. OPERATION OF CERTAIN VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   A.   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle upon any street where the
operation of that vehicle is prohibited by ordinance and where signs of such
prohibition are posted. An operator of a vehicle operating under the authority
of 625 ILCS 5/15-101, 625 ILCS 5/15-111 and/or 625 ILCS 5/15-316, while
utilizing Village streets and/or rights of way under “reasonable access” rules
is in violation of this Section if the vehicle is not utilizing the most direct
route to the point of loading and unloading.
   B.   No vehicle with a registered weight, or gross vehicle weight rating
(“GVWR”), or gross combination vehicle weight rating (“GCWR”), or actual
weight, greater than six (6) tons (twelve thousand (12,000) pounds) shall
operate on the following streets and/or Village rights of way:
      1.   Bradley Road
      2.   Little Saint Mary’s Road
      3.   Old School Road
The Village Engineer is authorized and directed to post, or cause to be posted,
signs designating the aforementioned streets and/or rights of ways as
restricted weight and/or dimension routes as governed by this Section. Such
signs shall indicate the weight restrictions and such signs shall be posted at
the entrances of said streets in the Village.
   C.   Penalty.
      1.   Any person, firm, or corporation who or which violates, disobeys,
neglects, fails to comply with, or resists enforcement of, the provisions of
this Section shall be fined as set forth in Chapter 2, Village Government,
Article X, Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1003, Fine and Penalty Schedule.
      2.   For any violation of 625 ILCS 5/15-316, any person, firm or
corporation, convicted of such violation shall be additionally fined an amount
as provided in 625 ILCS 5/15-316(e) as now in effect or as hereafter amended
and in effect as of the date of such violation.
      3.   For any violation of the weight limitations set forth in 625 ILCS 5/
15-111, any person, firm, or corporation found liable for such violation shall
be additionally fined an amount as provided in 625 ILCS 5/15-113 as now in
effect or as hereafter amended and in effect as of the date of the such
violation.
      4.   In addition to seeking a fine, as herein above provided, the Village
Attorney may institute any proper action in the name of the Village of Mettawa
to enjoin the violation of any provision of this Chapter or to collect any
damages allowed by law, including but not limited to liability for damages as
provided in 625 ILCS 5/13-318, as now in effect or as hereafter amended and in
effect as of the date of the underlying violation.
      5.   Whenever any vehicle, or combination of vehicles, is operated in
violation of this Section, the owner and/or driver of such vehicle shall be
deemed jointly and severally liable for such violation and either or both the
owner and driver of such vehicle may be prosecuted for such violation.
(Ord. 446, passed 3-14-2001; Am. Ord. 700, passed 9-20-2011; Am. Ord. 732,
passed 2-19-2013; Am. Ord. 740, passed 5-21-2013; Am. Ord. 852, passed 10-20-
2020)
SECTION 6.1702. EXEMPTIONS.
   The following vehicles are exempt from the regulations contained in Section
6.1701:
   A.   Vehicles exceeding 12,000 pounds and carrying freight or other goods
from or to any building or premises abutting or within 500 feet of Bradley
Road, Little Saint Mary’s Road and/or Old School Road where it is impossible
from the location of the building or the character of the freight or other
goods to be received or delivered, to receive or deliver the freight or other
goods and merchandise from a street other than Bradley Road, Little Saint
Mary’s Road and/or Old School Road, as the case may be, shall be permitted to
enter Bradley Road, Little Saint Mary’s Road and/or Old School Road, as the
case may be, at the cross street nearest the building or premises to receive or
deliver the freight or other goods;
   B.   School buses, emergency vehicles and equipment removing snow and/or
ice;
   C.   Horse trailers carrying their freight to or from any residence or
property located within the corporate limits of the Village of Mettawa;
   D.   Licensed scavenger vehicles; and
   E.   Scavenger vehicles upon Bradley Road.
(Ord. 446, passed 3-14-2001; Am. Ord. 700, passed 9-20-2011; Am. Ord. 732,
passed 2-19-2013)
SECTION 6.1703. DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this Article, the following words in bold font shall have the
meaning attributed to them in this Section:
   HORSE TRAILER. Every vehicle with or without motive power in operation,
other than a pole trailer, designed for carrying one (1) or more horses and/or
any vehicle used for horse ranching activities (hay/grain hauling, etc.) and
adapted exclusively for such horse ranching/transportation operations,
including a farm wagon, wagon trailers, semi-trailer horse van or self-
contained horse van such as a straight truck having a permanently mounted horse
box or any like vehicle used in connection with such operations, provided that
no such vehicle shall have a gross weight of more than sixty thousand (60,000)
pounds.
   LICENSED SCAVENGER VEHICLE. A refuse collection truck operated by a person,
firm or corporation licensed by the Village of Mettawa to collect refuse from
single-family dwellings located within the corporate limits of the Village of
Mettawa.
   REFUSE. With the exception of those items which are banned from direct
disposal into a landfill, all combustible and noncombustible trash and all
putrescible matter suitable for deposit in a refuse container, including but
not limited to: household construction and demolition debris and other objects
that are placed at the collection point; discarded materials; unwanted
household and kitchen wastes, resulting from the handling, cooking, spoilage,
and leftovers of food or food residues, and paper necessarily used for wrapping
same; manure; all types and kinds of waste materials from housekeeping
activities, including but not limited to cold ashes, rags and clothing,
textiles and leathers, metal cans, bottles, books, glass, plastic, newspapers,
magazines, catalogs, wooden/plastic/paper crates or boxes or cartons and other
recyclables; Christmas trees, and greenery from wreaths and garlands; yard
waste, including small amounts of earth, rock or sod and/or dirt; small
automobile parts; ordinary household objects; large cartons that may be broken
up and placed in refuse containers; furniture, furnishings and fixtures;
household appliances; toys and other recreational equipment; and bulk items.
   SCAVENGER VEHICLE. A refuse collection truck operated by a person that
collects refuse or a person employed by a person, firm or corporation that
collects refuse.
(Ord. 700, passed 9-20-2011)
ARTICLE XVIII. ABANDONED, LOST, STOLEN OR UNCLAIMED VEHICLES
SECTION 6.1801. ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   A.   The abandonment of a vehicle or any part thereof on any street or
highway in this Village is hereby declared unlawful and no person shall leave
any vehicle at any place within the Village of Mettawa for such time and under
such circumstances as to cause such vehicle reasonably to appear to have been
abandoned.
   B.   The abandonment of a vehicle or any part thereof on private or public
property, other than a street, in view of the general public, anywhere in this
Village is unlawful except on property of the owner or bailee of such abandoned
vehicle. A vehicle or any part thereof so abandoned on private property may be
authorized for removal by the Department after a waiting period of seven (7)
days or more and in the manner provided in this Article.
SECTION 6.1802. ABANDONED, LOST, STOLEN OR UNCLAIMED VEHICLE; NOTIFICATION TO
LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES.
   When an abandoned, lost, stolen, or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle
comes into the temporary possession or custody of a person in this Village, not
the owner of the vehicle, such person shall immediately notify the Department
when the vehicle is within the corporate limits of the Village of Mettawa. Upon
receipt of such notification, the Department will authorize a towing service to
remove and take possession of the abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor
vehicle or other vehicle. The towing service will safely keep the towed vehicle
and its contents, maintain a record of the tow as set forth in Section
6.1804 of this Chapter for law enforcement agencies, until the vehicle is
claimed by the owner or any other person legally entitled to possession thereof
or until it is disposed of as provided in this Article.
SECTION 6.1803. REMOVAL OF MOTOR VEHICLES OR OTHER VEHICLES; TOWING OR HAULING
AWAY.
   A.   When a vehicle is abandoned on a street in the Village of Mettawa ten
(10) hours or more, its removal by a towing service may be authorized by the
Department.
   B.   When an abandoned, unattended, wrecked, burned or partially dismantled
vehicle is creating a traffic hazard because of its position in relation to the
street or its physical appearance is causing the impeding of traffic, its
immediate removal from the street or private property adjacent to the street by
a towing service may be authorized by the Department.
   C.   When a vehicle removal from either public or private property is
authorized by the Department, the owner of the vehicle will be responsible for
all towing costs.
SECTION 6.1804. REPORTS ON TOWED VEHICLES.
   When a vehicle is authorized to be towed away as provided in Section 6.1802
or 6.1803 of this Article, the Department shall keep and maintain a record of
the vehicle towed, listing the color, year of manufacture, manufacturer's trade
name, manufacturer's series name, body style, Vehicle Identification Number and
license plate year and number displayed on the vehicle. The record shall also
include the date and hour of tow, location towed from, location towed to,
reason for towing and the name of the officer authorizing the tow.
SECTION 6.1805. RECORD SEARCHES.
   A.   When the Department authorizes the impounding of a vehicle and does not
know the identity of the registered owner or other legality entitled person,
the Department will cause the motor vehicle registration records of the State
of Illinois to be searched by a directed communication to the Secretary of
State for the purpose of obtaining the required ownership information.
   B.   The Department will also cause the stolen motor vehicle files of the
Illinois State Police to be searched by a directed communication to the
Illinois State Police for stolen or wanted information on the vehicle. When the
Illinois State Police files are searched with negative results, the information
contained in the National Crime Information Center (NCIC) files will be
searched by the Illinois State Police. The information determined from these
record searches will be returned to the Department, who shall send a
notification by certified mail to the owner or legally entitled person advising
where the vehicle is held, requesting a disposition be made and setting forth
public sale information. Exceptions to a notification by certified mail to the
registered owner or other legally entitled person are set forth in Section
6.1808 of this Article.
SECTION 6.1806. IDENTIFYING AND TRACING OF VEHICLE OWNERSHIP.
   When the registered owner or other person legally entitled to the possession
of a vehicle cannot be identified from the registration files of the State of
Illinois or from the registration files of a foreign State, if applicable, the
Department shall notify the Illinois State Police, for the purpose of
identifying the vehicle owner or other person legally entitled to the
possession of the vehicle. The information obtained by the Illinois State
Police will be immediately forwarded to the Department having custody of the
vehicle for the purposes of notification of owner as set forth in Section
6.1805 of this Article.
SECTION 6.1807. RECLAIMED VEHICLES; EXPENSES.
   Any time before a vehicle is sold at public sale or disposed of as provided
in Section 6.1808, the owner or other person legally entitled to its possession
may reclaim the vehicle by presenting to the Department proof of ownership or
proof of the right to possession of the vehicle. No vehicle shall be released
to the owner or other person under this Section until all towing and storage
charges have been paid.
SECTION 6.1808. DISPOSAL OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLES.
   When an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed vehicle seven (7) years of age
or newer remains unclaimed by the registered owner or other person legally
entitled to its possession for a period of thirty (30) days after notice has
been given as provided in Sections
6.1805 and
6.1806 of this Article, the Department or towing service having possession of
the vehicle shall cause it to be sold to the highest bidder. Notice of the time
and place of the sale shall be posted in a conspicuous place for at least ten
(10) days prior to the sale on the premises where the vehicle has been
impounded. At least ten (10) days prior to the sale, the Department or the
towing service where the vehicle is impounded shall cause a notice of the time
and place of the sale to be sent by certified mail to the registered owner or
other person known by the Department or towing service to be legally entitled
to the possession of the vehicle. Such notice shall contain a complete
description of the vehicle to be sold and what steps must be taken by any
legally entitled person to reclaim the vehicle. In those instances where the
certified notification specified in Sections
6.1805 and
6.1806 of this Chapter has been returned by the postal authorities to the
Department or towing service due to the addressee having moved, or being
unknown at the address obtained from the registration records of this State,
the sending of a second certified notice will not be required.
SECTION 6.1809. DISPOSAL OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLES WITHOUT NOTICE.
   A.   When the identity of the registered owner or other person legally
entitled to the possession of an abandoned, lost, or unclaimed vehicle of four
(4) years of age or newer cannot be determined by any means provided for in
this Article, the vehicle may be sold as provided in Section 6.1808 without
notice to the registered owner or other person legally entitled to the
possession of the vehicle.
   B.   When an abandoned vehicle of more than seven (7) years of age is
impounded as specified by this Article, it will be kept in custody for a
minimum of ten (10) days for the purpose of determining ownership, the
contacting of the registered owner by the U.S. Mail, public service or in
person for determination of disposition and an examination of the State Police
stolen vehicles files for theft and wanted information. At the expiration of
the ten (10) day period, without the benefit of disposition information being
received from the registered owner, the Department shall authorize the disposal
of the vehicle as junk only.
   C.   A vehicle classified as an antique vehicle may however be sold to a
person desiring to restore it.
SECTION 6.1810. POLICE REPORTS AFTER VEHICLE IS RECLAIMED OR DISPOSED OF.
   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle in the custody of the Department is
reclaimed by the registered owner or other legally entitled person, or when the
vehicle is sold at public sale or otherwise disposed of as provided in this
Article, a report of the transaction will he maintained by the Department for a
period of one (1) year from the date of the sale or disposal.
SECTION 6.1811. DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS OF SALE OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLES.
   When a vehicle located within the corporate limits of the Village of Mettawa
is authorized to be towed away by the Department and disposed of as set forth
in this Article, the proceeds of the public sale or disposition after the
deduction of towing, storage, and processing charges shall be deposited in the
treasury of this Village.
SECTION 6.1812. LIABILITY.
   A law enforcement officer of the Village of Mettawa, towing service owner,
operator or employee shall not be held to answer or be liable for damages in
any action brought by the registered owner, former registered owner, or his
legal representative, or any other person legally entitled to the possession of
a motor vehicle or other vehicle when the vehicle was processed and sold or
disposed of as provided by this Article.
SECTION 6.1813. PENALTIES.
   Any person who violates or aids and abets in the violation of this Article
is guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to the following penalties:
   A.   To be fined not less than Twenty-Five Dollars ($25) nor more than Five
Hundred Dollars ($500); and
   B.   Shall be required by the court to make a disposition on the abandoned
or unclaimed vehicles.
ARTICLE XIX. CONSTRUCTION, PENALTIES AND DISPOSITION OF FINES
SECTION 6.1901. EFFECT OF HEADINGS.
   Chapter, Article, and Section headings contained herein shall not be deemed
to govern, limit, modify, or in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent
of the provisions of any Article or Section of this Chapter.
SECTION 6.1902. SEVERABILITY.
   If any part of this Chapter shall be held to be unconstitutional, such
unconstitutionality shall not affect the validity of the remaining parts of
this Chapter. The President and Board of Trustees hereby declares that it would
have passed the remaining part of this Chapter if it had known that such part
or parts thereof would be declared unconstitutional.
SECTION 6.1903. TRAFFIC VIOLATION TICKETS.
   Except where otherwise provided in this Chapter, police officers may issue
traffic violation tickets, setting forth the date, time, and place of the
offense, the nature of the offense, the make, year, registration and license
numbers of the vehicles involved, the name and address of the driver where
possible, and notify the offender to appear in court on a specific time and
date, as is designated for hearing such cases. In the event that the offender
does not appear at the time, date and place specified, the arresting officer
may sign a complaint for the issuance of a warrant for the offender's arrest.
SECTION 6.1904. ARRESTS.
   Any person arrested for violation of this Chapter shall be released upon
proper bail being furnished, as required by statute. The amount of bail or bond
in each instance may be prescribed by the police officer in command of the
police station in the absence of a police magistrate or justice of the peace,
provided that the arrested person may, at his request, elect to have the amount
of such bail or bond set by a magistrate or justice as provided by statute.
SECTION 6.1905. PENALTIES FOR MISDEMEANOR.
   A.   It is a misdemeanor for any person to violate any of the provisions of
this Chapter unless such violation is by this Chapter or other law of the State
of Illinois declared a felony.
   B.   A person who violates any provisions of this Section, shall be fined as
set forth in Chapter 2, Village Government, Article X, Tax, Fee, Fine and
Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1003, Fine and Penalty Schedule.
(Am. Ord. 852, passed 10-20-2020)
SECTION 6.1906. DISPOSITION OF FINES.
   For offenses committed upon the streets or highways of this Village, or
within the limits or jurisdiction of this Village, fines and penalties
recovered under the provisions of this Chapter shall be paid over to the
Treasurer of this Village.
ARTICLE XX. APPENDIX
SCHEDULE I. SPEED RESTRICTIONS.
   In accordance with Section 6.601, and when signs are erected giving notice
thereof, no person shall operate a motor vehicle in excess of the speed limits
indicated upon the following streets or portions of streets and/or driveways;
except that the provisions of Section
6.606, regarding special speed limits while passing schools, shall take
precedence during school days when school children are present and shall in no
way be construed to be in conflict with this Schedule I.
 
Name of Street         Speed Limit Description
Bradley Road           25          Entire jurisdiction
Little St. Mary's Road 20          Entire jurisdiction
Meadowoods Lane        25          Entire jurisdiction
Old School Road        25          Entire jurisdiction
 
(Am. Ord. 306, passed 1-8-94; Am. Ord. 346, passed 9-26-96; Am. Ord. 413,
passed 12-8-99; Am. Ord. 597, passed 1-15-2008; Am. Ord. 627, passed 6-16-2009)
SCHEDULE II. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   In accordance with Section 6.708, and when signposted, traffic shall move
only in the direction indicated, except that where “School Hours” is described
such turns shall be prohibited at the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 9:30 a.m., 11:30
a.m. to 1:00 p.m., and 2:30 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. on school days only.
SCHEDULE III. PROHIBITED TURNS.
   In accordance with Section 6.807 and when signs are erected giving notice
thereof, operators of vehicles shall not make the indicated turning movement
upon those streets at designated intersections, except where “School Hours” is
described such turns shall be prohibited at the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 9:30
a.m., 11:30 a.m. to 1:00 p.m., and 2:30 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. on school days only.
 
Name of Street      Direction of Traffic Prohibited Turn  Onto Street
                    Movement
                                                          Northbound Riverwoods
Exits from 26500 N.                                       Blvd. between the
Riverwoods Blvd.    Westbound            Right            hours of 4:00 p.m.
(HSBC) d                                                  and 6:00 p.m., Monday
                                                          through Friday.
                                                          Northbound Riverwoods
Exits from 26125 N.                                       Blvd. between the
Riverwoods Blvd.    Westbound            Right            hours of 4:00 p.m.
(CDW)                                                     and 6:00 p.m., Monday
                                                          through Friday.
Getz Boulevard      Westbound            Left, other than Southbound Riverwoods
                                         local traffic    Road
James Court         Westbound            Left, other than Southbound Riverwoods
                                         local traffic    Road
                                                          Old School Road
                                                          between the hours of
                                                          6:00 a.m. and 9:00
St. Mary's Road     Southbound           Left             a.m., Monday through
                                                          Friday. This
                                                          restriction does not
                                                          apply to school
                                                          buses.
                                                          St. Mary's Road
                                                          between the hours of
                                                          4:00 p.m. and 6:00
Old School Road     Westbound            Right            p.m., Monday through
                                                          Friday. This
                                                          restriction does not
                                                          apply to school
                                                          buses.
 
(Ord. 523, passed 10-19-2004; Am. Ord. 635, passed 9-15-2009; Am. Ord. 668,
passed 11-16-2010)
SCHEDULE IV. STOP AND YIELD SIGNS.
   A.   Stop Signs. In accordance with the provisions of Section
6.904 and when signs are erected giving notice thereof, operators of vehicles
shall stop at those intersections and upon those streets and/or driveways
designated below.
Name of Street Direction of Traffic Movement At Intersection with
Name of Street           Direction of Traffic     At Intersection with
                         Movement
Boulton Boulevard        Westbound                East Oasis Service Road
Bradley Road             Northbound & Southbound  Forest Drive
Bradley Road             Northbound & Southbound  Old School Road
Bradley Road             Northbound & Southbound  Riverwoods Boulevard
Emma Road                Westbound                Bradley Road
Everett Road             Eastbound & Westbound    Riverwoods Road
Everett Road             Westbound                St. Mary's Road
Forest Avenue            Eastbound                Bradley Road
Imperial Drive           Westbound                St. Mary's Road
Indian Ridge Road        Eastbound                Bradley Road
Little Melody Lane       Both Eastbound locations Bradley Road
Little St. Mary's Road   Northbound               Old School Road
Little St. Mary's Road   Eastbound                St. Mary's Road
Meadowoods Lane          Northbound               Old School Road
Mettawa Lane             Westbound                Bradley Road
Mettawa Woods Drive      Eastbound                Riverwoods Boulevard
Oak Hill Lane            Southbound               Old School Road
                                                  At the intersection of the
Old School Road          Eastbound                EJ&E Railroad Tracks west of
                                                  the Des Plaines River Trail
                                                  Crossing
Old School Road          Eastbound                Bradley Road
Old School Road          Eastbound & Westbound    Meadowoods Lane
Old School Road          Eastbound & Westbound    St. Mary's Road
                                                  At the intersection of the
Old School Road          Westbound                EJ&E Railroad Tracks east of
                                                  the Mettawa Trail Crossing
Riteway                  Northbound               Old School Road
Riverside Preserve Drive Eastbound                St. Mary's Road
Riverwoods Boulevard     Westbound                Bradley Road
Riverwoods Road          Southbound               Everett Road
St. Mary's Road          Southbound               Everett Road
Shagbark Road            Eastbound                Riverwoods Road
Trail Court              Northbound               Trail Drive
Trail Drive              Westbound                Bradley Road
Twin Drive               Westbound                Bradley Road
West Oasis Service Road  Westbound                Bradley Road
 
   B.   Yield Signs.
   C.   Warrants for Stop Signs.
      1.   Design.
         a.   The sign shall be octagon with white message and border on a red
background. The standard size shall be 30 inches by 30 inches. Where greater
emphasis or visibility is required, a larger size may be used. On low-volume
local and secondary streets with low approach speeds, a 24-inch by 24-inch size
may be used.
         b.   At a multi-way stop intersection a supplementary plate should be
mounted just below each stop sign. If the number of approach legs to the
intersection is three or more, the numeral on the supplementary plate shall
correspond to the actual legs, or the legend may be used. The supplementary
plate shall have white letters on a red background and shall have a standard
size of 12 inches by 6 inches or 18 inches by 6 inches. Where accident
frequency at an intersection does not meet the warrants for a four way stop
sign but is considered a hazard, a supplementary plate may be added with the
legend “Thru Traffic.”
         c.   A stop sign beacon or beacons may be used in conjunction with a
stop sign.
         d.   Secondary messages shall not be used on stop sign faces.
      2.   Warrants.
         a.   Preamble. Because the stop sign causes a substantial
inconvenience to motorists, it should be used only when warranted. A stop sign
may be warranted at an intersection where one or more of the following
conditions exist:
            i.   Intersection of a less important road with a main road where
application of the normal right-of-way rule is unduly hazardous;
            ii.   Street entering a through highway or street;
            iii.   Unsignalized intersection in a signalized area; and
            iv.   Other intersections where a combination of high speed,
restricted view, and serious accident record indicates a need for control by
the stop sign.
   NOTE 1.   Stop signs should never be used on the through roadways of
expressways. Properly designed expressway interchanges provide for the
continuous flow of traffic, making stop signs unnecessary even on the entering
road ways. Where at-grade intersections are temporarily justified for local
traffic in sparsely populated areas, stop signs should be used on the entering
roadways to protect the through traffic. Stop signs may also be required at the
end of diverging roadways at the intersection with other highways not designed
as expressways. In most of these cases, the speeds will not warrant any great
increase in the sign sizes.
   NOTE 2.   Stop signs shall not be erected at intersections where traffic
control signals are operating. The conflicting commands of two types of control
devices are confusing. If traffic is required to stop when the operation of a
stop and go signal is not warranted, the signals should be put on flashing
operation with the red flashing light facing the traffic that must stop.
   NOTE 3.   Where two main highways intersect, the stop sign or signs should
normally be posted on the minor street to stop the lesser flow traffic. Traffic
engineering studies, however, may justify a decision to install a stop sign or
signs on the major street, as at a three-way intersection where safety
considerations may justify stopping the greater flow of traffic to permit a
left-turning movement.
   NOTE 4.   Stop signs should not be installed indiscriminately at all
unprotected railroad crossings. The allowance of stop signs at all such
crossings would eventually breed contempt for both law enforcement, and
obedience to the sign's command to stop. Stop signs may only be used at
selected rail/highway grade crossings and after their need has been determined
by a detailed traffic engineering study. Such studies should consider approach
speeds, sight distance restrictions, volumes, accident records, etc. This
application of stop signs should be an interim use period during which plans
for lights, gates or other means of control are being prepared.
   NOTE 5.   Portable or part-time stop signs shall not be used except for
emergency purposes. Also stop signs should not be used for speed control.
         b.   The “multi-way stop” installation lane been found useful as a
safety measure at some locations. It should ordinarily be used where the volume
of traffic on the intersecting streets are approximately equal. Any of the
following conditions may warrant a multi-way stop sign installation.
            i.   Where traffic signals are warranted and urgently needed, the
multi-way stop is an interim measure that can be installed quickly to control
traffic while arrangements are being made for signal installation.
            ii.   An accident problem, as indicated by five or more reported
accidents of a type susceptible of correction by a multi-way stop installation,
in a 12 month period. Such accidents include right- and left-turn collisions as
well as right-angle collisions.
            iii.   Minimum traffic volumes:
               a.   The total vehicular volume entering the intersection from
all approaches must average at least 500 vehicles per hour for any 8 hours of
an average day;
               b.   The combined vehicular and pedestrian volume from the minor
street or highway must average at least 200 units per hour for the same 8
hours, with an average delay to minor street vehicular traffic of at least 30
seconds per vehicle during the maximum hour; and
               c.   When the 85-percentile approach speed of the major street
traffic exceeds 40 miles per hour, the minimum vehicular volume warrant is 70
percent of the above requirements.
      3.   Other Usage and Nonusage.
         a.   Stop signs also may be erected facing traffic entering a street
or highway from cemeteries, parks, parking lots, and private roads.
         b.   No definite rule can be established to govern the placement of
stop signs at wye junctions because of the variation of the direction of
principal traffic movement.
            i.   Each wye junction shall be given individual study.
            ii.   As a general guide, if the volume of traffic in the
conflicting movements at either intersecting point of a wye junction is light
and has a ratio of less than 6 to 1, it is sufficient justification for
stopping the larger traffic movement in favor of the smaller.
         c.   No stop signs shall be erected at intersections where traffic
control signals are present except as a temporary measure during signal
maintenance of relatively short duration.
         d.   Portable stop signs shall never be used for school crossings or
other part-time usages. The efficiency of any stop sign as pedestrian
protection is debatable, and the reliance on traffic obedience of intermittent
stop control without a flashing red indication as an attention attracting
device is insufficient protection for school children.
   D.   Warrants for Yield.
      1.   The yield shall not be regarded as a substitute for a stop sign
where a stop sign is warranted. Yield signs shall not be used:
         a.   To control the major flow of traffic at an intersection;
         b.   On the approaches of more than one of the intersecting streets or
highways or used at any intersection where there are stop signs on one or more
approaches, except under special circumstances, to provide minor movement
control within complex intersections; and
         c.   On the through roadways of expressways. They may be used on an
entering roadway without an adequate acceleration zone, but in a well designed
interchange, the sign would interfere with the free merging movement, and it
should not be used under those circumstances.
      2.   The yield sign is warranted:
         a.   Where traffic signals are warranted and urgently needed, the
multi-way stop is an interim measure that can be installed quickly to control
traffic while arrangements are being made for the signal installation;
         b.   On the entrance ramp to an expressway where an acceleration lane
is not provided;
         c.   Within an intersection with a divided highway or at median
openings facing traffic entering the second roadway of the divided highway
where the median is less than 50 feet and more than 30 feet; (If the median is
50 feet or greater, a stop sign should be erected.)
         d.   Where there is a separate or channelized right-turn lane, without
an adequate acceleration lane; and
         e.   At any intersection where a special problem exists and where an
engineering study indicates the problem to be susceptible to correction by use
of the yield sign.
   E.   Location of Stop Sign and Yield Sign. The location and proper erection
of the control devices shall be in accordance with the applicable portions of
the U.S., D.O.T., F.H.W.A., Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, and the
Illinois D.O.T. Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
Am. Ord. 523, passed 10-19-2004)
SCHEDULE V. NO STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING.
   In accord with Sections
6.1301, and when signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall stop,
stand, or park a vehicle between the hours specified herein within the district
or upon any of the streets or parts of streets as follows:
 
Name of Street Description
Route 60       Entire Jurisdiction
 
SCHEDULE VI. NO PARKING ANY TIME.
   In accordance with Sections
6.1310 and
6.1315, and when signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall at
any time permit a vehicle to park upon any of the streets or parts of streets
described in this Schedule VI.
 
Name of Street                                          Description
Illinois State Route 60 (Also known as "Townline Road") Entire Jurisdiction
 
(Ord. 588, passed 5-15-2007)
SCHEDULE VII. FIRE LANES.
   In accordance with Sections
6.1316, and when signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall at
any time block or obstruct described districts, streets, driveways, areas, or
parts thereof.
SCHEDULE VIII. RESERVED
CHAPTER 7 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
Article I. Firearms
SECTION
   
7.101   Possession
   
7.102   Discharge
   
7.103   Penalty
Article II. Anti-Litter Regulations
   
7.201   Accumulation of Garbage
   
7.202   Litter in Public Places
   
7.203   Placement of Litter in Receptacles to Prevent Scattering
   
7.204   Owner to Maintain Premises Free of Litter
   
7.205   Duty of Owners of Commercial, Industrial, and Residential Users to
Provide for Storage, Collection, and Disposal
   
7.206   Sweeping Refuse and Waste Into Gutters Prohibited; Duty to Keep Public
Places Free of Refuse and Waste
   
7.207   Litter on Vacant Land
   
7.208   Advertising
   
7.209   Distributing Handbills in Public Places Prohibited
   
7.210   Depositing Commercial Handbills on Uninhabited or Vacant Premises
Prohibited
   
7.211   Prohibiting Distribution of Handbills Where Posted
   
7.212   Dropping Litter from Aircraft Prohibited
   
7.213   Posting Notices Prohibited
   
7.214   Maintenance of Property
   
7.215   Inoperable or Abandoned Vehicle Disposal Required
   
7.216   Clearing of Litter from Open Private Property by Village
   
7.217   Definitions
   
7.218   Penalty
Article III. Dutch Elm Disease
   
7.301   Trees Affected With Dutch Elm Disease; Breeding Places for Elm Bark
Beetles Declared to Be Public Nuisances
   
7.302   Public Nuisance Prohibited
   
7.303   Removal of Diseased Tree or Breeding Place of Elm Bark Beetles; Notice
to Owner
   
7.304   Notice to Owner
   
7.305   Penalty
Article IV. Occupation of Territory
   
7.401   Occupation of Territory Within the Corporate Limits of the Village
Prohibited
   
7.402   Application Required
   
7.403   Action by the Plan Commission
   
7.404   Action by the President and Board of Trustees
   
7.405   Effective Date of Permit
Article V. Disorderly Conduct
   
7.501   Disorderly Conduct
Article VI. Open Fires
   
7.601   Open Fires
   
7.602   Definition
Article VII. Solicitors and Canvassers
   
7.701   Village Policy on Soliciting and Canvassing
   
7.702   Prohibition of Soliciting and Canvassing
   
7.703   Notice Regulating Soliciting and Canvassing
   
7.704   Duty of Solicitors and Canvassers
   
7.705   Uninvited Soliciting and Canvassing Prohibited
   
7.706   Limitations on Soliciting and Canvassing
   
7.707   Application for Certificate of Registration
   
7.708   Issuance or Denial of Certificate of Registration
   
7.709   Revocation of Certificate of Registration
   
7.710   Records
   
7.711   Penalty
   
7.712   Severability
   
7.713   Rules of Construction and Definitions
Article VIII. Mandates Under the Illinois Freedom of Information Act and
Illinois Open Meetings Act
   
7.801   Freedom of Information Officer
   
7.802   Duties of Freedom of Information Officer
   
7.803   Denials and Exemptions
   
7.804   Freedom of Information Act Training
   
7.805   Fees
   
7.806   Designated Record Keepers
   
7.807   Open Meetings Act Training
   
7.808   Severability
Article IX. Administrative Adjudication System
   
7.901   Creation of Administrative Adjudication System
   
7.902   Jurisdiction
   
7.903   Administrative Adjudication Administrator
   
7.904   Administrative Hearing Officer
   
7.905   Administrative Hearings under this Article
   
7.906   Procedure
   
7.907   Default
   
7.908   Judicial Review
   
7.909   Enforcement
   
7.910   Fines and Penalties
Article X. Fireworks
   
7.1001   Fireworks Prohibited
   
7.1002   Definitions
   
7.1003   Penalties
Article XI. Video Gaming
   
7.1101   Video Gaming Prohibited; Exceptions
   
7.1102   Violations; Penalties
Article XII. Public Contract Guidelines
   
7.1201   Formal Contract Procedure
   
7.1202   Notice Inviting Bids
   
7.1203   Specifications
   
7.1204   Bid Deposits
   
7.1205   Bid Opening Procedure
   
7.1206   Rejection of Bids
   
7.1207   Award of Contracts
   
7.1208   Open Market Procedure
   
7.1209   Contracts or Purchases Without Bid
   
7.1210   Emergency Purchases
   
7.1211   Cooperative Purchasing
   
7.1212   Change Orders
Article XIII. Policy: Unpaid Charges and Assessments and Disclosure of
Interests
   
7.1301   Certificate of No Unpaid Charges and Assessments
   
7.1302   Disclosure of Interests Required
   
7.1303   Violation; Penalty
Article XIV. Adult-Use Cannabis Business Establishments
   
7.1401   Definitions
   
7.1402   Cannabis Business Establishments Prohibited
   
7.1403   Pubic Nuisance Declared
   
7.1404   Violations
ARTICLE I. FIREARMS
SECTION 7.101. POSSESSION.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to have or carry upon his person or
within any vehicle upon the streets and highways, thoroughfares and within the
territory of the corporate limits of the Village, any shotgun or rifle unless
such shotgun or rifle so being carried or transported shall be unloaded and
unless the same shall be disassembled or otherwise taken apart so as to render
it incapable of being fired, or unless the same shall be enclosed in a case.
The provisions hereof shall not apply, however, to the following officers while
engaged in the discharge of their official duties: sheriffs, coroners,
constables, police officers, conservators of the peace, or other duly
constituted peace officers; persons lawfully summoned by an officer to assist
in making arrests or preserving the peace and while so engaged in assisting
such officer; and persons while on premises owned by them, or while on premises
by specific invitation and consent of the owner or occupant of such premises.
   B.   It shall be and is hereby declared to be unlawful for any person to go
upon any premises in violation of the provisions of this Section without the
express invitation and consent of the owner or occupant of such premises and in
accordance with the provisions of this Article.
SECTION 7.102. DISCHARGE.
   A.   It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearms within the Village
limits of Mettawa except as hereinafter provided.
   B.   Shotguns, when loaded with shot shells only, and rifles or pistols of
22 caliber or less, may be discharged subject to the following restrictions and
conditions:
      1.   Any resident or landowner over the age of fifteen (15) years may
discharge a shotgun, rifle or pistol of 22 caliber or less while on his own
property; and a child under the age of fifteen (15) years may discharge a
shotgun, rifle or pistol of 22 caliber or less when accompanied by a person
twenty-one (21) years of age or older.
      2.   Any other person may discharge a shotgun, rifle or pistol of 22
caliber or less on the land of a resident or landowner, but only when
accompanied by an adult over the age of 21 years and only when given express
written consent to do so signed by the landowner over the age of 21 years. Said
written consent shall contain:
         a.   The date said consent is given;
         b.   The date for which said consent is effective;
         c.   A precise description of the area in which said activity may take
place;
         d.   The names, ages and addresses of the persons to whom consent has
been given; and
         e.   The express prohibition of the discharge of any gun in a manner
which would endanger a horseback rider or frighten a mounted horse.
      3.   No gun shall be discharged within three hundred (300) feet of any
residence, public road, or on or within three hundred (300) feet of a railroad
right-of-way.
      4.   No gun shall be discharged within three hundred (300) feet of a
mounted horse.
   C.   This Section shall not be construed to prohibit any officer of the law
from discharging a firearm in the performance of his duty, nor any person from
discharging a firearm when lawfully defending his person or property.
SECTION 7.103. PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provisions of this Article shall be punished by a fine
of not less than Ten Dollars ($10) nor more than Five Hundred Dollars ($500)
for each offense.
ARTICLE II. ANTI-LITTER REGULATIONS
SECTION 7.201. ACCUMULATION OF GARBAGE.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn garbage, other than in
incinerators approved by the Environmental Protection Agency of the State of
Illinois; or to bury garbage within the corporate limits of the Village; or to
permit garbage and/or debris to accumulate in any manner so as to create a
nuisance or to attract flies, vermin or rats. Any garbage accumulated for more
than seven (7) days, unless interrupted by a legal holiday, shall be considered
a violation of this Article notwithstanding any other provision herein
contained.
      1.   If the garbage and/or debris referred to hereinabove is allowed to
accumulate for more than seven (7) days or in fact attract flies, vermin or
rats, the Village President may proceed to cause the removal of such garbage
and/or debris from such private property in the following manner:
         a.   Whenever the Village President observes that garbage and/or
debris is attracting flies, vermin or rats and/or such garbage and/or debris
has accumulated for more than seven (7) days, he shall serve written notice
upon the owner or occupant of any such premises whereon such garbage and/or
debris is located. Such notice shall inform such person of the violation and
shall order removal of said garbage and/or debris within forty-eight (48) hours
from the time notice is so served.
         b.   If, after the lapse of the aforesaid forty-eight (48) hour
period, such owner or occupant of such property refuses or neglects to remove
such garbage and/or debris to be removed from the said property and shall cause
collection from such owner or occupant the cost of such removal which shall be
paid over to the Treasurer of the Village.
         c.   If, upon receipt of such invoice, such owner or occupant refuses
or neglects, to pay the cost for such removal, the Village President, on behalf
of the Village, or the person performing the service by authority of the
Village, in his or its own name, shall file a notice of lien within sixty (60)
days after such cost and expense is incurred, which notice of lien shall be
filed in the office of the Lake County Recorder of Deeds.
            i.   The notice of lien shall consist of a sworn statement setting
out:
               (a)   A description of the real estate sufficient for
identification thereof;
               (b)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense
incurred or, payable for the service; and
               (c)   The date or dates when such cost and expense was incurred
by the Village.
            ii.   Upon payment of the cost and expense by the owner of or
persons interested in such property after notice of lien has been filed, the
lien shall be released by the Village or person in whose name the lien had been
filed and the release may be filed of record as in the case of filing notice of
lien.
            iii.   The lien may be enforced by proceedings to foreclose as in
case of mortgages or mechanic's liens.
               (a)   Suit to foreclose this lien shall be commenced within two
(2) years after the date of filing notice of lien.
               (b)   However, the lien of the Village shall not be valid as to
any purchaser whose rights in and to such real estate have arisen subsequent to
removal of the garbage and/or debris and prior to the filing of such notice,
and the lien of the Village shall not be valid as to any mortgagee, judgment
creditor or other lienor or whose rights in and to such real estate arise prior
to the filing of such notice.
      2.   Nothing hereinabove shall preclude filing of a complaint with the
court of proper jurisdiction for violations of this Article and/or other
remedies at law or in equity which may be available to the Village for the
enforcement of this Municipal Code.
SECTION 7.202. LITTER IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any street, sidewalk, or
other public places within the Village except in public receptacles, in
authorized private receptacles for collection or in any official Village dumps
or disposal facility.
SECTION 7.203. PLACEMENT OF LITTER IN RECEPTACLES TO PREVENT SCATTERING.
   Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private
receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent such litter from falling
upon, or being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk
or other public place or upon private property.
SECTION 7.204. OWNER TO MAINTAIN PREMISES FREE OF LITTER.
   The owner or person in control of any private property shall at all times
maintain the premises free of litter; provided, however, that this Section
shall not prohibit the storage of litter in authorized private receptacles for
collection.
SECTION 7.205. DUTY OF OWNERS OF COMMERCIAL, INDUSTRIAL, AND RESIDENTIAL USERS
TO PROVIDE FOR STORAGE, COLLECTION, AND DISPOSAL.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of any premises in the Village of Mettawa,
to store, collect, and dispose of all refuse produced or otherwise accumulated
on said premises, or to cause the same to be done, in accordance with the
provisions of this Article.
   A.   Commercial, industrial, and residential outdoor trash storage must be
enclosed in a minimum six (6) foot high, sight-proof screen composed of
nondeciduous planting, fence or wall; or
   B.   In addition to the duty imposed herein on the owners of the premises,
it shall be the duty of any person responsible for the production of
accumulation of refuse on any premises in the Village of Mettawa resulting from
any building or construction operations to store and dispose of such refuse in
accordance with the provisions of this Article; or cause the same to be done.
Access to refuse containers shall not be across public curb or park way.
Dumpsters shall not be allowed to stand unutilized at any site for longer than
thirty (30) days, and when in use shall not be allowed to overflow.
SECTION 7.206. SWEEPING REFUSE AND WASTE INTO GUTTERS PROHIBITED; DUTY TO KEEP
PUBLIC PLACES FREE OF REFUSE AND WASTE.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other public
place within the Village the accumulation of refuse and waste from any building
or lot or from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or
occupying any premises within the Village shall keep the sidewalk and gutter in
front of their premises free of refuse and waste.
SECTION 7.207. LITTER ON VACANT LAND.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open, or vacant private
property within the Village whether owned by such person or not.
SECTION 7.208. ADVERTISING.
   It shall be unlawful to advertise an unlawful business or article in the
Village of Mettawa; and it shall be unlawful to injure or deface any lawful
advertisement or notice.
   A.   Bills on Public and Private Property.
      1.   No person shall post, stick, stamp, tack, paint, or otherwise fix or
cause the same to be done by any person, any notice, placard, bill, poster,
advertisement, or other device calculated to attract the attention of the
public, to or upon any sidewalk, crosswalk, curb or curbstone, flag stone, or
any other portion or part of any public way, lamp post, electric light,
telegraph, telephone, or trolley line pole, hydrant, shade tree or tree-box or
upon the piers, columns, trusses, girders, railings, gates, or other parts of
any public bridge or viaduct, or upon any pole box or fixture of the fire alarm
or police
telegraph system, except, such as may be required or permitted by the laws of
the State of Illinois and this Code.
      2.   No person shall post, stick, stamp, tack, paint, or otherwise fix,
or cause the same to be done by another person, any notice, placard, bill,
handbill, sign, poster, card advertisement, or other device calculated to
attract the attention of the public, upon any building or part thereof or
window without first obtaining the consent of the owner, lessee, or occupant of
such premises or structure.
      3.   Any such bills shall only be posted, stuck, stamped, tacked,
painted, or otherwise fixed between the hours of sunup and sundown.
   B.   Medical Advertisements. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation by himself, or his or its agents or servants to distribute, cast,
throw, or place, or cause to distribute, cast, throw or place in, upon or along
any of the streets, alleys, or public places of the Village of Mettawa, or upon
the premises or yards of private residences therein, or within any dwelling or
building in the Village any samples or merchandise or medicinal preparations
for the purpose or with the intent of advertising or making known in a general
promiscuous manner any business, occupation, proposition, medical treatment,
medicine, or any other article whatsoever.
SECTION 7.209. DISTRIBUTING HANDBILLS IN PUBLIC PLACES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in
or upon any vehicle, sidewalk, street, or other public place within the
Village, nor shall any person hand out or distribute or sell any commercial
handbill in any public place. It shall not be unlawful on any sidewalk, street
or other public place within the Village for any person to handout or
distribute without charge to the receiver thereof any noncommercial handbill to
any person willing to accept it.
SECTION 7.210. DEPOSITING COMMERCIAL HANDBILLS ON UNINHABITED OR VACANT
PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in
or upon any private premises which are temporarily or continuously uninhabited
or vacant.
SECTION 7.211. PROHIBITING DISTRIBUTION OF HANDBILLS WHERE POSTED.
   A.   No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or
noncommercial handbill, magazine, newspaper, or other printed matter upon any
private premises if requested by anyone, thereon not to do so or if there is
placed on said premises a sign bearing the words “No Trespassing,” “No Peddlers
or Agents,” “No Advertisements,” or any similar notice indicating in any manner
that the occupants of said premises do not desire to be molested or have their
right of privacy disturbed or to have any such printed matter in or upon such
inhabited private premises must so place or deposit it as to secure to prevent
such matter from being blown or drifted about such premises or sidewalks,
streets or other public places.
   B.   Exemptions. The provisions of this Section shall not apply to the
distribution of regular mail by the United States Postal Service nor to a home
delivery of newspapers as defined herein or other printed matter delivered
pursuant to the order, request or subscription of the owner or occupant of the
premises. All such matter shall be placed on private property in such a manner
as to prevent their being carried or deposited by wind, rain, or other natural
elements upon any street, sidewalk, or other public place or upon private
property.
SECTION 7.212. DROPPING LITTER FROM AIRCRAFT PROHIBITED.
   No person in an aircraft shall throw out, drop or deposit within the Village
of Mettawa any litter, handbill or any other object.
SECTION 7.213. POSTING NOTICES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall post or fix to any lamp post, public utility pole or shade
tree or upon any public structure or building any notice, poster or other paper
or device calculated to attract the attention of the public except as may be
authorized or required by law.
SECTION 7.214. MAINTENANCE OF PROPERTY.
   It is hereby declared a public nuisance for any person owning, leasing,
occupying or having charge or possession of any premises in this Village to
maintain such premises in such manner that any of the following conditions are
found to exist thereon:
   A.   Buildings which are abandoned, boarded up, partially destroyed, or left
unreasonably in a state of partial construction;
   B.   Unpainted buildings causing dry rot, warping and termite infestation;
   C.   Broken windows constituting hazardous conditions and inviting
trespassers and malicious mischief;
   D.   Overgrown vegetation:
      1.   Causing a hazardous condition to pedestrian and/or vehicular
traffic; or
      2.   Likely to harbor rats, vermin and other nuisances.
   E.   Dead trees, weeds, and debris:
      1.   Constituting an unsightly appearance; or
      2.   Dangerous to public safety and welfare.
   F.   Trailers, campers, boats and other mobile equipment stored for longer
than fifty (50) days in front yard areas;
   G.   Inoperative, abandoned, wrecked or dismantled vehicles stored on the
premises;
   H.   Parking of any form of motor driven bike, scooter, or vehicle on mud,
grass, or any non-all weather surface is prohibited;
   J.   Attractive nuisances dangerous to children in the form of:
      1.   Abandoned and broken equipment including but not limited to
furniture, stoves, refrigerators, freezers, cans or containers; and
      2.   Hazardous pools and ponds.
   K.   Broken or discarded furniture and household equipment in visible yard
areas for longer than ten (10) days;
   L.   Clothes lines in front yard areas;
   M.   Packing boxes and other debris stored in yards and visible from public
streets for longer than ten (10) days;
   N.   Property including but not limited to building exteriors which are
maintained in such condition as to become so defective, unsightly, or in such
condition of deterioration or disrepair that the same causes depreciable
diminution of the property values of surrounding property or is materially
detrimental to proximal properties and improvements; this includes but is not
limited to the keeping or disposing of or the scattering over the property or
premises of any of the following:
      1.   Lumber, junk, trash or debris;
      2.   Abandoned, discarded or unused objects or equipment including but
not limited to furniture, stoves, refrigerators, freezers, cans or containers;
      3.   Stagnant water; and
      4.   Any device, decoration, design, fence or structure which is
unsightly by reason of its condition or its inappropriate location.
   O.   Maintenance of premises so out of harmony or conformity which is
unsightly by reason of its condition or its inappropriate location.
SECTION 7.215. INOPERABLE OR ABANDONED VEHICLE DISPOSAL REQUIRED.
   All persons are required to dispose of any inoperable motor vehicle or any
abandoned motor vehicle under their control upon written notice received from
the corporate authorities or from the Chief of Police or any member of his
department designated by him commanding such disposition of said inoperable or
abandoned motor vehicle within fifteen (15) days from the date of such notice.
SECTION 7.216. CLEARING OF LITTER FROM OPEN PRIVATE PROPERTY BY VILLAGE.
   A.   Notice to Remove. The Village President is hereby authorized and
empowered to notify the owner of any open private property within the Village
or the agent of such owner to properly dispose of litter located on such
owner's property which is dangerous to public health, safety or welfare; such
notice shall be by registered or certified mail addressed to said owner at his
last known address as shown on the records of the collector of taxes of Lake
County, Illinois.
   B.   Action Upon Noncompliance. Upon the failure and neglect or refusal of
any owner or agent so notified to properly dispose of litter which is dangerous
to the public health, safety or welfare within fifteen (15) days after receipt
of the written notice provided for in Subsection A of this Section or within
ten (10) days after the date of such notice in the event the same is returned
by the post office because of its inability to make delivery thereof provided
the same was properly addressed to the last known address of such owner or
agent, the Village President is hereby authorized and empowered to effect the
removal and disposal of such litter.
   C.   Costs Charged to Owner. When the Village has effected the removal of
such dangerous litter, the actual cost thereof plus accrued interest at the
rate of six percent (6%) per annum from the date of the completion of the work,
if not paid by such owner prior thereto, shall be charged to the owner of such
property. A statement of the amount of such charge shall be sent to the owner
in the same manner as provided in Subsection A of this Section.
SECTION 7.217. DEFINITIONS.
   A.   For the purposes of this Article, the following terms, phrases, words
and their derivations shall have the meaning given hereinbelow.
   B.   When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense
include the future tense; words used in the plural number include the singular
number and words used in the singular number include the plural number. The
word “shall” is always mandatory and not merely directory.
      1.   ABANDONED VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is left on any public or
private property and in view of the general public for such time and under such
circumstances as to appear that the owner has voluntarily relinquished all
right, interest and possession with the intention of terminating his ownership,
shall be considered an ABANDONED VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is upon private
property and which has not been moved for a period of at least fifteen (15)
days or is unlicensed by the State of Illinois and the appropriate municipal
authority, shall be considered an abandoned vehicle. No motor vehicle shall be
considered abandoned if the owner has been granted permission by the Village of
Mettawa to store said vehicle on his own property, or if such motor vehicle is
stored within a garage or building when not in use; or if the property owner
can present proof that the vehicle is in operating condition and is licensed by
the State of Illinois and the appropriate municipal authority or that
application for such license has been made within the time period allowed by
the State and by the municipal authority.
      2.   AGENT. The authorized or acting representative of the owner or
occupant of real property within the Village of Mettawa.
      3.   AIRCRAFT. Any contrivance used or designated for navigation for
flight in the air. The word AIRCRAFT shall include helicopters and lighter than
air dirigibles and balloons.
      4.   AUTHORIZED PRIVATE RECEPTACLE. A container as required and
authorized by the ordinances of the Village of Mettawa for the collection and
storage of rubbish, waste, refuse, or other matter.
      5.   COMMERCIAL HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, any sample or
device, dodgers circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet or any other
printed or otherwise reproduced original copies of any matter or literature:
         a.   Which advertises for sale any merchandise, product, commodity or
things;
         b.   Which directs attention to any business or mercantile or
commercial establishment or other activity for the purchase of either directly
or indirectly promoting the interests thereof by sales;
         c.   Which directs attention to or advertises any meetings, theatrical
performances, exhibition or event of any kind for which an admission fee is
charged for the purpose of private gain or profit; and (Provided, however, that
the terms of this Article shall not apply when no admission fee is charged or a
collection is taken up for the purpose of defraying the expenses incident to
such meeting, theatrical performances, exhibition or event of any kind when
either or any of the same is held, given or takes places in connection with
dissemination of information which is not restricted under the ordinary rules
of decency, good morals, public peace, safety and good order; and further
provided, however, that nothing contained in this clause shall be deemed to
authorize the holding, given or taking place of any kind without a license
where such a license is or may be required by any law of this State or under
any ordinance of this Village.)
         d.   Which, while containing reading matter other than advertising
matter, is predominantly and essentially an advertisement and is distributed or
circulated for advertising purposes or for the private benefit and gain of any
person so engaged as advertiser or distributor.
      6.   DEPRECIATION OF PROPERTY VALUE. Property maintained (in relation to
surrounding property) so as to establish a prevalence of depreciated values,
impaired investments, and social and economic maladjustments to such an extent
that the capacity to pay taxes is reduced and tax receipts from such particular
area are inadequate for the cost of public services rendered therein.
      7.   FIRE HAZARD. Dry or dead shrub, tree, combustible refuse and waste,
or any material growing on a public street, public sidewalk or upon private
property within the Village which by reason of its size, manner of growth and
location constitutes a fire hazard to a building, improvement, crop or other
property, or when dry, will in reasonable probability constitute a FIRE HAZARD.
      8.   GARBAGE. Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
      9.   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle which, for a period of
at least seven (7) days, the engine, wheels, or other parts have been altered,
damaged or otherwise so treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven
under its own motor power. INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE shall not include a motor
vehicle which has been rendered temporarily incapable of being driven under its
own power in order to perform ordinary service of repair operations, nor to any
motor vehicles that are kept within a building when not in use, or to a motor
vehicle on the premises of a place of business engaged in wrecking or junking
of motor vehicles.
      10.   LITTER. Garbage, refuse and rubbish as defined herein and all other
material which, if thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends or may tend
to create a danger to public health, safety, welfare, and property value. This
term shall include such material whether it be on public or private property.
      11.   NEWSPAPER. Any newspaper of general circulation as defined by
general law, and any newspaper duly entered with the Post Office Department of
the United States in accordance with federal statute or regulation and any
NEWSPAPER filed and recorded with any recording officer as provided by general
law; and in addition thereto shall mean and include any periodical or current
magazine regularly published with not less than four issues per year and sold
to the public.
      12.   NONCOMMERCIAL HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, any sample,
device, dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, newspaper, magazine, paper or
booklet or any other printed or otherwise produced original or copies of any
matter of literature not included in the aforesaid definitions of a commercial
handbill or newspaper.
      13.   NUISANCE. Any and all sources, conditions, or situations causing
danger, trouble, annoyance, or inconvenience to others which is detrimental to
public health, safety, welfare, or property value. A NUISANCE is one form of an
offense.
      14.   OCCUPANT. Any person in possession or having the right to
possession of real property within the Village of Mettawa.
      15.   OWNER. Any person having any interest, legal, equitable, beneficial
or otherwise, in real property within the Village of Mettawa.
      16.   PARK. A park reservation, playground, beach, recreation center or
any other public area in the Village owned or used by the Village and devoted
to active or passive recreation.
      17.   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, or corporation
of any kind.
      18.   POLLUTED WATER. A swimming pool, pond or other body of water which
is unattended, unfiltered, or not otherwise maintained, resulting in the water
becoming polluted. POLLUTED WATER means water contained in a swimming pool,
pond or other body of water which includes but is not limited to bacterial
growth, including algae remains of insects, remains of deceased animals,
reptiles, rubbish, refuse, debris, papers, and any other foreign matter or
material which because of its nature or location constitutes an unhealthy,
unsafe or unsightly condition.
      19.   PROPERTY. Any real property within the Village which is not a
street or highway.
      20.   PUBLIC PLACE. Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or
other public ways and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds and
buildings.
      21.   REFUSE. Unused or discarded matter and material having no
substantial market value, and which consists of such matter and material as:
rubbish, refuse, debris and matter of any kind including but not limited to
rubble, asphalt, concrete, plaster, tile, rocks, bricks, soil, building
materials, crates, cartons, containers, boxes, machinery or parts thereof,
scrap metal and other pieces of metal, ferrous or non-ferrous, furniture,
inoperative vehicles and parts, trimmings from plants, and trees, cans, bottles
and barrels.
      22.   RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid wastes consisting of both
combustible and noncombustible wastes such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes,
cardboard, tin cans, yard clippings, leaves, tree stumps, tree limbs, dirt,
wood, glass, bedding, crockery and all similar materials.
      23.   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of
every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel.
      24.   VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power other than human power
designed to travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners, or
slides and transport persons or property or pull machinery and shall include,
without limitation, automobile, tractor trailer, motorcycle, tractor, buggy and
wagon.
SECTION 7.218 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this Article shall be subject to
the penalties as set forth in Chapter 2, Village Government, Article X, Tax,
Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1003, Fine and Penalty Schedule.
(Ord. 4-87, passed 12-2-87; Am. Ord. 852, passed 10-20-2020)
ARTICLE III. DUTCH ELM DISEASE
SECTION 7.301. TREES AFFECTED WITH DUTCH ELM DISEASE; BREEDING PLACES OF ELM
BARK BEETLES DECLARED TO BE PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   A.   All species and varieties of elm trees (trees of Genus Ulmus) infected
with the fungus known as the Dutch Elm Disease (Ceratobystis Ulmi) as
determined by laboratory analysis conducted by or under the direction of the
Building and Zoning Director are hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
   B.   Breeding Places of Elm Bark Beetles Declared to Be Public Nuisance. All
species and varieties of elm trees that are dead or substantially dead, and all
dead elmwood to which the bark is still attached are hereby declared to be
public nuisances.
SECTION 7.302. PUBLIC NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any owner of any lot or parcel of land in the
Village of Mettawa to permit or maintain on any such lot or parcel of land, a
public nuisance as set out in Section
7.301 and it shall be the duty of any such owner to promptly remove any such
elm tree or dead or substantially dead elmwood by the Village and dispose of it
either by burning or burying it outside the Village.
   B.   Any elm tree, or dead elmwood on property owned by the Village of
Mettawa which is a public nuisance as provided by Section
7.301 of this Article shall promptly be removed and disposed of under the
supervision of the Building and Zoning Director, or his duly authorized
representative, at the expense of the Village.
SECTION 7.303. REMOVAL OF DISEASED TREE OR BREEDING PLACE OF ELM BARK BEETLES;
NOTICE TO OWNER.
   If it is determined that any tree is a public nuisance as provided in
Subsections A or B of Section
7.301, the Building and Zoning Director shall serve or cause to be served upon
the owner of the lot or parcel of land on which such tree or dead elmwood is
located, a written notice requiring such owner to comply with    the provisions
of this Article.
   A.   Service of notice provided for in this Section shall be served by
personal service or by certified mail, sent to the person to whom the tax bill
for the general taxes for the last preceding year on the lot or parcel on which
the infected elmwood or dead elm or elmwood is located.
   B.   If the person, firm or corporation upon whom such notice is served
fails, neglects or refuses, to remove and destroy such elm tree or dead elmwood
within thirty (30) days after service of such notice, the Building and Zoning
Director or his duly authorized representative may proceed to remove and
dispose of such tree or dead elmwood, and assess the cost thereof against the
owner of such lot or parcel of land.
      1.   The amount of such cost shall be paid by such owner to the Village
of Mettawa.
      2.   Any costs incurred by the Village in the abatement of a public
nuisance pursuant to this Article may be assessed against the record owner of
the land involved and the Village may place a lien upon such property for those
costs in the manner provided by law.
SECTION 7.304. NOTICE TO OWNER.
   Service of notice provided for in Section
7.303 of this Article shall be served by personal service or by certified mail
sent to the person to whom the tax bill for the general taxes for the last
preceding year on the lot or parcel on which the infected elmwood or dead elm
or elmwood is located.
SECTION 7.305. PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision(s) of this Article
by failing, neglecting or refusing to comply with the provisions of any notice
herein provided for, within thirty (30) days after the service thereof, or, who
shall resist or obstruct the Building and Zoning Director, or his duly
authorized representative, in carrying out the provisions of this Article,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine as set forth in Chapter
2, Village Government, Article X, Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1003, Fine and Penalty Schedule. Each day such violation is committed or
permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable as such hereunder.
(Ord. 4-87, passed 12-2-87; Am. Ord. 852, passed 10-20-2020)
ARTICLE IV. OCCUPATION OF TERRITORY
SECTION 7.401. OCCUPATION OF TERRITORY WITHIN THE CORPORATE LIMITS OF THE
VILLAGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, partnership,
association, government entity, individual or any other party to construct,
place, locate or build a water main, sewer line or pipe, cable, power or
transmission line, gas pipe or other conduit for a utility or public service
within or through property located within the corporate limits of the Village
of Mettawa without first obtaining a permit therefor from the Village.
(Ord. 312, passed 12-7-94)
SECTION 7.402. APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   An application for a permit required hereinabove must be submitted to the
Director of Building and Zoning of the Village of Mettawa. The application must
include all of the following:
   A.   A complete description of the property within the Village on, over or
under the proposed water main, sewer line, cable, power line, transmission
line, or other conduit or structure, as well as the name, address and telephone
number of the applicant;
   B.   The location of any structure, poles, towers or other supporting
devices within the Village;
   C.   Specification for the size and/or type of water main, sewer line,
cable, power line, transmission line or other conduit;
   D.   A description of the use for the water main, sewer line, cable, power
line, transmission line or other conduit;
   E.   Proof of written notification sent to all record property owners within
one-half mile of the property for which application has been made for the
construction of the proposed water main, sewer line, cable, power line,
transmission line or other conduit; and (The notification must advise all
property owners that they may file an objection to the Application with the
Director of Building and Zoning of the Village of Mettawa within 21 days of the
date of the notification.)
   F.   Payment of the fee required for processing the application.
(Ord. 312, passed 12-7-94)
SECTION 7.403. ACTION BY THE PLAN COMMISSION.
   After 21 days following his receipt of the submission thereof, the Director
of Building and Zoning of the Village of Mettawa shall refer all properly
completed permit applications to the Plan Commission along with any written
objections to the installation of the proposed water main, sewer line, cable,
power line, transmission line or other conduit received within said 21-day
period. In the event no written objection is received within the 21-day period,
the Plan Commission may consider the application without conducting a public
hearing. However, in the event any such written objection has been received
within such 21-day period, the Plan Commission shall hold a public hearing on
the application. Notice of such public hearing shall be given and the hearing
conducted as set forth in Chapter 15.
(Ord. 312, passed 12-7-94)
SECTION 7.404. ACTION BY THE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   Within 30 days of the conclusion of the public hearing or its consideration
of the application, as the case may be, the Plan Commission shall make a
recommendation regarding such application to the Village Board. Within 30 days
of its receipt of said Plan Commission recommendation, the President and Board
of Trustees of the Village shall consider the recommendation of the Plan
Commission regarding such permit application and determine whether they shall
issue a permit for such installation. Thereafter, the Village Clerk shall
notify the applicant of the vote.
(Ord. 312, passed 12-7-94)
SECTION 7.405. EFFECTIVE DATE OF PERMIT.
   Any permit issued hereunder shall be effective as of the date issued and
shall remain in full force and effect for six months thereafter. An applicant
may, for good cause, request an extension of a previously issued permit.
(Ord. 312, passed 12-7-94)
ARTICLE V. DISORDERLY CONDUCT
SECTION 7.501 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb the peace and quiet of the
Village or any portion thereof by disorderly conduct. Disorderly conduct shall
be committed by any person when he either:
   A.   Knowingly does any act in such unreasonable manner as to provoke, make
or aid in the making of a breach of the peace;
   B.   Resists or obstructs officials by:
      1.   Resisting or obstructing the performance by one who may reasonably
be believed to be a police officer or any one authorized act within such
officer's official capacity; or
      2.   Resisting any police officer in the discharge of his duties, or in
any way interferes with or hinders or prevents him from discharging his duty as
such officer, or offers or endeavors to do so or assists any person in the
custody of any member of the police to escape or attempt to escape from such
custody, or attempts to rescue any person in such custody.
   C.   Assembles with three (3) or more persons for the purpose of using force
or firearms to disturb the public peace;
   D.   Fails to observe lawful order of dispersal by any person who may
reasonably be believed to be a police officer where three (3) or more persons
are committing acts of disorderly conduct in the immediate vicinity, which acts
are likely to cause substantial harm or serious inconvenience, annoyance or
alarm;
   E.   Knowingly enters upon any school property, public or private, within
the Village at any time when other persons are present on such school property
for the purpose or with the intention of making or doing any unreasonable or
offensive act, utterance, gesture or display;
   F.   Knowingly enters upon any school property, public or private, within
the Village at any time when other persons are present on such school property
and while thereon, makes or does any unreasonable or offensive act, utterance,
gesture or display which disrupts or interferes with or tends to disrupt or
interfere with administrative functions, educational classes or social and
athletic activities then and there in progress;
   G.   Creates disturbance of public order by any act of violence or by an act
likely to produce violence;
   H.   Engages in fighting, threatening or tumultuous behavior;
   J.   Engages in fighting, loud shouting or other tumultuous behavior during
any regularly or specially convened meeting of the President and Board of
Trustees of the Village or any subcommittee thereof;
   K.   During any regular or specially convened meeting of the President and
Board of Trustees or any committee, commission or board of the Village, or
during any regular or specially convened meeting of any other organization,
engages in the smoking of any cigarette, pipe and/or cigar;
   L.   Hinders, annoys or molests persons passing along any street, sidewalk,
crosswalk or other public way;
   M.   Loiters, sit, or stands around the entrance of any church, theater,
public building or other place of public assemblage in any manner so as to
unreasonably obstruct such entrance;
    N.   Places or erects upon any public way an obstruction of any type except
temporary barriers or warning signs placed thereon for the purpose of
safeguarding the public against any hazard;
   O.   Disturbs, threatens or in any insolent manner intentionally damages any
occupied house or vehicle;
   P.   Intentionally inhales vapors or fumes or any substance which induce
euphoria, hallucinations or intoxication except as otherwise provided by law;
   Q.   Visits or resorts to any place wherein the inhaling of vapors or fumes
or any substance which induces euphoria, hallucinations or intoxication is
being conducted, practiced or carried on illegally therein;
   R.   Makes continuous or causes to be made by the use of any horn, bell,
radio, loudspeaker or by operation of any other instrument or device any noise
or noises, which noise or noises are of such character, intensity and duration
as to disturb the peace and quiet of the Village or any portion thereof or to
be detrimental to the life and health of any individual;
   S.   Makes a telephone call, whether or not conversation ensues, with intent
to abuse, threaten or harass any person at the location of the telephone dialed
or called; or
   T.   Places graffiti upon the surface of any structure or wall that is
publicly or privately owned and wherein the contents thereof are visible to any
member of the general public. (For purposes of this subsection, the term
“graffiti” shall include but shall not be limited to the following illustrative
items: any drawing, inscription, word, phrase, diagram, symbol, sketch, or
letters containing references to sexual activity, diagrams relating to the
sexual activity or sexual organs, references to criminal activities, or groups
which promote or are involved in criminal activity, swearing or fighting words,
defamatory materials about any person or references to relationships.)
(Ord. 320, passed 6-14-95)
ARTICLE VI. OPEN FIRES
SECTION 7.601. OPEN FIRES.
   It shall be unlawful, within the corporate limits of the Village of Mettawa,
to cause, start, build, ignite, have and/or maintain any fire; except that this
prohibition shall not apply:
   A.   To fires for cooking food at public or private gatherings; and
   B.   To open fires.
(Ord. 322, passed 11-8-95)
SECTION 7.602. DEFINITION.
   For the purposes of this Article:
   OPEN FIRE. An intentionally ignited bonfire, grass fire, or other similar
burning conducted by any person in the open air or in an incinerator or similar
device where smoke, burning embers, or ash enter or discharge directly into the
open air.
(Ord. 322, passed 11-8-95)
ARTICLE VII. SOLICITORS AND CANVASSERS
SECTION 7.701. VILLAGE POLICY ON SOLICITING AND CANVASSING.
   It is declared hereby to be the policy of the President and Board of
Trustees of the Village of Mettawa, the governing body of the Village, that the
occupant or occupants of buildings located in this Village, shall make the
determination of whether solicitors and canvassers shall be, or shall not be,
invited to their respective buildings.
(Ord. 661, passed 8-17-2010; Am. Ord. 798, passed 8-16-2016)
SECTION 7.702. PROHIBITION OF SOLICITING AND CANVASSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of soliciting
and/or canvassing upon premises within the corporate limits of the Village of
Mettawa wherein an owner or occupant has posted a notice at the principal
entrance of the building prohibiting solicitors or canvassers, as set forth in
Section
7.704(A).
(Ord. 661, passed 8-17-2010; Am. Ord. 798, passed 8-16-2016)
SECTION 7.703. NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING AND CANVASSING.
   A.   Every owner or occupant desiring to secure the protection intended to
be provided by the regulations pertaining to soliciting and canvassing
contained in this Article shall give notice of the determination by the owner
or an occupant of giving invitation to solicitors and canvassers or the refusal
of invitation to solicitors and canvassers to any given building owned by such
owner or occupied by such occupant in the following manner:
      1.   A weatherproof card, no larger than three (3) inches by four (4)
inches in size, shall be exhibited upon or near the principal entrance door to
each such given building, indicating the determination by the owner or an
occupant containing the applicable words, as follows:
         a.   "NO SOLICITORS INVITED" or
         b.   "ONLY SOLICITORS REGISTERED WITH THE VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR
INVITED"
      2.   The letters on the weatherproof card shall be at least one-third ()
inch in height.
      3.   Such card as exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor and canvasser of the determination by the owner and/or any occupant
of the building of the information contained thereon.
   B.   In addition to the notice provided by such cards and not in
substitution thereof, an owner or occupant of land within the corporate limits
of the Village may provide an additional notification to solicitors and
canvassers in the following manner:
      1.   Such owner or occupant may erect one (1) sign no larger than one and
one-half (1½) square feet in overall size at the main driveway entrance to such
owner's or occupant's land.
      2.   The message on this sign shall be no different than the message on
the notice card exhibited upon or near the principal entrance door to the given
building or buildings on the land.
   C.   For the purpose of uniformity, the cards and signs utilized as a notice
or as an additional notification must be procured from the Village and shall be
provided at the cost thereof to Village residents upon request to the Village
Administrator.
(Ord. 661, passed 8-17-2010)
SECTION 7.704. DUTY OF SOLICITORS AND CANVASSERS.
   A.   It shall be the duty of every solicitor and canvasser upon going onto
any premises in the Village of Mettawa upon which a building as herein defined
is located to first examine the premises for notice upon or near the principal
entrance door as provided in Section
7.703 and be governed by the statement contained on the notice. When a notice
is posted upon such premises if the notice states: “NO SOLICITORS OR
CANVASSERS”, then the solicitor, whether registered or not, shall immediately
and peacefully leave the premises.
   B.   Notwithstanding anything contained in this Article to the contrary, any
solicitor and/or canvasser who has gained entrance to any building, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by any occupant thereof.
(Ord. 661, passed 8-17-2010; Am. Ord. 798, passed 8-16-2016)
SECTION 7.705. UNINVITED SOLICITING AND CANVASSING PROHIBITED.
   A.   It is declared hereby to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance
for any person, in defiance of the notice exhibited upon or near the principal
entrance door to a building, to remain upon such premises and ring the door
bell upon or near any door, or create any sound in any manner calculated to
attract the attention of any occupant of such building, for the purpose of
securing an audience with the occupant thereof and engage in soliciting and/or
canvassing.
   B.   Notwithstanding anything contained in this Article to the contrary, it
is declared hereby to be unlawful for any person to remain upon any premises
when requested to depart by any occupant thereof in accordance with the
provisions of Section
7.704.
(Ord. 661, passed 8-17-2010)
SECTION 7.706 LIMITATIONS ON SOLICITING AND CANVASSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether registered under this Article
or not, to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door of
a residence located thereon or rap or knock upon the door or create any sound
in any other manner calculated to attract the attention of the occupant of such
residence for the purpose of securing an audience with the occupant thereof and
engage in soliciting prior to nine o’clock (9:00) A.M. or after five o’clock
(5:00) P.M. Monday through Saturday or at any time on a Sunday or a State or
national holiday, except in the case of canvassers which may not engage in
canvassing prior to nine o’clock (9:00) A.M. or after nine o’clock (9:00) P.M.
Monday through Friday and after six o’clock (6:00) P.M. on Saturday or at any
time on a Sunday or a State or national holiday.
(Ord. 661, passed 8-17-2010; Am. Ord. 798, passed 8-16-2016)
SECTION 7.707. APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   A.   Applicants seeking a certificate of registration issued by the Village
must first complete an application for such certificate at any time the Village
Administrator or the Village Clerk is on duty and working. The application
shall be made available by the Village Administrator or the Village Clerk upon
request.
   B.   Such certificate shall be in the form issued by the Village and, upon
receipt, shall entitle the holder thereof to solicit upon premises within the
Village wherein an owner or occupant has posted a notice upon or near the
principal entrance door to the principal entrance building inviting therein
only those solicitors who have registered with the Village.
   C.   All statements made by such applicant upon the application or in
connection therewith shall be under oath and shall truthfully state the
information requested on the application, as follows:
      1.   The applicant’s name;
      2.   The applicant’s residence address(es) during the past three (3)
years;
      3.   The applicant’s age, marital status; and if married, the name of the
applicant’s spouse;
      4.   The applicant’s height, weight and sex;
      5.   The name and address of the person by whom the applicant is employed
or represents and the length of time of such employment or representation;
      6.   The name and address of the applicant’s employer during the past
three (3) years if other than the present employer;
      7.   A description of the subject matter of the soliciting in which the
applicant will be engaged;
      8.   The length of time for which the certificate is requested;
      9.   The date, or approximate date, of the latest previous application
for a certificate under this Article, if any;
      10.   Whether a certificate of registration issued to the applicant has
ever been denied or revoked;
      11.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a violation of any
of the provisions of this Article, or the ordinance of any other Illinois
municipality regulating soliciting;
      12.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of the commission of
a felony under the laws of the State of Illinois or any other state or Federal
law of the United States; and
      13.   Such additional information as the Village may deem necessary to
process the application.
(Ord. 661, passed 8-17-2010; Am. Ord. 798, passed 8-16-2016)
SECTION 7.708. ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   A.   Issuance of Certificate; Deposit:
      1.   When the applicant is found to be fully qualified, the certificate
of registration shall be issued forthwith and shall state the expiration date
thereof, which shall not exceed thirty (30) days from the date of issuance.
      2.   Upon receipt of the certificate of registration, the applicant shall
deposit the amount set forth in Chapter 2, Village Government, Article X, Tax,
Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1002, Fee Schedule, with the Village Administrator, which amount shall be
refunded at the time the certificate of registration is returned intact,
excluding reasonable wear and tear; provided the return is made not later than
five (5) days after the date of expiration of said certificate.
   B.   Denial of Certificate:
      1.   No certificate of registration shall be issued to any person who has
been convicted of the commission of a felony under the laws of the State of
Illinois or any other state or Federal law of the United States within five (5)
years of the date of the application, nor to any person who has been convicted
of a violation of any of the provisions of this Article, nor to any person
whose certificate of registration issued hereunder has previously been revoked
as herein provided.
      2.   After a review of the application for registered solicitor and all
information obtained relative thereto, the Village Administrator shall deny the
issuance of a certificate of registration, if the Village Administrator finds
that the applicant does not possess the qualifications for such certificate of
registration as herein required and that the issuance of a certificate of
registration to the applicant would not be in accord with the intent and
purpose of this Article.
(Ord. 661, passed 8-17-2010; Am. Ord. 852, passed 10-20-2020)
SECTION 7.709. REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   After its issuance, any certificate of registration issued hereunder shall
be revoked by the Village Administrator if the Village Administrator finds that
the holder of the certificate has made a false material statement in the
application.
   A.   Immediately upon such revocation, written notice thereof shall be given
by the Village Administrator to the holder of the certificate of registration
in person or by certified U.S. mail addressed to his or her residence address
set forth in the application.
   B.   Immediately upon the giving of such notice, the certificate of
registration shall become null and void; and, upon receipt of the notice, the
holder of the certificate shall surrender it to the Village Administrator.
(Ord. 661, passed 8-17-2010)
SECTION 7.710. RECORDS.
   The Village Administrator shall keep an accurate record of every application
received and acted upon, together with all other information and data
pertaining thereto, as well as a record of all certificates of registration
issued and denied under the provisions of this Article.
(Ord. 661, passed 8-17-2010)
SECTION 7.711. PENALTY.
   Every person convicted of a violation of any provision of this Article shall
be punished by a fine as set forth in Chapter 2, Village Government, Article X,
Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1003, Fine and Penalty Schedule.
(Ord. 661, passed 8-17-2010; Am. Ord. 852, passed 10-20-2020)
SECTION 7.712. SEVERABILITY.
   If any part or parts of this Article shall be held to be unconstitutional,
such unconstitutionality shall not affect the validity of the remaining parts
of this Article. The President and Board of Trustees of the Village of Mettawa
hereby declare that they would have adopted the remaining parts of this Article
if they had known that such part or parts thereof would be declared
unconstitutional.
(Ord. 661, passed 8-17-2010)
SECTION 7.713. RULES OF CONSTRUCTION AND DEFINITIONS.
   A.   The language set forth in the text of this Article shall be interpreted
in accordance with the following rules of construction: (a) The word "may" is
permissive and the word "shall" is mandatory; and (b) except where the context
reveals the contrary: The singular includes the plural and the plural includes
the singular, and the masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
   B.   Whenever in this Article the following words and phrases have been
used, they shall, for the purposes of this Article, have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this Subsection, except when the context
otherwise indicates.
      1.   APPLICANT.  A person seeking a certificate of registration.
      2.   APPLICATION. Provided by the Village Administrator, a form meeting
the requirements of Section
7.707 of this Article.
      3.   BUILDING. Any structure with substantial walls and roof securely
affixed to the land and entirely separated on all sides from any other
structure by space and which is designed or intended for the shelter, enclosure
or protection of human beings, animals or chattels; and includes a factory
manufactured building, or a prefabricated building on a site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days.
      4.   CANVASS.  Going from door-to-door to engage in purely expressive
speech such as, but not limited to, advocacy for a particular religion,
philosophy, ideology, political party, issue, candidate, or other cause.
      5.   CANVASSER. A person, whether resident of the Village of Mettawa or
not, traveling either by foot, wagon, automobile, motor truck, or any other
type of conveyance, from place to place, from house to house, or from street to
street, taking a canvass or attempting to canvass.
      6.   CERTIFICATE or CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION. Issued by the Village
Administrator to an Applicant upon review and approval of the Applicant's
application, the certificate of registration authorized in this Article
allowing such Applicant to canvass or perform soliciting on real estate whereon
a notice is exhibited stating "ONLY SOLICITORS REGISTERED WITH THE VILLAGE
ADMINISTRATOR INVITED".
      7.   DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY DETACHED or SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE. A building
designed to contain one (1) dwelling unit which is entirely surrounded by open
area on the same lot and is not connected directly or indirectly to any other
dwelling unit by roof, walls, porches or any other means.
      8.   GAINED ENTRANCE. Having made one's way with the whole or part of
one's body, hand, foot, rock, projectile, weapon or other instrument into or
onto the real property of another.
      9.   NOTICE. A small sign meeting the requirements of this Article
containing the determination by the owner or an occupant of the building upon
which the sign is posted to invite or refuse to invite solicitors and
canvassers into the building upon which the sign is posted.
      10.   PERSON. A natural person, partnership, firm, corporation, or other
organization of any kind.
      11.   PREMISES. Any land including any dwelling, house, building or other
structure on such land, designed or used wholly or in part for private
purposes, whether inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or
vacant, and shall include any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps,
delivery vestibule, or mailbox belonging or appurtenant to such dwelling,
house, building or other structure upon such land.
      12.   PRINCIPAL ENTRANCE. The main entrance to any single-family
residence upon the premises.
      13.   REAL PROPERTY or LAND. Any real estate, including improvements
thereon, and tangible personalty firmly affixed to the real estate.
      14.   SOLICITING.  Any one (1) or more of the following:
         a.   Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares,
merchandise, foodstuffs and/or services of any kind, character, or description
whatsoever, for any kind of consideration whatever;
         b.   Seeking to obtain prospective customers for application or
purchase or insurance of any type or kind or character;
         c.   Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals,
newspapers and/or every other type or kind of publication; and/or
         d.   Seeking to obtain gifts or contributions of money, clothing or
any other valuable thing for the support or benefit of any charitable or
nonprofit association, organization, corporation or project.
      15.   SOLICITOR. Any individual, including a canvasser, whether a
resident of the Village of Mettawa or not, traveling either by foot, wagon,
automobile, motor truck or any other type of conveyance, from place to place,
from house to house or from street to street, taking or attempting to take
orders for sale of goods, wares, and merchandise or other personal property of
any nature whatsoever for future delivery, or for services to be furnished or
performed in the future, whether or not such individual has, carries or exposes
for sale a sample of the subject of such sale or whether he is collecting
advance payment on such sales or not, provided that this definition shall
include any person, who for himself or for another person, hires, leases, uses,
or occupies any building, structure, tent, railroad box car, boat, hotel room,
lodging house, apartment, shop, or any other place within the Village for the
sole purpose of exhibiting samples and taking orders for future delivery.
      16.   VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR.  The Village Administrator of the Village.
      17.   VILLAGE or VILLAGE OF METTAWA. The Village of Mettawa, an Illinois
municipal corporation and home rule unit as described in the Illinois
Constitution.
(Ord. 661, passed 8-17-2010; Am. Ord. 798, passed 8-16-2016)
ARTICLE VIII. MANDATES UNDER THE ILLINOIS FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT AND
ILLINOIS OPEN MEETINGS ACT
SECTION 7.801. FREEDOM OF INFORMATION OFFICER.
   A.   Effective on and after January 1, 2010, the Village Clerk shall be the
Freedom of Information Officer as required in section 3.5 of the Illinois
Freedom of Information Act (5 ILCS 140/3.5 - herein the "Freedom of Information
Act").
   B.   The Village Clerk may designate an individual or individuals (herein
collectively "Designee") to receive requests under the Freedom of Information
Act. Such designation is subject to the approval of the Village President and
Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 647, passed 1-12-2010)
SECTION 7.802. DUTIES OF FREEDOM OF INFORMATION OFFICER.
   A.   The Freedom of Information Officer, or the Designee thereof, shall
receive requests submitted to the Village under the Freedom of Information Act;
ensure that the Village responds to requests in a timely fashion and issue
responses under the Freedom of Information Act. The Freedom of Information
Officer shall develop a list of documents or categories of records that the
Village shall immediately disclose upon request and shall prepare other
documents required to be prepared in compliance with the Freedom of Information
Act.
   B.   Upon receiving a request for a public record, the Freedom of
Information Officer shall:
      1.   Note the date the Village receives the written request;
      2.   Compute the day on which the period for response will expire and
make a notation of that date on the written request;
      3.   Maintain an electronic or paper copy of a written request, including
all documents submitted with the request until the request has been complied
with or denied;
      4.   Create a file for the retention of the original request, a copy of
the response, a record of written communications with the requester, and a copy
of other communications.
(Ord. 647, passed 1-12-2010)
SECTION 7.803. DENIALS AND EXEMPTIONS.
   In issuing responses, the Freedom of Information Officer shall consult with
the Village Attorney to determine whether items are exempt from disclosure or
whether exempt matter should be redacted as part of a response to a Freedom of
Information request. In all instances where the Freedom of Information Act
allows the "public body" to deny or redact information which is exempt from
disclosure, the Freedom of Information Officer shall have the authority to make
such determinations following consultation with the Village Attorney as set
herein.
(Ord. 647, passed 1-12-2010)
SECTION 7.804. FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT TRAINING.
   As the Freedom of Information Officer, the Village Clerk shall comply with
the training requirements set forth in the Freedom of Information Act.
(Ord. 647, passed 1-12-2010)
SECTION 7.805. FEES.
   Except as otherwise provided by applicable statute, the Freedom of
Information Officer shall charge the fees for the copying of documents as set
forth in Chapter 2, Village Government, Article X, Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty
Schedules, Section
2.1002, Fee Schedule.
(Ord. 647, passed 1-12-2010; Am. Ord. 852, passed 10-20-2020)
SECTION 7.806. DESIGNATED RECORD KEEPERS.
   Unless otherwise provided by applicable statute, the Village Clerk shall be
the keeper of records for the Village.
(Ord. 647, passed 1-12-2010)
SECTION 7.807. OPEN MEETINGS ACT TRAINING.
   A.   Persons Designated To Receive Training. The Village President, all
Trustees and the Village Clerk are designated hereby to receive the training
required under the Illinois Open Meetings Act (5 ILCS 120/1 et seq. - herein
the "Open Meetings Act"). This designation shall apply to the Village President
and Board of Trustees as well as to all standing and ad hoc committees,
commissions and boards of the Village (herein all such standing and ad hoc
committees, commissions and boards are collectively "Subordinate Public
Bodies") which may be considered a "public body" under the Open Meetings Act.
Subordinate Public Bodies shall not make additional designations.
   B.   Electronic Training. On or before June 30, 2010, or as may be extended
by the Illinois Public Access Counselor, the above designated persons must
successfully complete an electronic training curriculum, developed and
administered by the Public Access Counselor, and thereafter must successfully
complete an annual training program.
   C.   Newly Elected/Appointed/Hired Persons. Whenever any individual not
currently holding any of the designated offices of Village President or Trustee
or Village Clerk assumes any of those offices or whenever the President and
Board of Trustees designate by ordinance an additional officer or employee to
receive this training, such individual must successfully complete the
electronic training curriculum established by the Public Access Counselor
within thirty (30) days after assuming such designated office or position of
employment.
   D.   Designated Officers List. On or before July 1, 2010 and, thereafter,
within fifteen (15) days of an office-holder being designated to receive the
training required under the Open Meetings Act or assuming such designated
office, as the case may be, the Village Clerk shall submit a list of names of
such designated officers to the Public Access Counselor.
(Ord. 647, passed 1-12-2010)
SECTION 7.808. SEVERABILITY.
   In the event any part or parts of this Article shall be found
unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality
shall not affect the validity of the remaining parts of this Article.
(Ord. 647, passed 1-12-2010)
ARTICLE IX. ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION SYSTEM
SECTION 7.901. CREATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION SYSTEM.
   A.   Pursuant to Division 2.1 of the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/1-
2.1-1, et seq., which authorizes municipalities to implement a system of
administrative adjudication, and pursuant to the home rule authority of the
Village, there is hereby created a system of administrative adjudication for
violations of the Village's Code of Ordinances. The system will authorize a
hearing officer to conduct adjudicatory hearings of violations of the Village
of Mettawa Code of Ordinances, as provided herein.
   B.   The adoption of this ordinance does not preclude the Village from using
other lawful methods to enforce the provisions of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 892, passed 3-19-2024)
SECTION 7.902. JURISDICTION.
   The Administrative Adjudication Officer shall have jurisdiction over
adjudication all alleged violations of the Village Code of Ordinances,
including but not limited to the following code provisions:
   A.   Chapter 5, “Streets and Parks”;
   B.   Chapter 6, “Traffic”, except for any (i) any offense that is a traffic
regulation governing the movement of vehicles or (ii) any reportable offense
under Section 6-204 of the Illinois Vehicle Code;
   C.   Chapter 7, “Offenses and Miscellaneous Regulations”;
   D.   Chapter 9, “Building Code”;
   E.   Chapter 10, “Signs”;
   F.   Chapter 11, “Health and Sanitation”;
   G.   Chapter 12, “Animals”;
   H.   Chapter 15, “Zoning”;
   I.   Chapter 16, “Subdivision”;
   J.   Chapter 17, “Telecommunications”;
   K.   Chapter 18, “Alcoholic Beverages”;
   L.   Chapter 19, “Taxation”.
(Ord. 892, passed 3-19-2024)
SECTION 7.903. ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION ADMINISTRATOR.
   A.   There is established the position of Administrative Adjudication
Administrator who shall be appointed by the Village President. The
Administrative Adjudication Administrator's duties shall be to expedite the
prosecution and/or correction of Village Code violations subject to the
jurisdiction of the administrative adjudication system, including:
      1.   Operate and manage the system of administrative adjudication of
Village ordinance violations as may be permitted by law;
      2.   Promulgate rules and regulations reasonably required to operate and
maintain such system;
      3.   Distribute and process notices as may be required under this
ordinance or as may be reasonably required to carry out the purpose of this
ordinance;
      4.   Collect payments made as a result of fines and/or penalties assessed
after a final determination of liability;
      5.   Certify copies of findings, decisions and orders adjudicated
pursuant to this ordinance and verify the findings, decisions and orders that
are issued in accordance with this ordinance;
      6.   Certify reports to the Illinois Secretary of State concerning the
initiation of suspension of driving privileges in accordance with the
provisions of 625 ILCS 5/6-306.5; and
      7.   Keep records of appearances, and nonappearances; and
      8.   Pursue all post-judgment remedies available by law.
(Ord. 892, passed 3-19-2024)
SECTION 7.904. ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING OFFICER.
   A.   All adjudicatory hearings as provided by this article shall be presided
over by an administrative hearing officer who shall be appointed and removed by
the Village President. The administrative hearing officer shall be an
independent contractor of the village and shall not be considered an employee
of the village.
   B.   The administrative hearing officer shall be an attorney licensed to
practice law in the state for at least three (3) years who shall have
successfully completed a formal training program as required by law. The
village finds that a person chosen as a hearing officer for any administrative
adjudication undertaken by the village, who is otherwise qualified, shall have
fulfilled the education and training standards referenced herein as “formal
training program as required by law” if, at the time of his or her appointment,
that individual has served as a judge in the State of Illinois.
   C.   The administrative hearing officer shall have the following powers and
duties:
      1.   Hear testimony and accept evidence that is relevant to the existence
of the code violation;
      2.   Issue subpoenas directing witnesses to appear and give relevant
testimony at the hearing, upon the request of the parties or their
representatives;
      3.   Preserve and authenticate the record of the hearing and all exhibits
and evidence introduced at the hearing;
      4.   Issue written findings, decisions and orders stating whether a code
violation exists; and
      5.   Impose penalties consistent with applicable code provisions and
assess costs upon finding a party liable for the charged violation, except
however, that in no event shall the hearing officer have authority to impose a
penalty of incarceration or any other penalty in excess of that allowed by law.
Any such penalties imposed under this ordinance shall be exclusive of costs of
enforcement or costs or costs imposed to secure compliance with the code.
(Ord. 892, passed 3-19-2024)
SECTION 7.905. ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS UNDER THIS ARTICLE.
   A.   All administrative hearings shall be open to the public and shall be
presided over by a duly appointed administrative hearing officer who is charged
with providing the parties a full and fair opportunity to be heard.
   B.   All administrative hearings shall be conducted on the date set for
hearing. For good cause shown, a continuance may be granted at the discretion
of the administrative hearing officer. The purpose of administrative hearings
is to provide a prompt resolution of the alleged Code violation, and
accordingly, the request for and the grant of continuances shall be curtailed
to the extent fairness permits. Lack of preparation shall not be grounds for a
continuance. Continuances shall not be granted for more than twenty-eight (28)
days.
   C.   The formal and technical rules of evidence shall not apply in the
conduct of the hearing. Evidence, including hearsay, may be admitted if it is
of a type commonly relied upon by reasonably prudent persons in the conduct of
their affairs.
   D.   No violation may be established except upon proof by a preponderance of
the evidence; provided, however, that the original or a legible copy of the
charging document, issued in accordance with the applicable provisions of this
Code, shall be prima facie evidence of the correctness of the facts specified
therein.
   E.   The Administrative Adjudication Administrator, with the advice and
consent of the administrative hearing officer, shall determine the manner in
which the record shall be preserved. Such preservation may be made by tape
recording or other appropriate means. Recording by any means by any member of
the public is prohibited unless expressly authorized by the Administrative
Adjudication Administrator. The record of all hearings before the
administrative hearing officer shall include a copy of the findings, decision,
and order of the administrative hearing officer's final determination.
   F.   At the conclusion of a hearing, the administrative hearing officer
shall issue his final determination. If the administrative hearing officer
issues a final determination of liability, a fine shall be imposed, consistent
with the specific Code provision(s) found to have been violated. If a
determination of liability is made against the violator, administrative costs
in the amount of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) shall be imposed. All fines and
costs must be paid within seven days after the date of determination of
liability.
   G.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the administrative hearing officer
shall inform the parties orally of his determination and shall issue in writing
a final administrative decision which shall include written findings of fact, a
decision on whether a violation existed based upon the findings of fact and an
order including the fine, penalty or action which the defendant must comply, or
a dismissal of the case of no violation is proven. The final written decision
constitutes a final determination for purposes of judicial review and is
subject to review under the Illinois Administrative Review Law.
(Ord. 892, passed 3-19-2024)
SECTION 7.906 PROCEDURE.
   All matters to be adjudicated by the administrative hearing officer shall be
commenced against the party alleged to have violated one or more code
provisions by issuing and serving upon that party a charging document and shall
be conducted in accordance with the following procedures:
   A.   The charging document shall be issued by the administrative
adjudication village officer or person employee authorized to issue charging
documents.
   B.   Any charging document issued pursuant to this section shall contain the
following information:
      1.   The name, position, and identification number, if applicable, of the
person issuing the charging document;
      2.   The name and address of the person or entity being charged with one
or more code violations (“respondent”);
      3.   The name and address of the person to whom the charging document is
given if that person is not the respondent;
      4.   The section(s) of the code alleged to have been violated;
      5.   The date, time, and place of the alleged violation(s);
      6.   If a vehicle is involved, the vehicle make and state registration
number where available and readily discernible;
      7.   A description of the activity or conduct alleged to constitute a
violation of each code section set forth in the charging document or a
description of the facts giving rise to the allegations set forth in the
charging document; and
      8.   The date, time and place of the adjudicatory hearing to be held with
respect to the violation(s) alleged in the charging document.
   C.   The charging document shall be certified as to the correctness of the
information required by this subsection. The certification of correctness
required under this subsection shall establish prima facie evidence of the
correctness of the facts alleged in the violation notice. In the case of a
notice produced by a computer device, a single certificate may be signed and
kept by the Administrative Adjudication Administrator, attesting to the
correctness of all notices produced by the device while under his or her
control.
   D.   The administrative hearing shall be scheduled with reasonable
promptness, provided that for hearings scheduled in all non-emergency
situations, the respondent shall have at least fifteen (15) days after service
of process to prepare for a hearing if requested by the respondent. For
purposes of this subsection, “non-emergency situation” means any situation that
does not reasonably constitute a threat to the public interest, safety or
welfare.
   E.   The respondent named in a charging document, shall be given notice of
the date of the adjudicatory hearing which may appear on the face of the notice
of violation, citation, or other charging document. Notice of the hearing date
may be given in any of the following ways:
      (1)   By first class mail or by overnight or two-day commercial delivery
service at the respondent's last known address or if the respondent is a
business entity, at any address identified for its registered agent or at its
principal place of business; or
      (2)   By certified mail;
      (3)   By personal service;
      (4)   By any other means permitted by law for service of civil summons.
If service is provided by first class mail or by overnight or two-day
commercial delivery service or certified mail, the fifteen (15)-day period
shall begin to run on the day that the notice is deposited in the mail or given
to the commercial delivery service, as applicable.
   F.   The original or a legible copy of the notice of violation, citation, or
other charging document shall be filed with the administrative adjudication
administrator as soon as practicable at the place and in the manner as the
administrative adjudication administrator directs. Upon receiving the original
or legible copy of the charging document, the administrative adjudication
administrator shall select a hearing date and give respondent notice of the
date, time, and place of the hearing in the manner set forth in subsection
7.906E., unless the charging document sets forth the date, time, and location
of the hearing and was served personally on the respondent.
   G.   Parties to an adjudicatory hearing may be represented by an attorney or
other agent, present witnesses, and cross-examine opposing witnesses. Parties
may request the administrative hearing officer to issue subpoenas.
(Ord. 892, passed 3-19-2024)
SECTION 7.907 DEFAULT.
   If at the time set for hearing, the respondent, or his attorney or agent of
record, fails to appear, the administrative hearing officer may enter a default
judgment of liability against the respondent and impose fines and assess costs.
A copy of the order of default shall be served in any manner permitted by this
Article and applicable to the violation. A copy of the default judgment, which
constitutes a final determination for purposes of judicial review and is
subject to review under the Illinois Administrative Review Law, shall apprise
the respondent of the procedure for setting aside the default judgment and
shall also apprise the respondent of the availability of an appeal of the
default judgment to the Circuit Court of DuPage County.
(Ord. 892, passed 3-19-2024)
SECTION 7.908 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Any final decision of a hearing officer that a code violation does or does
not exist shall constitute a final determination for purposes of judicial
review under the Illinois Administrative Review Law. The findings, decision and
order of the hearing officer shall be subject to review in the Circuit Court of
DuPage County.
(Ord. 892, passed 3-19-2024)
SECTION 7.909 ENFORCEMENT.
   A.   Any fine, other sanction, or costs imposed, or part of any fine, other
sanction or costs imposed, remaining unpaid after the exhaustion of, or the
failure to exhaust, judicial review procedures under the Administrative Review
Law (735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.) shall be a debt due and owing the Village and,
as such, may be collected in accordance with applicable law.
   B.   After expiration of the period within which judicial review under the
Administrative Review Law (735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.) may be sought for a final
determination of the code violation, unless stayed by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the findings, decision and order of the hearing officer may be
enforced in the same manner as a judgment entered by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   C.   In any case in which a respondent has failed to comply with a judgment
ordering a defendant to correct a code violation or imposing any fine or other
sanction as a result of a code violation, any expenses incurred by a
municipality to enforce the judgment, including, but not limited to, attorney's
fees, court costs, and costs related to property demolition or foreclosure,
after they are fixed by a court of competent jurisdiction or a hearing officer,
shall be a debt due and owing the municipality and may be collected in
accordance with applicable law. Prior to any expenses being fixed by a hearing
officer pursuant to this subsection C., the village shall provide notice to the
respondent that states that the respondent shall appear at a hearing before the
administrative hearing officer to determine whether the respondent has failed
to comply with the judgment. The notice shall set the date for such a hearing,
which shall not be less than seven (7) days from the date that notice is
served. If notice is served by mail, the seven (7) day period shall begin to
run on the date that the notice was deposited in the mail.
   D.   Upon being recorded in the manner required by Article XII of the Code
of Civil Procedure or by the Uniform Commercial Code, a lien shall be imposed
on the real estate or personal estate, or both, of the defendant in the amount
of any debt due and owing the municipality under this section. The lien may be
enforced in the same manner as a judgment lien pursuant to a judgment of a
court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 892, passed 3-19-2024)
SECTION 7.910 FINES AND PENALTIES.
   A.   Fines and penalties may be imposed for violations as set forth in
Chapter 2, Article X, Section 2.1003.
   B.   For those violations for which a fine or penalty is not set forth in
Chapter 2, Article X, Section 2.1003, the fine shall be not less than one
hundred dollars ($100) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000) for each
offense.
   C.   Each day that a violation of this Code of Ordinances exists shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 892, passed 3-19-2024)
ARTICLE X. FIREWORKS
SECTION 7.1001. FIREWORKS PROHIBITED.
   Within the corporate limits of the Village, it shall be unlawful for any
person to knowingly possess, manufacture, store, offer for sale, expose for
sale, sell at retail, use or explode and/or permit the use or explosion of any
fireworks upon land in which he has any leasehold, ownership or beneficial
interest.
(Ord. 607, passed 5-20-2008)
SECTION 7.1002. DEFINITIONS.
   A.   The language in this Article shall be interpreted in accordance with
the following rules of construction: (i) The word "may" is permissive and the
word "shall" is mandatory; and (ii) except where the context reveals the
contrary: The singular includes the plural and the plural includes the
singular, and the masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
   B.   When the following words are used in this Article, such words shall
have the following meanings:
      CLASS A FIREWORKS or CLASS A EXPLOSIVES. Dynamite.
      CLASS B FIREWORKS or CLASS B EXPLOSIVES or DISPLAY FIREWORKS. Those
fireworks that produce a visual or audible effect used for professional outdoor
displays and classified as fireworks UN0333, UN0334, or UN0335 by the United
States Department of Transportation Under 49 C.F.R. 172.101; and also sparkler
novelties, buzz bombs, helicopters, missiles, pin wheels and other twirling
devices whether mounted on the ground or above the ground, and planes.
      CLASS C FIREWORKS or CLASS C EXPLOSIVES or CONSUMER FIREWORKS. Those
common fireworks that produce a visual or audible effect and must comply with
the construction, chemical composition, and labeling regulations of the U.S.
Consumer Products Safety Commission, as set forth in 16 C.F.R. parts 1500 and
1507, and classified as fireworks UN0336 or UN0337 by the United States
Department of Transportation under 49 C.F.R. 172.101; and include road side
material, roman candles, Chinese firecrackers and all other firecrackers, hand
held fireworks, bottle rockets, sky rockets roman candles, chasers, etc. CLASS
C FIREWORKS or CONSUMER FIREWORKS shall not include snake or glow worm pellets;
smoke devices; trick noisemakers known as "party poppers", "booby traps",
"snappers", "trick matches", "cigarette loads", and "auto burglar alarms";
sparklers; toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other devices in which paper or
plastic caps containing twenty-five hundredths grains or less of explosive
compound are used, provided they are so constructed that the hand cannot come
in contact with the cap when in place for the explosion; and toy pistol paper
or plastic caps that contain less than twenty hundredths grains of explosive
mixture; the sale and use of which shall be permitted at all times.
      FIREWORKS. Generically, any and all of Class A fireworks, Class B
fireworks and Class C fireworks.
      FIREWORKS USE ACT. The Illinois Fireworks Use Act found in the Illinois
Compiled Statutes at 425 ILCS 35/1 et seq.
      PERSON. Any individual, firm, co-partnership, corporation, association,
partnership, company, consortium, joint venture, or commercial entity owning or
having a beneficial interest in land upon which fireworks are displayed and/or
used and any individual, firm, co-partnership, corporation, association,
partnership, company, consortium, joint venture, or commercial entity who
conducts a display or uses fireworks.
      PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES. The President and Board of Trustees of
the Village.
      SPARKLER NOVELTIES. Shall mean and include any explosive composition or
any substance or combination of substances or articles prepared for the purpose
of producing a visible or audible effect of a temporary exhibitional nature by
explosion, combustion, deflagration or detonation and shall include any
cylindrical tube(s), cardboard or heavy cone containing pyrotechnics
composition including sparkler fountains, cone fountains, illuminating torches,
or filter sparklers; however, the term SPARKLER NOVELTIES shall not include
smoke devices; trick noise makers and sparkler devices, known as "sparklers",
consisting of a stick or wire coated with pyrotechnic composition not exceeding
3.5 ounces in weight per item; "party poppers", containing not more than .25
grains (16 mg) of explosive composition; "snappers" containing not more than
0.02 grains (1 mg) of explosive composition; and "snakes" containing not more
than 0.07 ounces (2 grams) of explosive composition.
      VILLAGE or VILLAGE OF METTAWA. The Village of Mettawa, an Illinois
municipal corporation and home rule unit as described in Article VII of the
Constitution of the State of Illinois.
(Ord. 607, passed 5-20-2008)
SECTION 7.1003. PENALTIES.
   Upon conviction: Any person who violates the provisions of Section
7.1001 of this Article shall be fined as set forth in Chapter 2, Village
Government, Article X, Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1003, Fine and Penalty Schedule. Each day that a violation of the provisions
of said Section
7.1001 exists shall constitute a separate violation. The foregoing
notwithstanding, any person found to be in violation of this Article shall
relinquish all fireworks in his possession to the Lake County Sheriffs Police
for destruction.
(Ord. 607, passed 5-20-2008; Am. Ord. 852, passed 10-20-2020)
ARTICLE XI. VIDEO GAMING
SECTION 7.1101. VIDEO GAMING PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   A.   Pursuant to the authority vested in the corporate authorities of the
Village of Mettawa, as a home rule unit by Article VII of the Illinois
Constitution, and by Section 27 of the Illinois Video Gaming Act (230 ILCS 40/
27, the "Act"): it shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
install, operate and/or offer for use within the corporate limits of the
Village any video gaming terminal, whether or not such premises where such
terminal may be located is a licensed establishment or a licensed fraternal
establishment or a licensed veterans establishment or truck stop establishment,
as such terms are defined in the Act.
   B.   Nothing in this Section shall prohibit distributors, manufacturers or
suppliers from distributing, manufacturing or supplying video gaming terminals
for use and/or operation outside of the corporate limits of the Village.
(Ord. 634, passed 9-15-2009)
SECTION 7.1102. VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES.
   A.   Upon conviction: Any person who violates the provisions of Section
7.1101 of this Article shall be fined as set forth in Chapter 2, Village
Government, Article X, Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1003, Fine and Penalty Schedule, for each and every offense, depending upon
the frequency of the violations; and each day that a violation of the
provisions of said Section
7.1101 exists shall constitute a separate violation.
   B.   In addition to the penalty set forth above, the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner may suspend or revoke any liquor licensee’s license for any
violation of any provision of this Ordinance, or for any violation of the Act
or other State law pertaining to video gaming.
(Ord. 634, passed 9-15-2009; Am. Ord. 852, passed 10-20-2020)
ARTICLE XII. PUBLIC CONTRACT GUIDELINES
SECTION 7.1201. FORMAL CONTRACT PROCEDURE.
   All work or other public improvement which is not to be paid for in whole or
in part by special assessment and all purchases of and contracts for supplies
and services, except as otherwise provided herein, when the estimated cost
thereof shall exceed Thirty Thousand Dollars ($30,000), shall be purchased by
formal, written contract entered into with the low responsible bidder, after
due notice inviting bids, unless competitive bidding is waived by a vote of the
President and Board of Trustees of the Village.
(Ord. 677, passed 12-21-2010; Am. Ord. 881, passed 6-20-2023)
SECTION 7.1202. NOTICE INVITING BIDS.
   Notice inviting bids shall be published at least once in a newspaper having
a general circulation within the Village. This newspaper notice shall include a
general description of the work to be performed or the articles to be
purchased, shall state where specifications, if any, may be secured; as well as
the times and places for submitting and opening bids.
(Ord. 677, passed 12-21-2010)
SECTION 7.1203. SPECIFICATIONS.
   The Village Engineer shall be responsible for preparing bid specifications
in cases involving public works projects, including maintenance projects. In
all cases when specifications are provided by the Village, the specifications
shall include a form of contract which has been approved by the Village
Attorney. The contract form shall include the following clauses:
   A.   Each party hereto certifies hereby that it is not barred from entering
into this Agreement as a result of violations of either Sections 33E-3 or 33E-
4 of the Illinois Criminal Code (720 ILCS 5/33 -E-3, 5/33-E-4), that it has a
written policy against sexual harassment in place in full compliance with 775
ILCS 5/2-105(A)(4), and it is in compliance with the Illinois Drug Free
Workplace Act (30 ILCS 580/2).
   B.   The contractor does hereby swear and affirm that: (a) it is not
delinquent in the payment of any tax administered by the Illinois Department of
Revenue; or (b) the contractor is contesting, in accordance with the procedures
established by the appropriate revenue statute, the liability for the tax or
the amount of the tax; and (c) the contractor further understands that making a
false statement herein is a Class I Misdemeanor that voids this agreement and
allows the Village to recover all amounts payable to it under this agreement.
(Ord. 677, passed 12-21-2010)
SECTION 7.1204. BID DEPOSITS.
   When deemed necessary by the President and Board of Trustees of the Village,
bid deposits shall be prescribed in the public notice inviting bids.
Unsuccessful bidders shall be entitled to return of their bid deposits upon the
award of the contract by the President and Board of Trustees of the Village. A
successful bidder shall forfeit any bid deposit required by the President and
Board of Trustees of the Village upon failure on his part to enter into a
contract after the award within the time specified, unless such period is
extended by the President and Board of Trustees of the Village.
(Ord. 677, passed 12-21-2010)
SECTION 7.1205. BID OPENING PROCEDURE.
   Any contractor responding to a request for proposals that requires sealed
bids shall submit a sealed bid to the Village as specified and shall identify
its bid as such on the sealed envelope.
   A.   Opening. Sealed bids shall be opened in public at the time and place
stated in the public notice.
   B.   Tabulation. Following opening, such bids shall be tabulated by the
Village Engineer and the tabulation of the bids furnished to the President and
Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 677, passed 12-21-2010)
SECTION 7.1206. REJECTION OF BIDS.
   A.   In all cases, the President and Board of Trustees have the right to
reject all bids or parts of all bids, whether or not such right is reserved in
the specifications.
   B.   The Village shall not accept the bid of a contractor who is in default
on the payment of taxes, licenses or other monies due the Village or who cannot
make the certifications contained in Section
7.1203.
(Ord. 677, passed 12-21-2010)
SECTION 7.1207. AWARD OF CONTRACTS.
   A.   The President and Board of Trustees of the Village has the authority to
award contracts in accordance with the terms of this Article.
   B.   Contracts shall be awarded to the low responsible bidder as determined
by the President and Board of Trustees. In awarding the contract, in addition
to price, the President and Board of Trustees of the Village shall consider.
      1.   The ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to perform the
contract to provide the service required;
      2.   Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the service
promptly, or within the time specified, without delay or interference;
      3.   The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience and
efficiency of the bidder;
      4.   The quality of performance of previous contracts or services;
      5.   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and
ordinances relating to the contract or service;
      6.   The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the bidder
to perform the contract or provide the service;
      7.   The quality, availability and adaptability of the supplies or
contractual services to the particular use required;
      8.   The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and service
for the use of the subject of the contract;
      9.   The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid;
      10.   Whether the bidder has a place of business in the Village; and/or
      11.   Any other matter deemed pertinent to the President and Board of
Trustees.
   C.   Performance Bonds. The President and Board of Trustees of the Village
has the authority to require a performance bond, before entering into a
contract, in such amount as it shall find reasonably necessary to protect the
best interests of the Village.
(Ord. 677, passed 12-21-2010)
SECTION 7.1208. OPEN MARKET PROCEDURE.
   All work and purchases of supplies and services of less than the estimated
value of Twenty Thousand Dollars ($20,000) shall be made in the open market,
without the necessity of newspaper advertisement and without observing the
procedure prescribed by this Article for the award of formal contracts.
(Ord. 677, passed 12-21-2010)
SECTION 7.1209. CONTRACTS OR PURCHASES WITHOUT BID.
   Any requirement to contract for work supplies or services as provided in
this Article XII, shall not apply to the following:
   A.   All contracts for professional services, including but not limited to
architects, attorneys, engineers, land planners, real estate appraisers, or
other individuals possessing a high degree of skill where the ability or
fitness of the person is an important requirement;
   B.   Purchases which may only be made from a single source;
   C.   Purchases, which because of the unique characteristics of the personal
property or the needs of the village, are not susceptible to competitive
bidding;
   D.   Contracts extended pursuant to options to renew for additional periods
of time at a fixed price; and
   E.   Extension of contracts that have originally been bid and can be renewed
for an additional period of time at a competitive fixed price.
(Ord. 677, passed 12-21-2010; Am. Ord. 881, passed 6-20-2023)
SECTION 7.1210. EMERGENCY PURCHASES.
   In case of a real or a perceived emergency requiring immediate services or
purchase of supplies, the President and Board of Trustees of the Village may
authorize the securing of a contract for the work or supplies at the low
obtainable price by the open market procedure as herein set forth, regardless
of the amount of the expenditure.
(Ord. 677, passed 12-21-2010)
SECTION 7.1211. COOPERATIVE PURCHASING.
   The President and Board of Trustees of the Village retain the right to join
with other units of government in cooperative purchasing plans.
(Ord. 677, passed 12-21-2010)
SECTION 7.1212. CHANGE ORDERS.
   Except as hereinafter provided, all change orders to construction contracts
originally awarded by the President and Board of Trustees of the Village must
receive approval from the President and Board of Trustees of the Village.
However, the Village Administrator is authorized hereby to approve and accept
any change order that will: 1) not affect the contract price; 2) lower the
contract price; or 3) not increase the contract price by an amount in excess of
Five Thousand Dollars ($5,000).
(Ord. 677, passed 12-21-2010; Am. Ord. 881, passed 6-20-2023)
ARTICLE XIII. POLICY: UNPAID CHARGES AND ASSESSMENTS AND DISCLOSURE OF
INTERESTS
SECTION 7.1301. CERTIFICATE OF NO UNPAID CHARGES AND ASSESSMENTS.
   A.   Prior to the issuance by any Village official or agent of any Village
certificate real estate transfer tax stamp, license and/or permit required to
be issued pursuant to the laws and ordinances of the Village of Mettawa, such
official or agent shall withhold such issuance until the applicant seeking such
certificate, license and/or permit shall have paid in full any and all overdue
unpaid fees or charges for any Village provided service and/or any unpaid
fines, judgments, levies, debts or required reimbursements to be made to the
Village.
   B.   No Village official or agent whose duty it is to issue such
certificate, license and/or permit shall issue such certificate, license and/or
permit until such time as the applicant seeking such certificate, license and/
or permit presents to such Village official or agent the certificate of the
Village Clerk indicating that all such fees and charges, fines, judgments,
levies, debts or required reimbursements have been paid in full or are non-
existing.
   C.   In the case of the collection of real estate transfer taxes, no real
estate transfer stamp shall be issued until the grantor and grantee each shall
have certified to the Village official or agent whose duty it is to issue
transfer stamps that, to the best of the knowledge and belief of each, there
are no other unpaid fees or charges for any Village provided service and/or any
fines, judgments, levies, debts or required reimbursements to be paid to the
Village by the grantor and/or the grantee or in any manner arising out of or
pertaining to the real property which is the subject of such transfer.
(Ord. 677, passed 12-21-2010; Am. Ord. 713, passed 12-13-2011)
SECTION 7.1302 DISCLOSURE OF INTERESTS REQUIRED.
   Whenever any person makes application to the Village for any benefit, being
any authorization, certificate, real estate transfer tax stamp, zoning and/or
subdivision consideration, license and/or permit, whether or not relating to
real estate:
   A.   Such person shall certify whether such person is acting in his own
behalf or as an agent, officer or trustee.
   B.   If such person certifies he is (i) an agent, (ii) a trustee or a
beneficiary of a trust, or (iii) an officer of or for any firm or corporation,
such person shall identify by name and address each and every:
      1.   Principal for whom he is acting as agent and describe such
principal's interest in such benefit.
      2.   Beneficiary of such trust of which he is beneficiary or acting as
trustee and describe each such beneficiary's interest in such trust; and
provide a certified copy of such trust agreement.
      3.   Person having a five percent (5%) or greater ownership interest in
the firm or corporation.
   C.   In addition to the foregoing, if such benefit relates to real estate,
such person shall also identify such real estate by its commonly known Village
address as well as its legal description and permanent index number.
SECTION 7.1303. VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   A.   Every person convicted of a violation of any of the provisions on this
Section shall be punished by a fine as set forth in Chapter 2, Village
Government, Article X, Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1003, Fine and Penalty Schedule.
   B.   For purposes of this Article, each day that a violation is permitted to
exist shall constitute a separate offense.
   C.   The remedies afforded by this Section are in addition to any and all
other remedies afforded the Village of Mettawa and its residents by law and
shall not be deemed to preclude pursuit of such other remedies.
(Ord. 713, passed 12-13-2011; Am. Ord. 852, passed 10-20-2020)
ARTICLE XIV. ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION 7.1401. DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and phrases shall, for the purposes of this Chapter,
have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section, as follows:
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT: A cultivation center, craft
grower, processing organization, infuser organization, dispensing organization
or transporting organization.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER: A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, dry, cure and package cannabis and perform other necessary
activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or
use at a processing organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act,
(P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities
to provide cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it
may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed
cannabis business establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing
cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related
supplies to purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and
caregivers, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may
be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER: A facility operated by
an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-
time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR: A facility operated
by an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER: An organization
or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or a
community college licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational
Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (PA 101 -
0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
   PERSON: Any person, firm, corporation, association, club, society or other
organization, including any owner, manager, proprietor, employee, volunteer or
agent.
(Ord. 841, passed 10-15-2019)
SECTION 7.1402. CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   The following Adult-Use Cannabis Business Establishments are prohibited in
the Village. No person shall locate, operate, own, suffer, allow to be operated
or aide, abet or assist in the operation within the Village any of the
following:
   Adult-Use Cannabis Craft Grower
   Adult-Use Cannabis Cultivation Center
   Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization
   Adult-Use Cannabis Infuser Organization or Infuser
   Adult-Use Cannabis Processing Organization or Processor
   Adult-Use Cannabis Transporting Organization or Transporter
(Ord. 841, passed 10-15-2019)
SECTION 7.1403. PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Operation of any prohibited Cannabis Business Establishment within the
Village in violation of the provisions of this article is hereby declared a
public nuisance and shall be abated pursuant to all available remedies.
(Ord. 841, passed 10-15-2019)
SECTION 7.1404. VIOLATIONS.
   Any person who violates any provision of this article shall be subject to a
fine in the amount of not less than $750 or more than $1,000.00 per offense. A
separate offense shall be deemed to have been committed on each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 841, passed 10-15-2019)
CHAPTER 8 - PRIVATE INDIVIDUAL ONSITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
SECTION
Article I. Administration
   
8.101   Scope
   
8.102   Applicability
   
8.103   Validity
   
8.104   Duties and Powers of the Village Engineer
   
8.105   Existing Systems
Article II. Definitions
   
8.201   General
   
8.202   Definitions
Article III. General Requirements
   
8.301   General
   
8.302   Restrictions
Article IV. Unsanitary Conditions
   
8.401   General
Article V. Approval Procedures
   
8.501   Construction, Modification and/or Repair
   
8.502   New Construction Approval Conditions
   
8.503   Repair, Modification or Replacement
   
8.504   Approval Conditions–Alterations or Additions
   
8.505   Non-Conforming Systems Prohibited
   
8.506   Approval Conditions–Proposed Subdivision
   
8.507   Variance Requests
Article VI. Site Suitability
   
8.601   Soil Evaluation
   
8.602   Soil Descriptions
   
8.603   Minimum Soil Conditions
   
8.604   Acceptable Soil Evaluations of Record
   
8.605   Conflict Resolution
   
8.606   Procedures and Fees
Article VII. Private Sanitary Sewage Septic System Design
   
8.701   General Purpose
   
8.702   Low Pressure Distribution
Article VIII. Private Sanitary Sewage Septic System Plans
   
8.801   Plans Required
   
8.802   Plan Specifications
Article IX. Construction Requirements
   
8.901   General
   
8.902   Permit and License Requirements
   
8.903   Site Preparation
   
8.904   Fill
   
8.905   Excavation
   
8.906   Gravel
   
8.907   Piping
   
8.908   Backfilling
   
8.909   Accessories
   
8.910   Compliance
Article X. Materials
   
8.1001   General
   
8.1002   Pretreatment Components
   
8.1003   Lift Stations
   
8.1004   Distribution Devices
   
8.1005   Valves
   
8.1006   Piping
   
8.1007   Fill; Aggregate
   
8.1008   Backfill/Topsoil
   
8.1009   Other Materials
Article XI. Land Application
   
8.1101   Land Application Prohibited
   
8.1102   Treatment by Irrigation Prohibited
Article XII. Interpretation and Conflict
   
8.1201   Minimum Requirements
   
8.1202   Compliance with State and Local Requirements
   
8.1203   (Reserved)
Article XIII. Enforcement
   
8.1301   Authority of the Village Engineer
   
8.1302   Relief from Personal Liability
   
8.1303   Severability
Article XIV. Sanctions
   
8.1401   Violation; Penalty
Article XV. Appendices
   
Appendix A
   
Appendix B
   
Appendix C
   
Appendix D
   
Appendix E
   ARTICLE I. ADMINISTRATION
SECTION 8.101. SCOPE.
   A.   The owner of a structure on a lot in the Village of Mettawa who
requires sanitary sewage service shall, at his own expense, construct and
maintain a Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal System meeting the
applicable regulations of the County of Lake and applicable ordinances of the
Village of Mettawa, unless the Village of Mettawa has authorized and
constructed a public sanitary sewer to provide service to the lot. If a Private
Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal System should fail, and cannot be repaired,
an Expansion System as regulated by this Municipal Code shall be constructed,
or if such construction is impossible, an experimental system approved by the
Lake County Health Department and the Village of Mettawa shall be constructed.
   B.   Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal Systems are required unless
the Village of Mettawa has authorized and constructed a public sanitary sewer
to provide service to the lot. Unless specifically approved by the Village
Engineer, the Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal System of each building
shall be entirely separate from and independent of that of any other building.
   C.   This Chapter is enacted in order to secure the proper design and
installation of septic systems for the treatment and disposal of sewage; to
insure minimum standards for sewage discharges, the location, installation,
alteration, operation, maintenance, and monitoring of all Private Individual
Onsite Sewage Disposal Systems so as to protect land, water, groundwater and
other natural resources within the Village of Mettawa from impairment,
pollution, or destruction; to minimize the risk of spreading communicable
diseases, and to prevent and avoid other health and ecologic hazards
attributable to bacteria, viruses, protozoa and the helminths, as well as,
chemical contamination of lands and waters.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
SECTION 8.102. APPLICABILITY.
   A.   General. The provisions of these regulations shall cover all matters
affecting or relating to Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal Systems as
set forth in this Chapter.
   B.   Matters Not Provided For. Any private sewage disposal requirement
essential for the sanitary safety of an existing or proposed building or
structure or essential for the health or safety of the occupants thereof, and
which is not specifically covered by this Code, shall be determined by the
Village Engineer.
   C.   Continued Use. The continuation of use of a private sewage disposal
system, or part thereof, contrary to the provisions of this Chapter shall be
deemed a violation, and subject to the penalties prescribed in Article XIV.
   D.   Referenced Standards. The standards referenced in this Chapter and
listed in Appendix A shall be considered part of the requirements of this
Chapter to the prescribed extent of each reference. Where differences occur
between provisions of this Chapter and referenced standards, the provisions of
this Chapter shall apply.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
SECTION 8.103. VALIDITY.
   A.   Partial. In the event any part or provision of this Chapter is held to
be illegal or void, such finding shall not have the effect of making void or
illegal any of the other parts or provisions thereof, which are determined to
be legal, and it shall be presumed that this Chapter would have been approved
without such illegal or invalid parts or provisions.
   B.   Segregation. Any invalid part of this Chapter shall be segregated from
the remainder of the Chapter by the court holding each part invalid, and the
remainder shall remain effective.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
SECTION 8.104. DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE VILLAGE ENGINEER.
   A.   General. The Village Engineer shall enforce all of the provisions of
this Chapter and shall act on any question relative to the mode or manner of
the design or construction and the materials to be used in the installation of
Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal Systems and shall specifically act as
follows.
   B.   Applications and Permits. The Building Official shall receive
applications and issue building permits following approval of the plans for the
installation of private sewage disposal systems by both the Village Engineer
and the Health Officer. The Village Engineer and the Health Officer shall
inspect the premises for which such permits have been issued, and enforce
compliance with the provisions of this Chapter.
   C.   Notices and Orders. The Village Engineer and/or the Building Official
shall issue all necessary notices or orders to remove illegal or unsafe
conditions, to require the necessary safeguards during construction, and to
insure compliance with all Chapter requirements. Any written order posted on
premises involved shall not be removed except by order of the Village Engineer.
Removal without such order shall constitute a violation of this Chapter to
ensure the health, safety and general welfare of the public. The Building
Official and/or the Village Engineer may revoke, by writing, any permit or
approval issued contrary to this Chapter or based upon a false statement or
misrepresentation in the application.
   D.   Authority to Enter Premises. The Health Officer, the Building Official
and/or the Village Engineer, after identification, shall have the authority to
enter any property at any reasonable time to inspect any premises for health
and sanitation purposes, and for compliance with the provisions of this
Chapter. The Health Officer and/or the Village Engineer may also make any
necessary test, including dye tests or obtaining effluent samples for
laboratory analysis, on any property to determine compliance with the
provisions of this Chapter. The Village Engineer is authorized to engage such
expert opinion as deemed necessary to report upon unusual technical issues that
arise.
   E.   Official Records. The Building Official shall keep official records of
applications received, permits and certificates issued, fees collected, reports
of inspections, and notices and orders issued. Such records shall be retained
in the official records so long as the building or structure to which they
relate remains in existence unless otherwise provided for.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
SECTION 8.105. EXISTING SYSTEMS.
   A.   Continued System Use. The legal use and occupancy of any structure
serviced by a Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal System, which had been
heretofore approved, shall be permitted to be continued without change, except
as specifically addressed in this Chapter.
   B.   System Maintenance. All Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal
Systems, both existing and new, shall be maintained in a safe and sanitary
condition. All service equipment, devices and safeguards which are required by
this Chapter, or which were required by previous statute, shall be maintained
in working order as when installed or repaired.
   C.   Maintenance Responsibility. The owner or the owner's designated agent
shall be responsible for the safe and sanitary maintenance of the Private
Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal System for any building or structure at all
times.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
   ARTICLE II. DEFINITIONS
SECTION 8.201. GENERAL.
   A.   Whenever in this Chapter the following words and phrases are used, they
shall, for the purposes of this Chapter, have the meanings ascribed to them in
this Article, except when the context otherwise indicates. The masculine gender
includes the feminine and neuter, and the singular number shall include the
plural number. The word "shall" is mandatory, the word "may" is permissive.
   B.   Where terms are not defined through the methods authorized by this
Article, such terms shall have ordinarily accepted meanings such as the context
implies.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
SECTION 8.202. DEFINITIONS.
   BATHROOM. A room containing toilet facilities and includes any of the
following:
      •   HALF BATHROOM or POWDER ROOM. A room containing a flush toilet and a
vanity.
      •   FULL BATHROOM. A room containing at least a flush toilet, a bathtub
or whirl pool, and a vanity.
      •   THREE-QUARTER BATHROOM. A room containing a flush toilet, a shower
and a vanity.
      •   PRIVATE BATHROOM. A three-quarter bathroom or full bathroom having
limited access via a bedroom only.
   BEDROOM. Any room, regardless of its designation by the owner or permit
applicant or anyone else, which may be used regularly for sleeping. Extra rooms
shall be considered bedrooms if there exists in the same story either a full
bathroom or a three-quarter bathroom or both, excluding bedrooms with a private
bathroom.
   BUILDABLE AREA. For purposes of this Chapter, the minimum 30,000 square foot
area of a lot designated for use as a Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal
System leaching field, which area shall not lie within any zoning yard and
shall otherwise comply with other setback and soil suitability requirements.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The Building Official of the Village of Mettawa or his
designated agent.
   CLASS I AEROBIC UNIT. A mechanical wastewater treatment unit which is listed
by NSF International as Class I.
   COARSE SAND. Fill material having an effective diameter of .15 to .30 mm
with a coefficient of uniformity <5.0, and having less than 20% material
coarser than 2 mm and less than 5% silt and clay.
   CONSTRUCTION PERMIT. A non-transferable permit issued by the Lake County
Health Department to a licensed Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal
System contractor to construct a Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal
System to the specifications of the plan approved for the septic system.
   DISCHARGE RATE. The volume of wastewater discharged from a low pressure
distribution septic system expressed as gallons per minute, and applied as a
rate either per perforation, per line, or per septic system.
   DISTAL END PRESSURE. A measure of septic system pressure in a low pressure
distribution septic system made at the end of a lateral distribution pipe
opposite pressure head.
   DIVERTER VALVE. A valve with a single inflow which may be adjusted to direct
outflow into any one of two or more directions.
   DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Wastewater typical of a residential flow, containing human
wastes, moderate concentrations of soaps and detergents, and minimum
concentrations of grease and toxics such as normal household cleaning agents.
   EFFLUENT FILTER. A device installed at the outflow of a septic tank which
screens and collects solids ordinarily suspended in solution.
   EXPANSION AREA. An area equal to or greater in size to the primary area,
located in a site, and designated for construction of an Expansion System upon
the replacement or enlargement of a soil based Private Individual Onsite Sewage
Disposal System.
   EXPANSION SYSTEM. An additional septic system which must be constructed on
the site upon the failure of the primary system and/or the construction of a
guest house or additional bedrooms on the lot.
   EXTRA ROOMS. Unfinished or finished rooms that may be used as dens, studies,
bonus rooms, libraries, television rooms, sewing rooms and similar rooms.
   FINISHED. Walls of room, the surface of which is plaster or taped dry-wall
or paneling.
   FLOODPLAIN. The elevation of base flood elevation expressed as U.S.
Geological Survey (mean sea level) National Geodetic vertical datum, which
establishes the 100 year flood limit, and adjacent lands of equal or lower
elevation.
   FLOW CONTROL DEVICE. A device specially designed to equalize the outflow
elevation of effluent from a distribution box typically a rotating pipe cap
provided with an off center outflow orifice which can adjust the flowline by
rotation of the cap.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Executive Director of the Lake County Health Department
or an appropriate designated agent thereof.
   IRRIGATION or SPRAY IRRIGATION. The moistening of the surface of land with
treated or untreated sanitary sewage and includes any land treatment type
sanitary sewage facility whether or not such facility has received the
approvals required by the Northeastern Illinois Planning Commission, or the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency or any other governmental entity, but
excluding Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal Systems.
   ISOLATION DISTANCE. The vertical measurement from a wastewater application
point to a limiting layer.
   LAKE COUNTY. Lake County, Illinois.
   LIFT STATION. A watertight containment intended solely to collect pretreated
effluent and containing a submersible effluent pump, external pump switch(es),
an audio-visual alarm and additional pump control devices.
   LIMITING LAYER. That plane in a soil profile which restricts the placement
of a wastewater application point due to conditions including, but not limited
to, seasonal high water table or permanent saturated conditions, restrictive
permeability (loading rate of 0 gpd/sq.ft.), excessive permeability (gravelly
coarse sand or coarser texture), fractured bedrock, floodplain, frigipans,
bedrock, glacial tills, or natural depression areas, high water elevation of
any adjacent lake, pond, storm detention basin, stream, flood-prone area,
perched groundwater table, wetland, or other soil profile features that will
materially affect the absorption of liquid.
   LOADING RATE. The maximum rate, based upon a soil's texture, structure, and
consistence and expressed as gallons per day per square foot of infiltration
area, at which effluent may be applied to a soil absorption septic system.
   LOT. A portion of a platted land measured, set apart, and subdivided as a
distinct parcel having its principal frontage upon a street and created and
delineated upon a plat of subdivision or resubdivision and so recorded by the
Recorder of Deeds of Lake County, Illinois.
   MOTTLING. A Redoximorphic Feature of some soils which is associated with
high water tables, appearing as spotty patches of red, brown, orange and gray
colors and having a Munsell color chart chroma equal to or less than 2 and a
value equal to or greater than 4.
   NON-CONFORMING SYSTEM. A septic system intended for an atypical use or
application for which special consideration to flow, wastewater strength, or
wastewater disposal may result in special requirements which exceed the
standards set forth in this Chapter.
   PRE-TREATMENT UNIT. A septic tank, multiple septic tanks, a Class 1 Aerobic
Unit. (Note: The aerobic unit, including trash tanks, must be properly sized
for the projected daily wastewater volume and provide physical, chemical and
biological treatment to raw wastewater prior to its application to soil
infiltration.
   PRIMARY AREA. An area located in a site and designated for construction of
an Initial System leaching field.
   PRIMARY SYSTEM or INITIAL SYSTEM. The initial septic system constructed upon
a lot.
   PRIVATE INDIVIDUAL ONSITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM or SEPTIC SYSTEM. A Private
Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal System is used to collect, treat, and
discharge or reclaim wastewater from an individual dwelling without the use of
community-wide or a centralized treatment facility. A conventional onsite
system includes a septic tank and a leaching field. Some of the other
alternative types of onsite systems include at-grade systems, mound systems,
sand filters and small aerobic units. The leaching field receives pretreated
wastewater and the soil further treats the wastewater by filtration, sorption,
and microbiological degradation before the water is discharged to ground water.
   REDOXIMORPHIC FEATURE. Soil characteristics associated with wetness which
result from the reduction and oxidation of iron and manganese compounds in the
soil, and are indicative of the extent of soil saturation.
   REPAIR. The replacement of or the addition or modification to an existing
Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal System, which is continuing to serve
the same dwelling or structure, excluding maintenance activities such as
pumping the tanks, replacement of baffles or filter, replacement of
distribution boxes, replacement of electrical or mechanical components such as
pumps, switches, motors or controls.
   SANITARY SEWAGE AND/OR SANITARY WASTEWATER. A combination of the water-
carried human and other wastes from residences, business buildings, and other
habitable buildings and structures.
   SEPTAGE. Liquid and solid material removed from domestic septic tanks or
other approved pretreatment septic systems, and specifically excluding wastes
from portable toilets, holding tanks, grease traps and sewage treatment plant
sludge material.
   SITE. See BUILDABLE AREA.
   SITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A prepared plan which illustrates the final
contouring of a site, including modifications to the site associated with
proposed work on the Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal System, to
specifications acceptable to the Village and the County of Lake.
   SOIL RESOURCE GROUP. A group of soils specific to this Chapter into five
types, I through V, based upon the extent of physical contact between seepage
trench or bed aggregate material and the natural soil.
   STORY. A division of a building extending horizontally at its base at the
same level and extending vertically at least seven feet (7') from the floor
surface to the underside of the ceiling, joists, or roof rafters lying directly
above it; provided that an attic shall not be considered a story, unless the
attic contains any plastered or dry-walled finished area, with or without
paneling or wood upon the surface thereof, having a minimum seven foot (7')
ceiling height; and further provided that, if the building contains a basement
as opposed to a cellar, the basement shall be considered a story; and, if the
building contains a cellar having two exterior walls whose base at the floor
level is at or above grade, such cellar shall be a story.
   TOPOGRAPHICAL SURVEY. A representation of changes in elevation of a property
prepared to scale by an Illinois licensed surveyor or engineer, which depicts
each 1 foot change in elevation by a contour line, is referenced to a benchmark
of known or assumed elevation, and which encompasses a sufficient area to
include the proposed structure, the Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal
System area and any other topographical feature relevant to the wastewater
septic system.
   VANITY. A dressing table or stand containing a wash basin.
   VILLAGE OF METTAWA or VILLAGE. The Village of Mettawa, Illinois, a home-rule
unit.
   VILLAGE ENGINEER. The Village Engineer of the Village or his designated
agent.
   WASTEWATER APPLICATION POINT. The point lowest in elevation at which
wastewater applied to a soil infiltration septic system will first contact with
soil or fill material.
   WETLAND. Land that is inundated or saturated by surface or shallow ground
water at a sufficient frequency and duration to support, under ordinary
conditions, a prevalence of vegetation adopted to such conditions (hydrophytic
vegetation).
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
   ARTICLE III. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
SECTION 8.301. GENERAL.
   Authority. In order to protect and promote the health, safety, and general
welfare of the people of Lake County, Illinois, the Health Officer has
authorized and directed to develop procedures, practices and policies; to
interpret and enforce the rules and regulations of Lake County establishing
minimum standards for sewage discharges, the location, installation,
alteration, operation, maintenance, and monitoring of all Private Individual
Onsite Sewage Disposal Systems, so as to protect land, water, groundwater and
other natural resources within the County of Lake from impairment, pollution,
or destruction; to minimize the risk of spreading communicable diseases, and to
prevent and avoid other health and ecologic hazards attributable to bacteria,
viruses, protozoa and helminths, as well as, chemical contamination of lands
and waters. In addition, the Village of Mettawa hereby authorizes its Village
Engineer to enforce the rules and regulations of this Chapter establishing
minimum standards to further reduce the risk that Private Individual Onsite
Sewage Disposal Systems pose to the public health of the citizens of the
Village, so that Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal Systems:
   A.   Do not contaminate any potable water supply;
   B.   Are not accessible to insects, rodents, or other possible carriers of
disease which may come into contact with human food or drinking water;
   C.   Do not pollute or contaminate the water of any bathing beach or surface
waters used for public or domestic water supply or recreational purposes;
   D.   Do not give rise to a nuisance due to odor or unsightly appearance; and
   E.   Will not violate any other laws or regulations governing control of
water pollution or sewage disposal.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
SECTION 8.302. RESTRICTIONS.
   A.   Water Conserving Plumbing Fixtures. Any building proposed to be
serviced by a Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal System shall utilize
water conserving plumbing fixtures, including, but not limited to, low flush
volume toilets and flow restricting (2.5 gallons per minute) faucets and
showerheads. Whenever swimming pools and whirlpool tubs, spas, etc. with a
capacity exceeding 60 gallons are proposed to be installed upon the lot to be
served, the projected daily flow of the wastewater system shall be increased by
that capacity.
   B.   Property Boundaries. Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal Systems
shall not be located outside of the property boundaries of the serviced
dwelling or establishment, nor, unless specifically approved by the Village
Engineer, serve more than one dwelling or structure.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
   ARTICLE IV. UNSANITARY CONDITIONS
SECTION 8.401. GENERAL.
   A.   Discharge of Improperly Treated Sewage. Every Private Individual Onsite
Sewage Disposal System shall be maintained in proper sanitary condition and
repair by its owner. It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or cause the
discharge of improperly treated sewage directly or indirectly to a wetland,
surface waters, ground surface, well or abandoned well, or to allow the
contents of any sewage disposal system or components thereof, to emit offensive
odors or become objectionable so as to be dangerous or prejudicial to health.
   B.   Abatement Orders. Upon verification of such unsanitary condition, the
Village Engineer and/or the Building Official shall give or cause to be given a
written order of abatement to the owner and/or occupant responsible for such
acts or emissions. Failure of any person to obey such an abatement order shall
also constitute a separate violation of this Chapter. Lake County regulations
shall apply to any person receiving an abatement order from the Health Officer.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
   ARTICLE V. APPROVAL PROCEDURES
SECTION 8.501. CONSTRUCTION, MODIFICATION AND/OR REPAIR.
   No person shall construct, modify or repair a Private Individual Onsite
Sewage Disposal System without the prior approval of the Health Officer and the
Village Engineer. Such approval shall include both the approval of a plan for
the proposed construction or repair, and the issuance of a permit by the
Building Official to conduct the work required.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
SECTION 8.502. NEW CONSTRUCTION APPROVAL CONDITIONS.
   The Village Engineer shall review and approve of the location for new
Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal Systems. After the Village Engineer’s
review and approval of the location, provided the Lake County Health Department
has approved the plans and specifications for a new Private Individual Onsite
Sewage Disposal System, the Village Engineer shall approve said plans and
specifications.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003; Am. Ord. 746,
passed 12-17-2013)
SECTION 8.503. REPAIR, MODIFICATION OR REPLACEMENT.
   A.   Approval Conditions. Provided the Village Engineer has first approved
the location for, and then the Lake County Health Department then has approved
the plans and specifications for, the repair, modification or replacement of a
Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal System, the Village Engineer shall
approve said plans and specifications.
   B.   Compliance Impossible. If there is no expansion area with undisturbed
suitable soils for a replacement field, a repair of an existing failing septic
system may be approved when the septic system cannot meet the criteria for
flow, setbacks, number of soil borings and loading rates as assigned by the
soil evaluation report, but the proposal is in substantial compliance with
these criteria so as to reasonably meet the requirements for wastewater
disposal and to be in the best interest of public health. The repair plans must
also meet all requirements and approvals of the Lake County Health Department
and/or The Illinois Department of Public Health. The Lake County Health
Department and/or the Village Engineer may place restrictions upon the use of
the septic system to reduce flow to minimize the risk of septic system failure.
Such restrictions shall be made covenant(s) running with the land and shall be
filed with the Lake County Recorder of Deeds for recordation against the title
to the lot containing the septic system. The Building Official shall not
approve plans for alterations or additions to existing buildings or other
structures unless proposed modifications to an existing septic system or a new
septic system meet all of the requirements of this Municipal Code.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003; Am. Ord. 515,
passed 4-20-2004; Am. Ord. 746, passed 12-17-2013)
SECTION 8.504. APPROVAL CONDITIONS -- ALTERATIONS OR ADDITIONS.
   No dwelling or establishment served by a Private Individual Onsite Sewage
Disposal System may be altered, expanded, remodeled, or added to where such
change may affect the Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal System without
prior approval of the Lake County Health Department and the Village Engineer.
Applications for building additions or structural building alterations shall be
made to the Building Official and plans and specifications therefor shall be
reviewed by the Village Engineer but not approved unless the Lake County Health
Department has given approval.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003; Am. Ord. 746,
passed 12-17-2013)
SECTION 8.505. NON-CONFORMING SYSTEMS PROHIBITED.
   The Village Engineer shall not approve plans and specifications for a
proposed Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal System which do not meet the
requirements of this Chapter and the Building Official shall not issue any
permit for the lot without plans approved by the Village Engineer.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
SECTION 8.506. APPROVAL CONDITIONS - PROPOSED SUBDIVISION.
   Where Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal Systems are to be used for
any subdivision or resubdivision of any subdivision, tract, parcel or lot of
land into two or more parts of mapping, platting, conveyance, change or
rearrangement of boundaries, the Village Engineer shall review each lot to
ensure it will have a minimum 30,000 square foot area in the buildable area
which is suitable for a Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal System and
its required expansion area. No subdivision shall be approved unless all final
lots are considered suitable for a Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal
System as follows:
   A.   Site Suitability. The suitability of proposed subdivision stress
utilizing individual soil absorption sewage disposal systems shall be
determined by the results of the soil evaluations that are conducted in
accordance with Article VI and by the platting of proposed lots with Article
IX.
   B.   Natural Resource Protection. The subdivision shall be designed to
protect all natural resources such as drainage ways, wetlands, wooded areas,
surface waters, and soil conditions. Such information shall be provided by a
registered Professional Engineer licensed to practice in the State of Illinois
in accordance with Section 8.905.
   C.   Expansion Areas. Every lot served by a Private Individual Onsite Sewage
Disposal System shall have a minimum 30,000 square foot area of suitable soil
located in the buildable area for sewage disposal sufficient for both a primary
system and an expansion system, relative to soil conditions and system design.
A review shall be made of the preliminary plat of subdivision and the soil
borings and lot lines shall be adjusted to eliminate any unsuitable lots. In
all cases an Expansion System must be constructed on the site upon the failure
of the Primary System and/or the construction of a guest house or additional
bedrooms on the lot.
   D.   Area Protection. All designated Private Individual Onsite Sewage
Disposal System areas must be protected from damage before and during the
construction of the roads, utilities, drainage, etc., in the subdivision. Snow
fencing, two by fours or equivalent shall be placed so as to protect wastewater
disposal areas.
   E.   Before a new subdivision is approved, each proposed lot must be
identified on a topographical survey. Land suitable for site must be identified
by soil testing and shown on the topographical survey. Until a system is
constructed, this site must then be protected from any construction or other
activity that would lessen its suitability for a septic leaching field.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
SECTION 8.507. VARIANCE REQUESTS.
   Whenever approval as required by this Article is denied by the Village
Engineer, and where compliance with the requirements of this Chapter is
impossible or impractical, that person denied approval may request a variance.
The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hear and make recommendations to the
President and Board of Trustees on all requests for variations from the
regulations contained in this Article. Variation requests shall be applied for
and processed in accordance with the provisions of Article VIII (Variations) of
Chapter 15 of this Code.
   A.   Supporting Data. Variance requests shall include pertinent data to
support the requested waiver of the requirements of this Chapter as being
consistent with the responsibility of the Village Engineer to protect and
provide for the health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens of the
Village.
   B.   Zoning Board of Appeals. Provided the Lake County Health Officer has
given approval of the plans and specifications for the proposed Private
Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal System, whenever the Village Clerk is in
receipt of a written application for a variance with supporting data, the
Village Clerk shall forward the application to the Village Engineer.
   C.   Review by the Zoning Board of Appeals. Except as otherwise set forth
herein, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall have jurisdiction to hear and make
recommendations to the President and Board of Trustees for variations from the
provisions of this Chapter. In making its recommendation, the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall have the right to rely on advice provided it by the Village
Engineer and the Village's Septic System consultant engineer. A majority vote
of the members of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be required to make a
recommendation to grant or deny a request for variation from the provisions of
this Chapter.
   D.   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section, the Village
Engineer is authorized hereby to modify the minimum 30,000 square foot
Buildable Area to 20,000 square feet, when he is in receipt of proof of
recordation against the title to the Lot in question of a restrictive covenant
containing the written approval of the Village President and Board of Trustees
and forbidding the erection or construction upon such Lot of a guest house or
building containing servants' or caretakers' quarters.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003; Am. Ord. 548,
passed 10-18-2005)
   ARTICLE VI. SITE SUITABILITY
SECTION 8.601. SOIL EVALUATION.
   A.   General. All proposed Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal Systems
shall be designed based upon soil characteristics as identified by the Lake
County Health Officer employed Soil Scientist or Lake County licensed Soil
Classifier, and as recorded on a soil evaluation report.
   B.   Proposed Subdivision. New, proposed subdivisions, where Private
Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal Systems are proposed, shall be designed based
upon soil characteristics as identified by a Lake County Health Officer
employed Soil Scientist or a Lake County licensed Soil Classifier.
   C.   Soil Evaluation. The person requesting the soil evaluation shall
undertake the following:
      1.   Clearing the proposed leaching field of the site without running
equipment on any parts of a site which are wet or damp.
      2.   Staking the buildable area corners as well as the front, side and
rear zoning yards.
      3.   Excavating soil observation pits twenty-four inches (24") wide to a
minimum depth of sixty inches (60").
      4.   Providing soil cores meeting standards engineering practice, which
the Village Engineer may accept as meeting the requirements of this Section to
allow a judgment to be made as to soil conditions at the site.
   D.   Minimum Number of Observation Points. Soil observation points shall be
located as is necessary to accurately determine the soil characteristics of the
site, however, a minimum number of observation points shall be provided as
follows:
      1.   Individual Sites. On individual sites, a minimum of eight (8)
observation points are required in the buildable area with at least one point
located in a buildable area lower in elevation than any proposed soil
absorption septic system or expansion areas.
      2.   Proposes Subdivisions. The site located on the buildable area of
each proposed lot in a new or proposed subdivision shall be tested as provided
above for individual sites.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
SECTION 8.602. SOIL DESCRIPTIONS.
   A.   General. Soil characteristics shall be described based upon United
States Department of Agriculture Natural Resources Conservation Service
(formerly the Soil Conservation Service) National Standards. Descriptions shall
include depth in inches to changes in soil texture, soil structure, soil
consistence and/or compaction, observed saturation, soil coloration, and depth
to redosimorphic features indicative of saturation including, but not limited
to, common (2% - 20%) low chroma mottles (equal to or less than two (2) and a
value of four (4) or more based upon Munsell color chart). Descriptions shall
be recorded to a depth of 60 inches.
   B.   Additional Determination and Assignments. In addition to the standard
soil description in paragraph A of this Section, the following determinations
and assignments made by the Lake County Health Officer employed Soil Scientist
or Lake County Licensed Soil Classifier shall apply:
      1.    Soil Resource Group. Each observation point soil profile is
classified in accordance with Appendix B to establish a soil resource group,
soil series or classification, the depth to a limiting layer and the
corresponding minimum Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal System type.
Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal System types relate to the depth to a
limiting layer, and establish a required minimum separation distance between
the limiting layer and a wastewater application point of 24 inches.
      2.   Wastewater Loading Rates. Each soil description assigns maximum
wastewater loading rates in accordance with Appendix B, as follows:
         a.   Soil descriptions are segregated by horizon.
         b.   Each segregated horizon is assigned a loading rate between 0
gallons per day per square foot (gpd/sq.ft.) and .8 gpd/sq.ft.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
SECTION 8.603. MINIMUM SOIL CONDITIONS.
   A.   Soil Suitability. At a minimum, any soil located in a proposed soil
absorption or expansion area must be described in the soil evaluation as having
twelve inches (12") of suitable soil at the surface, meeting all of the
following conditions:
      1.    The soil is not seasonally saturated to within twelve inches (12")
of the surface; and when classified per Section
8.602B1 and Appendix B specifies a Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal
System type.
      2.   Soil texture, structure, and consistence are such that the loading
rate, assigned per Section
8.602B2 and Appendix B is greater than zero (0) gpd/sq.ft.
      3.   The soil evaluation is not over two years old, unless updated by the
soil scientist who provided the original evaluation.
   B.   Made Land Soils. Soils which are not naturally occurring, having been
filled over, cut or otherwise disturbed so as to make their classification
impossible to impracticable, may be considered as suitable where the depth to
seasonal saturation and the soil texture, soil structure, and soil consistence
meet the criteria for suitable soil established in this Section. A more
extensive soil investigation may be necessary to determine the suitability
thereof. The Lake County Health Department employed Soil Scientist or a Lake
County licensed Soil Classifier assigns a Private Individual Onsite Sewage
Disposal System type and loading rates in accordance with Appendix B, which
assignment shall apply.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
SECTION 8.604. ACCEPTABLE SOIL EVALUATIONS OF RECORD.
   Soil evaluations conducted prior to the effective date of this Chapter may
be acceptable as meeting the purpose of this Article, provided the evaluation
was conducted by a Lake County Health Village Engineer employed Soil Scientist,
and the soil profile description is sufficient to allow a translation of
information by a Lake County Health Department employed Soil Scientist to
Appendix B for a determination of soil suitability.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
SECTION 8.605. CONFLICT RESOLUTION.
   Whenever there is a substantial disagreement between the Lake County Health
Department and any Lake County Licensed Soil Classifier, the Village Engineer
shall solicit the assistance of the Natural Resources Conservation Service Area
soil scientist to resolve such disputes. The report of the natural Resource
Conservation Service shall be considered as the soil evaluation of record.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
SECTION 8.606. PROCEDURES AND FEES.
   Administrative procedure and fees relative to this Chapter shall be as set
forth in Chapter 2, Village Government, Article X, Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty
Schedules, Section
2.1002, Fee Schedule.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003; Am. Ord. 852,
passed 10-20-2020)
   ARTICLE VII. PRIVATE SANITARY SEWAGE SEPTIC SYSTEM DESIGN
SECTION 8.701. GENERAL PURPOSE.
   Each Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal System and its required
expansion area proposed for approval shall meet the following minimum design
requirements:
   A.   System Capacity. To ensure that Private Individual Onsite Sewage
Disposal Systems are of an adequate capacity to dispose of the projected
wastewater volume. (See also Subsection J of this Section)
   B.   Suitable Soil. The sanitary sewage septic soil absorption system and
its required expansion area shall be located in suitable soil in accordance
with Section
8.603.
   C.   System Type. The sanitary sewage septic soil absorption system and its
required expansion shall be of a Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal
System type as specified by Section
8.602 and Appendix B, and the design for that Private Individual Onsite Sewage
Disposal System type shall conform to the requirements of this Section and any
applicable elements of materials incorporated by Appendix A.
   D.   Site Contour. The sanitary sewage septic soil absorption system and its
required expansion area shall be designed to be parallel to the site contour.
Soil absorption systems shall not be situated on slopes which are concave to
the extent that horizontal subsurface movement of wastewater may concentrate
that flow in a small downslope area.
   E.   Sizing. All components of a Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal
System and the soil absorption area shall be properly sized for the wastewater
flow projected by Appendix C in accordance with all other applicable
requirements of this Section. (See also Subsection J of this Section)
   F.   Horizontal Separation Distances. Each Private Individual Onsite Sewage
Disposal System shall be located within the buildable area and shall be
separated from water wells and water supply lines, surface waters,
topographical features, artificial drains, property lines and easements, and
construction elements by a distance set forth in the definition of "Buildable
Area" and Appendix D, whichever is the most restrictive, being adequate to
protect the system from any damage or interference with the treatment and
disposal process, and to ensure that untreated wastewater does not contaminate
drinking waters, surface waters, or the ground surface, in accordance with
Appendix D.
   G.   Prohibited Wastes. Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal Systems
shall be designed to receive only domestic sewage. No discharges from footing
drains, water softeners, air conditioning, or other clear water source, nor
greases, oils, solvents or other waste except domestic sewage shall be
discharged into an Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal System.
   H.   Construction and Materials. Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal
Systems shall be designed to allow their construction in accordance with
Article X of this Chapter and shall specify approved materials in accordance
with Article XI.
   I.   (Intentionally omitted.)
   J.   Additional Design Requirements. Private Individual Onsite Sewage
Disposal Systems types shall be designed in accordance with the requirements of
this Section, and with the design requirements further specified in the
incorporated materials of Appendix A for the specific septic system type
wherever not otherwise specified. Septic systems to be constructed in the
Village of Mettawa shall be designed for a single family residence having a
garbage grinder and a minimum of six bedrooms.
   K.   Design Requirements Specific to Private Individual Onsite Sewage
Disposal System types. Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal System types
shall be particularly designed as follows:
      1.   Type 1 and Type 2 Absorption Trench Systems. Type 1 and 2 absorption
trench systems shall be designed to minimum requirements as follows:
         a.   Pretreatment shall be by septic tank sized for the projected
design flow per Appendix C. A cartridge type effluent filter shall be required,
and placed in an easily accessible separate compartment located down line
following the last treatment tank and before the lift station, if any.
         b.   Distribution to the absorption trench may be by dropbox, serial
distribution, or by equal flow distribution box. Piping and distribution device
size and material shall comply with Article XI.
         c.   Lift stations, if required, shall be sized according to Appendix
C.
         d.   Distribution into the absorption trench shall be by perforated
pipe.
         e.   No perforation shall be located closer than three feet to the
proximate end of the absorption trench.
         f.   No perforation shall be located closer than three feet to the
proximal end of the absorption trench.
         g.   The invert of the distribution pipe shall be a minimum of six (6)
inches above the trench bottom.
         h.   The area of trench bottom area shall be equal to the projected
flow in gallons per day (gpd) divided by the assigned wastewater loading rate
in gallons per day per square foot.
         i.   (Intentionally omitted.)
         j.   The maximum trench length shall be one hundred (100) feet from
the distribution device. All trenches connected to an equal flow distribution
box shall be of equal length.
         k.   The maximum trench width shall be thirty-six (36) inches; the
minimum trench width shall be twelve (12) inches.
         l.   Trenches shall be separated by a minimum of four (4) feet of
undisturbed soil.
         m.   The maximum trench depth for a Type 1 system shall be eighteen
(18) inches into the original soil or otherwise deeper as approved provided
that the required vertical isolation distance is maintained.
         n.   The maximum trench depth for a Type 2 system shall be twelve (12)
inches into the original soil.
         o.   The minimum depth of gravel in the absorption trench shall be
twelve (12) inches, with six (6) inches of gravel beneath the distribution pipe
and two (2) inches above. Gravel shall not be placed closer than twenty-four
(24) inches to the distribution device.
         p.   Every Type 2 system shall be covered with a minimum of six (6)
inches of topsoil or otherwise as is necessary to support vegetative cover with
a maximum cover of eighteen (18) inches.
         q.   Where distribution to and into a Type 1 or 2 system is by low
pressure pipe, the applicable requirements of Section 8.702.
         r.   Seepage beds, if proposed, shall be sized at 1.5 times the trench
absorption area.
         s.   Leaching chambers, if proposed, shall be sized according to the
area of the trench bottom relative to the width of the chamber.
      2.   Type 4 At-Grade Absorption Systems. Type 4 At-Grade Absorption
Systems shall be designed to minimum requirements as follows:
         a.   Pretreatment shall be by septic tank sized for the projected flow
per Appendix C and by a Class 1 aerobic unit sized for the projected flow per
Appendix C. A cartridge type effluent filter shall be required, and placed in
an easily accessible separate compartment located down line following the last
treatment tank and before the lift station, if any.
         b.   The soil absorption area shall be plowed in accordance with
Section
8.1007.
         c.   Distribution to and into the absorption area shall be by low
pressure pipe (LPP). LPP network piping shall be as specified in this Section
and in Section
8.702.
         d.   The lift station shall be sized according to Appendix C.
         e.   The invert of the distribution lines shall be a minimum of six
(6) inches above original grade.
         f.   The area of absorption area shall be equal to the projected daily
flow in gallons per day divided by the assigned wastewater loading rate in
gallons per day per square foot.
         g.   The minimum length of the at-grade wastewater absorption area
parallel to the site contour shall be limited by the maximum linear loading
rate. The linear loading rate is equal to the projected daily flow in gallons
per day divided by the total length of the absorption area in feet, and shall
be limited as follows:
            1)   Type 4 systems on soils in resource groups A, B or C shall be
designed with a maximum linear loading rate of twelve (12) gallons per day per
foot.
            2)   Type 4 systems on soils in resource groups D or E shall be
designed with a maximum linear loading rate of six (6) gallons per day per
foot.
         h.   The minimum depth of gravel in the at-grade absorption area shall
be ten (10) inches, with six (6) inches of gravel beneath the pipe and two (2)
inches above.
         i.   (Intentionally omitted.)
         j.   The gravel of an at-grade soil absorption system shall be covered
with a minimum of twelve (12) inches of topsoil to support vegetative cover.
Additional cover shall be placed as is necessary to shed stormwater.
         k.   The gravel shall be completely covered with an appropriate
geotextile prior to the placement of topsoil.
         l.   Type 4 At-Grade systems shall comply with the provisions of the
Wisconsin At-Grade Soil Absorption System Siting, Design and Construction
Manual as incorporated in Appendix A.
      3.   Type 5 Mound Systems. Type 5 Mound Systems shall be designed to
minimum requirements as follows:
         a.   Pretreatment shall be by septic tank sized for the projected flow
per Appendix C and by a Class I aerobic unit sized for the projected flow per
Appendix C. A cartridge type effluent filter shall be required, and placed in
an easily accessible separate compartment located down line following the last
treatment tank and before the lift station, if any.
         b.   The soil infiltration area shall be plowed and filled in
accordance with Section 8.1003 and Section 8.1004. The fill material shall
cover the soil infiltration area, or basal area.
         c.   Distribution to and into the application bed shall be by low
pressure pipe (LPP). LPP network piping shall be as specified in this Section
and in Section 8.704.
         d.   The lift station shall be sized according to Appendix C.
         e.   The invert of the distribution line(s) shall be a minimum of six
(6) inches above the fill material.
         f.   The area of the application bed (absorption area) shall be equal
to the projected daily flow in gallons per day divided by the loading rate of
the coarse sand fill, one gallons per day per square foot (1 gpd/sq.ft.) or 1.2
gpd/sq.ft. where an aerobic unit is proposed for pretreatment.
         g.   The minimum length of the application bed parallel to the site
contour shall be limited by the maximum linear loading rate. The linear loading
rate is equal to the projected daily flow in gallons per day divided by the
total length of the application bed in feet, and shall be limited as follows:
            1)   Type 5 systems on soils in resource groups A, B or C shall be
designed with a maximum linear loading rate of eight (8) gallons per day per
foot.
            2)   Type 5 systems on soils in resource groups D or E shall be
designed with a maximum linear loading rate of four (4) gallons per day per
foot.
         h.   The area of the infiltration area (basal area) shall be equal to
the projected daily flow divided by the assigned soil wastewater loading rate
in gallons per day per square foot.
         i.   (Intentionally omitted.)
         j.   The basal area is defined, based upon the slope of the site,
illustrated in Appendix E.
         k.   The minimum length of the basal area shall be equal to the
minimum length of the application bed, per Section 8.703B3g.
         l.   The fill material shall be extended beyond the basal area,
tapering to grade at 3:1 slope.
         m.   The minimum depth of gravel in the application bed shall be ten
(10) inches of gravel beneath the pipe and two (2) inches above.
         n.   The minimum depth of coarse sand fill material covering the basal
area shall be twelve (12) inches.
         o.   The entire Type 5 Mound System shall be covered with a minimum of
twelve (12) inches of topsoil to support vegetative cover. Additional cover
shall be placed over the application bed at a slope in order to shed
stormwater.
         p.   The gravel of the application bed shall be completely covered
with an appropriate geotextile prior to the placement of topsoil.
         q.   Type 5 Mound systems shall comply with the provisions of
Wisconsin Mound Soil Absorption System Siting, Design and Construction Manual
as incorporated in Appendix A.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
SECTION 8.702. LOW PRESSURE DISTRIBUTION.
   Low Pressure Pipe Systems: Distribution of wastewater into Private
Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal Systems by low pressure pipe (LPP) systems as
required by this section shall be designed to minimum requirements, as follows:
   A.   Pretreatment of effluent shall include an approved effluent filter for
septic tank effluent or a Class I aerobic unit, as prescribed by Section
8.701.
   B.   Minimum supply/manifold line diameter shall be two (2) inches.
   C.   Minimum lateral wastewater distribution pipe diameter shall be one and
one-quarter (1-1/4) inches.
   D.   Minimum perforation size shall be three-sixteenths (3/16) inches.
   E.   Maximum perforation spacing shall be six (6) feet.
   F.   Minimum distal end pressure on any lateral line shall be one (1) foot
of pressure head (.43 psi).
   G.   Maximum distal end pressure on any lateral line shall be five (5) feet
of pressure head (2.16 psi).
   H.   The discharge rate of distribution lines shall be a minimum of .15
gallons per minute per lineal foot, and shall be equal among all distribution
lines to within plus or minus five (5) percent.
   I.   (intentionally omitted.)
   J.   Construction shall comply with the requirements of Article IX, and all
materials shall comply with the requirements of Article X.
   K.   Low pressure pipe distribution systems shall otherwise comply with the
requirements of Design and Installation of Low Pressure Pipe Waste Treatment
Systems as incorporated by Appendix A.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
   ARTICLE VIII. PRIVATE SANITARY SEWAGE SEPTIC SYSTEM PLANS
SECTION 8.801. PLANS REQUIRED.
   Prior to granting approval for a Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal
System, the person seeking approval shall submit to the Health Officer and the
Village Engineer a plan prepared according to the terms of this Article in
order to demonstrate compliance of the proposed Private Individual Onsite
Sewage Disposal System with the requirements of this Chapter.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
SECTION 8.802. PLAN SPECIFICATIONS.
   Whether the proposal is to construct a new system or only to repair, replace
or add septic tanks, lift stations, pre-treatment units or other components or
to construct a new system, a plan for a Private Individual Onsite Sewage
Disposal System shall meet the minimum standards established in this section.
In the case of proposed or new subdivisions, the plan must demonstrate
compliance with regard to each lot in the subdivision and the capacity of each
lot to meet the requirements of this Chapter.
   A.   Minimum Plan Standards:
      1.   The Plan shall be prepared by a Registered Professional Engineer who
is also licensed as a Lake County individual Sewage 1 Disposal System Designer.
      2.    The Plan shall be drawn to a scale of 1" = 10', 1" = 20' or 1" =
30' on a readable topographical survey presented on sheets measuring at least
twenty-four inches by thirty-six inches (24" x 36") with a location map,
showing a sketch of the location of the lot and containing a legal description
of the lot.
   B.   Plan Formulation Requirements: The plan shall show and specify
dimensions for:
      •   All property lines;
      •   The buildable area;
      •   All existing and proposed buildings, driveways and other
improvements;
      •   All utility easements, underground utility and services lines, and
any overhead utility lines within twenty-five feet (25') of the proposed well
location;
      •   All existing and proposed water wells on the lot or within seventy-
five feet (75') of a lot line, demonstrating the entire radius of any proposed
or existing well on the lot;
      •   The existing and/or proposed site of the Private Individual Onsite
Sewage Disposal System on the lot as well as the existing and/or proposed site
of a Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal System within seventy-five feet
(75') of a properly line of the lot;
      •   All drainage easements, ditches, streams, swales or other stormwater
pathways, including storm sewers and stormwater management facilities such as
detention and retention basins;
      •   A delineation of all surface waters and wetlands on the lot or within
fifty feet (50') of a property line of the lot;
      •   Proposed roadways and other areas where existing soils will be
disturbed;
      •   Heavily wooded areas or required conservancies; and
      •   Proposed grading of the site.
   C.   Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal System Specifications:
      1.   Location and size of all Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal
System components, including septic tanks, pretreatment units, lift stations,
and:
         a.   Piping to the soil absorption system;
         b.   Distribution boxes, drop boxes, diverter valves;
         c.   Soil absorption trenches;
         d.   Pressure distribution piping in at-grade or mound systems;
         e.   Gravel application beds in mound systems; and
         f.   Areas of approved filling.
      2.   The location of all soil evaluation points; and
      3.   The location for material storage and a pathway for construction
traffic.
   D.   Specific Elevations:
      1.   The elevation of a permanent benchmark;
      2.   The elevation of floodplain, if any;
      3.   The elevations of the invert of the building sewer and the inlet(s)
of the septic tank or other pretreatment units;
      4.   The elevation of the invert of a distribution box, except where a
lift station is proposed; and
      5.   The elevation of any low pressure lateral distribution line.
   E.   A detailed cross section for the soil absorption system specifying
original grade and the relative placement of fill material, gravel, piping and
cover material.
   F.   The soil evaluation report accompanied by soil maps and soil boring
logs.
   G.   A calculation of the projected wastewater daily flow, including a floor
plan of a proposed residence or establishment.
   H.   A calculation of the capacity of the components of the system and of
the soil absorption system.
   I.   (Intentionally omitted.)
   J.   A calculation of the bed length of an at-grade or mound system as
referenced in Section
8.701.
   K.   A calculation of low pressure pipe distribution system as referenced in
Section
8.702.
   L.   Reports from engineers, wetland consultants, or other professionals, as
may be required to establish stormwater drainage, wetland delineations, surface
water elevations, floodplain or other applicable information necessary for the
evaluation of the plan.
   M.   An approved site development plan, pursuant to Section
8.502.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003; Am. Ord. 515,
passed 4-2004)
   ARTICLE IX. CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS
SECTION 8.901. GENERAL.
   A.   Every Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal System, once approved,
shall be constructed in a manner to preserve the condition of the soil
absorption area, and to promote the long-term sanitary treatment and disposal
of wastewater.
   B.   In addition to inspections performed by the Health Officer, the Village
Engineer shall conduct inspections of Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal
Systems under construction to ensure compliance with the requirements of this
Chapter.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
SECTION 8.902. PERMIT AND LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   A.   Construction Permit: No Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal
System shall be constructed or repaired until a permit for its construction or
repair has been issued. An approved construction permit shall be posted on the
site in a prominent location.
      1.   Site Evaluation: The Village Engineer shall evaluate each site prior
to the issuance of the construction permit by the Building Official to ensure
that the soil absorption area has not been altered, that the soil absorption
area is protected by fencing, and that the information previously submitted and
approved is substantially unchanged.
      2.   Right to Stop Construction: Where the conditions on the site are
inconsistent with the approved plan, or where the soil absorption area is
unprotected from construction traffic by appropriate fencing, construction of
the system may be stopped by either the Health Officer or the Village Engineer.
Where the issuance of a construction permit is refused, the Village Engineer
and/or the Building Official may require corrective action or an initiation of
the original approval process as appropriate.
   B.   Licensed Contractor: No person shall construct or repair a Private
Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal System in Lake County unless such person
holds a valid Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal System Contractor's
License issued by the County of Lake. The licensed contractor shall directly
supervise all work conducted on an Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal
System, and shall be responsible to ensure that the work complies with this
Chapter.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
SECTION 8.903. SITE PREPARATION.
   A.   Preparation of the soil absorption area shall be conducted only when
the soil is dry. Site preparation shall be conducted under the supervision of
the licensed contractor.
   B.   All sites shall be mowed and cleared of brush.
   C.   Removal of trees shall be by cutting near the surface. Stumps may be
removed by grinding or cutting, but shall not be uprooted.
   D.   Sites approved for Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal System
Types 4 and 5 shall be plowed prior to the placement of fill or gravel as
follows:
      1.   Equipment shall be a chiselplow or mold board plow.
      2.   Plowing shall be done parallel to the site contour.
      3.   Tillage shall be minimal to break the consistency of the sod;
maximum depth of tilling shall be eight inches (8").
      4.   After tilling, the site shall not be graded or smoothed.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
SECTION 8.904. FILL.
   The placement of fill material for Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal
System Types 4 and 5 shall be as established in this section.
   A.   Fill shall be approved coarse sand, except in the Type 4 at-grade
system where only gravel is required, but is handled and placed in the same
manner as fill material.
   B.   The fill shall be placed according to the approved plan and shall be
placed immediately after site preparation.
   C.   The storage and transportation of fill shall be as specified on the
approved plan; no traffic shall be allowed directly on the plowed area.
   D.   Fill shall be placed only from the upslope or ends of the proposed soil
absorption area as follows:
      1.   Using Backhoe: Material may be placed with a backhoe reaching into
the soil absorption area.
      2.   Using Low Compression Equipment: Material may be pushed into the
soil absorption area by low compression equipment maintaining a minimum of ten
inches of material beneath the equipment.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
SECTION 8.905. EXCAVATION.
   The excavation for components and soil absorption trenches shall be as
established by this section.
   A.   Excavations for septic tanks, pretreatment units, lift stations, sewer
lines, header lines, pressure supply lines and other system components other
than soil absorption trenches shall be as follows:
      1.   Appropriate Elevations or Overcut: Excavations shall be made to the
appropriate elevation or overcut only to accommodate bedding material.
      2.   Grading: Excavations shall be level or uniformly graded as
appropriate so that tanks, containers, and piping is supported and secure.
      3.   Slope Excavations for piping shall be uniformly sloped so that
wastewater does not pond in bowed areas.
   B.   Excavation for soil absorption trenches or beds shall be as follows:
      1.   Site Contour: Excavation shall be uniformly along the site contour,
not exceeding the depth specified on the approved plan.
      2.   Bottom Surface: The trench or bed shall be excavated with a level
bottom surface.
      3.   Compaction and/or Smearing Protection: Excavation shall be done so
as to preserve the infiltrative trench or bed bottom and side walls from
compaction and/or smearing.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
SECTION 8.906. GRAVEL.
   Gravel shall be placed in soil absorption trenches as follows:
   A.   The depth of gravel specified below the distribution pipe shall be
uniform, and of the minimum depth established in this Chapter.
   B.   The gravel shall be placed carefully to avoid compaction of the
infiltrative surface.
   C.   Gravel shall be placed around the distribution piping and covering the
piping a minimum of two inches (2").
   D.   The top of gravel in any soil absorption system shall be covered with
geotextile prior to backfilling. Other approved barrier materials, such as
untreated building paper or straw, may be employed except where geotextile is
specifically required.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
SECTION 8.907. PIPING.
   All piping installed in Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal Systems
shall be uniformly supported, sloped as appropriate, and otherwise installed as
established in this section.
   A.   Building sewers shall be sloped not less than one-eighth (1/8) inch per
foot nor more than one-quarter (1/4) inch per foot.
   B.   Piping shall be connected, solvent joined, or attached with an
appropriate adapter as acceptable for the material to ensure that connections
do not separate or allow the leakage of wastewater or infiltration of
groundwater.
   C.   Piping entering or exiting septic tanks, pretreatment units, lift
stations, distribution devices, or other component not equipped with a
watertight connection shall be sealed.
   D.   Pipe connectors and fittings on pressure supply lines, manifolds, or
lateral distribution pipes shall be pressure connectors or fittings.
   E.   Pipe directly connected to distribution boxes shall be rigid, non-
corrugated, non-perforated pipe extending into the absorption area as specified
by this Chapter.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
SECTION 8.908. BACKFILLING.
   Backfilling operations shall be conducted as established in this Section.
   A.   Backfill material shall meet the specifications established by Section
8.1108.
   B.   Backfill material shall not be frozen or wet.
   C.   Backfilling and covering shall be completed as soon as practical.
However, no Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal System or part thereof
shall be backfilled until the system has been inspected and approved by the
Village Engineer. Any part that has been covered before inspection and approval
shall be uncovered as required by the Village Engineer.
   D.   Backfilling and covering shall direct stormwater to drain away from
system components and the soil absorption area.
   E.   Backfill for excavations of tanks, distribution devices, piping, etc.,
shall be carefully placed to avoid displacing the components. The backfill
material shall be tamped or compacted to secure the components, minimize
settling, and prevent wastewater seepage along excavations.
   F.   Backfill and/or cover for soil absorption areas shall be carefully
placed to avoid displacing the barrier material.
   G.   The backfill or cover shall be placed with a minimum of equipment
traffic.
   H.   No traffic shall be allowed on downslope areas or expansion areas.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
SECTION 8.909. ACCESSORIES.
   Devices and piping employed for the distribution of wastewater into the soil
absorption area or regulating the flow of wastewater shall be constructed,
installed or equipped as established by this Section.
   A.   Where an equal flow distribution box is employed to direct wastewater
flow to two or more wastewater absorption pipes, the invert elevation of all
outflow pipes shall be leveled with a premanufactured cap specifically designed
to adjust the flowline of distribution box piping.
   B.   Perforations drilled into low pressure pipe wastewater distribution
lines shall be carefully placed along a straight line, and drilled at a
perpendicular angle to the apex of the pipe.
   C.   Diversion valves, flow control valves, effluent filters or any other
component which is located outside of a septic tank or similar containment
shall be provided with access to final grade sufficient to allow applicable
adjustment or maintenance as required.
   D.   Lift station pumps shall be placed at least six inches (6") above the
floor of the lift station. Float switches shall be secured to the vertical
piping with corrosion resistant straps or ties. All pumps shall be provided
with a threaded coupling or other disconnecting fitting, and shall be provided
with a corrosion resistant rope, strap or other device for removing the pump.
   E.   Pumps, aerobic units, or other mechanical system shall be provided with
an audio-visual alarm. Electrical wiring and connections shall conform to
applicable standards.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
SECTION 8.910. COMPLIANCE.
   A.   In addition to the Health Officer, the Village Engineer shall make
inspections of the construction of Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal
Systems to ensure compliance with the requirements of this Chapter.
   B.   Required Inspections: Inspections shall be requested by the licensed
contractor as follows:
      1.   Site Preparation: Inspection of the plowed surface of the soil
absorption area.
      2.   System: Inspection of completed system prior to backfill or cover,
of low pressure pipe prior to gravel cover, and other components as necessary.
      3.    Final: Inspection of final grading, pressure tests of low pressure
systems, floor plan, clean water discharges, system accessories, and other
items as necessary. Following its construction and installation on a lot, no
Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal System or part thereof shall be
backfilled until the system has been inspected and approved by the Village
Engineer and the Health Officer. Any part that has been covered before
inspection and approval shall be uncovered as required by the Village Engineer.
      4.    Nonconforming System Parts: Where inspection discloses defective
material or unworkmanlike construction which does not conform to the
requirements of this Chapter, the nonconforming parts shall be removed,
replaced and reinspected.
      5.   Other Inspections: The Village Engineer may require or conduct any
other inspections as in his judgement may be necessary.
      6.    Final Approval: No Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal System
shall be placed into service without a final inspection by, and the final
approval of, the Village Engineer and the Health Officer.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
   ARTICLE X. MATERIALS
SECTION 8.1001. GENERAL.
   A.   Minimum Standards: Specifications detailed in this Article shall be
deemed minimum.
      1.   All materials employed in the construction or repair of Private
Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal Systems shall be to the specifications of
this Chapter to minimize maintenance, repair, or replacement and to promote the
long-term treatment and disposal of wastewater.
      2.   All materials, equipment and devices approved for use shall be
constructed and installed in accordance with such approval.
   B.   Reconditioning: The Village Engineer shall have the right to approve
used materials, equipment and devices provided that such materials and
equipment have been reconditioned, tested and placed in working condition. No
reconditioned materials or equipment may be employed in Class I aerobic units.
   C.   Technical Data: The Village Engineer may require that sufficient
technical data be submitted to substantiate the proposed use of any material or
assembly, and if it is determined that the evidence submitted is satisfactory
proof of performance for the use intended, the Village Engineer shall approve
its use subject to the requirements of this Chapter. The costs of all tests,
reports and investigations required under these provisions shall be paid by the
applicant.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
SECTION 8.1002. PRETREATMENT COMPONENTS.
   A.   Any septic tank employed in the construction or repair of a Private
Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal System shall meet the minimum standards for
construction established in the Illinois Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act
and Code.
   B.   Aerobic Units: Any aerobic unit employed in the construction or repair
of an Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal System discharging into a soil
absorption system shall be listed by NSF International as a Class I unit.
   C.   Effluent Filters: Any effluent filter employed in the construction or
repair of a Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal System shall be designed
for the specific purpose of filtering septic tank effluent, shall be effective
in the reduction of BOD5 and Total Suspended Solids, and shall be easily
maintained.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
SECTION 8.1003. LIFT STATIONS.
   A.   Any lift station employed in the construction or repair of a Private
Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal System shall be watertight and shall be
designed to prevent floatation when emptied.
   B.   Every lift station shall be equipped with a riser extending a minimum
of four inches (4") above grade covered with a lid secured to prevent
unauthorized entry.
   C.   Pumps and Controls:
      1.   Any pump employed in the construction or repair of a Private
Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal System shall be specified by its manufacturer
as an effluent or sewage pump. Pumps shall be non-automatic, operated by an
external switch or control.
      2.   Pump switches shall be sealed mercury float switches or equal. Any
pump employed in a low pressure pipe system shall be controlled by dual
switches to accurately regulate pumping volume.
      3.   Pump controls, if employed, shall be operated by mercury float
switches or equal. Duplex controls shall be wired as three float, alternating
cycles.
      4.   Electrical boxes shall be water tight and located outside of the
pump tank.
      5.   No pump shall be operated by a timing mechanism unless specifically
proposed and approved for the individual circumstance.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
SECTION 8.1004. DISTRIBUTION DEVICES.
   Any distribution boxes employed in the construction or repair of a Private
Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal System shall be constructed of concrete or
plastic.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
SECTION 8.1005. VALVES.
   Any valve employed in the construction or repair of a Private Individual
Onsite Sewage Disposal System shall be as established by this Section.
   A.   Diversion valves shall be PVC and shall be designed with one inlet
dividing flow into either of two or more outlets, and be operated by a single
valve control.
   B.   Ball valves or gate valves in low pressure pipe systems shall be PVC.
   C.   Check valves, where specified, shall be PVC solvent joined or
compression fitting.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
SECTION 8.1006. PIPING.
   All piping employed in the construction or repair of a Private Individual
Onsite Sewage Disposal System shall be as established by this Section or an
equivalent for the intended use as specified in the Illinois Private Sewage
Disposal Code, Section 905, Appendix A, Illustration C.
   A.   Building sewers shall be Schedule 40 PVC, four inches or greater in
diameter.
   B.   Gravity effluent lines shall be SDR 35 PVC, four inches in diameter.
   C.   Pressure supply lines shall be SDR 21 PVC, and
      1.   Two inch (2") minimum diameter on low pressure pipe systems.
      2.   One and one-half inch (1-1/2") minimum diameter to distribution
boxes.
   D.   Low pressure pipe lateral distribution piping shall be SDR 26 PVC and
one and one-quarter inch (1-1/4") minimum diameter.
   E.   Gravity lateral distribution piping shall be corrugated polyethylene
ASTM Standard F667-84 and four inch (4") minimum diameter.
   F.   Couplings, connectors and fittings shall be as appropriate for the
size, material, and use.
   G.   All fittings in pressure lines or low pressure pipe systems shall be
schedule 40 PVC pressure fittings.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
SECTION 8.1007. FILL; AGGREGATE.
   A.   All fill material employed in the construction or repair of a private
sanitary sewage septic/soil absorption system shall be coarse sand.
   B.   All gravel employed in the construction or repair of a Private
Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal System shall be sized between three-quarter
inch (3/4") and one and one-half inch (1-1/2"), and shall be washed to be
essentially free of dust, sand or other material.
   C.   All material employed in the construction or repair of a Private
Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal System to separate gravel from backfill or
cover soil shall be an approved biodegradable material, such as untreated
building paper, or an appropriate geotextile. Barrier material for Private
Sanitary Sewage Septic System Types 4 and 5 shall be an appropriate geotextile
only.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
SECTION 8.1008. BACKFILL/TOPSOIL.
   All soil material used in backfilling or covering Private Individual Onsite
Sewage Disposal System components or soil absorption areas shall be free of
rocks, clods and extraneous materials, of a suitable quality to support
vegetative cover, and requiring a minimum of landscaping.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
SECTION 8.1009. OTHER MATERIALS.
   All material employed in the construction or repair of a Private Individual
Onsite Sewage Disposal System which is not specified in this section shall be
approved only after a review of the proposed usage by the Health Officer and/or
the Village Engineer.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
   ARTICLE XI. LAND APPLICATION
SECTION 8.1101. LAND APPLICATION PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to apply Septage on, or to discharge effluent to the
surface of, any land within the corporate limits of the Village of Mettawa.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
SECTION 8.1102. TREATMENT BY IRRIGATION PROHIBITED.
   Within the corporate limits of the Village of Mettawa, it shall be unlawful
for any person, firm or corporation to permit or cause to be permitted the
treatment of sanitary sewage and/or sanitary wastewater by irrigation. In
addition, no person, firm or corporation shall undertake to treat sanitary
sewage and/or sanitary wastewater by means of irrigation of any type, including
but not limited to spray irrigation.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
   ARTICLE XII. INTERPRETATION AND CONFLICT
SECTION 8.1201. MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   The provisions of this Chapter, and the health regulations and ordinances of
the County of Lake shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the
promotion of public health, safety and general welfare. Whenever a provision of
this Chapter or any other applicable provisions of law, whether set forth in
this Chapter or any other applicable provisions of law imposes overlapping or
contradictory regulations or contains restrictions covering similar subject
matter, the provision which imposes higher standards or requirements for the
promotion of public health and safety of the residents of Mettawa shall
prevail.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
SECTION 8.1202. COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND LOCAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Compliance with this Chapter does not relieve the applicant and/or the owner
from compliance with more restrictive applicable State of Illinois and/or
Country of Lake regulations governing Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal
Systems.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
SECTION 8.1203. (RESERVED)
   ARTICLE XIII. ENFORCEMENT
SECTION 8.1301. AUTHORITY OF THE VILLAGE ENGINEER.
   The Village Engineer is charged with the enforcement of this Chapter.
However, where enforcement and/or inspections are being undertaken and made by
the Health Officer, the Village Engineer and/or his agent need not duplicate
such efforts.
   A.   Whenever the condition of a site approved for a Private Individual
Onsite Sewage Disposal System has changed or any information considered in the
approval of a Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal System was omitted or
found to be false or erroneous, the Village Engineer and/or the Building
Official may revoke the approval of that site and of any construction permit
issued pursuant to the approval.
   B.   Revocation Notice: Revocation of approval shall be in writing, posted
at the site and mailed to the owner, licensed designer, and licensed
contractor, as applicable, by certified mail or nationally recognized overnight
delivery service.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
SECTION 8.1302. RELIEF FROM PERSONAL LIABILITY.
   While they are acting for the Village of Mettawa, the Village Engineer and
the Building Official shall not be liable personally, and are hereby relieved
individually and severally from all personal liability for any damage that may
accrue to persons or property as a result of any act required or permitted in
the discharge or omission of their official duties. Any suit instituted against
any officer or employee because of an act performed by the Village Engineer
and/or the Building Official in the lawful discharge of duties and under the
provisions of this Chapter shall be defended by the legal representative of the
Village until the final termination of the proceeding, except as may be
otherwise required by the President and Board of Trustees of the Village. The
Village Engineer and the Building Official shall not be liable for costs in any
action, suit, or proceedings that may be instituted in pursuance of the
provisions of this Chapter and shall be free from liability for acts performed
under any of its provisions or failure to perform, or by reason of any act or
omission in the performance of their official duties in connection therewith.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
SECTION 8.1303. SEVERABILITY.
   If any part or parts of this Chapter shall be held to be unconstitutional,
such unconstitutionality shall not affect the validity of the remaining parts
of this Chapter. The President and Board of Trustees of the Village of Mettawa
hereby declare that they would have passed the remaining parts of this Chapter
if they had known that such part or parts thereof would be declared
unconstitutional.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
   ARTICLE XIV. SANCTIONS
SECTION 8.1401. VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to violate
any of the provisions of this Chapter other than Article XIII.
   B.   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates, disobeys, refuses to
comply with, or who resists enforcement of any of the provisions of this
Chapter shall be subject to a fine as set forth in Chapter 2, Village
Government, Article X, Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1003, Fine and Penalty Schedule, for each offense. For purposes of this
Section and this Chapter, each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 433, passed 9-13-2000; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003; Am. Ord. 852,
passed 10-20-2020)
   ARTICLE XV. APPENDICES
Appendix A
   The following materials are incorporated as a part of this Ordinance for
reference purposes:
   A.   Illinois Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act (225 ILCS 225/1 et seq.)
and Illinois Private Sewage Disposal Code (Title 77 Illinois Administrative
Code, Chapter I, Subchapter r, Part 905)
   B.   Wisconsin Mound Soil Absorption System Siting, Design, and Construction
Manual, Small Scale Waste Management Project, University of Wisconsin-Madison,
January, 1990
   C.   Wisconsin At Grade Soil Absorption System Siting, Design and
Construction Manual Small Scale Waste Management Project, University of
Wisconsin-Madison, January, 1990
   D.   Design and Installation of Low-Pressure Pipe Waste Treatment Systems,
UNC Sea Grant College Publication UNC-56-82-03, May, 1982
   All incorporated materials are available for inspection and copying at the
offices of the Lake County Health Department, Environmental Health Services.
Appendix B
   
Table B.1   Soil Suitability for Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal
Systems
   
Table B.2   Maximum Wastewater Loading Rates
Table B.1
Soil Suitability for Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal Systems
Soil Resource Group A   The following soils formed in loamy to sandy material
overlying sandy or gravelly glacial outwash.
                           DEPTH TO LIMITING LAYER (IN) MINIMUM PSSS SYSTEM
SOIL SERIES CLASSIFICATION Standard Class I Aerobic     TYPE
                                    Pretreatment
                                 DEPTH TO LIMITING LAYER
SOIL SERIES   CLASSIFICATION     (IN)                     MINIMUM PSSS SYSTEM
                                 Standard Class I Aerobic TYPE
                                          Pretreatment
              Sandy, mixed,      >42      >34             1
54 Plainfield mesic Typic        36 - 42  28 - 34         2
              Udipsamment        24 - 36  16 - 28         4
              Sandy-skeletal,    >42      >34             1
93 Rodman     mixed, mesic Typic 36 - 42  28 - 34         2
              Hapludoll
              Fine-loamy over    >36      >28             2
              sandy or sandy-    24 - 36  16 - 28         4
323 Casco     skeletal, mixed,
              mesic Typic        16 - 24  -               5
              Hapludalf
              Fine-loamy over    >36      >28             2
              sandy or sandy-    24 - 36  16 - 28         4
325 Dresden   skeletal, mixed,
              mesic Typic        16 - 24  -               5
              Hapludalf
              Fine-loamy over    >36      >28             2
              sandy or sandy-    24 - 36  16 - 28         4
327 Fox       skeletal, mixed,
              mesic Typic        16 - 24  -               5
              Hapludalf
              Coarse-loamy,      >36      >28             2
706 Boyer     mixed, mesic Typic 24 - 36  16 - 28         4
              Hapludalf          16 - 24  -               5
 
NOTE:    “PSSS System” is a private sanitary sewer septic system.
* A system approved by the Lake County Health Officer and the Village Engineer
may be proposed to the Mettawa Building Code Board of Appeals and constructed
if approved by the Board.
Soil Resource Group B   The following soils formed in silty material overlying
stratified glacial outwash.
                           DEPTH TO LIMITING LAYER (IN) MINIMUM PSSS SYSTEM
SOIL SERIES CLASSIFICATION Standard Class I Aerobic     TYPE
                                    Pretreatment
                                  DEPTH TO LIMITING LAYER
SOIL SERIES    CLASSIFICATION     (IN)                     MINIMUM PSSS SYSTEM
                                  Standard Class I Aerobic TYPE
                                           Pretreatment
               Fine-silty, mixed, >24      >16             4
365 Aptakisic  mesic Aeric        12 - 24  12 - 16         5
               Epiaqualf          <12      <12             *
               Fine-silty, mixed, -        16 - 24         4
442 Mundelein  mesic Aquic        12 - 24  12 - 16         5
               Argiudoll
               Fine-silty, mixed, >42      >34             1
443 Barrington mesic Typic        36 - 42  28 - 34         2
               Argiudoll          24 - 36  16 - 28         4
                                  16 - 24  -               5
               Fine-silty, mixed, >42      >34             1
696 Zurich     mesic Typic        36 - 42  28 - 34         2
               Hapludalf          24 - 36  16 - 28         4
                                  16 - 24  -               5
               Fine-silty, mixed, -        16 - 24         4
697 Wauconda   mesic Udollic      12 - 24  12 - 16         5
               Epiaqualf          <12      <12             *
               Fine-silty, mixed, >42      >34             1
698 Grays      mesic Mollic       36 - 42  28 - 34         2
               Hapludalf          24 - 36  16 - 28         4
                                  16 - 24  -               5
 
NOTE:    “PSSS System” is a private sanitary sewer septic system.
* A system approved by the Lake County Health Officer and the Village Engineer
may be proposed to the Mettawa Building Code Board of Appeals and constructed
if approved by the Board.
Soil Resource Group C   The following soils formed in loam glacial till.
                           DEPTH TO LIMITING LAYER (IN) MINIMUM PSSS SYSTEM
SOIL SERIES CLASSIFICATION Standard Class I Aerobic     TYPE
                                    Pretreatment
                                  DEPTH TO LIMITING LAYER
SOIL SERIES    CLASSIFICATION     (IN)                     MINIMUM PSSS SYSTEM
                                  Standard Class I Aerobic TYPE
                                           Pretreatment
               Fine-loamy, mixed, >36      >28             2
25 Hennepin    mesic Typic        24 - 36  16 - 28         4
               Eutrochrept
               Fine-loamy, mixed, >36      >28             2
27 Miami       mesic Typic        24 - 36  16 - 28         4
               Hapludalf          16 - 24  -               5
               Fine-loamy, mixed, >24      >16             4
57 Montmorenci mesic Aquollic     12 - 24  12 - 16         5
               Hapludalf
               Fine-loamy, mixed, 12 - 24  12 - 16         5
490 Odell      mesic Aquic        <12      <12             *
               Argiudoll
               Fine-loamy, mixed, >36      >28             2
495 Corwin     mesic Typic        24 - 36  16 - 28         4
               Argiudoll          16 - 24  -               5
 
NOTE:    “PSSS System” is a private sanitary sewer septic system.
* A system approved by the Lake County Health Officer and the Village Engineer
may be proposed to the Mettawa Building Code Board of Appeals and constructed
if approved by the Board.
Soil Resource Group D   The following soils formed in silty clay loam glacial
till.
                           DEPTH TO LIMITING LAYER (IN) MINIMUM PSSS SYSTEM
SOIL SERIES CLASSIFICATION Standard Class I Aerobic     TYPE
                                    Pretreatment
                           DEPTH TO LIMITING LAYER (IN) MINIMUM PSSS SYSTEM
SOIL SERIES CLASSIFICATION Standard Class I Aerobic     TYPE
                                    Pretreatment
            Fine, illitic, >24      >16                 4
146 Elliott mesic Aquic    12 - 24  12 - 16             5
            Argiudoll      <12      <12                 *
            Fine, illitic, >24      >16                 4
194 Morley  mesic Typic    12 - 24  12 - 16             5
            Hapludalf
            Fine, illitic, >24      >16                 4
223 Varna   mesic Typic    12 - 24  12 - 16             5
            Argiudoll
            Fine, illitic, >12      >12                 5
298 Beecher mesic Udollic  <12      <12                 *
            Epiaqualf
            Fine, illitic, >24      >16                 4
531 Markham mesic Mollic   16 - 24  -                   5
            Hapludalf
 
NOTE:    “PSSS System” is a private sanitary sewer septic system.
* A system approved by the Lake County Health Officer and the Village Engineer
may be proposed to the Mettawa Building Code Board of Appeals and constructed
if approved by the Board.
Soil Resource Group E   The following soils formed in silty clay loam
lacustrine sediments.
 
                               DEPTH TO LIMITING LAYER (IN) MINIMUM PSSS SYSTEM
SOIL SERIES     CLASSIFICATION Standard Class I Aerobic     TYPE
                                        Pretreatment
                Fine, illitic,
189 Martinton   mesic Aquic    12 - 24  12 - 16             5
                Argiudoll
                Fine, illitic, >12      >12                 5
192 Del Rey     mesic Aeric    <12      <12                 *
                Epiaqualf
                Fine, illitic, >24      >16                 4
370 Saylesville mesic Typic    12 - 24  12 - 16             5
                Hapludalf
 
Soil Resource Group F   The following soils formed in silty clay or clay
glacial till.
 
                             DEPTH TO LIMITING LAYER (IN) MINIMUM PSSS SYSTEM
SOIL SERIES   CLASSIFICATION Standard Class I Aerobic     TYPE
                                      Pretreatment
              Fine, illitic, >12      >12                 5
228 Nappanee  mesic Aeric    <12      <12                 *
              Epiaqualf
              Fine, illitic, >12      >12                 5
320 Frankfort mesic Udollic  <12      <12                 *
              Epiaqualf
 
NOTE:    “PSSS System” is a private sanitary sewer septic system.
* A system approved by the Lake County Health Officer and the Village Engineer
may be proposed to the Mettawa Building Code Board of Appeals and constructed
if approved by the Board.
Soil Resource Group G   The following soils have a seasonal high water table at
less than 12 inches.
                           DEPTH TO LIMITING LAYER (IN) MINIMUM PSSS SYSTEM
SOIL SERIES CLASSIFICATION Standard Class I Aerobic     TYPE
                                    Pretreatment
                                     DEPTH TO LIMITING LAYER
SOIL SERIES       CLASSIFICATION     (IN)                     MINIMUM PSSS
                                     Standard Class I Aerobic SYSTEM TYPE
                                              Pretreatment
                  Fine-silty, mixed,
67 Harpster       mesic Typic        <12      <12             *
                  Calciaquoll
97 Houghton Peat  Euic, mesic Typic  <12      <12             *
                  Medisaprist
103 Houghton Muck Euic, mesic Typic  <12      <12             *
                  Medisaprist
                  Fine-silty, mixed,
107 Sawmill       mesic Cumulic      <12      <12             *
                  Haplaquoll
                  Fine-silty, mixed,
153 Pella         mesic Typic        <12      <12             *
                  Haplaquoll
232 Ashkum        Fine, mixed, mesic <12      <12             *
                  Typic Haplaquoll
                  Fine,
330 Peotone       montmonillinitic,  <12      <12             *
                  mesic Cumulic
                  Haplaquoll
367 Beach Sand    -----              <12      <12             *
                  Fine, illitic,
465 Montgomery    mesic Typic        <12      <12             *
                  Haplaquoll
                  Sandy, mixed,
513 Granby        mesic Typic        <12      <12             *
                  Haplaquoll
GP Gravel Pit     -----              NA       NA              *
MA Marsh          -----              <12      <12             *
 
NOTE:    “PSSS System” is a private sanitary sewer septic system.
* A system approved by the Lake County Health Officer and the Village Engineer
may be proposed to the Mettawa Building Code Board of Appeals and constructed
if approved by the Board.
   Table B.2
   Maximum Wastewater Loading Rates
   PSSS System Type 1, 2 uses the most limiting soil condition in the upper
24”.
   PSSS System Type 4 & 5 uses the most limiting soil condition in the upper
12”.
 Till/Lacustrine Outwash
                                                        Till/Lacustrine Outwash
Gravelly coarse sand                                    0.00            0.00
Moderate or strong platy structure                      0.00            0.00
Sandy clay loam, silty clay loam, or finer, and weak    0.00            0.00
platy structure
Moist soil consistence stronger than firm or any        0.00            0.00
cemented class
Sandy clay, clay, or silty clay texture and weak or     0.00            0.00
massive structure
Sandy clay loam, clay loam, silty clay loam, silt, loam 0.00            0.00
or silt loam texture and massive structure
Sandy clay, clay, or silty clay texture of low clay     0.20            0.20
content and moderate or strong structure
Sandy clay loam, clay loam, silty clay loam or silt     0.20            0.30
loam texture with weak structure
Clay loam, silty clay loam, or silty loam texture and   0.40            0.50
moderate or strong structure
Sandy loam or loam texture and weak structure           0.40            0.50
Sandy clay loam, sandy loam, or loam texture and        0.50            0.70
moderate or strong structure
Fine sand, very fine sand, loamy fine sand, or loamy    0.60            0.70
very fine sand
Loamy sand, sand, or coarse sand texture                0.80            0.80
 
Whenever a Class 1 aerobic unit is proposed, the wastewater loading rate may be
increased by a factor of 20% as follows:
   .20.24
   .30.36
   .40.48
   .50.60
   .60.72
   .70.84
   .80.96
Appendix C
   
Table C.1   Design Daily Wastewater Flow
   
Table C.2   Septic Tank and Aerobic Unit Sizing Standards
   
Table C.3   Lift Station Sizing Standards
   Table C.1
   Design Daily Wastewater Flow
Type of Establishment Gallons Per Day
Type of Establishment                                          Gallons Per Day
Bars and cocktail lounges (per patron space)                   9
Churches - no kitchen (per person)                             3
Churches - with kitchen (per person)                           7.5   
Employees - in all buildings, per employee                     15
Hotels or motels and tourist rooming houses (per room - 2      100
persons per room)
Medical office buildings, clinics and dental offices           75
   Doctors, nurses, medical staff (per person)
   Office personnel (per person)                            15
   Patients (per person)                                    10
Restaurants - kitchen and toilet wastes (per seating space)    35
Schools (per classroom - 25 pupils per classroom)              450
Schools with meals served (per classroom - 25 pupils per       600
classroom)
Schools with meals served and showers provided (per classroom) 750
Swimming pool bathhouses (per person)                          10
 
   Residential Sizing Criteria
 
# of Bedrooms Total Gallons
3             500
4             600
5             700
6             800
 
   100 gallons/day for each additional bedroom
   Table C.2
   Septic Tank and Aerobic Unit Sizing Standards
   Residential
 
Number of Bedrooms Septic Tank(s) (gallons) Aerobic Units (Gallons per day)
2 or fewer         1250                     400
3                  1500                     500
4                  2000                     600
5                  2200                     750
6                  2600                     900
7                  3000                     1050
 
   Other than Residential
 
Projected Wastewater Septic Tank(s) (gallons) Aerobic Units (Gallons per day)
Concentrations
300 ppm BOD5         1.5    x design flow  1.0    x design flow
300 ppm BOD5         Section ISD 505.1 - non-conforming
 
   Table C.3
   Lift Station Sizing Standards
 
Number of Bedrooms Minimum Liquid Capacity (gallons)
2 or less          750
3 - 4              1000
5 or more          1500
 
Appendix D
   Location of Components of a Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal System
                   Component Part of System
Distance (In Feet) Building Sewer or Septic Tank, Aerobic  Soil Absorption
From               Force Main        Unit, or Lift Station Trench/Bed
                       Component Part of System
Distance (In Feet)     Building Sewer or Septic Tank, Aerobic  Soil Absorption
From                   Force Main        Unit, or Lift Station Trench/Bed
Wells or Suction Lines 50                50                    75
Building Service Water
Lines, Water Mains,    10                10                    25
InGround Swimming Pool
Lakes, Rivers, Ponds,
Flood Plains, Streams,
Surface Waters,        25                50                    50
Retention Pond,
Wetland or Other Body
of Water
Detention Basin (High  10                10                    50
Water Elevation)
Dwelling or Building
with Foundation,       10                20                    25
Property Line, Open
Drainage Ditches
Driveway, Road, Paved
Area, Building without 10                10                    15
Foundation
Permanent Fencing,
Decks, Above-ground    5                 5                     15
Pools, etc.
Tile Drains            10                10                    15
Drainage Easement      10                10                    15
Utility Easement, Road 5                 5                     15
Easement
 
NOTE:    1)   Components are allowed within scenic easements or scenic
corridors.
      2)   If more than one setback applies, the most stringent setback shall
govern.
Appendix E
   
Table E.1   Perforation Discharge Rates
   
Table E.2   Friction Loss in PVC Pipe
   
Illustration E.3   Illustration of Mound on a Sloping Site
   
Illustration E.4   Illustration of Mound on a Level Site
   
Illustration E.5   Low Pressure Pipe Distribution System
   
Illustration E.6   Illustration of At-Grade on a Sloping Site
   
Illustration E.7   System Types
   Table E.1
Perforation Discharge Rates in Gallons per Minute Versus Perforation Diameter
and In-Line Pressure
In-Line Pressure (ft) Perforation Diameter (in)
                      3/161/45/163/87/16½”
                  Perforation Diameter (in)
In-Line Pressure  3/16” 1/4”  5/16” 3/8”  7/16” ½”
(ft)              --------------------------------------gpm--------------------
                  ---------------------------------
1.0            0.42  0.74  1.15  1.66  2.26  2.95   
1.5   '        0.50  0.90  1.41  2.03  2.76  3.61   
2.0   '        0.59  1.04  1.63  2.34  3.19  4.17   
2.5   '        0.66  1.17  1.82  2.62  3.57  4.66   
3.0   '        0.72  1.28  1.99  2.87  3.91  5.10   
3.5   '        0.77  1.38  2.15  3.10  4.22  5.51   
4.0   '        0.83  1.47  2.30  3.31  4.51  5.89   
4.5   '        0.89  1.56  2.44  3.52  4.79  6.25   
5.0   '        0.94  1.65  2.57  3.71  5.04  6.59   
 
   Table E.2
Friction Loss in Schedule 40 Plastic Pipe (Feet of Head Loss per 100')
Flow (gpm) Pipe Diameter (inch)
           1 1/4 1 ½2 3 4
Flow (gpm) Pipe Diameter (inch)
           1 1/4   1 ½          2       3       4
10         1.46  0.70       0.21   
11         1.77  0.84       0.25   
12         2.09  1.01       0.30   
13         2.42  1.17       0.35   
14         2.74  1.33       0.39   
15         3.06  1.45       0.44  0.07   
16         3.49  1.65       0.50  0.08   
17         3.93  1.86       0.56  0.09   
18         4.37  2.07       0.62  0.10   
19         4.81  2.28       0.68  0.11   
20         5.23  2.46       0.74  0.12   
25                 3.75       1.10  0.16   
30                 5.22       1.54  0.23   
35                               2.05  0.30  0.07   
40                               2.62  0.39  0.09   
45         Velocities in this    3.27  0.48  0.12   
50         area become too       3.98  0.58  0.16   
60         great for the various         0.81  0.21   
70         flow rates and pipe           1.08  0.28   
80         diameter.                     1.38  0.37   
90                                       1.73  0.46   
100                                      2.09  0.55   
125                                              0.85   
150                                              1.17   
175                                              1.56   
 
Illustration E.3
Cross Section and Plan View of a Mound System on a Sloping Site
To View Image One Click Here
 
To View Image Two Click Here
 
Illustration E.4
   Cross Section and Plan View of a Mound System on a Level Site
To View Image One Click Here
To View Image Two Click Here
Illustration E.5
   Example Details of Low Pressure Pipe Distribution System
To View Image Click Here
To View Image Click Here
 
To View Image Click Here
 
   Illustration E.6
   Cross Section and Plan View of an At-Grade System on a Sloping Site
To View Image Click Here
To View Image Click Here
Illustration E.7
   System Types
To View Image Click Here
To View Image Click Here
CHAPTER 9 - BUILDING CODE
Article I. Administration and Enforcement
SECTION
   
9.101   Title
   
9.102   Adoption of Code
   
9.103   Scope
   
9.104   Administration
   
9.105   Code Remedial
   
9.106   Applicability
   
9.107   Construction Hours Restricted
   
9.108   Installation of Elevators and Service Equipment
   
9.109   Change in Existing Use
   
9.110   Repair, Replacement and/or Remodeling of Existing Structures
   
9.111   Application for Permit
   
9.112   Architectural Plans
   
9.113   Permits
   
9.114   Required Inspections
   
9.115   Approvals and Inspections
   
9.116   Fees
   
9.117   Violations; Procedure
   
9.118   Building Code Board of Appeals
   
9.119   Amendments
   
9.120   Severability
Article II. General; Definitions
   
9.201   Rules and Definitions
Article III. Residential Buildings
   
9.301   Adoption of Code
   
9.302   Additional Rules and Regulations
   
9.303   Amendments
Article IV. Electrical Code
   
9.401   Adoption of Code
   
9.402   Purpose and Scope
   
9.403   Enforcement of Electrical Regulations
   
9.404   Registration of Electrical Contractors
   
9.405   Application, Permits and Inspections
   
9.406   Additional Rules and Regulations
Article V. Plumbing Code
   
9.501   Adoption of Code
   
9.502   General Provisions
   
9.503   Permit Fees
   
9.504   Sewage and Sewage Disposal
   
9.505   Use of Sanitary Sewer
   
9.506   Gas Piping
   
9.507   Inspections
   
9.508   Health or Safety
   
9.509   Workmanship
   
9.510   Additional Regulations
   
9.511   Enforcement
Article VI. Ventilating and Air Conditioning
   
9.601   Adoption of Code
   
9.602   General Provisions
   
9.603   Licenses
   
9.604   Installation of Equipment
   
9.605   Plenums
Article VII. Fire Prevention
   
9.701   Adoption of Code
   
9.702   Amendments
Article VIII. Swimming Pool Construction, Operation and Use
   
9.801   Compliance Required
   
9.802   Permit Application
   
9.802.1   Graphic
   
9.803   Permit Fees
   
9.804   Inspection Required
Article IX. Driveways Approaches
   
9.901   Unlawful To Operate Or Move Vehicles Or Equipment Over, Across Or Upon
Curbs, Parkways, Sidewalks, Paths and Trails
   
9.902   Permit Required
   
9.903   Permit Fee
   
9.904   Permit Conditions
   
9.905   Jurisdiction
   
9.906   Construction Specifications
   
9.906.1   Graphic: Residential Drive Approach Sketch
   
9.906.2   Graphic: Residential Drive Approach Sketch
   
9.907   Location and Corner Setback
   
9.908   Repair
   
9.909   Nonconformance
Article X. Fences
   
9.1001   Permit Required
   
9.1002   Issuance of Permits
   
9.1003   Permit Fees
   
9.1004   Height, Size and Location
   
9.1005   Construction
   
9.1006   Maintenance
   
9.1007   Modifications
   
9.1008   Nuisance Abatement
Article XI. Satellite Antennae
   
9.1101   Satellite Antennae Requirements; Findings
   
9.1102   Installation
   
9.1103   Residential Zone
   
9.1104   Nonresidential Zone
   
9.1105   Procedure
   
9.1106   Application
   
9.1106.1   Graphic
   
9.1106.2   Graphic
   
9.1107   Fees
Article XII. Accessibility
   
9.1201   Code Adopted
Article XIII. Property Maintenance Code
   
9.1301   Code Adopted
   
9.1302   Amendments
Article XIV. Miscellaneous Provisions
   
9.1401   Scaffolds
   
9.1402   Articles on Windows
   
9.1403   Obstructing Exits or Stairways
Article XV. Occupancy Certificate; Penalties
   
9.1501   Occupancy Certificate Required
   
9.1502   Application for an Occupancy Certificate
   
9.1503   Issuance of Occupancy Certificate - Partial Occupancy Certificate
   
9.1504   Record of Occupancy Certificates
   
9.1505   Penalties And Unlawful Continuance
Article XVI. Fuel Gas Code
   
9.1601   Adoption of Code
   
9.1602   Amendments
Article XV. Energy Conservation Code
   
9.1701   Adoption of Code
ARTICLE I. ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION 9.101. TITLE.
   The Village Modifications in this Chapter as well as all international and
state codes adopted by reference herein, shall be known as the Building Code of
the Village of Mettawa hereinafter referred to as "Building Code" or "this
Chapter". A copy of this Chapter as well as all international and state codes
adopted by reference herein shall be kept on file for public inspection in the
offices of the Village Clerk and the Building Administrator.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.102. ADOPTION OF CODE.
   That the 2012 International Building Code be and the same is adopted hereby
by reference, subject to the Village Modifications contained in this Chapter.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003; Am. Ord. 721, passed 6-19-2012)
SECTION 9.103. SCOPE.
   This Building Code shall regulate all matters concerning the construction,
alteration, additions, repair, removal, demolition, occupancy and maintenance
of all buildings and structures, and shall apply to existing or proposed
buildings and structures; except as such matters are otherwise provided for in
other ordinances, or in the rules and regulations authorized for promulgation
under the provisions of this Building Code. The provisions of this Article
shall be deemed the minimum requirements for the remodeling, repair or
alteration of existing buildings or structures, and the construction of new
single-family residences, offices, hotels, and all other buildings for uses
allowed in the Zoning Ordinance (
Chapter 15 of the Municipal Code of the Village of Mettawa of 2001) and their
accessory buildings.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.104. ADMINISTRATION.
   This Building Code shall be administered and enforced by the Building
Administrator.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.105. CODE REMEDIAL.
   This Building Code shall be construed to secure its expressed intent, which
is to insure public safety, health and welfare insofar as they are affected by
building construction, through structural strength, adequate egress facilities,
sanitary equipment, light and ventilation, and fire safety. In general the
purpose of this Chapter is to secure safety to life and property from all
hazards incident to the design, erection, repair, removal, demolition or use
and occupancy of buildings, structures or premises.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.106. APPLICABILITY.
   A.   General: The provisions of these regulations shall cover all matters
affecting or relating to buildings and structures other than ordinary repairs
as set forth in subsection
9.106D of this Section.
   B.   Exemptions: A building or structure shall not be constructed, extended,
repaired, removed or altered without a Building Permit and/or in violation of
this Chapter, except for ordinary repairs as described in subsection
9.106F of this Section.
   C.   Other Regulations: When the provisions of this Chapter conflict with
other codes adopted by reference herein, the Village Modifications shall
supersede such other code.
   D.   Ordinary Repairs: A permit is not required for maintenance, repair and
replacement work, provided the scope of the work shall be limited to the
following:
      1.   Repair or replacement of any roof surface;
      2.   Repair or replacement of exterior wood or metal siding;
      3.   Tuck pointing and/or exterior stucco repairs;
      4.   Patching of interior plaster or plaster board;
      5.   Repair or replacement of doors or window sash in existing openings;
      6.   Repair or replacement of existing fence in same location;
      7.   Replacement of counter tops, cabinets, sinks and appliances not
requiring alteration to plumbing, heating, air conditioning or electrical
system; and
      8.   Installation of a storage building not exceeding one hundred fifty
(150) square feet which has no dimension over twelve (12) feet and no plumbing,
electrical or heating systems.
      9.   Ordinary repairs to existing structures and replacement with the
same kind of materials may be made without application or notice to the
Building Administrator; however, such repairs and replacement shall not include
cutting away of or the removal or cutting of any structural beam or bearing
support, or the removal or change of any required means of egress, or the
rearrangement of parts of a structure affecting the exitway requirements; nor
shall ordinary repairs include the addition to, alteration of, replacement or
relocation of any structural member, stand pipe, water supply, sewer, drainage,
drain leader, gas, soil, waste, vent or similar piping, electrical wiring or
mechanical or other work affecting the public health or general safety.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.107. CONSTRUCTION HOURS RESTRICTED.
   Construction or alteration operations shall be carried on within the Village
on weekdays from 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. and on Saturdays, Sundays and holidays
from 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.108. INSTALLATION OF ELEVATORS AND SERVICE EQUIPMENT.
   A.   When the installation, extension, alteration or repair of an elevator
or moving stairway is specifically controlled by the provisions of this
Building Code, it shall be unlawful to use such equipment until a certificate
has been issued therefor by the Building Administrator or other agency having
jurisdiction.
   B.   When the installation, extension, or alteration of mechanical
equipment, refrigeration, air conditioning or ventilating apparatus, plumbing,
gas piping, electric wiring, heating system or any other equipment is
specifically controlled by the provisions of this Building Code, it shall be
unlawful to use such equipment until a certificate has been issued therefor by
the Building Administrator.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.109. CHANGE IN EXISTING USE.
   A.   Unlawful Use: The initial or continued occupancy or use of a building
or structure, or of a part thereof, constructed in violation of any regulation
contained in this Chapter, shall be deemed a violation and subject to the
penalties prescribed in this Chapter.
   B.   Continuation of Existing Use: The legal use and occupancy of a
structure approved and constructed in accord with existing ordinances, may be
continued without change, except as may be specifically covered in this Chapter
and
Chapter 15 of the Mettawa Municipal Code or as may be deemed necessary by the
Building Administrator for the general safety and welfare of the occupants and
the public.
   C.   Change in Use: It shall be unlawful to make any change in the use or
occupancy of any structure which would subject it to any special provision of
this Building Code without approval of the Building Administrator, and his
certification that such structure meets the intent of the provisions of law
governing building construction for the proposed new use and occupancy, and
that such change does not result in any greater hazard to public safety or
welfare. Further, any proposed change shall be in accordance with the
provisions of Chapter 15 of the Mettawa Municipal Code of 2001 (Zoning
Ordinance).
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.110. REPAIR, REPLACEMENT AND/OR REMODELING OF EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   A.   Except as provided in this Section, existing structures, when altered
or repaired as herein specified, shall be made to conform to the full
requirements of this Building Code for new structures.
   B.   Alterations Exceeding Fifty Percent: Within any twelve (12) month
period if alterations or repairs are made costing in excess of fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the whole structure, the requirements of this
Chapter for new structures shall apply to the entire structure.
   C.   Damages Exceeding Fifty Percent: If the whole structure is damaged by
fire or any other cause to an extent in excess of fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure before the damage was incurred, the requirements
of this Chapter for new structures shall apply to the entire structure.
   D.   Alterations Under Fifty Percent: If the cost of alterations or repairs
described herein is in excess of twenty-five percent (25%) and not more than
fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure, only the portions so
altered or repaired shall be made to conform to the requirements for new
structures.
   E.   Alterations Under Twenty-Five Percent: If the cost of alterations or
repairs described herein is twenty-five percent (25%) or less of the market
value of the structure, the Building Administrator shall permit the restoration
of the structure to its condition previous to damage or deterioration with the
same kind of materials as those of which the structure was constructed;
provided that such construction does not endanger the general safety and public
welfare.
   F.   Increase in Size: If the structure is increased in floor area or number
of stories, the entire structure shall be made to conform with the requirements
of this Building Code in respect to means of egress, fire safety, light and
ventilation, and construction.
   G.   Part Change in Use: If a portion of the structure is changed in
occupancy or to a new use group and that portion is separated from the
remainder of the structure with the required vertical and horizontal fire
divisions complying with the fire grading, then the construction involved in
the change shall be made to conform to the requirements for the new use and
occupancy, and the existing portion shall be made to comply with the exitway,
fire protection, electrical and plumbing requirements of this Building Code.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.111. APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A.   When Permit is Required.
      1.   It shall be unlawful to: (i) change the existing grade of real
property by more than twenty- four (24) inches; (ii) begin clearing or
excavating the site of any proposed building or structure; (iii) construct,
and/or alter or demolish a structure, without first filing an application with
the Building Administrator in writing and obtaining the required permit
therefor; except that ordinary repairs, as described in subsection
9.106.D. which are not regulated by this Building Code shall be exempt from
this provision.
      2.   A Building Permit is required for any change in grade that: (i)
Affects over 5,000 square feet; (ii) redirects the drainage to an adjacent
property; or (iii) is regulated by an applicable stormwater management and/or
watershed ordinance.
   B.   Form of Application: Application for plan review and a Building Permit
shall be submitted on a form furnished by the Office of the Building
Administrator. The application shall be accompanied by architectural plans and
plot plans, drawn to a scale of not less than one-eighth inch (1/8") to one
foot (1'). The Building Administrator may, when job conditions or scope of work
permits, accept a written description of the work in lieu of detailed plans.
The application for a permit shall be submitted in such form as the Building
Administrator may prescribe and shall be accompanied by the required fee as
prescribed in this Chapter. In addition, the following information must be
provided as part of a Building Permit application:
      1.   No permit shall be issued for the construction or alteration of the
building or structure on an unrecorded lot or tract of land. Such lot or tract
must be surveyed, platted, staked at all corners and radii with one-half inch
(1/2") inside diameter iron pipe, approved, and on record at the Lake County
Recorder's Office.
      2.   No permit for a principal building or addition thereto shall be
issued until satisfactory proof has been submitted that adequate and approved
water supplies and sewerage facilities are available.
      3.   That surface and roof drainage will not damage adjoining properties.
      4.   That public improvements, as appropriate, are installed; or, in the
alternative, plans for required public improvements shall be provided in
accordance with the Village Engineer's specifications and a financial guarantee
in form approved by the Village Attorney in the amount of one hundred ten
percent (110%) of the Village Engineer's estimate of necessary public
improvements to be installed shall be deemed satisfactory proof for the
issuance of a Building Permit.
      5.   Access for police and fire equipment shall be provided at all times
over a negotiable all-weather roadway.
      6.   No permit shall be issued for any building, structure or part
thereof, hereafter to be erected, unless the plans therefor shall be complete
in every respect as to all applicable regulations including but not limited to
the requirements of this Chapter and other ordinances of this Village. Such
plans shall show typical electrical and plumbing layouts, and all parts of such
structure complete with finished walls, habitable rooms, bathrooms, water
closet compartments, pantries and halls and corridors connecting rooms of such
description with the type of covering or finished material to be used on all
walls, partitions and ceilings; also an accurate plan shall be included to
indicate location of building or buildings within the plan. If the estimated
value of the work for which the permit is sought exceeds ten thousand dollars
($10,000), plans therefor shall have an Illinois licensed architect's or
professional engineer's seal attached thereto. During construction, a copy of
the said plans shall remain on file in the office of said Building
Administrator and a duplicate copy thereof kept on the construction site. In
addition, for all construction other than single-family residential, a copy of
the aforesaid plans shall be forwarded to the local Fire Department by the
Building Administrator.
   C.   By Whom Application is Made: Application for a permit shall be made by
the owner or lessee of the building or structure, or agent of either or by the
licensed professional engineer or architect employed in connection with the
proposed work. If the application is made by a person other than the owner in
fee, it shall be accompanied by a duly verified affidavit of the owner or the
qualified person making the application that the proposed work is authorized by
the owner in fee and that the applicant is authorized to make such application.
The full names and addresses of the owner, lessee, applicant and of the
responsible officers, if the owner or lessee is a corporate body, shall be
stated in the application.
   D.   Description of Work: The application shall contain a general
description and an estimate of the value of the proposed work, its location,
the use and occupancy of all parts of the building or structure and of all
portions of the site or lot.
   E.   Plans and Specifications: The application for the permit shall be
accompanied by not less than four (4) copies of specifications and of plans
with sufficient clarity and detail dimensions to show the nature and character
of the work to be performed. In the event the estimated value of the work for
which the permit is sought exceeds ten thousand dollars ($10,000), the
application for permit shall be accompanied by not less than four (4) copies of
specifications and plans drawn by an Illinois licensed architect or
professional engineer in accord with the provisions contained in subparagraph
B.6 of this Section
9.111. When quality of materials is essential for conformity to this Building
Code, specific information shall be given to establish such quality; and this
Building Code shall not be cited, or the term "legal" or its equivalent be
used, as a substitute for specific information. The Building Administrator may
waive the requirement for filing plans when the work involved is of a minor
nature and in the case of single-family residences, if the owner personally
will be undertaking all of the work for which the Building Permit is sought,
the plans and specifications need not be drawn by an architect or engineer.
   F.   Engineering Details: The Building Administrator may require adequate
details of structural, mechanical and electrical work including computations,
stress diagrams and other essential technical data to be filed. All engineering
plans and computations shall bear the signature of the professional engineer or
architect responsible for the design. Plans for buildings more than two (2)
stories in height shall indicate how required structural and Fire Resistance
Rating integrity will be maintained where a penetration will be made for
electrical, mechanical, plumbing and communication conduits, pipes and systems.
   G.   Amendments to Application: Subject to the limitations of Section
9.113 and
9.114, amendments to a plan, application or other records accompanying the same
may be filed at any time before completion of the work for which the permit is
sought or issued; and such amendments shall be deemed part of the original
application and shall be filed therewith.
   H.   Time Limitation of Application: An application for a permit for any
proposed work shall be deemed to have been abandoned six (6) months after date
of filing, unless such application has been diligently prosecuted or a permit
shall have been issued; except that for reasonable cause, the Building
Administrator may grant one or more extensions of time for additional periods
not exceeding ninety (90) days each.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003; Am. Ord. 525, passed 11-16-2004)
SECTION 9.112. ARCHITECTURAL PLANS.
   A.   Except as provided in Section
9.111, plans for buildings shall be prepared by or under the direction and
supervision of a person licensed to practice architecture or engineering in the
State of Illinois, under the provisions of the Illinois Architectural Act, and
shall bear the stamp of the official seal of such registered architect and
certification to the effect that such plans were prepared by him or under his
direction and supervision, in conformance with the statutes and ordinances
pertaining thereto; with such exceptions as are provided for under Section 4 of
said Illinois Architectural Act.
      1.   Architectural drawings shall be explicit and complete, accurately
indicating all distances and dimensions including location of all sewers, water
and other services.
      2.   All construction shall be in accordance with the plans and
specifications reviewed and stamped by the Building Administrator. If changes
are desired, architectural drawings or addendums shall be submitted for review
and approval prior to any change being made.
      3.   Plat plans drawn to scale shall be submitted for new construction
and for additions to existing buildings, prior to issuance of a Building
Permit. The plat plan shall accurately indicate all existing and proposed
buildings, underground and overhead utilities and driveways. The plat plan
shall also show the existence and proposed grade at the property corners and
the top of foundation.
      4.   Three (3) surveys by a Registered Illinois Land Surveyor shall be
submitted to the Building Administrator. The survey shall indicate all property
lines, easements, and all building lines of record. The survey shall indicate
the legal description of the premises, be drawn on paper not smaller than
fourteen (14) inches by eighteen (18) inches to a scale of not less than thirty
(30) feet to the inch. The Building Administrator may, at his discretion,
require a title search of any lot or parcel of land proposed as a construction
site.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to alter or in any way change plans which have
been reviewed and approved by the Building Administrator.
   If during the course of construction, it is desired to deviate from the
approved plans or from the terms of the application, the owner or contractor
shall so notify the Building Administrator. Upon such notification, the
Building Administrator may request additional plans or may accept a written
statement from the Architect indicating the proposed change. Depending on the
nature of the change, the Building Administrator may approve the change or
refer it to the Building Code Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.113. PERMITS.
   A.   Action on Application: The Building Administrator shall examine or
cause to be examined all applications for permits and amendments thereto within
a reasonable time after filing. If the application or the plans do not conform
to the requirements of all pertinent laws, he shall reject such application in
writing stating the reasons therefor. If he is satisfied that the proposed work
conforms to the requirements of this Building Code and all laws and ordinances
applicable thereto, he shall issue a permit therefor as soon as practicable.
   B.   Extension and Expiration of Building Permit:
      1.   A permit shall be considered void, if the covered work is not
commenced within ninety (90) days and completed within one (1) year of the
issuance of the permit.
      2.   At any time prior to its becoming void, a permit may be extended for
one year for an additional fee of ten percent (10%) of the original permit fee,
but in no case shall the fee be less than the minimum fee specified on the most
recent fee schedule approved by the President and Board of Trustees. Permits
may be extended for two (2) six (6) month periods by the Building Administrator
if work has been delayed due to the large size of the project, shortage of
materials, or due to inclement weather conditions.
   C.   Compliance with Municipal Code. A permit shall not be issued for any
construction work unless the premises is in compliance with the regulations of
Chapter 15 (the Zoning Ordinance) of the Mettawa Municipal Code and other
pertinent ordinances of the Village.
   D.   Previous Approvals: This Building Code shall not require changes in the
plans, construction or designated use of a building for which a lawful permit
has been heretofore issued or otherwise lawfully authorized and the
construction of which shall have been actively prosecuted within ninety (90)
days after the effective date hereof and completed with dispatch.
   E.   Signature to Permit: The Building Administrator shall attach his
signature to every permit, or he may authorize a subordinate to affix such
signature thereto.
   F.   Approved Plans:
      1.   The Building Administrator shall stamp or endorse in writing both
sets of corrected plans approved, and one set of such approved plans shall be
retained by him and the other set shall be kept at the building site, open to
inspection of the Building Administrator or his authorized representative at
all reasonable times.
      2.   The Building Administrator shall provide a Building Permit placard
which shall be posted by the person to whom the permit was issued on the site
of the construction work in a readily accessible location so that it is visible
from the street and protected from rain and snow.
   G.   Approval of Part: The Building Administrator may issue a permit for the
construction of foundations or any other part of a building or structure before
the entire plans and specifications for the whole building or structure have
been submitted, provided adequate information and detailed statements have been
filed complying with all the pertinent requirements of this Building Code. The
holder of such permit for the foundations or other part of a building or
structure shall proceed at his own risk with the building operation and without
assurance that a permit for the entire structure will be granted.
   H.   Loss of Permit Card:
      1.   In the event that the Building Permit card is lost, defaced or
stolen, it will be replaced upon application, in person, to the Building
Administrator at his office, for the fee specified on the most recent fee
schedule approved by the President and Board of Trustees.
      2.   In the event that the plans being kept with the permit card are
lost, defaced, stolen or illegible through handling and use, a new set of plans
will be endorsed by the Building Administrator upon personal application at the
office of the Building Administrator and payment of the fee specified on the
most recent fee schedule approved by the President and Board of Trustees.
   I.   Surrender of Building Permits; Refunds: At any time after the
expiration of ninety (90) days following the issuance of any building or other
permit required by the Village ordinances, provided that no extension thereof
shall be in effect, the persons to whom such permits shall have been issued, of
his estate or assigns, may surrender such permit and shall thereupon be given a
refund of twenty-five percent (25%) of the fee which shall have been paid
thereon; provided, however, that no work has been done. No refund shall be made
on permits for which the fee was one thousand dollars ($1,000) or less. No such
refund shall be made unless such permit shall have been surrendered within one
year after the approval of such original permit.
   J.   Change During Construction: If during the progress of work under a
Building Permit, it is desired to change the plans upon which the permit was
issued, or to change contractors, notice of such change must be filed with the
Building Administrator. In the case of a change in plans, a written approval of
the Building Administrator must be obtained therefor before such changes are
made. If the valuation of the structure is increased by such changes, the
additional proportionate fee must be paid before approval of such change. Three
(3) new sets of plans showing the changes shall be furnished, and one of these
sets, approved by the Building Administrator, shall replace those being kept
with the Building Permit card.
   K.   Notice of Start: At least twenty-four (24) hours' notice of start of
work under a Building Permit shall be given to the Building Administrator.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.114. REQUIRED INSPECTIONS.
   A.   The Building Administrator shall inspect or cause to be inspected, all
buildings or structures which are being constructed, altered, remodeled, razed
or repaired (except for repairs as described in Section
9.106.D).
   B.   It shall be the responsibility of the contractor to request and receive
approval of the following work before proceeding to the next phase of new
construction and, accordingly, the contractors shall call for the following
inspections and have a representative at the site during the inspections.
      1.   Footing and foundation forms, before concrete is poured;
      2.   Foundation, draintile (before backfill);
      3.   Foundation 2, window riser/grates and dampproofing after draintile
backfill before backfill to grade;
      4.   Plumbing underground work;
      5.   Water service lines;
      6.   Final plumbing;
      7.   Rough electrical;
      8.   Rough HVAC, duct work;
      9.   Structural steel and rough framing;
      10.   Insulation and draftstopping;
      11.   Masonry firebox/fireplace;
      12.   Masonry chimney;
      13.   Electric service;
      14.   Concrete (slabs) floors;
      15.   Final electrical;
      16.   Final HVAC;
      17.   Fire protection systems;
      18.   Drywall; and
      19.   Final inspection (following plaster or dry wall installation and
taping).
   C.   Immediately after the installation of the foundation, an as built
survey prepared by a registered Illinois Land Surveyor, shall be submitted to
the Building Administrator for review and approval. No construction activity
shall proceed until said survey has been reviewed and approved by the Building
Administrator. The survey shall indicate all property lines, easements, top of
foundation and all building lines of record. The survey shall also indicate the
legal description of the premises, be drawn to a scale of not less than thirty
(30) feet to the inch and shall describe to the nearest one-tenth (1/10) foot,
the size, shape and location of each structure on the premises.
   D.   At the time a permit is issued for the remodeling, repair, or
alteration of any building, the Building Administrator or his designee, shall
advise the contractor in writing of inspections required for the particular
work involved. The contractor shall then be responsible to request inspections
and receive approval of each phase of construction.
   E.   Inspection Schedule:
      1.   Structural:
         a.   Footing forms: When forms are set and before concrete is poured.
         b.   Foundation forms: When forms are set and before concrete is
poured.
         c.   Foundation: When concrete is poured, waterproofed, drain tile is
in place and covered with gravel, but before foundation backfill is placed.
         d.   Framing:
            (1)   Framing, rough-in of electric, plumbing, duct work, and
chimneys must be in place prior to framing inspection.
            (2)   Insulation must be installed for inspection after framing is
inspected and approved.
         e.   Drywall: When drywall is installed prior to taping of same.
         f.   TYVEC or equal: Before any brick or other siding material is
installed.
         g.   Concrete floors: When base reinforcing and vapor barrier is
prepared and in place and before pouring concrete. (All electrical, plumbing
and other building service facilities work under concrete floors are to be in
place and inspected before pouring concrete).
         h.   HVAC rough: When piping and/or duct work is installed.
         i.   HVAC final: When system is installed and operational.
         j.   Structural final: When all work has been completed and prior to
any occupancy or use of the building or structure.
      2.   Electrical:
         a.   Rough-in: When rough-in is completed and before any drywall, lath
and plaster, concrete, or backfill is placed.
         b.   Service: When service is completed and ready for power company
connection. The power company will not energize prior to Village approval.
         c.   Final: When all work is completed. Do not energize or use any
wiring except for testing prior to approval by Electrical Inspector.
      3.   Plumbing:
         a.   Underground: When all piping located below floors or in trenches
is in place but before any backfill or other covering is placed.
         b.   Rough-in: When rough-in work is completed. (Before pouring
basement floor, or drywall is installed.) May require more than one inspection.
         c.   Final: When final work is completed and before the plumbing
system is placed in operation.
      4.   Culvert: Two (2) inspections required. One to locate and establish
grade, and one for final inspection.
      5.   Entire ditch must be finished, cleaned and at proper pitch.
      6.   Driveways and/or parking lot:
         a.   When base is installed and prior to applying surface.
         b.   When surface is completely installed.
      7.   Grading: When rough grading and drainage has been completed and an
"as built" survey, showing topographic elevation prepared by a Registered
Illinois Professional Engineer has been submitted; seal and signature required.
      8.   Sewer and water: When tile or pipe is in place but before any
backfill.
      9.   Sump discharge: When sump discharge line is in place to storm sewer
or ditch and before any backfill is placed.
      10.   Hydrostatic tests: Call when ready for inspector to witness tests
on tanks or sprinkler systems.
      11.   Alarm system: When alarm system is operational prior to occupancy.
      12.   Final: When all work is completed.
      13.   Occupancy: An Occupancy Certificate must be issued by the Building
Administrator prior to occupancy.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.115. APPROVALS AND INSPECTIONS.
   A.   Approved Materials and Equipment: All materials, equipment and devices
approved for use by the Building Administrator shall be constructed and
installed in accordance with such approval.
   B.   Modifications: When there are practical difficulties involved in
carrying out structural or mechanical provisions of this Building Code, the
Building Code Board of Appeals may modify such provision upon application of
the owner or his representative, provided that the spirit and intent of the law
shall be observed and public welfare and safety be assured.
   C.   Records: The application for modification shall be in writing on forms
provided by the Building Administrator and the decision of the Building Code
Board of Appeals shall be maintained with the application for the permit in the
permanent records of the Building Administrator.
   D.   Previously Used Materials and Equipment: Previously used materials,
equipment and devices may be used, provided they have been reconditioned,
tested and placed in good and proper working condition and approved for use by
the Building Administrator.
   E.   Alternate Materials and Equipment: The provisions of this Building Code
are not intended to prevent the use of any material or method of construction
not specifically prescribed by this Building Code, provided any such alternate
has been approved by the Building Code Board of Appeals, which may approve any
such alternate provided it finds that the proposed design is satisfactory and
complies with the intent of the provisions of this Building Code, and that the
material, method or work offered is, for the purpose intended, at least the
equivalent of that prescribed in this Building Code in quality, strength,
effectiveness, fire resistance, durability and safety.
   F.   Preliminary Inspection: Before issuing a permit, the Building
Administrator may examine or cause to be examined all buildings, structures and
sites for which an application has been filed for a permit to construct,
enlarge, alter, repair, remove, demolish or change the use thereof; and he may
conduct such inspections from time to time during and upon completion of the
work for which he has issued a permit; and he shall maintain a record of all
such examinations and inspections and of all violations of this Building Code.
   G.   Required Inspections: In accord with Section
9.109, after issuing a Building Permit the Building Administrator shall conduct
such inspections from time to time during the progress of the work to determine
its conformity with this Building Code and the approved plans. Upon completion
of the work for which he has issued a permit; and he shall maintain a record of
all such examinations and inspections and of all violations of this Building
Code.
   H.   Accredited Inspection Services: He may accept reports of his own
inspectors or may require and accept inspection and reports of accredited
consulting organizations.
   I.   Inspection Reports: All inspection reports shall be in writing and
shall be certified by the licensed authority or responsible officer of the
service or the individual when expert inspection services are accepted. An
identifying label or stamp permanently fixed to the product indicating that
factory inspection has been made may be accepted in lieu of the aforesaid
inspection report in writing if the intent or meaning of such identifying label
or stamp is properly substantiated.
   J.   Final Inspection: Upon completion of the building or structure, and
before issuance of the Occupancy Certificate required in Article V, a final
inspection shall be made and all violations of the approved plans, permit and
Building Code shall be noted and the holder of the permit shall be notified of
the discrepancies. "Occupancy" and/or "Use" shall not be allowed until these
violations are corrected and reinspection approved. Work done under each
Building Permit must receive a final inspection and, thereafter an Occupancy
Certificate must be issued, if the work is approved and has been constructed in
accord with this Chapter and the plans submitted therefor. If the Building
Administrator fails to approve the work through its final inspection, the
violations of this Building Code or other ordinances shall be corrected by the
contractor and notice given the Building Administrator that the building is
ready for re-inspection. When the Building Administrator finds that the
building is Substantially Completed after one or more re-inspections, he shall
issue an Occupancy Certificate.
   K.   Right of Entry: In the discharge of his duties, the Building
Administrator or his authorized representative shall have the authority to
enter at any reasonable hour any building, structure or premises in the
corporate limits of the Village to enforce the provisions of this Building
Code.
   L.   Architect's Certification of Work: Prior to the issuance of an
Occupancy Certificate, the architect or engineer who prepares the plans as
required by Section
9.111 shall submit a letter to the Building Administrator certifying that the
structure has been built or remodeled substantially in conformance with the
plans he prepared. This provision shall not apply to single-family residences
unless the Building Administrator determines that the work is of such an
unusual nature that the letter of certification should be required. In this
event the permit applicant and the architect shall be so notified.
   M.   Time of Inspections: The Permittee shall notify the Building
Administrator or inspection consultant at each of the times when his work has
progressed to the point where it is ready for the next inspection. The method
and procedure for notification to be determined by the Building Administrator.
At least forty-eight (48) hours' advance notice of the desired inspection shall
be made by the Permittee.
   N.   Obstruction of Inspection: No work shall be done which will cover or
obstruct from view construction work scheduled for inspection which is not yet
approved by the Building Administrator.
   O.   Approval: As each stage or item of construction is approved, the
approval shall be recorded by the Building Administrator on the Building Permit
placard and on his office records, thereby authorizing the continuation of the
work.
   P.   Disapproval: In case the work that has been done or is about to be done
does not conform with this Building Code or other applicable ordinances, the
Building Administrator shall, at once, notify the contractor verbally, confirm
the notification in writing, citing the violations of this Building Code or
other ordinances which are the reason for his disapproval and specifying the
material that is to be removed, replaced or repaired. That portion of the work
which is disapproved shall be corrected by the contractor and reinspected by
the Building Administrator.
   Q.   Stop Work Order: The Building Administrator or his designee shall issue
an order, being a Stop Work Order, to stop certain work or to stop all work on
a Building or structure or part thereof or upon any parcel of real property
when work is being prosecuted contrary to provisions of this Building Code or
in an unsafe and dangerous manner or in contravention of the Zoning Ordinance.
Such Stop Work Order shall be in the form of a red placard bearing the date,
Building Permit number (if any), and signature of the Building Administrator or
his designee and shall be fastened in place in the immediate vicinity of the
Building Permit placard or upon the building or structure which is the subject
of the work or anywhere else upon the real property where the work has been
undertaken. During the time that a Stop Work Order is in effect, the only
activity on the entire job site shall be in connection with removing, repairing
or correcting the work which has been disapproved. Further construction work
may continue only after the Building Administrator or his designee has
withdrawn the Stop Work Order by removal of the red Stop Work Order card and by
either a notation on the Building Permit card (if any) or other written notice
to the contractor. Such Stop Work Order shall remain in effect until it is
removed by the Building Administrator or his designee.
   R.   Negligence: Inspections by the Building Administrator are in addition
to inspections by the owner, architect, contractor, mortgagor and their agents
and employees. Approval by the Building Administrator shall not absolve others
of their negligence nor be made a defense of the negligence of others.
   S.   Appeals: Appeal of any order or decision involving an interpretation of
a provision or provisions of this Building Code by the Building Administrator
shall be written in triplicate, to the Village Clerk for transmission to the
Building Code Board of Appeals, who will hear and decide the appeal.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003; Am. Ord. 659. passed 7-20-2010)
SECTION 9.116. FEES.
   A.   General: A permit to begin work for new construction, alteration,
removal, demolition or other building operation shall not be issued until the
fees prescribed in this Chapter shall have been paid to the Village, nor shall
an amendment to a permit necessitating an additional fee because of an increase
in the estimated cost of the work involved be approved until the additional fee
shall have been paid.
   B.   Restoring Streets and Parkways.
      1.   In the making of any improvement which requires the digging into,
taking up, or otherwise disturbing any portion of the paved roadway of any
street in the Village of Mettawa, the permit, plans, specifications, and
contract for such improvements, shall provide for the restoration of such
pavement to the same condition it was in before work on such improvement was
begun, and whenever in the making of such improvement it is necessary to take
up any draintile used for street drainage or for any public use. The person,
firm or corporation doing such work shall be required to so replace such
draintile as to prevent any future settlement, and the flow line of such
replaced draintile shall be the same as it was before it was taken up.
      2.   Whenever in the making of any improvement, it becomes necessary to
dig into, excavate, or remove any portion of the parkway of any street lying
between the lot lines and gutter lines thereof, the permit, plans and
specifications, and contract therefor shall provide that the contractor,
person, firm or corporation making such improvement, shall restore such parkway
to the condition it was in before such digging or excavating was commenced, and
shall resod the surface where sod has been taken up, or cover the surface with
suitable soil and seed same with suitable grass seed, and shall continue to
care for the same, until such parkway is restored to a condition as good in
every way as it was in, before such digging or excavation was made.
      3.   Whenever any portion of the public property is disturbed that does
not abut that private property for the benefit of which the said public
property was disturbed, immediate restoration of the disturbed property shall
be required.
   C.   Fees: The following shall apply to all new construction and to all
remodeling of all buildings in the Village of Mettawa:
      1.   All plan review and Building Permit fees shall be paid in accordance
with Chapter 2, Village Government, Article X, Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty
Schedules, Section
2.1002, Fee Schedule.
         a.   Prior to the issuance of a Building Permit for any new
construction or remodeling, the owner, contractor or representative shall pay
to the Village the Building Permit fee.
         b.   The funds thus collected shall be used by the Village for its
general corporate purposes, with primary application being the necessary costs
to review plans, enforce the zoning ordinance and building code, issue permits,
and inspect construction.
         c.   The above described fees may be increased or decreased at the
discretion of the President and Board of Trustees.
      2.   Plan Review Fee. A plan review fee shall be paid to the Village at
the time of submittal of any plan for review and shall be as set forth in
Chapter 2, Village Government, Article X, Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules,
Section
2.1002, Fee Schedule.
      3.   Other Fees. Driveway permit fees, storm sewer permit fees, public
property protection fees, permit renewal fees, removal of stop work order fees,
building permit placard replacement fees, building permit plans replacement
fees, partial occupancy permit fees, late permit fees, and Building Code Board
of Appeals Application fees shall be as set forth in Chapter 2, Village
Government, Article X, Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1002, Fee Schedule.
      4.   Reinspection Fees. A reinspection fee in the greater amount of the
fee set forth in Chapter 2, Village Government, Article X, Tax, Fee, Fine and
Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1002, Fee Schedule, or the amount adequate to reimburse the Village for
additional expense incurred, shall be charged on any construction work which
through negligence, improper calls for inspections, incomplete work or poor
workmanship on the part of the contractor, makes it necessary for the inspector
to make more than two inspections of a single phase of construction.
   D.   Special Fees:
      1.   The payment of the fee for the construction, alteration, removal or
demolition and for all work done in connection with or concurrently with the
work contemplated by a Building Permit shall not relieve the applicant or
holder of the permit from the payment of other fees that may be set forth in
Chapter 2, Village Government, Article X, Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules,
Section
2.1002, Fee Schedule, or prescribed by statute, resolution or other ordinance
requirements.
      2.   An additional fee as set forth in Chapter 2, Village Government,
Article X, Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1002, Fee Schedule, shall be required for all new construction projects and
all additions to existing buildings.
         a.   The fee is to assure the replacement, repair, cleaning or
restoration of public property, damaged or littered by the contractor or the
subcontractors, in the prosecution of the work for which the permit was issued.
         b.   If the public property is damaged or littered, the Contractor
shall be notified to take necessary action to restore the public property to
its original condition.
         c.   In the event the public property is so repaired by the contractor
and approved by the Building Administrator or his designee, ninety percent
(90%) of the fee shall be returned to the depositor; otherwise the Village
shall use the fee to repair or clear the public property.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003; Am. Ord. 852, passed 10-20-2020)
SECTION 9.117. VIOLATIONS; PROCEDURE.
   A.   Unlawful Acts: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation
to erect, construct, alter, extend, repair, remove, demolish, use or occupy any
building or structure or equipment regulated by this Building Code, or cause
same to be done, contrary to or in conflict with or in violation of any of the
provisions of this Building Code.
   B.   Notice of Violation: In the event work being performed or about to be
performed does not comply with the provisions of this Building Code, the Zoning
Ordinance or other applicable ordinance, the Building Administrator, or his
designee, shall immediately notify the contractor (if present) orally and/or
mark the permit card (if any) and/or issue a Stop Work Order and thereafter
confirm such notice of violation in writing to the holder of the permit, which
confirmation may consist of forwarding a copy of the Stop Work Order to the
permittee. Such verbal and written notification shall cite violation of the
applicable section of this Building Code, the Zoning Ordinance and/or other
ordinances which are the reasons for disapproval. That portion of work which
has been disapproved shall be corrected by the contractor. Upon completion of
the corrected work, the contractor shall reschedule an inspection in accordance
with Section
9.114 of this Building Code.
   C.   Prosecution of Violation: If the notice of violation is not complied
with promptly, the Building Administrator shall institute the appropriate
proceeding at law or in equity to restrain, correct or abate such violation or
to require the removal or termination of the unlawful use of the building or
structure in violation of the provisions of this Building Code or of the order
or direction made pursuant thereto.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003; Am. Ord. 659, passed 7-20-2010)
SECTION 9.118. BUILDING CODE BOARD OF APPEALS.
   A.   Appointment: There is hereby established the Building Code Board of
Appeals consisting of three (3) members who are qualified by experience and
training to pass upon matters pertaining to building construction and who shall
be appointed by the Village President with advice and consent of the President
and Board of Trustees. The Village President shall designate one of the members
to serve as chairman. At least one (1) member shall be a member of the Plan
Commission.
   B.   Term of Office: The appointment of members, other than the Plan
Commission member whose term will be coincidental with his term of office on
the Plan Commission, shall be as follows: One member of the Building Code Board
of Appeals shall be for a term of one (1) year, one member for a term of two
(2) years. Upon expiration of the term of office of a member of the Board other
than the Plan Commission member, his successor shall be appointed for a term of
three (3) years. Vacancies shall be filled for an unexpired term in the manner
in which original appointments are required to be made. Continued absence of
any member from regular meetings of the Board shall, at the discretion of the
appointing authority of the Municipality, render any such member liable to
immediate removal from office by such appointing authority.
   C.   Quorum: Two (2) members of the Board shall constitute a quorum. In
modifying the application of any provision of this Building Code or in
modifying an order of the Building Administrator, affirmative votes of two (2)
members shall be required. No member of the Board shall pass upon any question
in which he, or any corporation in which he is a shareholder, is interested.
   D.   Meetings and Records: Meetings of the Board shall be held at the call
of the chairman and at such other times as the Board may determine. All
hearings before the Board shall be open to the public. The Board shall keep
minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon every
question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such facts, and shall
also keep records of its examinations and other official action. Such minutes
and such records shall be public records.
   E.   Procedure: The Board shall establish rules and regulations for its own
procedure not inconsistent with the provisions of this Building Code.
   F.   Appeals:
      1.   Appeals from decisions of the Building Administrator regarding
regulations of this Building Code, may be made to the Board pursuant to the
regulations set forth herein.
         a.   The Board may by majority vote, reverse, affirm, or modify any
order, requirements or decision of the Building Administrator pertaining to the
interpretation of this Article.
         b.   Appeals to the Board shall be made by written application. The
application shall clearly and concisely state the reason for the appeal.
Appropriate drawings, material samples and technical bulletins shall be
submitted, with the application
      2.   Appeals may be made to the Board requesting permission to use
construction materials that do not conform to the specification sections of
this Chapter. The Board of Appeals may permit modifications from specified
material provided that the proposed materials meet or exceed structural design
criteria required by ordinance.
         a.   The Commission may permit modifications from specified material
provided that the proposed materials meet or exceed structural design criteria
required by ordinance.
         b.   Materials previously reviewed and approved for use by the Board
may be used without additional review.
         c.   Materials complying with or exceeding the recognized standards of
previously approved materials, may also be used without additional review.
      3.   Appeals may be made to the Board requesting a modification to permit
the construction of a building that does not strictly comply with a provision,
or provisions of this Article.
         a.   The Board may permit modifications from specified provisions
provided that the basic intent of the Building Code provisions are being met
and provided further that the applicant enter into an agreement, satisfactory
to the Village Attorney, agreeing to make any required Building Code compliance
adjustments, when directed to do so by the Board upon the recommendation of the
Building Administrator, that conditions have changed to such an extent that
strict compliance with provisions of this Building Code is now necessary.
         b.   Any person, firm, corporation or representative, who shall file
an application for an appeal to the Board for a modification shall pay a fee in
accordance with those fees approved from time to time by resolution by the
President and Board of Trustees in order to defray the approximate cost of such
review procedures.
   G.   Modifications by the Board of Appeals:
      1.   The Board of Appeals, when so appealed to and after a public
hearing, may modify the application of any provision of this Building Code to
any particular case when, in its opinion, the enforcement thereof would do
manifest injustice and would be contrary to the spirit and purpose of this
Building Code or public interest, or when, in its opinion, the interpretation
of the Building Administrator should be modified or reversed.
   H.   Decision of the Board of Appeals:
      1.   The Board of Appeals shall, in every case, reach a decision without
unreasonable or unnecessary delay. Every decision of the Board of Appeals shall
be in writing and shall indicate the vote upon the decision. Every decision
shall be promptly filed in the office of the Building Administrator and shall
be open to public inspection. A certified copy shall be sent by mail or
otherwise to the appellant and a copy shall be kept publicly posted in the
office of the Building Administrator for two (2) weeks after filing.
      2.   A decision of the Board of Appeals to modify the application of any
provision of this Building Code or to modify an order of the Building
Administrator shall specify in what manner such modification is made, the
conditions upon which it is made, and the reasons therefor.
         a.   If a decision of the Building Code Board of Appeals reverses or
modifies a refusal, order or disallowance of the Building Administrator or
varies the application of any provision of this Chapter, the Building
Administrator shall take action immediately in accordance with such decision.
         b.   Duration of Approvals. No Building Code Board of Appeals approval
granted on an appeal, shall be valid for a period longer than two (2) years
from the date of such approval unless within such period a Building Permit is
obtained and all fees are paid. However, prior approvals by the Building Code
Board of Appeals or President and Board of Trustees shall not prevent the
Building Administrator from referring such projects back to the Building Code
Board of Appeals.
   I.   Appeals from Decisions of the Board of Appeals: A person aggrieved by a
decision of said Board, whether previously a party to the proceeding or not, or
an officer or board, may, within fifteen (15) days after the filing decision in
the office of the Building Administrator, apply to the appropriate court to
correct errors of law, if any, in such decisions.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003; Am. Ord. 639, passed 11-17-2009)
SECTION 9.119. AMENDMENTS.
   The 2012 International Building Code is amended hereby so that Section
3104.11 is deleted hereby in its entirety.
(Ord. 590, passed 6-19-2007; Am. Ord. 721, passed 6-19-2012)
SECTION 9.120. SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, paragraph, subdivision, clause, sentence or provision of
this Chapter shall be adjudged by any court of competent jurisdiction to be
invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair, invalidate or nullify the
remainder of this Chapter, but the effect thereof shall be confined to the
section, paragraph, subdivision, clause, sentence or provision immediately
involved in the controversy in which such judgment or decree shall be rendered.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003; Am. Ord. 590, passed 6-19-2007)
ARTICLE II. GENERAL; DEFINITIONS
SECTION 9.201. RULES AND DEFINITIONS.
   In the construction of this Chapter, the rules and definitions contained in
this Section shall be observed and applied, except when the context clearly
indicates otherwise. In further amplification and for clarity of interpretation
of the context, the following definitions of word usage shall apply:
   A.   Rules.
      1.   Words used in the present tense shall include the future; and words
used in the singular number shall include the plural number, and the plural the
singular.
      2.   The word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary.
      3.   The word "may" is permissive.
      4.   Accepted Engineering Practice shall be that which conforms to
accepted principles, tests or standards of nationally recognized technical or
scientific authorities.
   B.   When the following words in bold font are used in this Chapter, such
words shall have the following meanings:
      ACCESSORY BUILDINGS or ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A subordinate detached
building or structure located on the same lot as a principal building, the use
of which subordinate building or structure is incidental to that of the
principal building or to the principal use of the lot.
      ACCESSORY USE. A use which is ancillary or customarily incidental to the
principal use of or upon the lot and so necessary, or commonly to be expected,
that it cannot be supposed that this Chapter intended to prevent it.
      ADDITION. Any change that increases the floor area of the building or
structure.
      ADJACENT. Touching, lying immediately next to, abutting and/or sharing a
common wall or lot line.
      ALTERATION, STRUCTURAL. Any change (other than incidental repairs) or
replacement of the supporting members of a building, such as bearing walls or
partitions, columns, beams or girders, or any substantial change in the roof or
in the exterior walls.
      ANTENNA, INCLUDING DIRECTIONAL ANTENNA (SUCH AS PANELS), DISH, MICROWAVE
DISH, SATELLITE DISH, AND/OR OMNIDIRECTIONAL ANTENNA (SUCH AS A WHIP ANTENNA).
Any structure or device in excess of seven (7) square feet designed for the
purpose of collecting or transmitting electromagnetic waves for telephonic,
radio, data, Internet or other communications, including appurtenant equipment
attached to a tower or building for the purpose of providing personal wireless
services, including, for example, "cellular", "paging", "low power mobile
radio", and "personal communications services" telecommunications services, and
their attendant base stations.
        ANTENNA HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the base of the
antenna support structure at grade to the highest point of the antenna support
structure, even if said highest point is an antenna. Measurement of tower
height shall include antennas, base pad, and other appurtenances and shall be
measured from the grade of the site. If the antenna support structure is on a
sloped grade, then the average between that established in this Chapter.
      AREA or SUITE. A numbered location specified by the Permittee and shown
upon building plans and specifications, any number of square feet of floor area
or a suite or entire story or hotel level, as the case may be, for which a
Partial Occupancy Certificate may be sought in accord with this Chapter.
      ATTIC. That portion of the height and area of a building between the cave
and the ridge lines of a sloping roof which has a ceiling height of seven (7)
feet or more over a floor area which is more than one-third (1/3) of the floor
area of the next lower and adjacent story but less than one-half (1/2) of the
floor area of the said next lower and adjacent story.
      ATRIUM. An interior space, two (2) or more stories in height.
      AUDITORIUM. A room, hall or building made a part of a church, temple,
theatre, school, recreation building or other building assigned to the
gathering of people as an audience to hear lectures, plays, and other
presentations.
      AWNING. A temporary shelter supported entirely from the exterior wall of
a building, which shelter is composed of non-rigid materials, and which is
either stationary or able to be retracted, folded, or collapsed against the
face of the supporting building.
      BACKFLOW PREVENTER. (See VACUUM BREAKER).
      BACK PRESSURE. A force causing or tending to cause water or air to flow
in a pipe opposite to normal direction of flow.
      BALCONY. A platform projecting from the wall of a building supported by
pillars, brackets or consoles or cantilevers from the main part of the building
and enclosed by a rail or coping.
      BERM. An embankment of earth with gentle slopes which may be used to
divert storm water flows, to protect lower lying areas to enhance landscaping,
to screen view, or to provide a restriction to create storm water storage
areas.
      BUILDING ADMINISTRATOR or CODE OFFICIAL or BUILDING OFFICIAL or ZONING
ADMINISTRATOR or DIRECTOR OF BUILDING AND ZONING or DIRECTOR. The Director of
Building and Zoning of the Village.
      BUILDING DRAIN. The building (house) drain is that part of the lowest
horizontal piping of a drainage system which receives the discharge from soil,
waste, and other drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it
to the building (house) sewer. The building drain terminates five (5) feet
outside of the building walls.
      BUILDING SEWER. (See PRIVATE SEWER)
      BUILDING SITE PLAN. A document reviewed by the Zoning Administrator in
conjunction with a building permit application and approved, if at all, in
accord with the procedures established in this Code for building site plan
review.
      BACKWASH PIPING. The piping which extends from the backwash outlet of the
filters to its terminus at the point of disposal.
      BASEMENT. A story of a building that is partly below and partly above
grade, having at least one-half (1/2) of its height above grade.
      BUILDING. Any structure with substantial walls and roof securely affixed
to the land and entirely separated on all sides from any other structure by
space and which is designed or intended for the shelter, enclosure or
protection of human beings, animals or chattels; and includes a factory
manufactured building, mobile home or a prefabricated building as well as
recreational vehicles located (in other than another building) on a site for
more than one hundred eighty (180) days.
      BUILDING ADMINISTRATOR or ZONING ADMINISTRATOR or DIRECTOR OF BUILDING
AND ZONING or DIRECTOR. The Director of Building and Zoning of the Village.
      BUILDING LINES. The most restrictive line established by subdivision; by
agreement; or by zoning ordinance - designating the required distance of any
structure or building from the lot line most nearly adjacent and parallel to
such restrictive line.
      BUILDING, DETACHED. A building surrounded by open space on the same
zoning lot as the principal building, but separated from the principal building
by not less than ten (10) feet.
      BUILDING HEIGHT.
         a.   In feet, the vertical distance from existing grade to the highest
point of the roof or parapet, whichever is greater, of a building provided that
antenna towers with a maximum height of forty feet (40') and antenna tower
structures (including mast and antenna) having an overall height of not more
than fifty feet (50'), penthouses, steeples, required chimneys and other
structures shall not be counted in measuring the height of buildings; and
         b.   In stories, the number of STORIES in a building, which a
habitable room may be located, including basements but excluding cellars.
      BUILDING, PREFABRICATED or FACTORY MANUFACTURED BUILDING. Any building
consisting wholly or in material part of a structural, load bearing or lateral
load-resisting assemblage of materials assembled as a building or section
thereof prior to arrival at the building construction site, provided that use
of building components and pre-assembled materials produced in accordance with
standard specifications referenced by the Village Building Code, such as rolled
structural steel shapes, steel beams, steel reinforcing bars, masonry units,
pre-cast wall and beam systems, pre-constructed roof trusses, and plywood
sheets shall not cause a building to be considered a "Prefabricated Building"
or "Factory Manufactured Building."
      BUTTRESS. A projecting part of a masonry wall built integrally therewith
to furnish lateral stability which is supported on proper foundations.
      CANOPY. A roof-like structure with posts or other ground support,
constructed to provide shelter to pedestrians or vehicles.
      CARPORT. A canopy for vehicle storage, open on three (3) sides and
attached to a principal building.
      CARTRIDGE FILTER. A filter using filter cartridges.
      CATCH BASIN. A catch basin is a receptacle which separates and retains
grease, oil, dirt, gravel and all other substances lighter or heavier than the
liquid waste which bears them in order to prevent their entrance into the
private or public sewer.
      CEILING LEVEL HEIGHT. The vertical distance in feet of a building or
structure as measured from grade as established in this Chapter to the finished
bottom edge of the uppermost ceiling line of the topmost habitable room in the
topmost story of a building.
      CHIMNEY. A primarily vertical enclosure containing one or more
passageways from which smoke and heat is emitted.
         a.   FACTORY-BUILT CHIMNEY. A chimney that is factory-made, listed by
an accredited authoritative testing agency, for venting gas appliances, gas
incinerators, and solid or liquid fuel burning appliances.
         b.   MASONRY CHIMNEY. A field constructed chimney built in accordance
with this Building Code and nationally recognized standards.
      CIRCULATING PIPE. A pipe which is used to maintain water at a desired
temperature at its point of use.
      COMBUSTIBLE MATERIAL. A material which cannot be classified as
noncombustible in accordance with that definition.
      COMMERCIAL FRONT YARD. A front yard located upon a lot found within the H
Office/Hotel District and maintained as open space except for the parking of
vehicles within that area of the front yard more than ten feet (10') beyond the
adjacent front lot line.
      CONSTRUCTION, NEW. New construction shall mean any construction which
creates a new building or other stand alone structure outside of a building or
which increases the building footprint of an existing building or structurally
changes an existing building.
      CONTINUOUS VENT. The continuation of a vertical soil or waste pipe above
the point of entrance of the pipe from a fixture trap.
      COST OF CONSTRUCTION. For purposes of calculating Building Permit fees,
the cost of construction shall be the labor and material costs for all trades
for a construction project. Land cost shall not be included in the calculation.
      CRITICAL LEVEL. A critical level is the level to which the backflow
preventer or vacuum breaker may be submerged before backflow will occur. Where
critical level marking is not indicated on the preventer, the bottom of the
device shall be considered the critical level.
      CROSS CONNECTION. A physical arrangement whereby one system of piping is
connected to another system of piping in such a way that the contents of the
two systems may become mixed.
      DESIGN RATE. The average flow rate over the filtration cycle.
      DECK. A structure which is open to the sky (as opposed to a "Porch") and
which provides a platform that is raised more than six (6) inches above the
underlying ground.
      DEED OR PLAT RESTRICTION. Easements, covenants, deed restricted open
spaces, outlots dedicated to a public entity, reserved plat areas, conservation
easements, or public road rights-of-way that contain any part of the stormwater
management system of a development.
      DIATOMITE TYPE FILTER. A filter designed to be used with filter aid.
      DIRECTOR OF BUILDING AND ZONING. See BUILDING AND ZONING DIRECTOR.
      DISTRIBUTION PIPE. The water piping which extends from the risers to the
individual fixture supply pipes.
      DOG RUN. An area enclosed by a fence for the containment of dogs or other
domestic animals. For purposes of this Chapter, a dog run is considered a
structure. For purposes of this definition, "fence" shall not include invisible
electronic fences.
      DRAINAGE AREA. The land area above a given point that contributes
stormwater to that point.
      DRIVE APPROACH. A way or means of vehicular access from that portion of a
street or highway used for vehicular travel (roadway) to the adjacent property,
including the portion of a sidewalk, path or trail lying within said way or
means of access.
      DRIVEWAY. A private access way that provides direct access from a street
to not more than one (1) lot or principal building or use, except as may
otherwise be provided by this Code.
      DRY DETENTION FACILITY. A dry detention facility is a detention facility
designed to drain completely after temporary storage of stormwater flows and to
normally be dry over the majority of its bottom area.
      DWELLING or DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms in a building, not in a
house trailer or mobile home, which are arranged, designed, used or intended
for use by one (1) family exclusively for residential occupancy, and which
includes at least one permanently installed full bathroom with toilet
facilities and no more than one (1) kitchen.
      DWELLING, ATTACHED. A dwelling unit which is joined to another dwelling
at one or more sides by a party wall or walls or roof.
      DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY DETACHED or SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE. A building
designed to contain one (1) dwelling unit which is entirely surrounded by open
area on the same lot and is not connected directly or indirectly to any other
dwelling unit by roof, walls, porches or any other means.
      DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building, or portion thereof, containing
three or more dwelling units.
      DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building containing two dwelling units only.
      FACE PIPING. The piping with all valves and fittings which is used to
connect the filter system together as a unit.
      FENCE. A structure which is a barrier and which is used as a means of
protecting or confinement, providing privacy, security, weather control,
aesthetic appearance and/or boundary definitions for land and land uses, and
made of or from a manufactured product, such as but not limited to steel,
aluminum, wood and/or masonry material, including but not limited to:
         a.   CHAIN LINK FENCE. A fence made of wire helically wound and
interwoven in such a manner as to provide a continuous mesh without knots or
ties, except in the form of knuckling the ends of the wires to form a selvage
of the fabric.
         b.   DECORATIVE ENTRY FENCE. A solid fence or open fence or a
combination thereof, which may include pillars.
         c.   OPEN FENCE. A fence, which may include gates, fifty percent (50%)
of the area of each one (1) square foot segment extending over the entire
length and height of which fence consists of open air spaces which afford a
direct view through the fence; which fence is constructed of posts carrying
boards, rails, pickets, or wire or constructed of iron consisting of vertical
or horizontal bars or other open work.
         d.   SOLID FENCE. A fence, which may include gates, thick or dense in
appearance or texture over its entire vertical and horizontal height and
length, having no open breaks or divisions and which conceals from view from
adjoining properties activities conducted behind.
      FILTER. Any material or apparatus by which water is clarified or solid
matter is removed.
      FILTER CARTRIDGE. A disposable or renewable filter element which employs
a media to clarify or remove solid matter from water or air.
      FIRE RESISTANCE RATING. The time in hours or fractions thereof that
materials or their assemblies will resist fire exposure as determined by fire
tests conducted in compliance with recognized standards.
      FIXTURE SUPPLY PIPE. The water piping which extends from the distribution
pipe to an individual fixture.
      FIXTURE UNITS. A design factor for drainage piping so chosen that the
load-producing values of the plumbing fixtures can be expressed approximately
as multiples of that factor. For the purposes of this Building Code, this value
is assumed to be 7.6 gpm.
      FLOOR AREA. The aggregate square footage of all floors of all structures,
over one-half of which is above grade, measured from outside exterior
dimension, including attached and detached garage(s), pool buildings or cabana
buildings, tennis courts, above ground swimming pools, decks and terraces and
all appurtenances thereto more than five (5) feet above ground, measured from
the original grade of record and play structures more than seven (7) feet in
height and with a footprint larger than one hundred fifty (150) square feet.
      FLOOR DRAIN. A trapped drain having a water seal of more than four (4)
inches.
      FLOOR FINISH. The finish placed on top of the floor arch, slab or other
structural floor element.
      FRONT LOT LINE. With respect to any lot other than a lot-in-depth, the
line thereof coextensive with the right-of-way line of any adjacent street.
      FRONT YARD. Upon any lot other than a lot-in-depth, that yard adjacent to
any front lot line and maintained, except as otherwise set forth in this Code
and except for ingress and egress driveways and sidewalks traversing the same
in a fashion other than parallel to the front lot line with which it is
adjacent, as open space. Front yards are measured by a line at right angles to
the front lot line, or by the radial line in the case of a curved front lot
line. See also: COMMERCIAL FRONT YARD.
      GARAGE. A building designed to shelter motor vehicles.
      GRADE. The average elevation of the ground surface of a lot, in its
natural state, measured at the location of the proposed corners of the proposed
structure, with the understanding that additional measurements taken at one
hundred (100) foot intervals between the lower corner and the higher corner
shall also be included in establishing the average elevation.
      GRADE, EXISTING shall be established by either:
         a.   The building pad elevation, as shown on a subdivision grading
plan as approved by the Village Engineer; or
         b.   Where such plans do not exist, existing grade shall be the
average elevation of the ground surface, in its natural state, measured at the
corners of the proposed structure. For structures in excess of 100 feet in
length, additional measurements, at 100 foot intervals, measured from the lower
corner to the higher corner, shall also be included in establishing the
average. This computation must be reviewed and approved by the Village
Engineer.
      GROUND FLOOR AREA. The lot area covered by a principal building measured
at grade from the exterior walls but excluding open porches or terraces,
garages or carports.
      HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space arranged for living,
eating, and sleeping purposes (not including bathrooms, water closet
compartments, laundries, pantries, foyers, hallways and other accessory floor
spaces).
      HORIZONTAL PIPE. Any pipe or fitting which makes an angle of less than
forty-five (45) degrees with the horizontal.
      HOTEL LEVEL. Ceiling to ceiling height of 9.25 feet or less in a hotel
shall equal seven-tenths of a "Story", as defined in this Article.
      INDIRECT WASTE CONNECTION. A connection in which there is a break in a
line of pipe through which the water, sewage, or other liquid may be discharged
from one pipe to another by gravity, and which is open to the atmosphere for a
space sufficient to permit visibility of such discharge and to prevent backflow
into the pipe above.
      INLET. The fitting or opening through which the filtered water enters the
pool.
      INTERIOR SIDE YARD. A yard between the principal building and the side
lot line, other than one parallel to a public street.
      KNUCKLING. A term used to describe the type of selvage obtained by
interlocking adjacent pairs of wire ends and then bending the wire ends back
into a closed loop.
      LEGAL DESCRIPTION. The description of real property established by law
and created in specific cases from real property surveys drawn by licensed land
surveyors.
      LEGAL NON-CONFORMING. A use or structure which does not comply in some
respect with the currently effective regulations in this Chapter but which was
lawfully established and did so comply in all respects when established and
with respect to which the amortization period either has not expired or for
which there is no amortization period.
      LOOP VENT. A method of loop venting a plumbing fixture is where such
fixtures are so located that they cannot be vented in a normal manner without
impracticable exposure of pipes. The vent is carried up from its connection at
the waste line to a point above or as close as possible to the spill line of
the fixture and then back to the closest vent pipe. (See Drawing, Graphic 1 )
      LOT. A portion of platted land measured, set apart, and subdivided as a
distinct parcel having its principal frontage upon a street and created and
delineated upon a plat of subdivision or resubdivision and so recorded by the
Recorder of Deeds of Lake County, Illinois:
      1.   Before July 28, 1980; or
      2.   Which, although not meeting all of the bulk regulations of the
zoning district within which it is located, has never been in contiguous
ownership after July 28, 1980; or
      3.   Which meets all of the bulk regulations of the zoning district
within which it is located.
      LOT LINE. A property boundary line on the perimeter of any lot,
distinguishing that lot from adjacent land.
      LOT LINE, FRONT. Any property line of a lot adjacent and parallel to a
dedicated street.
      LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line or lot lines most nearly parallel to and
most remote from the front lot lines.
      LOT LINE, SIDE. Lot lines other than front or rear lot lines.
      LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area, including
basement.
      MAIN BRANCH PIPE. The water piping which extends from the main supply
pipe to the risers.
      MAIN DRAIN. The outlet(s) at the deep portion of the pool through which
the main flow of water leaves the pool when being drained or circulated.
      MAIN SUCTION. The line connecting the main drain to the pump.
      MAIN SUPPLY PIPE. The water piping which extends from the meter to the
most remote riser or main branch.
      MANHOLE. An opening constructed in a sewer to eliminate restrictions of
flow at changes of direction or junctions, and facilitates cleaning; the
structure being of sufficient size to permit a person to gain access thereto.
      MARKET VALUE. An amount which is three (3) times the equalized assessed
value that is reflected on the real estate tax bill for the property in
question.
      MAXIMUM HEIGHT.
      1.    In feet, the vertical distance from existing grade to the highest
point of the roof or parapet, which ever is greater, of a building; provided
that antenna towers with a maximum height of forty feet (40') and antenna tower
structures (including mast and antenna) having an overall height of not more
than fifty feet (50'), penthouses, steeples, required chimneys and other
structures shall not be counted in measuring the height of buildings; and
      2.   In stories, the number of levels in a building, in any given level
of which a habitable room may be located, including basements but excluding
cellars.
      MEZZANINE. A low ceiling area between two (2) main stories of a
structure, containing no more than one-third (1/3) of the floor area of either
the floor directly above or below.
      MINOR PLUMBING REPAIRS. The repair or replacement of faucets and valves
and the removal of obstructions in fixtures and waste lines.
      NATURAL SCREENING. A fence-like natural growth, consisting of bushes,
thicket, shrubs, hedges, evergreens, etc.
      NONCOMBUSTIBLE MATERIAL. A material which, in the form in which it is
used and under the conditions anticipated, will not ignite, burn, support
combustion, or release flammable vapors, when subjected to fire or heat.
Materials reported as noncombustible, when tested in accordance with the,
Standard Method of Test for Non-Combustibility of Elementary Materials. ASTM E
136-73, shall be considered noncombustible materials.
      OCCUPANCY CERTIFICATE. A certificate issued by the Building and Zoning
Director stating the occupancy and use of land or a building or structure
referred to therein complies with the provisions of this Building Code as well
as the other applicable ordinances of the Village.
      OCCUPANCY CERTIFICATE, PARTIAL. See PARTIAL OCCUPANCY CERTIFICATE.
      OWNER. Any person having legal or equitable title to and/or control of
any land within the corporate limits of the Village which is not street right-
of-way.
      PARKWAY. That part of a street or highway, on each side of the pavement
or roadway thereof, lying between the outer edge of the pavement or roadway and
the property lines bounding the street.
      PARTIAL OCCUPANCY CERTIFICATE. A certificate which may be issued for an
area provided said area is substantially complete.
      PERMIT or BUILDING PERMIT. Authorization issued in writing by the
Building Administrator to commence new construction or any other work for which
a Permit is required by this Building Code.
      PERMITTEE. The person to whom a Building Permit is issued.
      PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company
or organization of any kind.
      PILLAR. A vertical monument-like structure or column, standing alone or
as part of a decorative entry fence, on one or both sides of a private
driveway.
      PLUMBING. The term "Plumbing" shall include all piping, fixtures,
appurtenances, and appliances for the supply of water and for sanitary
drainage, and related ventilating system throughout all buildings, structures,
and public places where persons live, work, or assemble and shall also include
all piping, fixtures, appurtenances, and appliances outside of buildings
connecting the building with the source of water supply and the main sewer or
other means of disposal. Plumbing shall also include the installation, repair,
and maintenance work upon and in connection with such piping, fixtures,
appurtenances, appliances, drain, or waste pipes.
      PLUMBING CONTRACTOR. A person duly licensed under the Illinois Plumbing
License Law, or a firm, company or corporation, an officer of which is licensed
under the Illinois Plumbing  License Law and has on file in the Office of the
Building Administrator all bonds and insurance certificates required by Section
9-185(E) of this Article.
      PLUMBING FIXTURE. Any receptacle or device intended to receive and
discharge water, liquid or water-carried wastes into a plumbing or drainage
system. Water heaters and water coolers are classified as plumbing fixtures.
      PORCH. A roofed-over platform that is raised more than six (6) inches
above the underlying ground, which projects out from the wall or walls of a
main structure and which may be open to the weather in part.
      POOL DEPTHS. The distance between the floor of the pool and the maximum
operating level when the pool is in use.
      POOL FLOOR. That portion of the pool that is horizontal or inclined less
than forty-five (45) degrees to the vertical from the horizontal.
      POOL WALKS/DECKS. The surfaced area around the pool.
      POOL WALL. That portion of the pool that is vertical or inclined more
than forty-five (45) degrees to the vertical from the horizontal.
      POOLS, OTHER. Other pools of water shall include whirlpools, spas, hot
tubs, therapy pools, soakers and other similar structures that have a water
surface area over fifty (50) square feet measured at normal operating levels.
      POTABLE WATER. Water from the public water supply system or private
welled as suitable for human consumption.
      PREFABRICATED BUILDING or FACTORY MANUFACTURED BUILDING. Any building
consisting wholly or in material part of a structural, load bearing or lateral
load-resisting assemblage of materials assembled as a building or section
thereof prior to arrival at the building construction site, provided that use
of building components and pre-assembled materials produced in accordance with
standard specifications referenced by the Village Code, such as rolled
structural steel shapes, steel beams, steel reinforcing bars, masonry units,
pre-cast wall and beam systems, pre-constructed roof trusses, and plywood
sheets shall not cause a building to be considered a "prefabricated building"
or "factory manufactured building."
      PRIVATE DRIVEWAY. A paved or unpaved path leading from a vehicular
parking place or garage to a street.
      PRIVATE INDIVIDUAL ONSITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM or SEPTIC SYSTEM. A
Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal System is used to collect, treat, and
discharge or reclaim  wastewater from an individual dwelling without the use of
community-wide or a centralized treatment facility. A conventional onsite
system includes a septic tank and a leaching field. Some of the other
alternative types of onsite systems include at-grade systems, mound systems,
sand filters and small aerobic units. The leaching field receives pretreated
wastewater and the soil further treats the wastewater by filtration, sorption,
and microbiological degradation before the water is discharged to ground water.
      PRIVATE POOL. A private pool is one used in conjunction with a single-
family residence and constructed on the same zoning lot as the principle
building, used and intended to be used solely by the owner or occupant and his
family and friends.
      PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer built on private property or easement, not
dedicated for public use, which conveys the drainage of one or more buildings
on private premises to its outlet.
      PUBLIC POOL. All other pools other than private swimming pools as defined
herein.
      PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which has been accepted for public use and
maintenance by the Village of Mettawa located within a street, alley, way or
easement and which is connected either to an interceptor sewer of the North
Shore Sanitary District, Lake County, or to the Public Sanitary Sewer system of
the Village of Mettawa.
      REAR LOT LINE. The lot line of any lot opposite a front lot line thereof.
      REAR YARD. Upon any lot other than a lot-in-depth, the yard adjacent to
the rear lot line and maintained, except for ingress and egress driveways and
sidewalks traversing the same in a fashion other than parallel to the rear lot
line it abuts, as open space except as otherwise provided by this Code. Rear
yards are measured by a line at right angles to the rear lot line, or by the
radial line in the case of a curved rear lot line. However, with respect to a
corner lot, the rear yard shall be that yard, if any, which does not abut the
side yard of an adjacent lot. Any yard so abutting the side yard of an adjacent
lot shall be a side yard.
      RECIRCULATING PIPING, POOL. The piping from the pool to the filter and
return to the pool, through which the water circulates.
      RETAINING WALL. An artificial composition of wood, concrete, masonry or
other material utilized in conjunction with a drainage and grading plan
approved by the Village Engineer of the Village for the sole purpose of
stabilizing soil and/or existing natural features.
      RETENTION FACILITY. A structure designed to retain a specified amount of
storm water runoff without release except by means of evaporation,
infiltration, or pumping.
      RETURN PIPING, POOL. The piping which carries the filtered water from the
filter to the pool.
      REVENT PIPE. A pipe which connects directly at or near the junction of an
individual trap outlet and extends to a connection with the main or branch vent
above the spill line of the fixture.
      RISER PIPE. The water piping which extends vertically from the main
supply pipe or main branch pipe to the floor or floors above.
      ROADWAY. That portion of a street, improved, designed or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel.
      SAFETY ROPE ANCHORS. Anchors at the transition point.
      SAND FILTER. A filter that employs sand as the filter media.
      SIDE LOT LINE. The lot line of any lot between a front line and a rear
line thereof unless such line lies opposite a front lot line, in which case
such line shall be a rear lot line.
      SIDE YARD. Upon any lot other than a lot-in-depth, that yard located
adjacent to the side lot line and maintained, except for ingress and egress
driveways and sidewalks, as open space. Side yards do not include any of the
area of a front yard and/or a rear yard; and the depth of a side yard is
measured by a line at right angles to the side lot line, or by the radial line
in the case of curved side lot lines. However, with respect to a corner lot,
any yard which abuts the side yard of an adjacent lot shall be a side yard and
not a rear yard.
      SIDEWALK TRAIL. That improved portion of a street between the curb lines,
or the lateral lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for
the use of pedestrians.
      SKIMMER BASKET. An easily removable and cleanable basket located in the
recirculating piping system through which all overflow water must pass.
      SKIMMER FILTER. A recirculating skimmer with a filter forming an integral
part of the device.
      SOIL PIPE. A pipe which conveys the discharge of water closets, or other
fixtures receiving fecal matter, with or without the discharge from other
fixtures.
      STACK. Any vertical line of soil, waste, or vent pipe.
      STOP WORK ORDER. Issued by the Building Administrator or his designee in
accordance with this Chapter, a red placard containing written legal notice of
one or more ordinance violations and to cease immediately all work.
      STORY. That portion of a building included between the surface of any
floor and the surface of the floor above it, or if there is no floor above then
the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it.
      STREET or HIGHWAY. Public land improved or unimproved, which affords a
primary means of access to abutting property whether designated as a street,
avenue, highway, road, boulevard, lane, throughway, right-of-way or otherwise,
but does not include private roads and driveways to buildings.
      STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY. The entire right-of-way or width of every road, way,
thoroughfare, trail or place conveyed and/or dedicated by prescription or plat
or other instrument for use by the general public or conveyed and/or dedicated
to the Village or other public agency and that is open to the use of the public
for the primary purpose of carrying vehicular, equestrian, bicycle and/or
pedestrian traffic.
      STRUCTURE. Unless otherwise specified in this Chapter, anything
constructed or erected or any production or piece of work, manmade and
artificially built up or composed of parts joined together in some definite
manner, the use of which requires permanent or temporary location in or upon
the land or requires attachment to something having a permanent location above,
on, or below the ground, including but not limited to: Advertising signs, air
conditioning compressor units, backstops for tennis courts, billboards,
buildings, building foundations (including foundations constructed for the
installation of manufactured homes), signs, fences, gospel and circus tents,
platforms, radio and television antennae (including supporting towers),
reviewing stands, stadia, and swimming pools. The term also includes a gas or
liquid storage tank, a manufactured home, mobile home or a prefabricated
building, and recreational vehicles and travel trailers to be installed on a
site for more than one hundred eighty (180) days, unless they are fully
licensed and ready for highway use.
      STRUCTURE, TEMPORARY. A structure without any foundation or footings and
which is removed when the designated time period, activity or use for which the
temporary structure was erected has ceased.
      STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. See ALTERATIONS, STRUCTURAL.
      SUBSTANTIALLY COMPLETE or SUBSTANTIAL COMPLETION. Any structure for which
a Building Permit has been issued has complete plumbing (including well and
septic systems), electrical, heating, interiors, all stoops, gutters and
downspouts, all construction inspected and approved primer coats to be applied
to all exterior surfaces, rough grading completed, and all safety facilities
installed, tested, and operable.
      SWIMMING POOL. A receptacle for water, or an artificial basin of water,
either above-ground or subsurface, indoor or outdoors, having a depth at any
point in excess of two (2) feet and a surface area exceeding one hundred fifty
(150) square feet, intended for the use of persons with the purpose of
emersion, partial emersion or swimming and including all appurtenant equipment.
      TRANSITION POINT. A point where a swimming pool floor slope changes
between shallow and deep area.
      TRAP. A fitting or device so designed and constructed as to provide a
liquid seal that will prevent the passage of air through a pipe or fixture
without materially affecting the flow of sewage or waste water through it.
      UNDERDRAIN. An appurtenance at the bottom of the filter to assure equal
distribution of water through the filter media.
      VACUUM BREAKER. A vacuum breaker is a device designed to prevent back
siphonage by providing an opening through which air may be drawn to relieve
negative pressure in the water supply pipe.
      VACUUM PIPING. The piping which connects the vacuum fitting to the pump
suction.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Mettawa, an Illinois municipal corporation and
home rule unit.
      VILLAGE ATTORNEY. The Village Attorney of the Village of Mettawa.
      VILLAGE MODIFICATIONS. The regulations contained in this Chapter 9 which
are in addition to, deviate from, or are in conflict with any of the 2003
International Building Code, the 2003 International Residential Code, the 2003
International Fire Code, the 2003 International Mechanical Code, the 2003
International Electrical Code, the 2003 International Property Maintenance
Code, the 1998 Illinois Plumbing Code, the 1997 Illinois Accessibility Code,
and the 2003 International Fuel Gas Code, such regulations shall supersede said
codes as they are applied within the corporate limits of the Village.
      ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. Whenever the term 'Zoning Administrator' (also
known as the Building and Zoning Director and the Director of Building and
Zoning) is used, it shall mean the Zoning Administrator appointed by the
Village President and such deputies or assistants as have been or shall be duly
appointed. That officer is hereby authorized and it is his duty to administer
and enforce the provisions of this Chapter, making such determinations,
interpretations, and orders as are necessary thereof and requiring such plats,
plans, and other descriptive material in connection with applications for
permits as are necessary for him to judge compliance with this Chapter.
      ZONING BOARD. The Zoning Board of Appeals of the Village of Mettawa, Lake
County, Illinois.
      ZONING CODE or ZONING ORDINANCE. Chapter 15 (Zoning) of the Municipal
Code of the Village of Mettawa of 2001, as amended.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003; Am. Ord. 519,
passed 7-20-2004; Am. Ord. 537, passed 4-19-2005; Am. Ord. 639, passed 11-17-
2009; Am. Ord. 659, passed 7-20-2010)
ARTICLE III. RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS
SECTION 9.301. ADOPTION OF CODE.
   The 2012 International Residential Code, be and the same is hereby adopted
by reference, subject to the Village Modifications contained in this Chapter.
This Article shall be known and cited as the Village of Mettawa Residential
Buildings Code.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003; Am. Ord. 721, passed 6-19-2012)
SECTION 9.302. ADDITIONAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   A.   The following siding material shall be permitted on principal
dwellings:
      1.   Horizontal or vertical extruded aluminum panel;
      2.   Brick veneer;
      3.   Stone veneer;
      4.   Wood (rustic, drop, shiplap, bevel, and butt tip);
      5.   Fiber cement panel;
      6.   Fiber cement lap;
      7.   Wood shakes and shingles;
      8.   Exterior plaster (stucco);
      9.   Vinyl siding with a thickness of 0.048 inches or greater.
Hardboard panel-vertical, hardboard lap-horizontal, steel, particle board
panels, and plywood panels shall not be permitted on principal residences.
   B.   Accessory Buildings.
      1.   Siding permitted on accessory buildings shall be of a type permitted
on principal dwellings.
      2.   No metal roof shall be permitted other than a "standing-seam" type.
      3.   No accessory building shall have an area in excess of 2,000 square
feet without a special use permit.
   C.   In addition to the foregoing provisions of this Section and other
applicable regulations contained in this Chapter, the following additional
regulations shall apply to buildings used for the stabling of horses:
      1.   The roof over a three-sided loafing shed located as permitted by the
Zoning Ordinance (Chapter 15 of this Municipal Code), shall not exceed 1,200
square feet in area; and
      2.   "Pole barn" design is permitted for the construction of stable
buildings.
(Ord. 515, passed 4-20-2004; Am. Ord. 566, passed 8-15-2006)
SECTION 9.303. AMENDMENTS.
   The 2012 International Residential Code, International Code Council 2012
Edition, adopted in Section 9.301 of this Building Code, is amended hereby in
the following respects.
   1.   Table N-1102.1 Climate Zone 14, contained in Chapter 11, shall be
amended as follows:
      Ceilings:      R-38
      Walls:         R-15
      *Basement Walls:   R-11
      *All other insulation requirements remain in effect.
   2.   Section 1102.1.5 shall be amended as follows:
      Basement walls shall be insulated in accordance with Table N1102.1.
   3.   Table R703.4, "Weather-Resistant Siding Attachment and Minimum
Thickness", is amended hereby to remove the following siding material
therefrom: (a) hardboard panel-vertical; (b) hardboard lap-horizontal; (c)
steel; (d) particle board panels; (e) plywood panel; and (f) vinyl.
(Ord. 519, passed 7-20-2004; Am. Ord. 566, passed 8-15-2006; Am. Ord. 721,
passed 6-19-2012)
ARTICLE IV ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION 9.401. ADOPTION OF CODE.
   The 2011 National Electrical Code (NFPA 70), be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as the standards and specifications, rules and regulation
for the installation, alteration, repair and use of electrical equipment:
subject to the Village Modifications contained in this Chapter. A copy of this
Article shall be kept on file for public inspection in the office of the
Village Clerk and the office of the Building Administrator. This Article shall
be known and cited as the Village of Mettawa Electrical Code.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003; Am. Ord. 721, passed 6-19-2012)
SECTION 9.402. PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   A.   The purpose of this Building Code is the practical safeguarding of
persons and of buildings and their contents from electrical hazards arising
from the use of electricity for light, heat, power, radio transmission,
signaling and for other purposes. It covers the electrical conductors and
equipment installed within or on public and private buildings and other
premises, including yards, carnival and parking lots, private industrial
substations, and street lighting, together with the associated equipment
necessary to its safe operation.
   B.   Enforcement and Interpretation: This Code is an integral part of the
ordinances of the Village and as such its provisions are mandatory and are
enforceable by the Village in exercising its legal jurisdiction over electrical
installations.
   C.   The Building Administrator supervising such enforcement of this Article
has the responsibility for making interpretations of the rules, for deciding
upon the approval of equipment and materials and for granting special
permission contemplated in a number of the rules.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.403. ENFORCEMENT OF ELECTRICAL REGULATIONS.
   A.   The Building Administrator or his designee shall administer the
electrical regulations of this Building Code. The electrical regulations of
this Article shall not be construed to relieve from, or lessen the
responsibility of any person owning, operating or installing electrical wires,
appliances, apparatus, construction or equipment for damages to anyone injured
by any defect therein by reason of the inspection authorized herein or the
certificate of inspection issued by the Building Administrator; nor shall the
Village be held liable for any damages resulting from the enforcement of the
electrical regulations of this Article.
   B.   In all cases where any action is taken by the Building Administrator or
his designee to enforce the provisions of any of the sections contained in the
various regulations of this Building Code, such acts shall be done in the name
of, and on behalf of the Village, and the said Building Administrator or his
designee in so acting for the Village shall not be liable for any damage that
may accrue to persons or property as a result of any such act committed in good
faith in the discharge of their duties. Any suit brought against the said
Building Administrator or his designee or the Village by any persons aggrieved
by said enforcement action shall stay all acts of approval of such work by said
Village until final determination of the proceedings contained therein.
   C.   The Building Administrator or his duly authorized designee, shall make
all inspections necessary to insure compliance with this Article, and the rules
and regulations of the Village with respect to the installation, alteration or
repair of electrical equipment. The Building Administrator or his designee
shall have the right during reasonable hours to enter any building in the
discharge of official duties, or for the purpose of making any inspection or
test of the installation, alteration or repair of electrical equipment
contained therein. The Building Administrator shall have the authority to cause
the turning off of any electrical switch or the disconnection of any electrical
wire or equipment where the electrical currents transmitted thereby present a
danger to life and property or may interfere with the work of the Fire
Department.
   D.   Whenever, in the opinion of the Building Administrator or his designee,
it shall be necessary to call upon the Lake County Sheriff for their aid and
assistance in carrying out or enforcing any of the provisions of this Building
Code governing the inspection of electrical equipment, he shall have authority
to do so; and it shall be the duty of any member of the Lake County Sheriff
when called upon by said Building Administrator or his designee to act
according to the instruction of and to perform such duties as may be required
by such Building Administrator his designee, in order to enforce or put into
effect the provisions of this Building Code relating to the inspection of
electrical equipment.
   E.   No registered electrical contractor shall install any electrical
conduits, electrical wires, equipment of apparatus in any building or structure
for which a permit is required, until such permit shall have been secured. In
case any work is begun on the installation of electrical conduits, raceways, or
the installation, alteration or repair of electrical wires or apparatus in any
building or structure without a permit authorizing the same first issued
therefor, or the aforesaid installations are being made in violation of the
electrical regulations of this Article, the Building Administrator or his
designee shall have the power to stop such work at once and to order any and
all persons engaged therein to stop and desist therefrom until the proper
permit is secured.
   F.   The term "electrical equipment" as used in the electrical regulations
of this Article is hereby defined as meaning conductors and equipment installed
for the utilization of electricity supplied for light, heat or power, and
signal light, heat or power not including radio apparatus, conductors and other
equipment installed for common carriers, which are under the jurisdiction of
the Illinois Commerce Commission for use in their operation as public
utilities.
   G.   The term "electrical contractor" as used in this Article shall be
understood to mean any person, firm or corporation engaged in the business of
installing, altering or repairing by contract electrical equipment as defined
herein for the utilization of electricity supplied for light, heat, or power,
not including radio apparatus or equipment for wireless reception of sound and
signals, conductors, and other equipment installed for or by public utilities,
including common carriers, which are under the jurisdiction of the Illinois
Commerce Commission, for use in their operation as public utilities. The term
"electrical contractor" does not include employees employed by such contractor
to do or supervise such work.
   H.   The term "electrical contractor limited" as used in this Article, shall
mean any person, firm or corporation engaged in the business of installing,
altering or repairing electric signs or heating and air conditioning units. The
scope of work permitted under this category shall be limited to one, line
voltage circuit and necessary low voltage wiring required to install, alter or
repair signs or heating and air conditioning units.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.404. REGISTRATION OF ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to engage in the
business of electrical contractor or electrical contractor limited, as defined
in this Chapter, without being currently registered as an electrical contractor
or electrical contractor limited in another municipality which has an active
Electrical Commission within the State of Illinois.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.405. APPLICATION, PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS.
   A.   No person, firm or corporation shall install or alter any electrical
equipment as defined hereinbefore, without first obtaining a permit for each
such installation or alteration. Permits for the installation or alteration of
electrical equipment shall be issued to a registered electrical contractor upon
receipt of an application therefor and upon the payment of the fee in advance,
as hereinafter provided.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain nonpublic utility poles or
wires on or over any public street, alley, or other public way without having
first secured permission from the President and Board of Trustees.
   C.   Permits shall not be required for replacement or repair of minor
equipment such as switches or convenience receptacles in existing openings not
involving any replacement of circuit wiring.
   D.   The application for each such permit shall contain the name of the
owner or user of the electrical equipment to be installed or altered, the
location by street number, and a detailed description of the proposed
installation.
   E.   The fee for permits for all electrical installations shall be in
accordance with the most recent fee schedule, approved by the President and
Board of Trustees of the Village. All fees as provided herein shall be paid to
the Village of Mettawa before a permit is issued.
   F.   The electrical contractor shall notify the Building Administrator or
his duly authorized designee for inspection before any electrical installations
are concealed until an inspection has been made and the installation has been
approved by the inspector.
   G.   If negligence or poor workmanship on the part of the contractor makes
it necessary for the inspector to make more than two (2) inspections of an
electrical installation, a fee shall be charged in accordance with the current
fee schedule for each additional inspection.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.406. ADDITIONAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The following additional special rules and regulations are hereby adopted:
      1.   All electrical wiring in or on buildings shall be in intermediate
metallic conduit, rigid conduit, electrical metallic tubing.
      2.   All other exterior wire shall be buried in conduit meeting the
requirements of this Building Code.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003; Am. Ord. 721, passed 6-19-2012)
ARTICLE V. PLUMBING CODE
SECTION 9.501. ADOPTION OF CODE.
   The 2004 Illinois Plumbing Code, is adopted hereby by reference as the
standards and specifications, rules and regulations for the installation,
alteration, repair and use of plumbing equipment and related appurtenances,
subject to the Village Modifications contained in this Chapter. A copy of this
Article shall be kept on file for public inspection in the office of the
Village Clerk and in the Office of the Building Administrator.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003; Am. Ord. 721, passed 6-19-2012)
SECTION 9.502. GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   A.   Permits Required. No sanitary sewer, storm sewer, Private Individual
Onsite Sewage Disposal System, piping for and connections to fresh water
supply, installation of any trapped fixture or any other item constituting any
part of the plumbing system, may be installed or altered within the corporate
limits of the Village, until a permit for such installation or alteration has
been obtained from the Building Administrator or his designee.
   B.   Occupation, Obstruction, or Use of Streets, Sidewalks and Public
Property. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation other than
an authorized official of the Village in the performance of his duties, to make
any excavation in any street, alley, or public place, or to tunnel under any
street, alley or public place in the Village without first having obtained a
permit as herein required or without complying with the regulations herein
contained.
   C.   Application and Fee. Applications for such permits shall be made to the
Building Administrator or his designee and shall state thereon the location of
the intended excavations or tunnel, the size thereof, the purpose therefor, and
the person, firm or corporation doing the actual excavating, and the name of
the Person, firm or corporation for whom the work is being done.
   D.   Standards Required. All plumbing, drainage and sewer work shall conform
to the standards hereinafter set forth in this Article; and it shall be
unlawful to erect, construct, remodel, or repair any such plumbing, drainage or
sewer except in conformity with such standards.
   E.   Plumbers License. Plumbing work shall be accomplished by licensed
plumbers only. A current State of Illinois or Chicago Journeyman Plumbers
License shall, upon request, be displayed to the Inspector prior to his
approval of any plumbing work.
   F.   Use of Plumber's Name. No plumber shall allow his name to be used by
any other party or person not in his employ directly or indirectly for the
purpose of doing or obtaining ay work under his license.
   G.   The submission of false information as a part of any application shall
be deemed a violation of this Article.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
SECTION 9.503. PERMIT FEES.
   A.   The fees for permits for the installation of new plumbing or the
alteration of existing plumbing in a building shall be in accordance with the
most recent fee schedule, approved by the President and Board of Trustees.
   B.   The fee for a permit to install or alter a sanitary or storm sewer
shall be in accordance with the most recent fee schedule, approved by the
President and Board of Trustees.
   C.   A reinspection fee, in accordance with the rates as described in this
Article, shall be charged on any sewer or plumbing installation which makes it
necessary for the Inspector to make more than two inspections of the plumbing
or sewer work.
   D.   The fee to construct a residential Private Individual Onsite Sewage
Disposal System, including a septic tank, shall be in accordance with the most
recent fee schedule, approved by the President and Board of Trustees.
   E.   Additional Fees. To reimburse the Village for additional expenses
incurred, when work that has proceeded before a Building Permit has been
issued, a Late Permit Fee shall be added to the Building Permit fee in the
amount specified on the most recent fee schedule approved by the President and
Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003)
SECTION 9.504. SEWAGE AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   A.   The owner of a structure on a lot in the Village who requires sanitary
sewage service shall, at his own expense, construct and maintain a Private
Sanitary Sewage Septic System meeting the applicable regulations of the County
of Lake and applicable ordinances of the Village, unless the Village has
authorized and constructed a Public Sanitary Sewer to provide service to the
lot. If a Private Sanitary Sewage Septic System should fail, and cannot be
replaced, an expansion system as regulated by this Municipal Code shall be
constructed, or if such construction is impossible, an experimental system
approved by the Lake County Health Department and the Village shall be
constructed.
   B.   Plans and specifications for such private sanitary sewer and sanitary
sewage septic system must be drawn by a registered professional engineer
licensed to practice in the State of Illinois and licensed as a "designer" by
the County of Lake. The plans and specifications must conform to the
regulations contained in Chapter 8 as well as all other applicable ordinances
of the Village and shall be submitted to the County of Lake and the Village
Engineer for review. In the event either the County of Lake or the Village
Engineer disapproves of such plans and specifications, no Building Permit shall
be issued until such plans and specifications have been revised to the
satisfaction of both the County of Lake and the Village Engineer. In no event
shall the Building Administrator of the Village issue an occupancy permit until
the private sanitary sewer and sanitary sewage septic system has been
inspected, tested, and approved by the Health Officer of the County of Lake and
the Village Engineer.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.505. USE OF SANITARY SEWER.
   It shall be unlawful to deposit in any private sanitary sewer system or in
any Public Sanitary Sewer or in a fixture connected to a sanitary sewer, any
industrial waste, or chemical not approved by the North Shore Sanitary District
or Lake County, as the case may be, or oils, grease, flammable or explosive
liquid, solids or gases, surface water, water from roof drains, footing drains
or garage floor drains, substances toxic to bacteriological or biological life
active in sewage treatment processes, unshredded garbage or other liquid or
solid waste detrimental to sewage treatment plants.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.506. GAS PIPING.
   Gas piping shall be installed in accordance with the provisions of the
International Mechanical Code of 2003.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.507. INSPECTIONS.
   A.   Trenches shall be left open until the completed work has been inspected
and approved by a representative of the Office of the Building Administrator.
Trenches shall not be left open for more than forty-eight (48) hours after
excavation. If the job conditions require an open excavation for a period
exceeding forty-eight (48) hours, the Building Administrator may, at his
discretion, allow the excavation to remain open with day-to-day approval,
provided that when the trench is unattended, it will be barricaded and
completely covered with plywood, or other suitable materials, and lighted with
torches or flares during the hours of 5:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
   B.   All plumbing and sewer work shall be subject to inspection by the
Building Administrator.
      1.   Corrections of all faulty or defective work shall be made within
seventy-two (72) hours.
      2.   Delay in Work. Unreasonable delay in the performance of any plumbing
or drainage work shall be deemed sufficient cause for the cancellation of any
permit which may have been issued for such work.
   C.   A water test of the entire plumbing system within a building shall be
conducted by the Plumbing Contractor or a licensed plumber in the presence of
the plumbing inspector. All plumbing work shall remain exposed until the water
test has been completed and the work approved by the inspector. After
inspection and approval, all drain, waste, and water lines shall be capped or
plugged with manufactured fittings designed for the purpose and shall remain in
place until the fixtures are installed by the Plumbing Contractor.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.508. HEALTH OR SAFETY.
   Wherever compliance with all the provisions of this Building Code fails to
eliminate or alleviate a nuisance which may involve health or safety hazards,
the owner or his representative, shall install such additional plumbing or
drainage equipment as may be necessary to abate such nuisance.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.509. WORKMANSHIP.
   A.   Workmanship shall conform to generally accepted good practice of the
plumbing trade.
   B.   Removal Of Fixtures. When in the judgment of the plumbing inspector, a
plumbing fixture is used so infrequently that there is danger that the seal of
the trap will be lost by evaporation, the inspector may order the fixture
removed and the outlet securely capped or plugged.
   C.   Exterior And Interior Opening. All openings or sleeves provided for the
passage of piping shall be properly sealed by caulking or patching with
material generally accepted for the purpose and installed to manufacturers
specifications.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.510. ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   A.   The owner of a structure on a lot in the Village who requires sanitary
sewage service shall, at his own expense, construct and maintain a Private
Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal System meeting the applicable regulations of
the County of Lake and applicable ordinances of the Village, unless the Village
has authorized and constructed a Public Sanitary Sewer to provide service to
the lot. If a Private Individual Onsite Sewage Disposal System should fail, and
cannot be replaced, an expansion system as regulated by this Municipal Code
shall be constructed, or if such construction is impossible, an experimental
system approved by the Lake County Health Department and the Village shall be
constructed.
   B.   Pipe for Water Mains and Service Connections.
      1.   Completed design and materials in accordance with SSWSMCI, Division
IV, Section 40 with the following exceptions:
         a.   All fasteners, bands and other non-cast or ductile iron fittings
and accessories shall be approved plastic or non-ferrous metal.
         b.   Asphaltic or epoxy coatings must be provided on all cast or
ductile iron fittings.
         c.   A continuous, insulated twelve (12) gauge copper wire suitable
for direct burial shall be laid on top of or immediately adjacent to PVC, HDPE
or other approved non-metallic piping to provide for pipe tracing following
construction. This wire shall be securely terminated inside every valve vault
with an exposed lead of at least twelve (12) inches. A mechanically secure and
soldered connection shall be provided for all wire splices.
         d.   All taps two (2) inches and smaller for mainline connections
shall use stainless steel, full body double bolt tapping saddles, Smith-Blair
#372 or approved equal.
         e.   All taps, other than services two (2) inches and smaller, shall
be made with pressure tapping sleeve and valve. Such taps shall be enclosed in
vaults, minimum five (5) feet diameter.
      2.   Pipe materials approved for installation shall be limited to the
following:
         a.   Type K copper pipe in accordance with ASTM B88 and B251 for water
services (only) up to two (2) inches in diameter. The minimum service diameter
shall be one (1) inch. Service lines, valves and fittings shall be suitable for
use with pressures to 150 psi.
         b.   Ductile iron pipe conforming to ANSI A 21.50 (AWWA C150) designed
per ANSI A 21.50 (AWWA C150) with minimum wall thickness corresponding to Class
52. Pipe must be cement lined per ANSI A 21.4 (AWWA C104) and encased for
corrosion protection with wrapper meeting ANSI/AWWA Standard C 105/A21.5. Wrap
shall be extended for a minimum of three (3) feet up from all copper water
service connections.
            (1)   Fittings shall conform to ANSI A21.10. Connections may be
made with flanged or push on mechanical joints. Elastomeric seals for push-on
joints shall comply with ASTM F477 and shall be pressure rated in accordance
with ASTM D3139.
            (2)   Where ductile iron pipe is used with copper services, an
electrical insulating coupling shall be provided at the service tap for
corrosion protection from stray electrical currents.
         c.   Polyvinyl Chloride (PVC or PVCO) pressure rated pipe (SDR) and
fittings meeting ASTM D4336, ASTM D2241 and AWWA C900, C905 or C909 for
watermain or service applications four (4) inch diameter and above. PVC C900
and C905 pipe shall have a maximum SDR of 18. PVCO C909 pipe shall have a
minimum SDR of 33. PVC piping shall be provided in cast (ductile) iron pipe
outside diameter sizes. Connections may be made with flanged or push-on joints
with elastomeric seals meeting. ASTM 3139 and ASTM F477. No solvent cement
joints will be allowed. Flanged joints are required for all connections to
pumps, valves and other serviceable pipeline appurtenances.
         d.   High Density Polyethylene (HDPE) meeting the applicable
requirements of ASTM D2239, D3035 and AWWA C901 (1" ID through 3" ID) or C906
(nominal 4" and above). Pipe shall have a minimum pressure rating of 150 psi
and minimum wall thickness corresponding to DR 11 for PE3408 or minimum DR 9.3
for PE2406 or PE3406. Joints and fittings shall be fusion bonded in accordance
with ASTM F1290. Mechanical joints will be considered but subject to pre-
approval by LCPW. Any such restraint or fitting shall be approved for use by
the pipe manufacturer. HDPE pipe shall be provided in ductile (cast) iron pipe
outside diameter sizes (DIOD).
   C.   All interior drain and vent pipe must be either cast iron, copper or
PVC as listed in Appendix A of the 2004 Illinois Plumbing Code as "Approved
Building Drainage/Vent Pipe."
   D.   Except as set forth elsewhere in this Section, all below grade, cast in
slab, or exterior sanitary drain pipe must be either cast iron or PVC as listed
in Appendix A of the 2004 Illinois Plumbing Code as "Approved Materials for
Building Sewer."
   E.   Pipe Materials for Sanitary Sewer Services. Completed design and
materials must be in accordance wit Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer
Main Construction in Illinois, Division III, Section 34 with the following
exceptions:
      1.   All metal fittings and fasteners shall be stainless steel.
      2.   Pipe materials approved for installation shall be limited to the
following:
         a. Pressure rated solvent weld or pressure rated gasketed PVC, CPVC or
PVCO pipe, schedule 40, or a minimum one hundred (100) psi pressure class pipe
with SDR no greater than twenty- six (26) meeting the following standards:
 
Item            Type              ASTM           AWWA
Pipe            PVC               D1785 OR D2241 C900
Pipe            CPVC              F441           C905
Pipe            PVCO                             C909
Pressure Joints Solvent weld      D2564 and F656
Pressure Joints Elastomeric seals D3139 and F477
 
         b.   Ductile iron pipe conforming to ASA A21.51 (AWWA C1151) with an
approved biogenic corrosion resistant liner (Griffin Pipe/LaFarge Aluminates
Sewpercoat, ACIPCO Polybond Plus or approved equal), and otherwise meeting ANSI
A21.4 (AWWA C-104). Wall thickness shall correspond to a minimum Class 52
designed per ANSI A21.50 (AWWA C-150). Pipe shall have push-on joints per ASA/
AWWA C111/A21.11. Corrosion control shall be provided using polyethylene
wrapping per ANSI/AWWA C105/A21.5.
         c.   High Density Polyethylene (HDPE) meeting the applicable
requirements of ASTM D-2239, D-3035 and AWWA C-906. Pipe shall have a minimum
pressure rating of one hundred (100) psi and minimum wall thickness
corresponding to DR17 for PE3408 or minimum DR13.5 for PE2406 or PE3406. Joints
and fittings shall be fusion bonded in accordance with ASTM F-1290. Mechanical
joints will be considered but subject to pre-approval by LCPW. Any such
restraint or fitting shall be approved for use by the pipe manufacturer.
   F.   Maintain a horizontal separation of ten (10) feet between sanitary
sewer and water services.
   G.   The bedding for PVC pipe shall be four (4) inches below pipe and twelve
(12) inches above pipe, and for ductile iron pipe it shall be up to the spring
line.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003; Am. Ord. 501, passed 8-19-2003; Am. Ord. 721,
passed 6-19-2012)
SECTION 9.511. ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Building Administrator or his authorized
designee, to enforce the provisions of this Chapter and to make such
inspections in connection therewith as may be reasonably necessary.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
ARTICLE VI. VENTILATING AND AIR CONDITIONING
SECTION 9.601. ADOPTION OF CODE.
   A.   The 2012 International Mechanical Code, as published by the
International Code Council, be and the same is adopted hereby as the Mechanical
Code of the Village of Mettawa in the State of Illinois, for the control of all
buildings and structures, and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions and terms of the said International Mechanical Code are
referred to, adopted and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this
Article, subject to the Village Modifications contained in this Chapter. A copy
of this Article shall be kept on file for public inspection in the office of
the Village Clerk and in the Office of the Building Administrator.
   B.   These regulations shall be known as the Mechanical Code of the Village
of Mettawa.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003; Am. Ord. 721, passed 6-19-2012)
SECTION 9.602. GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   A.   Permits.
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to alter,
to install any warm air heating furnaces, air conditioning systems or
appurtenances thereto, within the Village without first being licensed as
provided by ordinance and obtaining a permit for each such alteration or
installation.
      2.   A permit to alter or install heating or air conditioning systems
shall be obtained prior to starting work.
      3.   No permit is required for minor repair work performed by licensed
contractors. Minor repair work shall be interpreted as the incidental repairs
to furnaces or air conditioner systems which shall not affect the general
action of the system, such as renewal of grates or smoke pipes, replacing old
furnaces in the same location, replacing of single warm air pipe or general
cleaning of the system.
      4.   Installing additional runs shall not be considered minor repairs.
   B.   Inspections and Fees.
      1.   Additional Fees. An additional fee for each twenty-four (24) hour
period, to reimburse the Village for additional expense incurred, may be added
to the permit fee for any work that has proceeded without first securing a
permit in accordance with the most recent fee schedule approved by the
President and Board of Trustees.
      2.   A reinspection fee, in accordance with the most recent fee schedule
approved by the President and Board of Trustees and on file in the Office of
the Village Clerk and the Building Administrator, shall be charged on any
ventilating and air conditioning which makes it necessary for the Inspector to
make more than two inspections of the work.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.603. LICENSES.
   A.   The term "heating and air conditioning and refrigeration contractor,"
as used in this Ordinance, means any person, firm or corporation engaged in the
business of installing or altering any heating, air conditioning or
refrigeration equipment. Heating, air conditioning and refrigeration equipment,
as used in this Chapter, shall not include room air conditioners of the
portable window or through-the-wall type, nor a refrigeration unit used for
family household purposes.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to engage in
the business of heating, air conditioning, or refrigeration contractor, as
herein defined, in the Village of Mettawa, without being licensed as a
contractor as provided herein.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.604. INSTALLATION OF EQUIPMENT.
   A.   Heating Residential Garages.
      1.   Garages may be heated or cooled from the central unit, but there
shall be no air returns from the garage to the central unit.
      2.   Garage unit heaters must be equipped with sealed combustion
chambers.
   B.   Temporary Heat. Temporary heating units may be installed in buildings
under construction only when the heater is mounted on a firm noncombustible
base or when hung from joists with metal hangers sufficient to hold the unit
motionless. A Class "B" or masonry chimney will be provided for the unit and it
shall be properly wired and grounded.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.605. PLENUMS.
   All air plenums shall be constructed with approved materials and shall
remain a dedicated space. Foreign objects such as, but not limited to, plumbing
pipe, electrical conduit, phone wires, intercom wiring, low voltage wiring of
any kind of insulation, shall not be installed within air plenums or ducts.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
ARTICLE VII. FIRE PREVENTION
SECTION 9.701. ADOPTION OF CODE.
   The 2012 International Fire Code, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference, subject to the Village Modifications contained in this Chapter. A
copy of this Article shall be kept on file for public inspection in the office
of the Village Clerk and the office of the Building Administrator. This Article
shall be known and cited as the Village of Mettawa Fire Prevention Code.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003; Am. Ord. 721, passed 6-19-2012)
SECTION 9.702. AMENDMENTS.
   The 2012 International Fire Code, adopted in Section
9.701 of this Building Code, is amended hereby to make it clear that automatic
sprinkler systems are not required in single family residences and their
installation, if at all, is strictly voluntary.
(Ord. 592, passed 9-18-2007; Am. Ord. 721, passed 6-19-2012)
ARTICLE VIII. SWIMMING POOL CONSTRUCTION, OPERATION AND USE
SECTION 9.801. COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   Every swimming pool constructed, installed or maintained shall hereafter
comply with all applicable provisions of this Chapter and the 2004 Illinois
Plumbing Code, except that: a) fences around swimming pools located on lots
larger than two (2) acres are not required, and b) outdoor above-ground
swimming pools are prohibited.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003; Am. Ord. 659, passed 7-20-2010)
SECTION 9.802. PERMIT APPLICATION.
   A.   Before proceeding with the erection, construction, or alteration of any
swimming pool, whirlpool, spa, hot tub, therapy pool, soaker and other similar
structures, a Building Permit application for such erection, construction or
alteration shall be filed with the Building Administrator. Submitted plans
shall contain the following information:
      1.   Pool dimensions, depths and volume in gallons; and
      2.   Type and size of filter systems, filtration and backwash capacities;
and
      3.   Pool piping layout, with all pipe sizes and valves shown and types
of materials to be used; and
      4.   The rated capacity and head at filtration and backwash flows of the
pool pump in gallons per minute with the size and type of motor; and
      5.   Location and type of waste disposal system; and
      6.   Structural, design and details; and
      7.   Each application for permit to construct a public pool shall be
accompanied by an approved permit for the construction issued by the State
Department of Public Health in accordance with provisions of the laws of the
State of Illinois.
SECTION 9.802.1 GRAPHIC.
You must have Adobe PDF Reader to view file:
[Click_to_view_Image_in_PDF_format]
SECTION 9.803. PERMIT FEES.
   The plan review and Building Permit fee for swimming pools, whirlpools,
spas, hot tubs, therapy pools, soakers and similar structures shall be in
accordance with the most recent fee schedule, approved by the President and
Board of Trustees, on file in the Office of Building Administrator.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.804. INSPECTION REQUIRED.
   The owner or representative shall follow the procedures established by the
Article I of this Chapter in calling for the following inspections.
   A.   After Excavation, But Before Any Concrete Is Placed.
      1.   Reinforcement steel.
      2.   Electrical and electrical grounding.
      3.   Skimmers, inlets, hydrostatic relief valve, main drain and other
pool piping.
   B.   Deck And Trench Inspection.
      1.   Deck reinforcement and grounding of ladders, handrails, diving
board, slides, lights and other items that require grounding by the Mettawa
Electrical Code.
      2.   Underground pool piping for skimmers, main drain, inlets, and pool
fill piping.
      3.   Underground sanitary sewer piping.
      4.   Underground electric and gas piping.
   C.   Final Inspection. After completion of the pool and before use, the
following items shall be inspected and approved.
      1.   General clean up.
      2.   Final grading.
      3.   Test kit and cleaning equipment.
      4.   Backwash piping.
      5.   Filter air release.
      6.   Influent and/or effluent gauges.
      7.   Reclamation system or sewer connection.
      8.   Heater relief valve.
      9.   Heater breaching.
      10.   Gas supply piping.
      11.   Fresh water supply piping.
      12.   The following valves shall be identified with all weather tags and
indexed; the inlet(s), main, drain and skimmer(s).
      13.   GFI transformer and equipment installed and circuit breakers
identified.
      14.   Safety rope and floats on-site.
      15.   Ladders, stairs and handrails installed.
      16.   No overhead electrical wires within ten (10) feet or pool area.
      17.   Diving board and/or slide installed per specifications.
      18.   Non-slip deck surface installed per code.
      19.   Flood lights, spot lights, yard lights per Village Code and
Ordinances.
      20.   House system ground and meter jumper.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
ARTICLE IX. DRIVEWAYS APPROACHES
SECTION 9.901. UNLAWFUL TO OPERATE OR MOVE VEHICLES OR EQUIPMENT OVER, ACROSS
OR UPON CURBS, PARKWAYS, SIDEWALKS, PATHS AND TRAILS.
   No person shall operate or move any vehicle, or equipment intended for the
purpose of construction, excavation, grading, or clearing from the roadway to
private property over, across, or upon any curb, parkway, or sidewalk of the
Village, except by way of duly authorized drive approach, except when permitted
to do otherwise by an authorized representative of the Village. This
prohibition shall not apply to the equipment of the Village such as grass
mowers and snow plows or to equipment of that type privately owned and operated
for maintenance purposes.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.902. PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A.   No person shall hereafter construct, reconstruct, build, or establish
any drive approach over, across or upon any portion of a public curb, parkway
or sidewalk without first having obtained a permit for the drive approach from
the Office of the Building Administrator.
   B.   In cases where a drive approach permit is requested for other than
residence or general residence zoned districts, authorization for issuance of a
permit and stipulation as to specifications for drive approach construction
shall be approved by the President and Board of Trustees.
   C.   A plot plan showing the grade and location of the proposed drive
approach shall be submitted to the Office of the Building Administrator with an
application for a permit.
   D.   The Building Administrator shall have the authority to issue temporary
drive approach permits for construction purposes if the use of the existing
drive approach would create excessive damage to private property, endanger
underground utilities, or make a difficult circuitous route for the purpose of
delivering material or equipment to the job location. The temporary drive
approach permit may be issued upon payment of the required review and permit
fees and public property protection fee to assure restoration of the public
property. The public property protection fee shall be returned to the applicant
upon restoration of the public property to its original condition.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.903. PERMIT FEE.
   The permit fee shall be in accordance with the most recent fee schedule
approved by the President and Board of Trustees and on file in the office of
the Village Clerk and the Building Administrator.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.904. PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   Every permit for the construction of a drive approach shall be subject to
the condition that the owner of the property served by such drive approach
will, at his own expense, remove such drive approach and construct or restore
the curb, parkway, sidewalk and street gradient upon a change from the use
which necessitated the existence of such drive approach, or the abandonment of
the use of such drive approach.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.905. JURISDICTION.
   All work of construction, reconstruction, resurfacing and maintenance of
drive approaches shall be done under the jurisdiction of the Building
Administrator in accordance with pertinent Ordinances of the Village.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.906. CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   A.   Size And Shape. The width at the property line and extending to the
required front yard setback shall be a minimum of nine (9) feet and a maximum
of sixteen (16) feet. The maximum width at the edge of the roadway shall be
thirty-two (32) feet. The edge of the drive approach shall be a two (2) foot
minimum radius at the roadway and follow a curved line of ever increasing
radius to the property line.
   B.   Curb And Gutter. Where a curb and gutter exist, each shall be saw cut,
removed and replaced with a gutter section of Portland cement concrete.
   C.   Trees. Where new or reconstructed drive approaches require the removal
of parkway trees, approval for such removal shall be obtained from the Building
and Zoning Administrator. Replacement of the tree or trees shall be required in
a location approved by the Building and Zoning Administrator. Removal of
parkway trees and the replacement thereof shall be at the expense of the owner
of the property served. The species and specification of parkway trees shall be
determined by the Building and Zoning Administrator.
   D.   Exceptions. The Building Administrator may modify the provisions of
division A of this Section, if the drive approach enters a cul-de-sac, if some
unusual condition or circumstances exist which make strict compliance
impractical, or not in the public interest.
   E.   Drainage. On those streets where street drainage is not carried in a
combination of pavement gutters and storm sewers, the drainage requirement for
the drive approach shall be determined by the Village Engineer.
   F.   The Typical Residential Drive Approach Drawing. The graphics following
this section, shall be used to graphically interpret construction
specifications of this Article.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.906.1 GRAPHIC: RESIDENTIAL DRIVE APPROACH SKETCH.
You must have Adobe PDF Reader to view file:
[Click_to_view_Image_in_PDF_format]
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.906.2 GRAPHIC: RESIDENTIAL DRIVE APPROACH SKETCH.
You must have Adobe PDF Reader to view file:
[Click_to_view_Image_in_PDF_format]
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.907. LOCATION AND CORNER SETBACK.
   A.   Drive approaches shall be so located as to make the least possible
adjustment to existing grade and improvements on the public way.
   B.   Materials used in making changes in public improvements shall be
approved by the Village Engineer.
      1.   Not more than two (2) curb cuts may be constructed for any
residential lot.
      2.   Only one (1) curb cut is permitted for an interior or through lot
which has less than one hundred twenty (120) feet frontage measured along the
curb.
      3.   A corner lot must have a frontage of at least one hundred twenty
(120) feet measured along the curb on each street in order to have two (2) curb
cuts.
   C.   Drive approaches on residential corner lots shall be not less than
twenty (20) feet from the extended property line to the nearest point of the
drive approach measured along the curb.
   D.   The center line of the drive approaches shall be at right angles to the
longitudinal axis of the street.
   E.   The drive approach shall at no point project beyond an extended side
yard line projected at right angles to the street.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.908. REPAIR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of a property served by a drive approach,
to keep the same in good repair, free from obstructions and openings, including
the portions of the public parkway and public sidewalk which such drive
approach crosses.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.909. NONCONFORMANCE.
   Existing drive approaches shall be considered to be in compliance with this
Article and need not be brought into compliance with the several provisions of
the Ordinance except in cases where such drive approaches are replaced,
significantly altered or reconstructed, and in such cases which create a public
nuisance or interfere with public drainage facilities.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
ARTICLE X. FENCES
SECTION 9.1001. PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or alter a fence within the
Village of Mettawa, until a Building Permit has first been secured from the
Building Administrator.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.1002. ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   A.   The Building Administrator is authorized hereby to issue a permit for
the erection of a fence, provided:
   B.   Three (3) drawings sketches of the proposed fence are submitted along
with a properly completed building plan review application and fee and Building
Permit application and fee.
   C.   The proposed fence shall meet with the requirements set forth in this
Chapter.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.1003. PERMIT FEES.
   The plan review and Building Permit fees to construct, alter or erect a
fence shall be in accord with the fees adopted by resolution from time to time
by the President and Board of Trustees of the Village.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.1004. HEIGHT, SIZE AND LOCATION.
   A.   Any fence not exceeding eight feet (8') in height may be placed within
the building lines no nearer to lot lines than a building is permitted; or
   B.   A decorative entry fence not exceeding eight feet (8') in height may be
located on either or both sides of a private driveway at or near its
intersection with a street right-of-way, provided:
      1.   No decorative entry fence shall include more than forty feet (40')
of solid fence including pillars; and
      2.   No person shall maintain a fence, hedge or shrub, or tree on any
portion of his property which interferes with the clear view of traffic or
pedestrians by drivers at the intersection of street rights-of-way or at the
intersection of a street right-of-way and a private driveway.
   C.   Except as set forth in this Subsection, no fence shall be located
within the front yard, side yard or rear yard of any lot unless: The fence is
an open fence no higher than eight feet (8').
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003; Am. Ord. 537, passed 4-19-2005)
SECTION 9.1005. CONSTRUCTION.
   A.   Fences shall be so constructed as to have a smooth finish side facing
towards the nearest lot line of the adjoining property.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain anywhere within the village a
fence equipped with or having barbed wire, spikes, broken glass, razor ribbon,
or any other similar material.
   C.   Chain link fences shall be permitted provided they are placed within
the building lines no nearer to lot lines than a building is permitted.
   D.   Preexisting grades shall not be changed to permit a higher fence height
than allowed by this Article without the approval of the Village Engineer and
Building Administrator.
   E.   The height of the fence shall be measured from the preexisting grade
level to the highest part of the fence and measured along the longitudinal
center line of the fence. Exceptions due to unusual preexisting grade contours
may be granted by the Building Administrator.
   F.   No fence, except natural screening, shall be allowed on any part of a
required front yard except as specifically provided in Section
9.1004.
   G.   No fence and no natural screening shall be constructed in any manner
which interferes with the drainage of contiguous properties.
   H.   All fences shall be uniform in color on each side of the fence. Dual
color or multi-color fences are prohibited; however, fence posts may be a
different color than the fence. Decorative brick entry fences may contain
multi-colored brick, constructed in a uniform manner.
   I.   Chain-link, metal, vinyl or fiberglass fences shall be installed and
maintained in the manufacturer's color only with matching cross bars and caps.
   J.   All wood fences shall be constructed of pressure treated lumber or
cedar. All wood fences shall be constructed and maintained unfinished or
finished in a clear or wood toned stain or in a solid neutral color of white,
black, gray, brown or tan.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003; Am. Ord. 872, passed 12-19-2022)
SECTION 9.1006. MAINTENANCE.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of the lot to provide proper maintenance
of fences and natural screening. Proper maintenance shall include, but is not
limited to:
      1.   Painting;
      2.   Repair of broken or weak boards, posts, etc.; and
      3.   Resetting of nails, screws and/or other fasteners.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.1007. MODIFICATIONS.
   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hear and decide all requests for
modifications from the regulations contained in this Article. Modification
requests shall be processed in accordance with the provisions of Article VIII
of Chapter 15 of the Municipal Code.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.1008. NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
   Any fence which may be erected or in process of erection and/or thereafter
maintained contrary to the provisions of this Chapter, shall be deemed a
nuisance, and it shall be the duty of the Building Administrator to summarily
abate said nuisance.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
ARTICLE XI. SATELLITE ANTENNAE
SECTION 9.1101. SATELLITE ANTENNAE REQUIREMENTS; FINDINGS.
   A.   It is the determination of the Village of Mettawa that receive-only
satellite antennae of all sizes, shapes, varieties and uses, constitute
physical additions to the Village of such a character and degree of
unsightliness that their construction, placement, installation and use require
close examination and constant review by the Village.
   B.   The apparent demand for installation of commercial and private
television receive-only antennae in Mettawa has been cause for concern since
the industry supplying the antenna has not developed recognized standards. The
structures required are quite different in appearance from typical structures
anticipated by the Codes of Mettawa, and the structures can be unsightly
nuisances not compatible with existing structures and land uses in the Village
of Mettawa.
   C.   Adequate receptions by an antenna requires a "dish" positioned for
clear line of sight to a band of video broadcast satellites. The appearance of
this "dish" from neighboring properties and the removal of vegetation blocking
line of sight are major undesirable consequences of such "dishes."
   D.   That in view of the foregoing and to provide for reasonable regulation,
all satellite antennae, including all forms of receivers of satellite
transmissions, should be considered structures subject to the terms of the
Village Code of the Village of Mettawa and shall be subject to all ordinances
relating to structures.
   E.   That to minimize the impact of the installation of satellite dishes,
particularly in residential zones, consideration should be given by residents
and by the appropriate authorities to the combining of service to two or more
residences by a single satellite dish.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.1102. INSTALLATION.
   All installations of satellite antennae shall be considered extraordinary
structures and may only be installed after such structure has been approved by
the Building Administrator, or if deemed necessary, by the Building Code Board
of Appeals, and a Building Permit has been obtained prior to commencing
installation.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.1103. RESIDENTIAL ZONE.
   No Building Permit shall be granted for satellite antennae in a residential
zone unless:
   A.   The applicant demonstrates that the intended use is authorized under
applicable Federal law.
   B.   Any such dish shall be mounted as close to the ground as possible and
shall not rise from the ground in excess of fifteen (15) feet in height at its
maximum point. Elevated installations on poles or roofs are prohibited.
   C.   The construction and installation of satellite antennae shall strictly
conform to all Village Ordinances.
   D.   The applicant demonstrates that the proposed location is such that
during the winter season, no part of the dish structure will be visible to
neighbors and the general public, from a point that is between the ground level
and ten (10) feet above ground level on surrounding property.
   E.   Not more than one such satellite antenna may be installed on a single
zoning lot.
   F.   In every case, the installation shall be located in the rear or side
yards. The location shall not be in the required setback areas unless
encroachment in the required side or rear setback areas provides an acceptable
location if otherwise in conformity with all of the other provisions of this
Section. In such case, a modification is required and the applicant shall file
a petition with the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   G.   All installations shall exhibit architectural quality, coloration to
blend with surroundings and structural integrity. Experimental or temporary
installations, inferior materials and questionable stability are not permitted.
In every case, the entire installation including any sheds, fences or other
housing used to cause compliance with paragraph D above, must be compatible
with the character of the surrounding area of the Village of Mettawa, and shall
have no adverse impact on the property, the neighborhood or general public; and
to the extent possible, screening by planting shall be preferred. Permanent
foundations shall be adequate for anticipated wind loads. Electrical
connections shall be low voltage direct or pulsed current, except where the
device connected is Underwriters Laboratory approved, in which case alternating
current will be allowed to Building Code requirements. Consideration shall be
given to protection of children, as in the case of an attractive nuisance.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.1104. NONRESIDENTIAL ZONE.
   No Building Permit shall be granted for satellite antennae in a
nonresidential zone unless:
   A.   The applicant demonstrates that the intended use is authorized under
applicable Federal law.
   B.   Any such dish to be mounted on a roof top shall be reviewed by a
licensed professional engineer or architect. No installation shall exceed the
height of any existing structure on the building or surrounding buildings.
   C.   The construction and installation of satellite antennae shall strictly
conform to all Village Ordinances.
   D.   Not more than one such satellite antenna may be installed on a single
zoning lot.
   E.   All installations shall exhibit architectural quality, coloration to
blend with surroundings and structural integrity. Experimental or temporary
installations, inferior materials and questionable stability are not permitted.
In every case, the entire installation must be compatible with the character of
the surrounding area of the Village of Mettawa. Permanent foundations shall be
adequate for anticipated wind loads. Electrical connections shall be low
voltage direct or pulsed current, except where the device connected is
Underwriters Laboratory approved, in which case alternating current will be
allowed to Building Code requirements. Consideration shall be given to
protection of children as in the case of an attractive nuisance.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.1105. PROCEDURE.
   If the staff refers an application for permit to the Building Code Board of
Appeals, application forms may be obtained from the Office of the Building
Administrator.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.1106. APPLICATION.
   Requests for permits shall include as part of the application, all items
generally required for Building Permit approval plus the following:
   A.   Plot plan showing proposed location and dish projection at extremes of
the satellite band to be viewed. This requirement will be satisfied by drawing
radial lines from a point representing the pivot point of the dish, to each end
of the satellite band, drawing a line perpendicular to each radial at a
distance, scaled to the distance between the rim of the dish to the pivot
point. Each perpendicular line should be scaled to the diameter of the dish, to
show its maximum projection on the plan at the extremes of its satellite scan.
Compass directions will be adequate for this requirement. Note: The typical
drawings, "9.1006.1" and "9.1006.2", may be used to graphically interpret
regulations of this section.
   B.   Plans and specifications for the installation, including elevations,
dish configuration, mount, foundation, and any motorization, fencing, shed or
other proposed housing.
   C.   Complete description of any vegetation on the property.
   D.   Landscape plan for completely screening the installation from
neighboring and street view pursuant to, and as required by, Section 9.1006.D,
and Section 9.1006.E of this Article.
   E.   Location of principal structures on adjacent lots.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.1106.1 GRAPHIC.
You must have Adobe PDF Reader to view file:
[Click_to_view_Image_in_PDF_format]
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.1106.2 GRAPHIC.
You must have Adobe PDF Reader to view file:
[Click_to_view_Image_in_PDF_format]
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.1107. FEES.
   Fees for the installation of satellite antennae shall be as established by
the President and Board of Trustees from time to time.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
ARTICLE XII. ACCESSIBILITY
SECTION 9.1201. CODE ADOPTED.
   The 1997 Illinois Accessibility Code, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference, subject to the Village Modifications contained in this Chapter. This
Article shall be known and cited as the Village of Mettawa Accessibility Code.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
ARTICLE XIII. PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
SECTION 9.1301. CODE ADOPTED.
   The 2012 International Property Maintenance Code, be and the same is adopted
hereby by reference, subject to the Village Modifications contained in this
Chapter. This Article XIII shall be known and cited as the "Village of Mettawa
Property Maintenance Code".
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003; Am. Ord. 639, passed 11-17-2009; Am. Ord. 721,
passed 6-19-2012)
SECTION 9.1302. AMENDMENTS.
   The International Property Maintenance Code, International Code Council 2012
Edition, adopted in Section
9.1301 of this Building Code, is amended hereby in the following respects:
   A.   The name "Village of Mettawa" is inserted wherever reference is made to
jurisdiction and enforcement, and/or reference is made to the "Authority having
jurisdiction."
   B.   Subsection 102.3 "Application of other codes" is amended so that
hereafter Subsection 102.3 shall be and read as follows:
      "102.3 Application of other codes.  Repairs, additions or alterations to
a structure, or changes to occupancy, shall be done in accordance with the
applicable procedures and provisions of the Municipal Code of the Village of
Mettawa of 2001, as amended."
   C.   Subsection 102.7 "Referenced codes and standards" is amended so that
hereafter Subsection 102.7 shall be and read as follows:
      "102.7 Referenced codes and standards. The codes and standards referenced
in this International Property Maintenance Code shall be those that are listed
in Chapter 8 and those that are in compliance with the Municipal Code of the
Village of Mettawa of 2001, as amended, and considered part of the requirements
of this International Property Maintenance Code to the prescribed extent of
each such reference. Where differences occur between provision of this
International Property Maintenance Code and the referenced standards, the
provisions of this International Property Maintenance Code shall apply."
   D.   Subsection 103.5 "Fees" is amended to hereafter be and read as follows:
      "103.5 Fees. The fees for activities and services performed by the
department in carrying out its responsibilities under this International
Property Maintenance Code shall be as indicated in resolutions and/or
ordinances adopted from time to time by the President and Board of Trustees."
   E.   Subsection 110.1 "General" is amended to hereafter be and read as
follows:
      "110.1 General. The code official shall order the owner of any premises
upon which is located any structure, which in the code official's judgment is
so old, dilapidated or has become so out of repair as to be dangerous, unsafe,
unsanitary or otherwise unfit for human habitation or occupancy, to repair and
make safe and sanitary for human habitation or to raze and remove at the
owner's option; or where there has been a cessation of normal construction of
any structure for a period of more than sixty days, to complete such
construction or raze and remove such structure. In the order, the code official
shall set a time within which said demolition, repair or completion of
construction shall take place."
   F.   Subsection 110.2 "Notices and orders" is amended to hereafter be and
read as follows:
      "110.2 Notices and orders. All notices and orders shall comply with
Section 107."
   G.   Subsection 110.3 "Failure to comply", is amended to hereafter be and
read as follows:
      "110.3 Failure to comply. If the owner of a premises fails to comply with
the order called for in subsection 110.1, the code official shall apply to the
circuit court for an order directing the owner to demolish the structure or in
the alternative allowing the Village of Mettawa to demolish the structure and
tax the costs of said demolition against the owner."
   H.   Subsection 110.4 "Salvage materials", is amended to hereafter be and
read as follows:
      "110.4 Salvage materials. When any structure has been ordered razed and
removed, the governing body or other designated officer under said contract or
arrangement aforesaid shall have the right to sell the salvage and valuable
materials at the highest price obtainable. The net proceeds of such sale, after
deducting the expenses of such razing and removal, shall be promptly remitted
with a report of such sale or transaction, including the items of expense and
the amounts deducted, for the Person who is entitled thereto, subject to any
order of a court. If such a surplus does not remain to be turned over, the
report shall so state."
   I.   Subsection 302.4 "Weeds", is amended to hereafter be and read as
follows:
      "Reserved"
   J.   Without affecting sub-subsections 404.4.2 through 404.4.5, subsection
404.4 "Bedroom and living room requirements" and sub-subsection 404.4.1 "Room
area", are amended to hereafter be and read as follows:
      "404.4 Bedroom requirements. Every bedroom shall comply with the
requirements of sub-subsections 404.4.1 through 404.4.5.
      404.4.1 Area for sleeping purposes. Every bedroom occupied by one person
shall contain at least 70 square feet (6.5m2) of floor area, and every bedroom
occupied by more than one person shall contain at least 50 square feet (4.6m2)
of floor area for each occupant thereof."
   K.   Subsection 404.5 "Overcrowding" is amended in its entirety to hereafter
be and read as follows:
      "404.5 Overcrowding. Dwelling units shall not be occupied by more
occupants than permitted by the minimum area requirements of Table 404.5:
Table 404.5
MINIMUM AREA REQUIREMENTS
 
SPACE        MINIMUM AREA IN SQUARE FEET
             1 - 2 occupants 3 - 5 occupants Over 5 occupants
Living Rooma No requirements    120          150
Dining Roomb No requirements    80           80
Bedrooms        Shall comply with Subsection 404.4
a   See sub-subsection 404.5.2 for combined living room/dining room spaces.
b    See sub-subsection 404.5.1 for limitations on determining the minimum
occupancy area for sleeping purposes.
 
      404.5.1 Sleeping area. The minimum occupancy area required by Table 404.5
shall not be included as a sleeping area in determining the minimum occupancy
area for sleeping purposes. All sleeping areas shall comply with subsection
404.4.
      404.5.2 Combined spaces. Combined living room and dining room spaces
shall comply with the requirements of table 404.5 if the total area is equal to
that required for separate rooms and if the space is located so as to function
as a combination living room/dining room."
   K.   Chapter 5 "PLUMBING FACILITIES AND FIXTURE REQUIREMENTS" is deleted,
except for subsections 501.2, 502.1, 504.1, 505.1, 505.4, 506.1, 506.2 and
507.1.
   L.   Chapter 6 "MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS" is deleted, except
for subsections 601.2, 602.1, 602.2, 603.1 and 603.4; all of section 604, all
of section 605 and subsection 606.2.
   M.   Chapter 8 "REFERENCED STANDARDS" is amended to add reference to and the
title: "Municipal Code of the Village of Mettawa of 2001, as amended."
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003; Am. Ord. 639, passed 11-17-2009; Am. Ord. 721,
passed 6-19-2012)
ARTICLE XIV. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SECTION 9.1401. SCAFFOLDS.
   Any scaffolds or ladders placed in such a position that they overhang or can
fall onto any public street, alley, or other public way in the Village shall be
firmly and properly constructed and safeguarded; and it shall be unlawful to
place or leave any articles on any such place, in such a manner that the same
can fall onto such street, sidewalk, or other public way from a greater height
than four (4) feet.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.1402. ARTICLES ON WINDOWS.
   It shall be unlawful to place any movable articles on any window ledge, or
other place abutting on a public street, alley, or other public place at a
height above four (4) feet from the ground, in such a manner that same can fall
or is in danger of falling onto such street, sidewalk, or other public place.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.1403. OBSTRUCTING EXITS OR STAIRWAYS.
   It shall be unlawful to obstruct or permit the obstruction of any stairway,
aisle, corridor, or exit in any office building, factory, hotel, school,
church, theater, assembly hall, lodge or other public hall, or any building
used in part or wholly for any such purposes, or in any building used by two or
more tenants or families, in such a manner as to interfere with the free use of
such stairway, aisle, or corridor, or exit.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
ARTICLE XV. OCCUPANCY CERTIFICATE; PENALTIES
SECTION 9.1501. OCCUPANCY CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
   When a Building Permit shall have been required to have been issued or has
been issued, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to occupy
or use in whole or in part for any purpose: Any building or structure
(including any presently non-conforming building or structure) or addition to
any such building or structure erected, constructed, enlarged, remodeled,
altered, reconstructed, or moved before the Building Administrator issues an
Occupancy Certificate, certifying that the proposed use or occupancy complies
with all of the provisions of this Chapter, the plans and specifications
forming the bases upon which the Building Permit was issued, and all other
applicable ordinances of the Village.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.1502. APPLICATION FOR AN OCCUPANCY CERTIFICATE.
   A.   Every application for a Building Permit shall be deemed an application
for an Occupancy Certificate.
   B.   Every application for an Occupancy Certificate shall be in such form
and shall contain such information as the Building Administrator shall provide
by general rule and as is specified in this Chapter in order to carry out the
requirements of this Chapter and enable the Building Administrator to determine
that there is compliance with all of the applicable ordinances of the Village.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.1503. ISSUANCE OF OCCUPANCY CERTIFICATE - PARTIAL OCCUPANCY
CERTIFICATE.
   No Occupancy Certificate for new construction shall be issued until the
premises have been inspected by the Building Administrator and determined to be
in full and complete compliance with this Chapter and all of the applicable
regulations for the zoning district in which it is located and, for new
construction, the plans and specifications upon which the issuance of the
Building Permit was based. However, when the construction for which a Building
Permit has been issued is substantially complete in accord with such plans and
specifications, upon request, a Partial Occupancy Certificate may be issued
upon payment to the Village of the required fee specified on the most recent
fee schedule approved by the President and Board of Trustees, pursuant to the
following schedule:
   A.   Single-Family Residence Building Permits. A Partial Occupancy
Certificate may be issued when the entire single-family residence or
residential structure or addition thereto is substantially complete and only
exterior weather-sensitive construction and/or landscaping remains to be
completed.
   B.   Commercial and Office/Research Building Permits. A Partial Occupancy
Certificate may be issued when an entire area shown on the plans and
specifications of the Permittee constructing a commercial or office/research
building or addition thereto shall be substantially complete and adequate
safety precautions taken in accordance with the following: In each instance
where a Partial Occupancy Certificate is requested for other than an entire
such building or addition to an existing building, the Permittee first shall
have provided and, after issuance of the Partial Occupancy Certificate, shall
continue to maintain during the remaining construction to be done on said
premises and until an full Occupancy Certificate has been issued for the entire
of such building upon completion thereof in accordance with this Chapter and
all of the plans and specifications upon which issuance of the Building Permit
was based:
      1.   Fully completed ingress to and egress from the area for which the
Partial Occupancy Certificate is sought in order not to jeopardize the lives or
property of the general public in such building; and
      2.   Complete and total quarantine and isolation of all uncompleted areas
in the said building or addition for which a Partial Occupancy Certificate has
not been issued, which shall include but not be limited to separate ingress to
and egress from areas under construction so as to keep workmen and building
materials outside of the completed suites or areas or entire stories or hotel
levels, as the case may be, of such building or addition.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.1504. RECORD OF OCCUPANCY CERTIFICATES.
   A.   A record of all Occupancy Certificates shall be kept on file in the
Office of the Building Administrator, and copies or duplicate Occupancy
Certificates shall be furnished on request to any persons having a proprietary
or possessory interest in the land or structure affected by such Occupancy
Certificate.
   B.   The Building Administrator shall keep a record file of all surveys,
plats, and site plans associated with Occupancy Certificates which have been
issued.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003)
SECTION 9.1505. PENALTIES AND UNLAWFUL CONTINUANCE.
   A.   Penalties.
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any Person;
         a.   To violate or fail to comply with any provision of this Building
Code or any of the requirements hereof; and/or
         b.   To erect, construct, alter or repair mechanical equipment or
systems in violation of any approved plan or directive of the Building
Administrator or his designee; and/or
         c.   To alter or modify any permit or certificate issued under the
provisions of this Building Code; and/or
         d.   Other than the Building Administrator or his designee, to remove
or mutilate or otherwise deface a Stop Work Order; and/or
         e.   To counsel, aid or abet any such violation listed above in
Subparagraphs a through d of this Paragraph 1 in Subsection A of this Section
9.1505.
      2.   Upon conviction thereof, any Person who has undertaken any of the
unlawful acts listed in the above Paragraph 1 of this Subsection A of this
Section
9.1505 shall be subject to fines as set forth in Chapter 2, Village Government,
Article X, Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1003, Fine and Penalty Schedule, for each offense. Each day that a violation
continues shall be a separate offense.
   B.   Unlawful Continuance.
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any Person to continue any work in
violation of a Stop Work Order after having been served with a Stop Work Order,
except such work as that Person is directed to perform to remove a violation or
unsafe condition.
      2.   Upon conviction thereof, any Person who has undertaken any work in
violation of a Stop Work Order, shall be subject to fines as set forth in
Chapter 2, Village Government, Article X, Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules,
Section
2.1003, Fine and Penalty Schedule, for each offense. Each day that a violation
continues shall be a separate offense.
   C.   Abatement of Violation. The imposition of the penalties herein
prescribed shall not preclude the Building Administrator and Village Attorney
of the Village from instituting appropriate action to prevent unlawful
construction or to restrain, correct or abate a violation, or to prevent
illegal occupancy of a Building structure or premises or to stop an illegal
act, conduct, business or use of a Building or structure in or about any real
estate located within the corporate limits of the Village.
(Ord. 500, passed 6-3-2003; Am. Ord. 659, passed 7-20-2010; Am. Ord. 852,
passed 10-20-2020)
ARTICLE XVI. FUEL GAS CODE
SECTION 9.1601. ADOPTION OF CODE.
   The International Fuel Gas Code, 2012 edition, as published by the
International Code Council, be and the same is adopted by reference hereby as
the standards, specifications, rules and regulations governing fuel gas systems
and gas-fired appliances; providing for the issuance of permits and collection
of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of said Code, subject to the Village Modifications
contained in this Article. This Article shall be known and cited as the Fuel
Gas Code of the Village of Mettawa. A copy of this Article and the Fuel Gas
Code shall be kept on file for public inspection in the Office of the Village
Clerk and the Office of the Building Administrator.
(Ord. 519, passed 7-20-2004; Am. Ord. 721, passed 6-19-2012)
SECTION 9.1602. AMENDMENTS.
   The 2012 International Fuel Gas Code, International Code Council 2012
Edition, adopted in Section
9.1601 of this Building Code, is amended hereby in the following respects:
   1.   The words "Village of Mettawa" is inserted wherever reference is made
to jurisdiction and enforcement, and/or reference is made to the "authority
having jurisdiction."
   2.   Section 106.5.2 is amended to be and read as follows: "The fees for
activities and services performed by the department in carrying out its
responsibilities under this Fuel Gas Code shall be as indicated in resolutions
adopted from time to time by the President and Board of Trustees."
(Ord. 519, passed 7-20-2004; Am. Ord. 721, passed 6-19-2012)
ARTICLE XV. ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE
SECTION 9.1701. ADOPTION OF CODE.
   The 2012 International Energy Conservation Code, as published by the
International Code Council, be and the same is adopted by reference hereby as
the standards, specifications, rules and regulations governing energy
conservation; providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees
therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of said Code, subject to the Village Modifications
contained in this Article. This Article shall be known and cited as the Energy
Conservation Code of the Village of Mettawa. A copy of this Article and the
Energy Conservation Code shall be kept on file for public inspection in the
Office of the Village Clerk and the Office of the Building Administrator.
(Ord. 721, passed 6-19-2012)
CHAPTER 10 - SIGNS
SECTION
Article I. Definitions
   
10.101   Rules and Definitions
Article II. Nonconforming Signs
   
10.201   Removal of Nonconformity
   
10.202   Alterations, Relocation and Replacement
   
10.203   Discontinuance of Prohibited Signs
   
10.204   Cessation of Legal Nonconforming Signs
Article III. Permitted Signs
   
10.301   Signs in All Zoning Districts
   
10.302   Signs in Residential Districts
   
10.303   Signs in the O-R Planned Office/Research District
   
10.304   Signs in the H, Office/Hotel District
   
10.305   Exemptions from Provisions
Article IV. Specific Regulations Governing the Erection and Maintenance of
Specific Signs by Type
   
10.401   Temporary Signs
   
10.402   Other Allowed Signs
Article V. Prohibited Signs and Conditions
   
10.501   Prohibitions
Article VI. Variations
   
10.601   Authorization of Variations
   
10.602   Application; Processing; Notice; Hearing
   
10.603   Standards
   
10.604   Variation Conditions and Restrictions
   
10.605   Variation by Ordinance - Compliance Required
Article VII. Enforcement
   
10.701   Permit Required
   
10.702   Penalty
ARTICLE I. DEFINITIONS
SECTION 10.101. RULES AND DEFINITIONS.
   A.   The language in this Agreement shall be interpreted in accordance with
the following rules of construction: (a) The word "may" is permissive and the
word "shall" is mandatory; and (b) except where the context reveals the
contrary: The singular includes the plural and the plural includes the
singular, and the masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
   B.   Whenever in this Chapter the following words and phrases have been
used, they shall, for the purposes of this Chapter, have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this Section, except when the context
otherwise indicates.
      ABANDONED SIGN. A sign, the face of which has no message displayed or
illustrated thereon and which has remained in such condition or status for a
period of six (6) consecutive months.
      ACTION SIGN. Any sign containing movement of the sign body or any segment
thereof in a manner such as rotating, revolving, moving up or down or any other
type of action involving a change of the position or the intensity of the light
or in the message or the sign body or segment thereof, whether caused by
mechanical or any other means. An illuminated sign which indicates time or
temperature or alternately indicates the time and temperature shall not, for
that reason alone, be considered an action sign.
      AD-BENCH. A structure installed in a public place for the seating use and
comfort of the public upon which advertising is displayed.
      ADVERTISING SIGN. A sign (which may be a billboard or general outdoor
advertising device) which advertises or directs attention to a business,
commodity, service or activity conducted, sold of offered elsewhere than on the
same lot or within the same building upon which the sign is located.
      ANIMATED SIGN. A sign using the movement of any light used in connection
with it such as blinking, traveling, flaring or the changing of the degree of
intensity of the light.
      AWNING. Any hood or roof-like cover made of cloth, plastic, metal or
other approved material with metal frames attached to a building and extending
over a deck or the exterior of a door or window as a shelter or shield, and
which may be so erected as to permit its retraction when not in use.
      AWNING SIGN. A sign affixed to an awning by any means, including but not
limited to painting.
      BANNER or FLAG. A temporary sign consisting of a piece of cloth or
plastic often attached to a staff or to a string or rope, singly or with other
similar such temporary signs which may together form a streamer, which
temporary sign may have definite colors, patterns, or symbols to attract
attention as advertisement for outdoor display but shall not include any banner
or flag used as a national, state or Village symbol.
      BILLBOARD. A freestanding outdoor sign having a face exceeding 2,000
square feet, the bottom of which face is at least fifteen (15) feet above grade
and the top of which face is not more than eighty-five (85) feet above grade.
      BUILDING CODE. The Building Code of the Village, being
Chapter 9 of the Municipal Code of the Village of Mettawa of 2001, as amended.
      BUILDING LEASING SIGN. A temporary sign erected as an identification sign
indicating the availability of space in a building upon the lot whereon such
sign is located.
      BULLETIN BOARD. A sign utilizing changeable message for the purpose of
notification to the general public of an event or occurrence, temporary in
nature, and of public interest, such as a religious service, civic meeting, or
other similar event.
      CANOPY.  A high covering or other roof-like covering or overhanging
shelter fastened on and supported by poles, pillars, or other vertical supports
and extending over a deck, walkway, driveway or vehicular parking area.
      CANOPY SIGN. A sign attached to a canopy.
      DIRECTOR OF BUILDING AND ZONING or BUILDING ADMINISTRATOR. The Director
of Building and Zoning of the Village.
      EXEMPT SIGN. A sign regulated by and designated in Section 10.305 for
which a building permit is not required.
      FACE or FACING. The surface of a sign upon, against or through which the
message is displayed or illustrated.
      FLASHING SIGN. An illuminated sign in which, during the period of its
operation, such illumination is not kept stationary or constant in intensity
and/or color at all times. An illuminated sign which alternately indicates the
time and temperature shall not, for that reason alone, be considered to be a
flashing sign.
      FREESTANDING SIGN. A sign no part of which is attached to any part of any
building or any other sign but which is supported by one or more pylons,
columns, uprights, poles, or braces finely affixed to the ground, which pylons,
columns, uprights, poles, or braces extend from the ground or from an object on
or in the ground.
      GARAGE SALE SIGN. A temporary sign which directs traffic to real estate
upon which a garage sale, basement sale, household sale, yard sale, attic sale,
rummage sale, estate sale or other similar occasional sale is being conducted
on an infrequent and unscheduled basis from residentially zoned premises -
provided the conditions stated in the Zoning Ordinance are met. The term
'garage sale' shall not include bulk sales, the sale of multiple new items of
the same description, and the sale of consigned merchandise; nor shall said
sale include the sale of junk or antique items as a business activity by a
person involved therein as a junk or antique dealer.
      GENERAL CONTRACTOR/ARCHITECT SIGN. A temporary sign erected on a lot,
indicating information concerning the general contractor responsible for the
work on said lot and/or the architect responsible for the plans therefor. For
purposes of this definition, GENERAL CONTRACTOR shall mean any person, firm or
corporation engaged in the business of constructing, enlarging, altering,
removing or remodeling any structure by furnishing labor, materials and/or
methods necessary to accomplish a given result, and who retains for himself the
control of the means, method and manner of accomplishing this desired result;
and ARCHITECT shall mean any architect, including any landscape architect,
licensed to practice architecture in the State of Illinois. For the purpose of
this Chapter, a GENERAL CONTRACTOR/ARCHITECT SIGN shall not be construed to be
a REAL ESTATE SIGN as defined herein.
      GRADE. The average elevation of the ground surface of a lot, in its
natural state, measured at the location of the proposed corners of the proposed
structure, with the understanding that additional measurements taken at one
hundred (100) foot intervals between the lower corner and the higher corner
shall also be included in establishing the average elevation.
      GROSS SURFACE AREA. The entire area within a single continuous perimeter
enclosing the extreme outer limits of each face of a sign but in no case
passing through or between any adjacent elements of such sign. Such perimeter
shall not include any structural elements lying outside the limits of the face
of such sign and not forming an integral part of the display. Both sides of
double-faced signs shall be used in this computation.
      GUIDE SIGN. A sign used exclusively to show destination, corrections,
distances, points of interest and/or other geographical or cultural
information.
      H, OFFICE/HOTEL DISTRICT. The H, Office/Hotel District as set forth in
Article 15 of the Zoning Ordinance.
      HOME LOCATION SIGN. A temporary sign indicating the location of a
residential property for a social, charitable, or other event.
      IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A freestanding sign or monument sign which contains
a message identifying the tenants, managers and/or owners of a building located
on the same lot.
      ILLEGAL NONCONFORMING SIGN. A sign governed by the regulations of this
Chapter which, at the passage of this Chapter, was in violation of any of the
laws of the Village governing the erection or construction of such sign at the
time of its erection, and which sign has never been erected or displayed in
conformance with all such laws, including this Chapter, and which shall include
signs which are pasted, nailed, and painted on, or otherwise unlawfully
displayed upon any utility pole, tree, fence or other structure.
      ILLEGAL SIGN or PROHIBITED SIGN. A sign prohibited by the regulations of
this Chapter, whether because of its type or location, including illegal
nonconforming signs; or a sign otherwise declared illegal by the regulations
contained in this Chapter, including signs which are pasted, nailed, and
painted on, or otherwise unlawfully displayed upon utility poles, trees, fences
or other structures.
      ILLUMINATED SIGN. A sign which has characters, letters, figures, designs
or outlines illuminated from within or without by electric lights, luminous
tubes or any other means of illumination.
      LEGAL NONCONFORMING SIGN. A sign which was lawfully erected and
maintained prior to November 16, 2004, being the date of the enactment of the
comprehensive amendment of this Chapter and any amendments thereto, which has
not been abandoned and which does not conform to all the applicable regulations
and restrictions of this Chapter and with respect to which the amortization
period has not expired.
      LOT. A portion of platted land measured, set apart, and subdivided as a
distinct parcel having its principal frontage upon a street and created and
delineated upon a plat of subdivision or resubdivision and so recorded by the
Recorder of Deeds of Lake County, Illinois:
         a.   Before July 28, 1980; or
         b.   Which, although not meeting all of the bulk regulations of the
zoning district within which it is located, has never been in contiguous
ownership after July 28, 1980; or
         c.   Which meets all of the bulk regulations of the zoning district
within which it is located.
      MARQUEE.  A permanent, fixed hood or canopy supported solely by the
building to which it is attached and extending over a public thoroughfare,
usually made of metal and glass, and projecting over an entrance to the
building to which it is attached.
      MARQUEE SIGN.  A sign attached to or constructed in or on a marquee and
usually placed over the entrance to a theater or arena, the face of which sign
displays the names of featured attractions and/or principal performers.
      MESSAGE. The communication presented by a sign, whether by use of
letters, symbols, logos, or pictures, or a combination thereof.
      MOBILE SIGN. A sign attached to a movable vehicle or carried by a person
or vehicle.
      MONUMENT SIGN or GROUND BASE SIGN. A free-standing sign which is mounted
to or part of a permanent, independent base not exceeding one and one-half
(1.5) feet in height, is permanently affixed in the ground, and is designed as
an integral part of that sign.
      OPEN HOUSE SIGN. A temporary sign which directs traffic to real estate
upon which there is located any dwelling for sale by any person, firm,
corporation or joint owners being advertised for sale, rental, lease or
management provided the conditions stated in this Chapter are met.
      PERMANENT. Intended to last indefinitely without change and to continue
in the same state or same place.
      PETITIONER. A person, firm, or corporation who seeks a variation from the
provisions of this Section.
      POLITICAL SIGN. A temporary sign directing attention to the candidacy of
a person for public office or urging action on any other ballot issue in a
primary, general or special election or referendum.
      PORTABLE SIGN. A sign not permanently anchored or secured to either a
building or the ground.
      PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES. The President and Board of Trustees of
the Village.
      PROJECT SIGN. Identifying a development of three or more lots, a
temporary sign, whether a freestanding sign or a monument sign, erected by an
owner or developer upon land for which a subdivision has been approved, which
may contain information regarding the development as well as information which
may be provided on a general contractor/architect sign.
      PROJECTING SIGN. Any sign which is affixed to any building or other
structure, any part of which sign projects outward from such building or other
structure more than three (3) feet.
      R-1 SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The R-1 Single Family Residence
District as set forth in Article 12 of the Zoning Ordinance.
      R-2 SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. The R-2 Single Family Residence
District as set forth in Article 13 of the Zoning Ordinance.
      READER BOARD SIGN. Any advertising structure having changeable message
for the purpose of advertising special events, sales, or any other matter.
      REAL ESTATE SIGN. A temporary sign indicating the availability for sale
or rent of the specific lot, building, or portion of a building upon which lot
or building the sign is erected or displayed.
      RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS. The R-1 Single Family Residence District and the
R-2 Single Family Residential District.
      ROOF SIGN. Any sign erected, constructed or maintained on or above the
roof of any building.
      O-R PLANNED OFFICE/ RESEARCH DISTRICT. The O-R Planned Office/Research
District as set forth in Article 14 of the Zoning Ordinance.
      RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT OR RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. Any area of the Village
denoted upon the Zoning Map as lying within the R-1 Single Family Residence
District or the R-2 Single Family Residence District.
      SIGN. Any structure or natural object, or part thereof, or device
attached thereto, or painted or represented thereon, which may be designated or
used to attract the attention to any object, subject, product, place,
merchandise, activity, person, institution, organization, business,
performance, or which shall consist of, display or include any letter, word,
pattern, emblem, figure, number, character, mark, point, plane, picture,
representation, drawing, poster, placard, stroke, stripe, line, trademark,
logo, reading matter, illumination, model, banner, streamer, flag, pennant,
insignia or device, used as, or which is in the nature of, an announcement,
direction or advertisement. For the purpose of this Chapter, the word 'Sign'
shall not include any flag, emblem, or insignia of any nation, state, or
Village.
      STREET SIGN. A sign identifying the name of any pubic or private street.
      SUBDIVISION SIGN. Having a message which contains only the name by which
a planned unit development is identified, a permanent monument sign caused to
be erected by an owner, owners' association, or developer upon land for which a
planned unit development has been approved by the President and Board of
Trustees.
      SUBJECT PROPERTY. The real property upon which a given sign is sought to
be located.
      TEMPORARY SIGN. Any display, informational sign, banner, or other
advertising device with or without a structural frame, not permanently attached
to a building, structure, or the ground and intended for use during a limited
period not exceeding two years unless otherwise specified in this Chapter; and
shall include but not be limited to: Any banner or flag, building leasing sign,
garage sale sign, general contractor/architect sign, home location sign, open
house sign, political sign, project sign, or real estate sign.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Mettawa, an Illinois municipal corporation and
home rule unit as described in the Constitution of the State of Illinois.
      VILLAGE CLERK. The Village Clerk of the Village.
      WALL SIGN. Any sign which is affixed directly to or painted on, or
otherwise inscribed on, an exterior wall, including windows and doors, or any
building, retaining wall, or other structure.
      WINDOW SIGN. Any sign which is painted on, applied or attached to a
window, which sign can be seen through the window from the exterior of the
structure.
      ZONING DISTRICT. Any of the several districts set forth in the Zoning
Ordinance.
      ZONING ORDINANCE.
Chapter 15 of the Municipal Code of the Village of Mettawa of 2001, as amended.
      ZONING MAP. The map designating zoning districts and made a part of the
Zoning Ordinance as Article XVII.
(Ord. 526, passed 11-16-2004; Am. Ord. 529, passed 12-21-2004; Am. Ord. 621,
passed 4-14-2009)
ARTICLE II. NONCONFORMING SIGNS
SECTION 10.201. REMOVAL OF NONCONFORMITY.
   A.   Any legal nonconforming sign of less than one hundred dollars ($100) in
current value must be removed within thirty (30) days after the effective date
hereof.
   B.   Any temporary sign, which is also a legal nonconforming sign, erected
or displayed more than sixty (60) days prior to the effective date of this
Chapter shall be removed immediately upon notice given by the Director of
Building and Zoning to the owner of the land upon which the temporary sign is
located.
   C.   Any legal nonconforming sign, at the option of its owner thereof shall
be made to conform herewith or shall be removed on or before June 15, 2006.
(Ord. 526, passed 11-16-2004)
SECTION 10.202. ALTERATIONS, RELOCATION AND REPLACEMENT.
   All legal nonconforming signs which, after the adoption of this Chapter, are
structurally altered, relocated or replaced hereafter for any reason shall be
made to comply immediately with all provisions of this Chapter.
(Ord. 526, passed 11-16-2004)
SECTION 10.203. DISCONTINUANCE OF PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   Any nonconforming sign which is listed in Section
10.501 as a 'prohibited' sign shall be removed within sixty (60) days after the
adoption hereof.
   A.   In the case of any sign which is determined by the Director of Building
and Zoning to be unsafe or which has been constructed and erected or maintained
in violation of the provisions of this Chapter, the Building Administrator
shall give written notice to such person having ownership and/or control of
such sign to remove same or cause same to be removed as set forth above.
   B.   The Director of Building and Zoning shall serve said notice of
violation upon such person, which notice shall require the removal of said sign
within ten (10) days of the date of such notice and which shall notify such
person that, in the event of such person's failure to remove or cause the
removal of such sign, the Village will undertake to remove or cause the removal
of such sign; with the understanding that in such event, such person shall
promptly reimburse the Village for its costs of removal.
   C.   In the event such person disagrees with the judgment and/or
interpretation of the Director of Building and Zoning or disagrees with the
content of the notice, such person may appeal receipt of such notice in the
manner set forth in the Zoning Ordinance of the Village for such appeals. Such
appeal shall stay the removal of the sign until final determination by the
Village of the issues raised on appeal.
(Ord. 526, passed 11-16-2004)
SECTION 10.204. CESSATION OF LEGAL NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful to continue or allow the continuation of a legal
nonconforming sign for any period longer than authorized for nonconforming
accessory structures in Article III of the Zoning Ordinance. Such continuation
shall render such sign an illegal sign. Use of any such illegal sign shall
cease immediately upon the sign becoming illegal. The owner of any such illegal
sign shall commence immediately to raze such illegal sign and diligently
continue such efforts until such illegal sign is eliminated.
(Ord. 526, passed 11-16-2004)
ARTICLE III. PERMITTED SIGNS
SECTION 10.301. SIGNS IN ALL ZONING DISTRICTS.
   In addition to signs permitted elsewhere in this Article in the respective
zoning districts of the Village, the following signs are permitted in all
zoning districts within the corporate limits of the Village:
   A.   Street name signs, provided:
      1.   Unless otherwise specified in this Chapter, the face of any such
sign shall not exceed two and one-half (2-1/2) square feet; and
      2.    No street sign shall be erected until after the design and size
thereof has been approved by the President and Board of Trustees; provided that
in addition the proposed location thereof is:
         a.   Approved by the President and Board of Trustees, in the event the
proposed sign is to be located on the public right-of-way; or
         b.   Approved by a majority of owners of property utilizing such
private street and/or driveway for ingress to and egress from their properties,
in the event the proposed sign is to be located on private property (including
private easements).
   B.   General contractor/architect signs not exceeding eight (8) square feet
in area which indicate the name, address, and telephone number of the general
contractor responsible for work upon the lot for which a building permit has
been issued by the Village and/or which indicate the architect responsible for
the plans therefor.
      1.    Any such sign shall not be located in a parkway, public right of
way or public property and must be located on the lot not less than five (5)
feet from the closest lot line;
      2.   Such sign may be a freestanding sign, monument sign or a wall sign;
      3.    Any general contractor and any architect shall not erect more than
one (1) such sign each and in any event, no more than two (2) such signs shall
be present on any given lot at any given time; and
      4.    All such signs shall be removed within one (1) week after the
issuance of an occupancy certificate or completion of the work, whichever
occurs later.
   C.   The following signs for which no building permit shall be required:
      1.   A real estate sign not exceeding six (6) square feet in surface area
for which no building permit shall be required. Only the name of the real
estate firm, its telephone number, and the broker's name may be on the sign,
which must be located on the lot or building, or portion of a building, that is
for sale or rent.
      2.    Open house signs which direct traffic to real estate upon which
there is located any dwelling for sale, rental, lease or management - provided
the following conditions are met:
         a.   Not more than five (5) open house signs shall be permitted for
any given residential real estate, each of which shall not exceed six (6)
square feet in gross surface area per sign face.
         b.   Open house signs may be placed in the parkway at various
intersections within two (2) miles of the subject residential real estate,
provided the owner of the abutting premises does not file a written objection
with the Village Clerk regarding such sign; however, such signs shall not
interfere with any motor vehicle driver's line of vision and shall not be
located closer than two (2) feet to the adjacent street pavement;
         c.   Such signs shall be only allowed between the hours of nine
o'clock (9:00) a.m. and six o'clock (6:00) p.m.;
         d.   Each open house sign must have located thereon identification
denoting the person or persons who are responsible for the placement and
removal of said sign; and
         e.   At any given time, on the parkway adjacent to any given tract of
real estate at any intersection, not more than one (1) such open house sign may
be placed by the same business entity.
      3.   Home location signs provided the following conditions are met:
         a.   Not more than five (5) signs shall be permitted for any given
residential property, each of which shall not exceed six (6) square feet in
gross surface area per sign face;
         b.   Signs may be placed in the parkway at various intersections
within two (2) miles of the subject residential property, provided the owner of
the abutting premises does not file a written objection with the Village Clerk
regarding such sign; however, in all cases such signs shall not interfere with
any motor vehicle driver's line of vision and shall not be located closer than
two (2) feet to the adjacent street pavement;
         c.   Such signs shall be allowed only on the day preceding through the
day following the open house or other event; and
         d.   Each sign must have identification denoting the person or persons
who are responsible for the placement and removal of said sign.
      4.   Every owner or occupant of a building desiring to secure the
protection intended to be provided by the regulations pertaining to soliciting
and canvassing contained elsewhere in this Municipal Code must give notice of
the determination by the owner or an occupant of invitation to solicitors and
canvassers or the refusal of invitation to solicitors and canvassers to any
given building owned by such owner or occupied by such occupant by placing a
weatherproof card, no larger than three (3) inches by four (4) inches in size
upon or near the principal entrance door to each such given building. In
addition to the notice provided by such cards and not in substitution thereof,
an owner or occupant of land within the corporate limits of the Village may
provide an additional notification to solicitors and canvassers in the
following manner:
         (a)   Provided such principal entrance door is located at least
seventy-five (75) feet from the front lot line of the lot upon which such given
building is located, such owner or occupant may erect one (1) permanent sign,
which must be procured from the Village, being a sign no larger than one and
one-half (1-1/2) square feet in overall size at the main driveway entrance to
such owner's or occupant's land.
         (b)   The only text allowed upon such sign shall be either:
            (i)   "NO SOLICITORS INVITED UPON THESE PREMISES" or
            (ii)   "ONLY SOLICITORS REGISTERED WITH THE VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR
INVITED UPON THESE PREMISES"
         (c)   Upon request to the Village Administrator, such signs shall be
provided at the cost thereof to the owner or occupant of a building located
within the corporate limits of the Village.
(Ord. 526, passed 11-16-2004; Am. Ord. 666, passed 10-19-2010)
SECTION 10.302. SIGNS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   Except as set forth in Sections
10.301 and
10.305, there shall be permitted in Residential Districts only the following
non-flashing signs and/or non-illuminated signs for which no building permit
shall be required:
   A.   The following signs may be located in any lot, provided there is
adherence to the bulk regulations set forth in the Zoning Ordinance:
      1.   A name sign identifying the owner or occupant of a building or
dwelling unit provided the surface area does not exceed six (6) square feet.
      2.   An identification sign of and upon a property for which a special
use permit has been issued, provided the surface area does not exceed six (6)
square feet, e.g. a sign identifying a stable.
      3.   In connection with the construction or remodeling of several
buildings in a Residential District, there shall be permitted one (1) project
sign, a free standing sign, not exceeding sixteen (16) feet in width nor eight
(8) feet in height. However, in the event the sign is of and for a property for
which a special use permit has been issued adjacent to Illinois State Route 60
(Townline Road), there shall be permitted one (1) additional project sign, a
free standing sign, not exceeding four (4) feet in width nor three (3) feet in
height.
   B.   Garage sale signs, provided any such sign does not exceed six (6)
square feet, is located on the same lot upon which the sale is held, is
displayed for no more than three (3) days and not more than three (3) times per
year, and is removed no later than nine o'clock (9:00) p.m. on the last day of
each such sale.
   C.   One (1) subdivision sign per planned unit development.
      1.   Each such sign shall not exceed the overall dimensions of fourteen
(14) feet in width, four (4) feet in height and two (2) feet in depth. In
addition, no letter in the message may exceed eighteen (18) inches in height.
      2.   Each such subdivision sign may be illuminated from within, provided
the energy used for such illumination is limited to solar power.
(Ord. 526, passed 11-16-2004; Am. Ord. 529, passed 12-21-2004)
SECTION 10.303. SIGNS IN THE O-R PLANNED OFFICE/ RESEARCH DISTRICT.
   A.   Except as otherwise set forth in Sections
10.301 and
10.305, only the following signs shall be permitted to be erected in the O-
R Planned Office/Research District, and then only under the conditions
hereinafter specified:
      1.   Real estate signs.
      2.   Wall signs upon buildings shall be limited to five (5) feet in
length and fifty (50) square feet in surface area, and only the name and
address of the building, occupants, or management may be displayed. One (1)
sign shall be permitted for each lot; however, on corner lots, two (2) such
signs, one facing each street shall be permitted.
   B.   All signs permitted in the O-R Planned Office/Research District shall
be set back at least fifteen (15) feet from any road and be placed not closer
than five (5) feet from any property line. Advertising signs shall not be
permitted.
   C.   One (1) subdivision sign per planned unit development.
      1.    Each such sign shall not exceed the overall dimensions of thirty
(30) feet in width, four (4) feet in height. In addition, no letter in the
message may exceed eighteen (18) inches in height.
      2.   Each such subdivision sign may be illuminated from within or by
spotlighting hidden from the view of passers-by or by backlighting.
(Ord. 526, passed 11-16-2004; Am. Ord. 529, passed 12-21-2004)
SECTION 10.304. SIGNS IN THE H, OFFICE/HOTEL DISTRICT.
   A.   Except as otherwise set forth in Sections 10.301 and 10.305, only the
following signs shall be permitted to be erected in the H, Office/Hotel
District, and then only under the conditions hereinafter specified:
      1.   Provided a building in excess of forty-five (45) feet in height is
located on a lot adjacent to Interstate 94, a wall sign that is an illuminated
sign shall be permitted on any building wall facing Interstate 94 and/or
Illinois State Route 60 (Townline Road) and no more than one non-illuminated
sign in total shall be permitted to be placed on a building wall facing
Riverwoods Boulevard as follows:
         a.   No more than one (1) wall sign shall be erected on each such
wall;
            i.   Each such wall sign shall be located at a height on such wall
at least seventy (70) feet above grade but not more than eighty-five (85) feet
above grade;
            ii.   The letters of a message on each such wall sign shall not
exceed seven (7) feet in height and fourteen and one-half (14.5) feet in width;
and
            iii.   The overall structure of each such wall sign shall not
exceed ten (10) feet in height and forty-five (45) feet in width.
         b.   So long as it does not exceed four and one half (4.5) feet in
height, one (1) identification sign (whether a freestanding sign or a monument
sign) shall be permitted upon each lot, provided the gross surface area of such
sign does not exceed twenty-eight (28) square feet nor three and one-half (3.5)
feet in height nor eight (8) feet in width. However, if the lot upon which such
sign is located lies immediately adjacent to Interstate 94, an additional
identification sign containing a gross surface area not exceeding one hundred
twenty-eight (128) square feet shall be permitted on a monument sign not
exceeding eight (8) feet in height nor sixteen (16) feet in width.
         c.   One (1) building leasing temporary sign, a freestanding sign,
shall be permitted upon each lot, provided the gross surface area of such sign
does not exceed thirty-two (32) square feet nor four (4) feet in width nor
eight (8) feet in height. An additional building leasing temporary sign, a
freestanding sign, having a gross surface area not exceeding sixteen (16) feet
in width nor eight (8) feet in height shall be permitted upon each lot, if such
sign is located within fifty (50) feet of and facing the Interstate 94. In no
event during any given calendar year shall a building leasing sign remain
erected more than three (3) consecutive months nor more than ninety (90) days.
      2.   Provided a retail sales building of forty-five (45) feet or less in
height is located on a lot containing a gasoline and/or diesel fuel station as
an accessory use to the principal retail sales building use and provided the
lot is adjacent to Interstate 94, only the following signs shall be permitted
on such lot and none others:
         a.   No more than one (1) wall sign that is an illuminated sign may be
erected on each exterior wall of the principal retail sales building other than
a north wall.
            i.   Each such wall sign shall be located at a height on such wall
at least fifteen (15) feet above grade but not more than thirty-one (31) feet
above grade;
            ii.   The individual letters of a message on each such wall sign
shall not exceed seven (7) feet in height; and
            iii.   The overall structure of each such wall sign shall not
exceed ten and one-half (10-1/2) feet in height and thirty-seven and one-half
(37-1/2) feet in width.
         b.   No more than one (1) canopy sign shall be erected on each
exterior side of the canopy over the accessory gasoline and/or diesel fuel
station use on the lot. The overall structure of each such canopy sign shall
not exceed three (3) feet in height and sixteen (16) feet in width.
      3.   One (1) subdivision sign per planned unit development.
         i.   Each such sign shall not exceed the overall dimensions of thirty
(30) feet in width, four (4) feet in height. In addition, no letter in the
message may exceed eighteen inches in height; and
         ii.   Each such subdivision sign may be illuminated from within or by
spotlighting hidden from the view of passers-by or by backlighting.
   B.   All signs permitted in the H Office/Hotel District and the O-R Planned
Office/Research District shall be set back at least fifteen (15) feet from any
road and be placed not closer than five (5) feet from any property line.
Advertising signs shall not be permitted.
(Ord. 526, passed 11-16-2004; Am. Ord. 529, passed 12-21-2004; Am. Ord. 589,
passed 6-19-2007; Am. Ord. 621, passed 4-14-2009; Am. Ord. 765, passed 9-19-
2014)
SECTION 10.305. EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS.
   This Chapter, with the exception of Section
10.501, shall not apply to, and no building permit need be issued for:
   A.   The removal of legal nonconforming signs, except with respect to
regulations governing their removal.
   B.   Political signs, provided there is adherence to the bulk regulations
set forth in the Zoning Ordinance.
   C.   Temporary decorations or displays when such are clearly incidental to
and are customarily and commonly associated with any national, local or
religious holiday or celebration.
   D.   Temporary signs or permanent signs erected by public utility companies
or construction companies to warn of danger or hazardous conditions, including
signs indicating the presence of underground cables, gas lines, and similar
devices as well as traffic or other Village signs, legal notices, railroad
crossing signs, danger and emergency temporary signs, any other non-advertising
signs as may be approved by the President and Board of Trustees are also
exempted.
   E.   All official traffic signs and warning signs, when erected or required
to be erected by a governmental agency, and temporary signs indicating danger.
(Ord. 526, passed 11-16-2004)
ARTICLE IV. SPECIFIC REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE ERECTION AND MAINTENANCE OF
SPECIFIC SIGNS BY TYPE
SECTION 10.401. TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   A.   Construction requirements.
      1.   Any temporary sign in excess of ten (10) square feet shall be made
of rigid material such as fiberboard or other light material with frames;
provided, however, that all materials utilized shall have been approved by the
Director of Building and Zoning.
      2.   Every temporary sign attached to a wall or other sturdy structure
shall be attached with wire or steel cables; no strings, ropes or wood slats
for anchorage or support purposes shall be used; except, that string and rope
made of nonmetallic materials may be used provided they shall have been
approved by the Director of Building and Zoning.
      3.   Every temporary sign weighing in excess of fifty (50) pounds must be
approved by the Director of Building and Zoning as conforming to the safety
requirements of the Building Code.
   B.   Location.
      1.   No temporary sign shall extend over or into any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public dedicated right of way. However, a temporary sign
which is a free-standing sign may be so located provided a license therefor has
first been granted by the President and Board of Trustees of the Village.
      2.   No temporary sign shall be erected so as to obstruct any door or
fire escape, nor shall such sign be attached to any standpipe or fire escape.
   C.   The message contained on any temporary sign shall pertain only to the
activity conducted on or within the premises on which such sign is erected or
maintained. This shall not apply to signs of a civic, political or religious
nature.
(Ord. 526, passed 11-16-2004)
SECTION 10.402. OTHER ALLOWED SIGNS.
   All signs other than signs exempt from the regulations of this Chapter and
temporary signs shall conform to the following regulations:
   A.   The construction requirements set forth in the Building Code; and
   B.   The bulk regulations of the Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 526, passed 11-16-2004)
ARTICLE V. PROHIBITED SIGNS AND CONDITIONS
SECTION 10.501. PROHIBITIONS.
   All signs not specifically permitted or specifically exempted from the
regulations of this Chapter are prohibited including but not limited to
abandoned signs, action signs, ad-benches, advertising signs, animated signs,
awning signs, banners or flags, billboards, bulletin boards, illuminated signs,
(except as allowed in the H, Office/Hotel District), flashing signs, guide
signs, marquee signs, mobile signs, portable signs, projecting signs, reader
board signs, and window signs. In addition:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, no sign shall be erected,
located or maintained upon any real estate located within the corporate limits
of the Village; and
   B.   No sign shall be erected or be permitted to exist which advertises or
identifies any business and/or use located off of the premises whereon such
sign is located. Such signs are illegal signs.
(Ord. 526, passed 11-16-2004)
ARTICLE VI. VARIATIONS
SECTION 10.601. AUTHORIZATION OF VARIATIONS.
   A.   The Village Clerk shall direct all requests for variations from
requirements herein set forth to the Zoning Board of Appeals of the Village for
its report and recommendation to the President and Board of Trustees following
a public hearing with regard to any such request.
   B.   The Zoning Board of Appeals, after a public hearing, may recommend that
a given request be denied or that the President and Board of Trustees vary the
regulations of this Chapter in harmony with the general purpose and intent of
this Chapter, so that such requests as may be granted will not be contrary to
the public interest. Furthermore, such variances may be authorized only in
those specific instances involving size, shape, topography, and location upon
the subject property upon which the sign is proposed to be placed, and/or the
surroundings of the subject property; and then only after the said Zoning Board
of Appeals has made findings of facts based upon the standards set forth in
this Article, which findings indicate that, owing to specific conditions, a
literal enforcement of the provisions of this Chapter will, in such an
individual case, produce practical difficulties or a particular hardship for
the petitioner.
(Ord. 529, passed 12-21-2004)
SECTION 10.602. APPLICATION; PROCESSING; NOTICE; HEARING.
   A.   A petitioner seeking a variation from the provisions of this Chapter
shall file an application for a variation with the Village Clerk on forms
provided by the Village Clerk for variations from the Zoning Ordinance.
   B.   At the time of filing, the application for a variation shall be
accompanied by:
      1.   Proof of ownership, proof of authority on behalf of the owner
including a current contract, if any, to purchase or lease the subject
property;
      2.   The customary and usual fees charged for variations as set forth in
the Zoning Ordinance and such additional charges as may be necessary to cover
the cost of advertising and court reporter fees.
   C.   Upon receipt of a complete application and accompanying documents and
fees, the Village Clerk will process same, cause the advertisement for public
hearing to be published and do all that is required of the Village Clerk in the
manner and in the case of an application for a variation from the provisions of
the Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 529, passed 12-21-2004)
SECTION 10.603. STANDARDS.
   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall not vary the regulations of this Chapter
unless it shall make findings of fact based upon evidence presented at the
hearing in any given case that:
   A.   The subject property cannot yield a reasonable return if a sign may be
permitted to be used only under the conditions allowed by the regulations for
the zoning district in which it is located;
   B.   The plight of the petitioner is due to unique circumstances, and the
proposed request will not merely serve as a convenience to the petitioner but
will alleviate some demonstrable and unusual hardship which will result if the
strict letter of the regulations of this Chapter were carried out and which
particular hardship or practical difficulty is not generally applicable to
other property within the same zoning district;
   C.   The alleged hardship has not been created by any person presently
having a proprietary interest in the subject property;
   D.   The proposed request will not be materially detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to other property or improvements in the neighborhood;
   E.   The proposed request will not alter the essential character of the
neighborhood; and
   F.   If granted, the proposed variation sought by the request is in harmony
with the spirit and intent of this Chapter.
(Ord. 529, passed 12-21-2004)
SECTION 10.604. VARIATION CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   Within the time specified in the Zoning Ordinance and in a conclusion or
statement which is supported by findings of fact, the Zoning Board of Appeals
of the Village may recommend the denial or the granting, with or without
conditions and restrictions, of a requested variation from the terms of this
Chapter; which conditions and restrictions may include but not be limited to
the location, the construction, design and use of the sign proposed under such
request, as may be necessary or appropriate to comply with the foregoing
standards and to protect adjacent property and property values.
(Ord. 529, passed 12-21-2004)
SECTION 10.605. VARIATION BY ORDINANCE - COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   A.   Whenever a recommendation of the Zoning Board of Appeals regarding a
request for a variation from the terms of this Chapter, is considered by the
Village President and Board of Trustees, they shall do so in the manner set
forth in the Zoning Ordinance for Variations by Ordinance.
   B.   The terms of the relief granted by any given variation shall be
specifically set forth in an ordinance and supported from the findings of fact
of the Zoning Board of Appeals. The sign for which relief has been granted
shall not be used in violation of the specific terms of such ordinance.
(Ord. 529, passed 12-21-2004)
ARTICLE VII. ENFORCEMENT
SECTION 10.701. PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to erect any sign, other than a sign exempt from the
regulations of this Chapter, contrary to the terms of this Chapter and/or,
unless otherwise specified in this Chapter, without first having secured a
building permit therefor from the Director of Building and Zoning.
(Ord. 526, passed 11-16-2004; Am. Ord. 529, passed 12-21-2004)
SECTION 10.702. PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, corporation, or agent, employees, contractors, or owners
who violate, disobey, omit, neglect, refuse to comply with, or who resist
enforcement of any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be subject to a fine
as set forth in Chapter 2, Village Government, Article X, Tax, Fee, Fine and
Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1003, Fine and Penalty Schedule, for each offense. For purposes of this
Chapter, each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 526, passed 11-16-2004; Am. Ord. 529, passed 12-21-2004; Am. Ord. 852,
passed 10-20-2020)
CHAPTER 11- HEALTH AND SANITATION; RECAPTURE
Article I. Storm Sewers
SECTION
   
11.101   Prohibited Flow
Article II. Private Irrigation Water Wells
   
11.201   Permit Required - Application
   
11.202   Inspections and Fees
   
11.203   Prohibited Operation
   
11.204   Cessation of Operation
   
11.205   Indemnification
Article III. Regulation of the Collection of Solid Waste
   
11.301   License/Compliance Required
   
11.302   Application for License
   
11.303   License Fee; Issuance of License
   
11.304   Term; Nontransferability of License
   
11.305   Revocation or Denial of License
   
11.306   General Operating Requirements for Scavengers
   
11.307   Littering Prohibited
   
11.308   Declaration of Nuisances - Penalty
Article IV. Reserved
Article V. Construction
   
11.501   Rules and Definitions
Article VI. Violations
   
11.601   Penalties
ARTICLE I. STORM SEWERS
SECTION 11.101. PROHIBITED FLOW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to permit or cause
the flow of any sanitary sewage, or commercial or industrial waste into any
storm sewer, drainage ditch, wetland, or body of water within the corporate
limits of the Village of Mettawa.
(Ord. 657, passed 7-20-2010)
ARTICLE II. PRIVATE IRRIGATION WATER WELLS
SECTION 11.201. PERMIT REQUIRED - APPLICATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to install and/or
alter any private irrigation water well and/or irrigation system within the
Village without first obtaining a permit from the Building Official for each
such installation or alteration.
   A    No permit is required for minor repair work performed by licensed
contractors and no permit is required for installation or repair of private
irrigation systems (exclusive of water wells) upon residentially zoning real
property.
   B.   Application for such permit shall be made in the manner and upon forms
usually called for in connection with the application for a building permit,
and shall be accompanied by plans drawn to scale and not less than one-eighth
(1/8) inch to the foot.
   C.   Plans must be reviewed and approved by the Village Engineer prior to
the issuance of any permit by the Building Official.
(Ord. 657, passed 7-20-2010)
SECTION 11.202. INSPECTIONS AND FEES.
   A.   The permit fee for the construction and installation of a private
irrigation water well and installation of the appurtenant irrigation system
shall in the amount set forth in Chapter 2, Village Government, Article X, Tax,
Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1002, Fee Schedule.
      1.   This fee shall include the fee for plan review and inspection of the
construction.
      2.   The permit fee for the construction of an irrigation system only
shall be in the amount as set forth in Chapter 2, Village Government, Article
X, Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1002, Fee Schedule.
   B.   During such construction and installation, the Building Official and
the Village Engineer shall make such inspections as deemed reasonably necessary
to protect the health and safety of the residents and property owners of the
Village. The Village Engineer and/or Building Official shall have the right to
inspect all water pipes, taps, service connections, fittings, wells and their
appurtenances, during installation, installed or intended for use with an
irrigation system, for the life of the system, for the purpose of insuring a
uniform standard of construction and to assure that such irrigation water well
and/or irrigation system is not used in violation of this Chapter. Any such
inspection shall not relieve the permittee from full responsibility for the
conformance of the finished well and/or system with approved plans and
specifications and this Municipal Code.
   C.   All work performed pursuant to such permit shall be done in compliance
with said plans and this Municipal Code.
(Ord. 657, passed 7-20-2010; Am. Ord. 852, passed 10-20-2020)
SECTION 11.203. PROHIBITED OPERATION.
   In no wise shall any irrigation water well be used for the purpose of
providing potable water or for any other purpose than to supply water to an
irrigation system. No public irrigation water well and/or irrigation system
shall be permitted within the corporate limits of the Village.
(Ord. 657, passed 7-20-2010)
SECTION 11.204. CESSATION OF OPERATION.
   For the protection of the public health the Village Engineer and/or Building
Official are given the authority hereby to order the cessation of the operation
of an irrigation water well and/or irrigation system whenever at the in the
opinion of either the continued use of the irrigation water well and/or
irrigation system will contaminate the potable water supply, jeopardize the
operation of potable water wells within the corporate limits of the Village, or
otherwise endanger the health and safety of human beings. As a condition of the
issuance of such permit, the permittee will be deemed to agree unconditionally
to guard carefully against all forms of contamination of potable water
supplying potable water wells within the corporate limits of the Village and to
shut off and cease operation of the irrigation water well and/or irrigation
system if at any time contamination should occur and/or either the Village
Engineer and/or Building Official order the cessation of the operation of the
irrigation water well and/or irrigation system. Such cessation shall continue
until such unhealthy and/or unsafe conditions shall have been abated and the
said potable water supply declared again safe and fit for human consumption.
(Ord. 657, passed 7-20-2010)
SECTION 11.205. INDEMNIFICATION.
   The Village, its officers and employees, shall not be deemed to assume any
liability for the installation and/or operation of any irrigation water well
and/or irrigation system, nor for any defective or dangerous condition which
may be caused thereby, and the permittee shall hold the Village and its
officers and employees harmless from and against any claim for damages
resulting from the issuance of such permit and/or the installation and/or
operation of such private irrigation water well and/or irrigation system.
(Ord. 657, passed 7-20-2010)
ARTICLE III. REGULATION OF THE COLLECTION OF SOLID WASTE
SECTION 11.301. LICENSE/COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   Without having applied for and having received an exclusive license therefor
in the manner provided in this Article, it shall be unlawful for any person to
operate or carry on the business of scavenger within the corporate limits of
the Village. In addition, having been issued such exclusive license therefor,
it shall be unlawful for any person to operate or carry on the business of
scavenger within the corporate limits of the Village except in compliance with
the provisions of this Article.
 
   A.   Exclusive Franchise License - Single-Family Dwellings. There shall be
issued in the Village no more than one (1) scavenger license, an exclusive
franchise license, authorizing the collection of garbage from and/or refuse
disposal services for any and all single family dwellings located within the
corporate limits of the Village including any and all authorized accessory uses
to single-family dwellings located within the corporate limits of the Village;
and no more than one (1) such scavenger license shall be in force at any time
within the corporate limits of the Village.
      1.   The said exclusive franchise license shall be issued to that
scavenger awarded the "Exclusive Residential Refuse Disposal Service Contract"
by the Village Board.
      2.   In addition to whatever contractual obligations to the Village such
exclusive franchisee may have, the said exclusive franchise licensee shall have
the following duties and obligations:
         a.   The exclusive franchise licensee shall furnish all labor,
materials and equipment for the aggregation of refuse, and/or yard waste, and/
or manure in regular weekly or twice-weekly collections, as provided in the
contract.
         b.   Refuse spilled by the licensee's employees and/or agents must be
picked-up and removed by them.
         c.   The licensee shall maintain an office and telephone, toll free,
for the receipt of service calls or complaints, and shall be available for such
calls on all working days from 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Any complaints must be
given prompt and courteous attention, and in case of missed scheduled
collection, the licensee shall investigate; and if verified, shall arrange for
pick-up of said refuse within twenty-four (24) hours after the complaint is
received.
      3.   Following the award of the contract, the Village Clerk shall issue
the said exclusive franchise license upon application and payment of the proper
fee therefor as set forth hereinbelow.
(Ord. 663, passed 9-21-2010; Am. Ord. 667, passed 10-19-2010)
SECTION 11.302. APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   A.   Applications for the scavenger license required by this Article shall
be made in writing to the Village Clerk on the form provided by the said
Village Clerk.
   B.   The application form for the scavenger license required by this Article
shall contain the following information:
      1.   Name and address of the applicant.
      2.   Whether the applicant is an individual, a co-partnership or a
corporation.
      3.   If an individual, the residence and business addresses of the
applicant.
      4.   If a co-partnership, the name(s), age(s) and address(es) of the
persons entitled to share in the profits thereof.
      5.   If a corporation:
         a.   The state and date of incorporation.
         b.   If incorporated in a state other than the State of Illinois, the
date such corporation qualified under the Illinois Business Corporate Act to
transact business in Illinois.
         c.   The names, addresses, birth dates and social security numbers of
all officers, directors and persons owning more than five percent (5%) of the
shares thereof.
      6.   The number and kind of vehicles owned and controlled by the
applicant that will be used to carry out the terms of the contract. An
application may be amended from time to time during the license period to
provide for increases or reductions in the number of vehicles.
      7.   The color scheme, insignia and trade name to be used to designate
the vehicles of the applicant and a complete description of each vehicle used
to provide the services including the year, make, model and motor or factory
number of each vehicle.
      8.   A statement as to whether the applicant has, in the past, been
granted such a license from the Village; if none, then a statement as to such
licenses granted by other municipalities in Illinois within the preceding two
(2) year period. If no licenses have been granted in Illinois in the two (2)
year period preceding the application, then a statement as to licenses granted
by any state, other municipality, governing body or licensing authority. Also,
if an application is not for a renewal of a license, a statement as to whether
any such authority has ever revoked or refused to issue or renew such a license
either to the applicant or to the organization the applicant represents and an
accurate statement as to the reasons for any such revocation or refusal.
      9.   A statement as to whether the applicant seeking such a license has
ever been convicted of a felony and, if so, the nature of the offense and the
punishment or penalty assessed therefor.
      10.   Whether a surety bond and evidence of insurance, as required by the
contract or ordinance, accompanies such application at the time of filing this
form.
      11.   Whether the license fee accompanies the application form.
(Ord. 657, passed 7-20-2010; Am. Ord. 663, passed 9-21-2010; Am. Ord. 667,
passed 10-19-2010)
SECTION 11.303. LICENSE FEE; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   A.   The annual license fee shall be in the amount set forth in Chapter 2,
Village Government, Article X, Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1002, Fee Schedule.
   B.   Within thirty (30) days of the receipt of any license application
properly completed on the form designated in Section 11.302, the Village Clerk
is authorized to grant or renew any license contemplated under Section 11.301
of this Article for any period of time not exceeding the term of the contract
and, following payment by the applicant of the appropriate fees and deposit of
such bond as may be required elsewhere in this Article or in the contract, upon
finding:
      1.   That the applicant is not in default to the Village;
      2.   That, if a license renewal, the applicant has conducted his business
in accordance with the ordinances and regulations of the Village;
      3.   That the equipment used in the applicant's business meets the
requirements of the contract, ordinances and regulations of the Village; and
      4.   That all information, insurance, certificates, and agreements
required by this Article have been provided and approved.
(Ord. 657, passed 7-20-2010; Am. Ord. 663, passed 9-21-2010; Am. Ord. 667,
passed 10-19-2010; Am. Ord. 758, passed 8-19-2014; Am. Ord. 852, passed 10-20-
2020)
SECTION 11.304. TERM; NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE.
   A.   A license issued pursuant to this Article shall be valid only through
the last date the contract is in effect or through the last day of September
next following its effective date, whichever date first occurs.
   B.   No license issued under this Chapter shall be transferred or assigned
or used by any person other than the person to whom it is issued.
(Ord. 657, passed 7-20-2010; Am. Ord. 663, passed 9-21-2010; Am. Ord. 667,
passed 10-19-2010)
SECTION 11.305. REVOCATION OR DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   A.   Procedure. Any license issued in accordance with this Article shall
cease to be effective automatically upon termination of the contract. In
addition, any license issued pursuant to this Article may be revoked by the
Village President, or an application for issuance or renewal of such license
may be refused by the Village Clerk, if either determines after notice and
hearing:
      1.   That the application of the applicant or license holder contains any
false, fraudulent or misleading material statement; or
      2.   That the applicant or license holder has made any false, fraudulent
or misleading material statement, or has been convicted of perpetrating a fraud
upon any person, whether or not such fraud was perpetrated in the course of
conducting any business in the Village, or that the applicant or license holder
has committed a felony; or
      3.   That the applicant or license holder has conducted any activities
directly related to his business in the Village in an unlawful manner or in
such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or a menace to the health,
safety or welfare of the general public; or
      4.   That the contract of the license holder has terminated.
   B.   Notice of Hearing. Notice of the hearing provided for in Subsection A
above shall be given in writing to the applicant or license holder as the case
may be.
      1.   The notice required to be given hereunder shall be in writing and
shall be properly served on the date delivered by courier or on the date
deposited, postage prepaid, with the U. S. Postal Service for delivery via
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the applicant or license holder,
as the case may be, at such person's address provided in the contract for the
provision of notice at least five (5) days prior to the date set for hearing.
      2.   The applicant or license holder, as the case may be, shall have the
right to be represented at such hearing by counsel.
   C.   Appeal Procedure. Any applicant or license holder, as the case may be,
aggrieved by the action of Village officials in refusing to issue any license
or in revoking any license shall have the right to appeal to the President and
Board of Trustees of the Village.
      1.   Within fourteen (14) days after the action complained of, such
appeal shall be taken by filing with the Village Clerk, a notice of appeal
delivered by courier or, the U. S. Postal Service via certified mail, return
receipt requested, postage prepaid, containing a written statement fully
setting forth the grounds of appeal.
      2.   The President and Board of Trustees shall set a time and place for a
hearing on such appeal and notice of such hearing shall be given to the
appellant in the same manner as provided in Paragraph 1 of Subsection B of this
Section.
      3.   The appellant shall have the right to be represented at such hearing
by counsel.
      4.   The decision and order of the Board on such appeal shall be final
and conclusive.
(Ord. 657, passed 7-20-2010; Am. Ord. 663, passed 9-21-2010; Am. Ord. 667,
passed 10-19-2010)
SECTION 11.306. GENERAL OPERATING REQUIREMENTS FOR SCAVENGERS.
   In addition to all other duties and obligations imposed by this Municipal
Code upon scavengers, such exclusive franchise licensee shall comply with and/
or have the following duties and obligations:
   A.   Equipment.
      1.   Except as set forth below, the licensee shall collect all such
refuse in fully enclosed leak-proof trucks.
      2.   Open body trucks, dump trucks, and similar equipment may be used
only for large bulk items, manure and yard waste; provided such loads are
completely protected and securely covered by tarpaulins or other such covers in
such a manner as to prevent debris from being spilled or scattered by wind or
the movement of the truck.
      3.   All truck bodies shall be maintained in good repair and in a clean
condition, and shall be completely emptied and shall be flushed thoroughly at
the end of each day of use, weather permitting.
   B.   Disposal. Licensees will transport all refuse and other materials
collected for disposal to areas outside of the corporate limits of the Village
and shall deposit same in a proper lawful site designated and maintained for
such purpose under the laws of the State of Illinois.
   C.   Insurance. The licensee hereunder shall carry insurance in the types
and amount required by the contract.
   D.   Indemnification. The licensee shall indemnify and save harmless the
Village against any and all damages to property or injury to or death of any
Person or Persons, including property and employees, agents, or invitees of the
Village, and shall defend, indemnify and save harmless the Village from any and
all claims, demands, suits, actions, or proceedings of any kind or nature,
including Workmen's Compensation claims, or by anyone whatsoever, in any way
resulting from or arising out of the operations in connection with the license
issued pursuant to this Code, including operations of sub-contractors and
actions or omissions of employees or agents of licensee or his sub-contractors.
   E.   Care and Performance. The licensee shall undertake to perform all
disposal services rendered hereunder in a neat, orderly and efficient manner,
use care and diligence in the performance of its contract, and provide neat,
orderly and courteous employees and personnel on its crews.
      1.   All refuse produced or otherwise accumulated on any premises in the
Village shall be removed from such premises at least once in each week;
provided, however, that any customer may elect to increase the frequency of
collection by notifying the scavenger in writing not less than ten (10) days
prior to the beginning of the next following billing quarter.
      2.   Regular refuse collection service will be delayed one day throughout
the next seven (7) days following a holiday.
      3.   The licensee shall prohibit any drinking of alcoholic beverages by
its drivers and crew members while in the course of performing their duties
under said license.
   F.   Roster of Customers. The licensee shall maintain current listings of
all customers and provide such listing to the Village upon request of the
Village Clerk of the Village.
   G.   Obedience to Other Laws. The licensee shall obey all applicable laws
regulating his business.
   H.   Provision of Recycling Services Required.
      1.   Every scavenger that is issued a license pursuant to this Article
shall offer collection services for recyclable material to each of its
customers in accordance with the contract and shall submit to the Village
Clerk, within thirty (30) days after the end of each quarter, a quarterly
report on its recycling activities. Such report shall contain, at a minimum:
         a.   The total weight of all recyclable material collected in the
Village by the scavenger; and
         b.   The names of the operator and street addresses of each location
where the scavenger dumped or disposed of such recyclable materials.
      2.   The scavenger shall pay the Village all money paid the scavenger for
recyclables delivered by the scavenger following its collection within the
corporate limits of the Village, and such payment shall be made to the Village
at the beginning of the quarter following the quarter it is received by the
scavenger.
(Ord. 663, passed 9-21-2010; Am. Ord. 667, passed 10-19-2010)
SECTION 11.307. LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or deposit refuse in or
upon any street, sidewalk or other public place within the corporate limits of
the Village.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to undertake an act of fly-dumping.
   C.   Nothing in this Section shall prohibit the storage of refuse in refuse
containers for collection, which shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary
condition and shall be so constructed as to prevent the refuse deposited
therein from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street,
sidewalk or other public place or upon any private property. Persons placing
refuse in refuse containers shall do so in such a manner as to prevent such
refuse from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street,
sidewalk or other public or private property.
(Ord. 657, passed 7-20-2010; Am. Ord. 663, passed 9-21-2010; Am. Ord. 667,
passed 10-19-2010)
SECTION 11.308. DECLARATION OF NUISANCES - PENALTY.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any scavenger or any other person in the
business of refuse collection to dispose of or store any refuse in any location
within the corporate limits of the Village or within one and one-half (1 1/2)
miles thereof; and after November 1, 2010, it shall be unlawful for any
scavenger or any other person in the business of refuse collection, other than
the scavenger holding the exclusive franchise license, to place or allow to be
placed or allow to remain in place within the corporate limits of the Village
any tote, dumpster or other refuse container owned by such scavenger or other
person in the business of refuse collection.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or store any refuse on any
premises in the Village in such a manner as to violate any provisions of this
Article.
   C.   Except for the burning of Christmas trees and greenery from wreaths and
garlands and yard waste, it shall be unlawful for any person to burn any refuse
within the corporate limits of the Village or to cast, sweep, drop, place or
otherwise deposit any refuse and/or yard waste anywhere in the Village in such
a manner that such material might be carried or deposited by the elements upon
any stream, body of water, or public or other private premises not under the
control or ownership of such person.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any person responsible for the production or
accumulation of refuse on any premises in the Village resulting from any
building or construction operations to store and dispose of such refuse, or
cause the same to be done, in contrary to the provisions of this Article.
   E.   Such activity described in violation of Subsections A and/or B and/or C
and/or D hereof is declared hereby to be a public nuisance, and the Village
Administrator of the Village and the Village Attorney of the Village are
authorized hereby to take whatever legal steps may be necessary to abate such
public nuisance forthwith.
   F.   Any person, firm or corporation found guilty by a court of competent
jurisdiction of any violation set forth in this Article shall be liable for
payment of a fine as set forth in Chapter 2, Village Government, Article X,
Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1003, Fine and Penalty Schedule, for each offense. Each day that a violation
continues shall be a separate offense.
(Ord. 663, passed 9-21-2010; Am. Ord. 667, passed 10-19-2010; Am. Ord. 852,
passed 10-20-2020)
ARTICLE IV. RESERVED
ARTICLE V. CONSTRUCTION
SECTION 11.501. RULES AND DEFINITIONS.
   A.   The language set forth in the text of this Chapter shall be interpreted
in accordance with the following rules of construction: (a) The word "may" is
permissive and the word "shall" is mandatory; and (b) except where the context
reveals the contrary: The singular includes the plural and the plural includes
the singular, and the masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
   B.   Whenever in this Chapter the following words and phrases have been
used, they shall, for the purposes of this Chapter, have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this Subsection, except when the context
otherwise indicates.
      1.   BUILDING AND ZONING DIRECTOR or BUILDING OFFICIAL or BUILDING
ADMINISTRATOR. Any person duly appointed and designated as the Building and
Zoning Director of the Village.
      2.   BULK ITEM. Household items of such size as to render them unsuitable
for deposit in a refuse container, including but not limited to machine parts,
furniture, televisions, storm doors and windows, metal and lumber products and
white goods.
      3.   COLLECTION POINT. The base of service being the location from which
refuse is collected by the scavenger.
      4.   CONTRACT or EXCLUSIVE RESIDENTIAL REFUSE DISPOSAL CONTRACT. The
agreement governing the performance of the solid waste collection services,
from collection points located on or near land upon which a single-family
dwelling is located, entered into between the scavenger, as the Village's
exclusive licensee, and the Village.
      5.   CONTRACTOR. A scavenger that has entered into a contract with the
Village to collect refuse as the Village's exclusive licensee for residential
refuse collection.
      6.   DWELLING UNIT. One (1) or more rooms in a building, not in a house
trailer or mobile home, which are arranged, designed, used or intended for use
by one (1) family exclusively for residential occupancy, and which includes at
least one (1) permanently installed hall bathroom with toilet facilities and no
more than one (1) kitchen.
      7.   FLY-DUMPING. The act of depositing refuse upon private property or
in any refuse container located upon private property whenever such action is
performed by a person who is not an owner, lessee or invitee of such owner or
lessee of such private property.
      8.   HOUSEHOLD CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION DEBRIS. Any and all waste
materials from interior and exterior household construction, remodeling and
repair projects, including but not limited to: Drywall, plywood and paneling
pieces, lumber and other building materials; windows and doors; cabinets;
carpeting; disassembled bathroom and kitchen fixtures; and small amounts of
sod, earth, clay, sand, concrete, rocks and similar materials.
      9.   IRRIGATION SYSTEM. A collection of artificial ditches, channels,
pipes, or hoses by which water is distributed upon the surface of the earth in
order to moisten and dampen the earth and root systems of vegetation therein.
      10.   IRRIGATION WATER WELL. A pipe, hole or shaft sunk into the earth
which taps an underground store of untreated water to supply an irrigation
system and distributes such water by pumping or other methods.
      11.   LICENSE or SCAVENGER LICENSE. The license required by and issued by
the Village in order for a person to engage in the business of scavenger.
      12.   MANURE. Refuse of stables and barnyards consisting of livestock
excreta with or without litter.
      13.   MINOR REPAIR WORK.  Minor repair work shall be interpreted as the
incidental repairs which shall not affect the general operation of an
irrigation water well and/or irrigation system.
      14.   PERSON or PERSON, FIRM OR CORPORATION. Any human being, firm or
corporation.
      15.   PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES or BOARD or BOARD OF TRUSTEES or
MAYOR AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES or VILLAGE BOARD. The President and Board of
Trustees of the Village.
      16.   PRIVATE. Not public; belonging to a particular person and not open
to, controlled by, or intended for the public.
      17.   PRIVATE IRRIGATION WATER WELL AND/OR IRRIGATION SYSTEM. A private
irrigation well and/or irrigation system in which components thereof are kept
on the premises owned by the owner of the premises and used only by the owner
and/or tenants of the owner.
      18.   RECYCLABLE MATERIAL or RECYCLABLE.  Any used item or material, to
be collected with other Solid Waste in accordance with the Contract, that can
be reused that may be processed in order to regain the material for re-use
through natural processes of biochemical degradation or artificial processes or
other modifications in the production of different and/or new items or
materials; which used item or material is inclusive of but not limited to:
Aluminum and steel cans and containers  and lids; aluminum and tin foil; formed
aluminum containers and wraps; glass bottles and jars (brown, green and clear),
glass containers, crockery and other containers; metal; all types of paper,
including brown paper bags, corrugated cardboard (flattened, two (2) foot by
two (2) foot size max), brown or gray box board or chipboard/paperboard
(flattened, two (2) foot by two (2) foot size max), cereal boxes and shoe boxes
(flattened, two (2) foot by two (2) foot size max), mixed paper, glossy & non-
glossy (to include stationary, notebook paper, post-it notes, computer and
photo paper, typing paper, flyers, greeting cards, file folders and all
envelopes, with and without windows), magazines and catalogues, newspaper
(including all advertising and other supplements), telephone books, wet
strength carrier stock (to include paper board used for refrigerated and frozen
items); plastic containers (colored or cloudy white HDPE milk, juice and/or
water bottles, jars and jugs, all plastic containers #1 through #7 [being: #1-
PETE, #2-HDPE, #3-PVC or Vinyl, #4-LDPE, #5-PP, #6-PS (Styrofoam cups and
clamshell carry-out food containers) and #7-mixed resins LDPE and HDPE], soft
plastic six (6) and twelve (12) pack rings; and any other recyclable materials
proposed by the Scavenger.
      19.   REFUSE. With the exception of those items which are banned from
direct disposal into a landfill, all combustible and noncombustible trash and
all putrescible matter suitable for deposit in a refuse container, including
but not limited to household construction and demolition debris and other
objects that are placed at the collection point, discarded materials, and
unwanted household and kitchen wastes, resulting from the handling, cooking,
spoilage, and leftovers of food or food residues, and paper necessarily used
for wrapping same; manure; all types and kinds of waste materials from
housekeeping activities, including but not limited to cold ashes, rags and
clothing, textiles and leathers, metal cans bottles, books, glass, plastic,
newspapers, magazines, catalogs, wooden/plastic/paper crates or boxes or
cartons and other recyclables; Christmas trees, and greenery from wreaths and
garlands, and yard waste, including small amounts of earth, rock or sod and/or
dirt; small automobile parts, ordinary household objects, large cartons that
may be broken up and placed in refuse containers, furniture, furnishings and
fixtures, household appliances, toys, recreational equipment, and bulk items.
      20.   REFUSE CONTAINER. Any container designed as a receptacle for
refuse.
      21.   SCAVENGER. A person that collects refuse from single-family
dwellings located within the corporate limits of the Village of Mettawa.
      22.   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A building designed to contain one (1)
dwelling unit which is entirely surrounded by open area and is not connected
directly or indirectly to any other dwelling unit by roof, walls, porches or
any other man-made means.
      23.   STOP WORK ORDER. Issued by the Building Administrator or his
designee in accordance with Chapter 9, a red placard containing written legal
notice of one (1) or more ordinance violations and to cease immediately all
work.
      24.   VILLAGE or VILLAGE OF METTAWA. The Village of Mettawa, an Illinois
municipal corporation and home rule unit as described in the Illinois
Constitution.
      25.   VILLAGE ENGINEER. The person duly appointed and designated as the
Village Engineer of the Village.
      26.   WHITE GOODS.  Discarded refrigerators, ranges, water heaters,
freezers, air conditioners, humidifiers and other similar domestic and
commercial large appliances, including their components, being: i) any
chlorofluorocarbon refrigerant gas; ii) any electrical switch containing
mercury; iii) any device that contains or may contain PCBs in a closed system,
such as a dielectric fluid for a capacitor, ballast or other component; and iv)
any fluorescent lamp that contains mercury.
      27.   YARD WASTE. Grass clippings, leaves, branches and brush, other yard
and garden trimmings, vines, garden plants and flowers, weeds, tree droppings
(for example: pine cones and crabapples), and other similar organic waste
materials accumulated as the result of the cultivation and maintenance of
lawns, shrubbery, vines, trees and gardens. YARD WASTE may include tree
branches, roots and trunks up to three (3) inches in diameter. Christmas trees
and greenery from wreaths and garlands, and small amounts of sod and/or dirt
shall not be considered yard waste but are Refuse.
(Ord. 657, passed 7-20-2010; Am. Ord. 663, passed 9-21-2010)
ARTICLE VI. VIOLATIONS
SECTION 11.601. PENALTIES.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to violate any
one (1) or more provisions of this Chapter or to fail to comply with any of the
requirements thereof or to erect, construct, alter or repair any private
irrigation water well and/or irrigation system in violation of any approved
plan or directive of the Village Engineer and/or Building Official.
   B.   Any such person, firm or corporation found guilty by a court of
competent jurisdiction of any violation set forth in Subsection A above shall
be liable for payment of a fine as set forth in Chapter 2, Village Government,
Article X, Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1003, Fine and Penalty Schedule. Each day that a violation continues shall be
deemed a separate offense.
   C.   Any person who shall continue any work after having been served with a
Stop Work Order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to
remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject to fines as set forth
in Chapter 2, Village Government, Article X, Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty
Schedules, Section
2.1003, Fine and Penalty Schedule, for each offense. Each day that a violation
continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 657, passed 7-20-2010; Am. Ord. 852, passed 10-20-2020)
CHAPTER 12 - ANIMAL REGULATIONS
SECTION
   
12.101   Rules and Definitions
   
12.102   Nuisance Prohibited
   
12.103   Keeping of Wild Animals
   
12.104   Keeping of Farm Animals
   
12.105   Keeping of Horses
   
12.106   Keeping of Chickens
   
12.107   Apiaries
   
12.108   Caring for Animals
   
12.109   Sanitation
   
12.110   Cruelty to Animals
   
12.111   Hunting or Trapping Prohibited
   
12.112   Control and Confinement
   
12.113   Number of Dogs and Cats Allowed
   
12.114   Rabies Vaccination
   
12.115   Restraint of Guard Dogs
   
12.116   Vicious or Dangerous Animals
   
12.117   Return of Animal to Owner
   
12.118   Disposition of Animals
   
12.119   Animal Bites
   
12.120   Impoundment
   
12.121   Notice to Owner and Redemption
   
12.122   Appeals
   
12.123   Enforcement
   
12.124   Violations and Penalties
   
12.125   Severability
SECTION 12.101. RULES AND DEFINITIONS.
   A.   Rules of Word Construction. The language set forth in the text of this
Chapter shall be interpreted in accordance with the following rules of
construction:
      1.   The singular number includes the plural number and the plural the
singular.
      2.   The word “shall” is mandatory; the word “may” is permissive.
      3.   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
   B.   Definitions. Whenever in this Chapter the following words and phrases
have been used, they shall, for the purposes of this Chapter, have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them to this subsection, except when the context
otherwise indicates:
      1.   ANIMAL. Any live creature, both domestic and wild, except humans.
      2.   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. An officer, employee or agent of the
Village, designated by the President and Board of Trustees to administer and
enforce the inspection and enforcement requirements contained within this
chapter.
      3.   ANIMAL HOSPITAL. Any establishment maintained and operated by a
licensed veterinarian for surgery, diagnosis, and treatment of animal diseases
and injuries.
      4.   ANIMAL NUISANCE. Any nuisance arising out of the keeping,
maintaining or owning of, or failure to exercise sufficient control of an
animal.
      5.   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any facility operated by a duly incorporated humane
society, animal welfare society, facility operated by a veterinarian or
nonprofit organization, whose purpose is to provide for the temporary care,
confinement and detention of animals and for the humane killing and other
disposition of animals.
      6.   APIARY. A collection of hives or colonies of bees kept for their
honey
      7.   AT HEEL. A dog is directly behind or next to a person and obedient
to that person's command.
      8.   AT LARGE. Any animal found located off of the premises of its owner,
and not on a leash, harness or other tether and/or not otherwise under the
immediate control of a person.
      9.   CAT. All members of the domestic feline family.
      10.   CRUELTY. Any act of omission whereby unjustifiable physical pain,
suffering or death of an animal is caused or permitted, including failure to
provide proper drink, air, space, shelter or protection from the elements, a
sanitary and safe living environment, veterinary care or nutritious food in
siphoned quantity. In the case of activities where physical pain is necessarily
caused, such as medical and scientific research, food processing, customary and
normal veterinary and agricultural husbandry practices, pest elimination, and
animal training and hunting, CRUELTY shall mean a failure to employ the most
humane method reasonably available.
      11.   DISPOSITION. Adoption, quarantine, voluntary or involuntary
custodianship or placement, or euthanasia humanely administered to an animal.
DISPOSITION includes placement or sale of an animal to the general public, or
removal of an animal from any pet shop to any other location.
      12.   DOG. All members of the domestic canine family.
      13.   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. An animal which has been domesticated by man,
raised to live and breed in a tame condition and in confinement.
      14.   FARM ANIMAL. Any animal of the species fowl, ovine, caprine,
bovine, porcine, camelid, cervidae and equine.
      15.   GUARD DOG. A dog trained to attack on command or to protect persons
or property, and who will cease to attack upon command.
      16.   IMPOUNDMENT. The taking into custody of an animal by any police
officer, animal control officer, or any authorized representative thereof.
      17.   KENNEL. Any premises wherein any person engages in the business of
boarding, breeding, buying, letting for hire, training for a fee, or selling
dogs or cats.
      18.   MUZZLE. A device constructed of strong, soft material or of metal,
designed to fasten over the mouth of an animal to prevent the animal from
biting any person or other animal.
      19.   OWNER. Any person having temporary or permanent custody of,
sheltering or having charge of, harboring, exercising control over, or having
property rights to, an animal covered herein. An animal shall be deemed to be
harbored if it is fed or sheltered for three (3) or more consecutive days.
      20.   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, or corporation
of any kind.
      21.   PUBLIC NUISANCE ANIMAL. Any animal that unreasonably annoys humans,
endangers the life or health of persons or other animals, or substantially
interferes with the rights of citizens, other than their owners, to enjoyment
of life or property. The term PUBLIC NUISANCE ANIMAL shall include, but not be
limited to:
         a.   Any animal that is repeatedly found running at large;
         b.   Any dog or cat in any section of a park or public recreation area
unless the dog or cat is controlled by a leash or similar physical restraint;
         c.   Any animal that damages, soils, defiles or defecates on any
property other than that of its owner;
         d.   Any animal that makes disturbing noises, including but not
limited to, continued and repeated howling, barking, whining, or other
utterances causing unreasonable annoyance, disturbance, or discomfort to
neighbors or others in close proximity to the premises where the animal is kept
or harbored;
         e.   Any animal that causes fouling of the air by noxious or offensive
odors and thereby creates unreasonable annoyance or discomfort to neighbors or
others in close proximity to the premises where the animal is kept or harbored;
         f.   Any animal in heat that is not confined so as to prevent
attraction or contact with other animals;
         g.   Any animal, whether or not on the property of its owner, that
without provocation, molests, attacks or bites any person, or otherwise
interferes with the freedom of movement of persons in a public right-of-way;
         h.   Any animal that chases motor vehicles in a public right-of-way;
         j.   Any animal that attacks or bites any domestic animal;
         k.   Any animal that causes unsanitary conditions in enclosures or
surroundings where the animal is kept or harbored; and
         l.   Any animal that is offensive or dangerous to the public health,
safety or welfare by virtue of the number of animals maintained at a single
residence or the inadequacy of the facilities.
      22.   SANITARY. A condition of good order and cleanliness to minimize the
possibility of disease transmission.
      23.   UNDER RESTRAINT. That an animal is secured by a leash, lead under
control of a person physically capable of restraining the animal and obedient
to that person's commands, or securely enclosed within the real property limits
of the owner's premises.
      24.   VICIOUS ANIMAL or DANGEROUS ANIMAL. Any animal that (1) has
attacked, bitten, endangered, or inflicted injury on a human being, domestic
animal, or livestock without adequate  provocation, or (2) because of
temperament or training, has a known propensity to attack, bite, or physically
injure human beings, domestic animals, or livestock, (3) is owned or harbored
primarily or in part for the purpose of animal fights. An animal shall not be
deemed to be vicious or dangerous if the behavior of the animal is exhibited
when teased, tormented, abused or assaulted or when a trespass, tort or crime
occurs on the premises where the animal is located or when the animal is
protecting a human being within the vicinity from an attack or assault.
      25.   VILLAGE. The Village of Mettawa, Lake County, Illinois.
      26.   VILLAGE BOARD or BOARD. The President and Board of Trustees of the
Village.
      27.   WILD ANIMAL. Any animal which, because of its size, vicious
propensity or other characteristic would constitute a danger to human life or
property, or which are generally accepted as incapable of being domesticated.
The term wild animal includes, but is not limited to monkey, nonhuman primate,
raccoon, skunk, coyote, wolf, fox, bear, alligator, crocodile, snake, leopard,
panther, tiger, lion, lynx or any other animal that can normally be found in
the wild state.
(Ord. 355, passed 10-8-97; Am. Ord. 705, passed 10-18-2011; Am. Ord. 886,
passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 12.102. NUISANCE PROHIBITED.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any animal on any property
located within the corporate limits of the Village when the keeping of such
animal constitutes a public nuisance or menace to public health or safety.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any public nuisance animal
on any property located within the corporate limits of the Village.
(Ord. 355, passed 10-8-97; Am. Ord. 886, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 12.103. KEEPING OF WILD ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to own, harbor, or permit at large, any wild
animal within the Village.
(Ord. 355, passed 10-8-97; Am. Ord. 886, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 12.104. KEEPING OF FARM ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any farm animal within the
corporate limits of the Village, except as provided in Section
12.105 and
12.106.
(Ord. 886, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 12.105. KEEPING OF HORSES.
   The following regulations govern the keeping of horses within the village
and are designed to prevent nuisances and prevent conditions that are
unsanitary and unsafe. The keeping of horses in the village is allowed only in
conformance with the provisions of this section. No person shall keep horses in
the village in violation of any of the provisions of this section.
   A.   The keeping of horses is allowed only on residential lots or parcels of
at least 80,000 contiguous square feet in size. The owner of the horse or
horses must be a resident of the dwelling on the lot or parcel upon which the
horses are kept.
   B.   The maximum number of horses that are allowed to be kept upon any lot
or parcel shall be determined by dividing the total square foot area of the
single family residential lot or parcel upon which the horses are to be
maintained by the number forty thousand (40,000), provided, however, the total
number of horses kept or maintained upon any residential lot or parcel within
the Village shall not exceed five (5). This subsection shall not apply to large
stables allowed pursuant to special use ordinance, applicable court order or
court approved agreement, approved and existing prior to adoption date.
   C.   A stable is required for the keeping of horses. No more than one stable
shall be permitted per lot or parcel upon which a horse is maintained. Any
accessory building intended or used for the stabling of horses shall contain
one stall of a minimum of eleven and one-half feet by eleven and one-half feet
(11 1/2 x 11 1/2) for each horse kept or maintained, not to exceed five (5)
stalls. No stable shall be built or maintained within a required zoning
setback. All stalls shall have built-in feeders and drinking water available.
At least one (1) fire extinguisher shall be located in the structure in which
horses are housed.
   D.   Each stable must be kept in good repair, maintained in a clean and
sanitary condition, and free of vermin, waste accumulation, decaying food,
obnoxious odors and substances. All stalls must be cleaned daily. Manure and
used bedding must be removed at least weekly and disposed of in a sanitary and
healthful manner. Between such removal, manure may be stored only in
appropriate containers, screened from view from adjacent lots and rights-of-
way. Manure shall not be allowed to be spread upon the lot or parcel.
   E.   Grain and other feed shall be stored in such a manner as to be
protected from mice, rats and other vermin.
   F.   No person shall permit the keeping of horses to become a nuisance due
to:
      1.   Noxious or offensive odors.
      2.   Offensive noise that disturbs the peace and quiet at any time.
      3.   Any other public or private nuisance resulting from the maintaining
of horses whether by litter, droppings, waste, the attraction of pests or
rodents, or any unsanitary conditions.
   G.   A loafing shed, having a roof and at least three (3) enclosed sides
with the open side facing south and meeting the requirements of the zoning
code, may be permitted as an accessory structure.
   H.   A maximum of two (2) visiting horses are permitted upon a lot or parcel
at any one time. If a visiting horse remains on such lot after sunset, a
loafing shed or other shelter must be provided for the temporary housing of
such visiting horse.
   I   The following are prohibited on any lots or parcels where horses are
kept:
      1.   The public boarding of horses is prohibited.
      2.   Livery stables are prohibited.
      3.   Horse shows or exhibitions are prohibited.
      4.   Instruction of riders in horsemanship shall be by private lesson
only.
   J.   Subsection I shall not apply to any large stable allowed pursuant to
special use ordinance, applicable court order or court approved agreement,
approved and existing prior to adoption date, but only to the extent that such
special use ordinance, applicable court order or court approved agreement
allows any of the prohibited activity. Where a special use ordinance,
applicable court order or court approved agreement with respect to a large
stable does not address one or more of the activities set forth in Subsection
I, those activities are prohibited.
(Ord. 886, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 12.106. KEEPING OF CHICKENS.
   The following regulations govern the keeping of chickens within the Village
and are designed to prevent nuisances and prevent conditions that are
unsanitary and unsafe. The keeping of chickens in the Village is allowed only
in conformance with the provisions of this section. No person shall keep
chickens in the Village in violation of any of the provisions of this section.
   A.   The keeping of chickens is allowed only on residential lots or parcels
of at least 160,000 contiguous square feet in size. The owner of the chickens
must be a resident of the dwelling on the lot or parcel upon which the chickens
are kept.
   B.   The maximum number of hens that are allowed to be kept upon any lot or
parcel shall be six.
   C.   It is unlawful for any person to keep roosters within the village.
   D.   All hens shall be provided with a covered, predator-proof coop that is
well ventilated and be constructed in a manner that allows them to be easily
cleaned. The chicken coop must be located upon an impermeable surface that
prevents waste run-off. Coops shall be constructed of sturdy, weather resistant
materials. All access doors must be able to be shut and locked and all window
openings and vents must be covered with predator proof wire with less than one
inch openings. All coops must provide a minimum of four (4) square feet per
chicken.
   E.   All hens must be provided with access to a penned area that is
adequately fenced to contain the hens upon the property and prevent predators
from access to the chickens. The pen must provide a minimum of eight (8) sq.
ft. per chicken.
   F.   Chicken and pens coops may not be located within any front yard and
must be located only in the rear yard behind the principal dwelling on the
property. All coops and pens must be located a minimum of fifty (50) feet from
any side property line and seventy-five (75) feet from any rear property line.
Coops, pens and all other accessory structures shall occupy no more than a
total of five (5) percent of the total area of any lot or parcel. Coops and
pens shall not be located in any area on the lot or parcel that would
constitute a nuisance to adjoining neighbors.
   G.   The coop and pen must be kept in good repair, maintained in a clean and
sanitary condition, and free of vermin, waste accumulation, decaying food,
obnoxious odors and substances. The coop and pen must be cleaned on a regular
basis.
   H.   All feed and other items associated with the keeping of chickens shall
be protected from rodents and other animals.
   I.   All hens shall be prohibited from running at large.
   J.   The slaughtering of chickens outdoors or in any location which may be
viewed by the public shall be prohibited. Chickens may be slaughtered on site
only within an enclosed structure and screened from view of the public. All
structures where slaughtering occurs shall be maintained in a clean and
sanitary condition and shall be cleaned and sanitized the same day any
slaughtering occurs. Feathers, carcasses or blood shall not be allowed to
accumulate upon the property and shall be disposed of in a sanitary manner.
   K.   The sale of eggs shall not be permitted upon the property.
   L.   No person shall permit the keeping of chickens to become a nuisance due
to:
      1.   Noxious or offensive odors chicken keeping, including the odors from
the chickens, manure to be perceptible at or beyond the boundary line of the
permittee's property.
      2.   Offensive noise from the chickens that disturbs the peace and quiet
at any time.
      3.   Any other public or private nuisance resulting from the chicken
keeping whether by litter, droppings, feathers, waste, the attraction of pests
or rodents, or any unsanitary conditions.
   M.   A one-time permit shall be required from each person in order to keep
chickens within the Village. All individuals currently keeping chickens
illegally within the Village shall be required to comply with the regulations
of this section. An application shall be completed and submitted setting forth
the name address and phone number of the applicant; the size and location of
the property upon which chickens will be kept; the number of hens the applicant
seeks to keep on the property; a plan or survey providing precise location
dimensions of the coop and pen in relation to property lines and information
regarding the construction of the coop. The permit shall allow the Village the
right to inspect the premises to ensure compliance with all regulations. The
Village may revoke a permit at any time if the Village finds that the permit
holder has not complied with the Village ordinance regulating the keeping of
chickens or if the keeping of chickens becomes a nuisance.
(Ord. 840, passed 7-16-2019; Am. Ord. 886, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 12.107. APIARIES.
   The following regulations govern the keeping of bees and the maintaining of
apiaries within the village and are designed to prevent nuisances and prevent
conditions that are unsanitary and unsafe. The keeping of bees in the village
is allowed only in conformance with the provisions of this section. No person
shall keep bees or maintain any apiary in the village in violation of any of
the provisions of this section.
   A.   Apiaries are permitted only upon residentially zoned property, however
no apiary is allowed upon vacant property.
   B.   Apiaries are permitted only in the rear yard and shall meet all zoning
district setback requirements.
   C.   No more than six (6) bee hives or one (1) hive per acre, whichever is
greater, may be located upon any lot or parcel of property.
   D.   All bee colonies must be kept in a removable frame hive, which must be
kept in a sound and usable condition.
   E.   The owner of an apiary must provide a supply of fresh water readily
accessible available to all hives at all times.
   F.   In any instance in which a colony exhibits aggressive characteristics
by sting or attempting to sting without provocation or exhibits a propensity
toward swarming, the owner shall promptly re-queen the colony.
   G.   No Africanized bees shall be kept upon any property within the Village.
(Ord. 886, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 12.108. CARING FOR ANIMALS.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for the owner or custodian of any animal to refuse
or fail to provide such animal with sufficient wholesome and nutritious food,
potable water, veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering, humane care
and treatment, or to unnecessarily expose any such animal in hot, stormy, cold
or inclement weather.
   B.   No owner or custodian of any animal shall willfully abandon such animal
on any street, road, highway or public place, or on private property when not
in the care of another person.
(Ord. 355, passed 10-8-97; Am. Ord. 886, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 12.109. SANITATION.
   A.   No owner or custodian of any animal shall cause or allow such animal to
soil, defile or defecate on any public property or upon any street, sidewalk,
public way, play area or common grounds owned jointly by the members of a
homeowners or condominium association, or upon private property other than that
of the owner, unless such owner or custodian immediately removes and disposes
of all feces deposited by such animal by the following method:
      1.   Collection of the feces by appropriate implement and placement in a
paper or plastic bag or other container; and
      2.   Removal of such bag or container to the property of the animal owner
or custodian and disposition thereafter in a manner as otherwise may be
permitted by law.
   B.   No person owning, harboring or keeping an animal within the Village
shall permit any waste matter from the animal to collect and remain on the
property of the owner or custodian, or on the property of others so as to cause
or create an unhealthy, unsanitary, dangerous or offensive living condition on
the owner's or custodian's property, or to abutting property of others.
   C.   No person owning, harboring, keeping or in charge of any animal shall
cause unsanitary, dangerous or offensive conditions by virtue of the size or
number of animals maintained at a single location or due to the inadequacy of
the facilities.
(Ord. 355, passed 10-8-97; Am. Ord. 886, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 12.110. CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously strike,
beat, abuse, or intentionally run down with a vehicle any animal, or otherwise
engage in any act to cause or inflict unnecessary pain, injury, suffering or
death to such animal; except that reasonable force may be used to drive away
vicious or trespassing animals.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to promote, conduct or participate
in any animal fights or the intentional killing of animals for wagering or
entertainment.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to paint or dye or otherwise color
any animal as a novelty.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any animal in a container
or other enclosed area without sufficient food, water, light, ventilation and
care for an unreasonable length of time so as to cause suffering.
   E.   No person, except a licensed veterinarian for humanitarian purposes,
shall administer poison to any animal, or knowingly leave any poisonous
substance of any kind or ground glass in any place with the intent to injure
any animal. These provisions are not applicable to licensed exterminators using
poisons as part of a pest control program or the use of commercial insecticides
and baits used to control insects and wild rodents.
(Ord. 355, passed 10-8-97; Am. Ord. 886, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 12.111. HUNTING OR TRAPPING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hunt or trap animals within the
Village without proper permits and authorization from the Illinois Department
of Natural Resources. This prohibition does not affect the trapping and
extermination of animal pests such as rats, mice, or moles, skunks, etc.
(Ord. 886, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 12.112. CONTROL AND CONFINEMENT.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal to fail to keep such
animal under control or to permit such animal to run at large upon the streets
and public ways of the Village.
      1.   Any dog, while on a street, sidewalk, public way or in any park,
public square, or other public space, or upon any private property without the
consent of the owner of such private property, shall be secured by a leash or
chain of sufficient tensile strength to restrain the particular dog, or shall
be supervised and under control. Any dog confined within any vehicle shall be
deemed to be on the enclosed premises of the operator thereof, and any dog
securely tied or chained so as to be confined within any unenclosed lot or
premises shall be deemed to be on an enclosed lot or premises.
      2.   Any horse that is not under saddle or being driven, while on a
street, sidewalk, other public way or in any park, public square, or other
public space, or upon any private property without the consent of the owner of
such private property, shall be secured by a harness or rope or like device,
capable of physically restraining the movement of such horse. Any horse
confined within any vehicle or horse trailer shall be deemed to be on the
enclosed premises of the operator thereof.
   B.   No owner or custodian of any animal shall fail to exercise proper care
and control of such animal to prevent the same from becoming a public nuisance.
   C.   Every female dog or cat in heat shall be confined in a building or
other enclosure in such a manner that such female dog or cat cannot come into
contact with another animal except for planned breeding.
(Ord. 355, passed 10-8-97; Am. Ord. 705, passed 10-18-2011)
SECTION 12.113. NUMBER OF DOGS AND CATS ALLOWED.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any owner or resident of any property to keep
or maintain upon such property dogs or cats or a combination thereof in a
number not more than the lesser of fifteen (15) the resultant quotient obtained
by dividing the total square foot area of the single family residential lot
upon which the animals are to be maintained by 10,000.
   B.   Notwithstanding the foregoing a litter of such animals may be kept for
a period of time not exceeding five (5) months from birth.
(Ord. 886, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 12.114. RABIES VACCINATION.
   Every owner of a dog or cat four (4) months or more of age shall cause such
dog or cat to be inoculated with rabies vaccine by a licensed veterinarian at
such intervals as approved by the Illinois Department of Agriculture. Every
owner of a dog or cat four (4) months or more of age shall have readily
available proof of current rabies inoculation for the dog or cat upon request.
(Ord. 886, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 12.115. RESTRAINT OF GUARD DOGS.
   A.   Every owner of a guard dog shall keep such dog confined in a building,
compartment or other enclosure. Any such enclosure shall be completely
surrounded by a fence at least six (6) feet in height and shall be topped with
an anti-climbing device constructed of angle metal braces with at least three
(3) strands of equally separated barbed wire stretched between them.
   B.   All anti-climbing devices shall extend inward at an angle of not less
than forty-five (45) degrees nor more than ninety (90) degrees when measured
from the perpendicular.
   C.   The areas of confinement shall have gates and entrances thereto
securely closed and located, and all fences properly maintained and escape
proof.
   D.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to dogs owned or
controlled by government law enforcement agencies.
(Ord. 355, passed 10-8-97; Am. Ord. 886, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 12.116. VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   A.   No person shall keep, maintain or harbor any vicious or dangerous
animal within the Village.
   B.   It is no defense to this section that the violating person has
attempted to domesticate the dangerous or vicious animal.
(Ord. 355, passed 10-8-97; Am. Ord. 886, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 12.117. RETURN OF ANIMAL TO OWNER.
   If the name of the owner or custodian of an animal found at large is known
or can be obtained with reasonable dispatch, the animal control officer shall
return the animal to the residential address of the owner. If there is no one
present, the officer shall leave written notice of whom the owner must contact
to reclaim the animal. The officer shall then remove the animal to the nearest
animal hospital or shelter that will accept the animal.
(Ord. 355, passed 10-8-97; Am. Ord. 886, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 12.118. DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS.
   A.   When no animal hospital or shelter is willing to accept a large animal
such as a horse, cow, mule or any other animal found on any public way or in
any public place, any animal control officer or any person employed by a firm
under contract with the Village to perform security or law enforcement services
who removes such animal from any public way or from within any public place is
authorized hereby to call a trucking firm or company which shall convey the
animal to a farm or other appropriate facility that has an agreement with the
Village to accept such animals. The disposition of any animal removed to a
facility other than an animal hospital or shelter shall be handled in the same
manner as though the animal were confined in an animal hospital or shelter.
   B.   When necessary for the protection of any person or property, any person
employed by a firm under contract with the Village to perform security or law
enforcement services is authorized to cause the disposition of any vicious
animal.
   C.   Any severely injured or diseased animal for which care is not being
provided on the scene and which is on any public way or within any public place
or that has strayed onto private premises shall be removed, if possible, to any
animal hospital or shelter willing to accept such animal. If immediate removal
shall not be possible, any animal control officer or any person employed by a
firm under contract with the Village to perform security or law enforcement
services may destroy such animal by the most humane method available on the
scene, unless the owner of such animal shall first come forward and assume
responsibility for the animal's removal and care.
(Ord. 355, passed 10-8-97; Am. Ord. 705, passed 10-18-2011)
SECTION 12.119. ANIMAL BITES.
   A.   When the animal control officer receives information that a person has
been bitten by an animal, the animal shall be examined by a veterinarian within
twenty-four (24) hours and impounded for ten (10) days, following the first
examination.
   B.   The veterinarian examining the biting animal shall notify Lake County
Health Department and shall report the clinical condition of the animal in
writing to the Lake County Health Officer within twenty-four (24) hours.
   C.   Impoundment at home or at a facility under the observation of a
licensed veterinarian shall be dependent upon a current rabies vaccination and
the ability of the animal owner to confine the biting animal.
   D.   Following the examination of the biting animal at the end of the ten
(10) day confinement period the veterinarian shall complete the report to the
Lake County Health Officer the disposition of the animal on forms provided by
the Lake County Health Department.
   E.   The animal owner is responsible for all costs relating to the
examination and impoundment of the biting animal.
   F.   It is unlawful for the owner of a biting animal to euthanize, sell,
give away, or otherwise dispose of such animal until it is released by the Lake
County Health Officer or his authorized representative.
   G.   Any biting animal four months of age or older not currently inoculated
against rabies, shall be inoculated against rabies prior to being released from
confinement.
(Ord. 886, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 12.120. IMPOUNDMENT.
   A.   In addition to any other remedies provided in this Chapter, an animal
control officer or a police officer may seize, impound and humanely confine to
an animal shelter or hospital any of the following animals:
      1.   Any animal at large;
      2.   Any public nuisance animal or other animal constituting a public
nuisance or considered to be a danger to the public;
      3.   Any animal that is in violation of any quarantine or confinement
order of the Village's chief health officer;
      4.   Any unattended animal that is ill, injured or otherwise in need of
care;
      5.   Any animal that is reasonably believed to have been abused or
neglected;
      6.   Any animal that is reasonably suspected of having rabies;
      7.   Any animal that is charged with being potentially dangerous, or
dangerous where an animal control officer, determines that there is a threat to
public health and safety;
      8.   Any animal that a court of competent jurisdiction has ordered
impounded or destroyed;
      9.   Any animal that is considered unattended or abandoned, as in
situations where the owner is deceased, has been arrested or evicted from his
regular place of residence.
   B.   An animal control officer or police officer may also, or in lieu of
impoundment, issue to the owner a notice of violation. Such notice shall impose
upon the owner a penalty as set forth in
Chapter 2, Village Government, Article X, Fines and Penalties, that may, at the
discretion of the animal owner, be paid to the Village Clerk within seventy-two
(72) hours in full satisfaction of the assessed penalty. In the event that such
penalty is not paid within the time period prescribed, a citation shall be
issued, and upon conviction for violation of this Chapter, the owner shall be
punished as provided in this Chapter.
(Ord. 355, passed 10-8-97; Am. Ord. 886, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 12.121. NOTICE TO OWNER AND REDEMPTION.
   A.   Upon impoundment of an animal, the village shall immediately attempt to
notify the owner by telephone or certified mail. If the owner is unknown, the
village shall post written notice for seven (7) days on its website and at
three (3) or more conspicuous places in the Village describing the animal and
the time and place of taking. Any notice to the owner shall also include the
location of the shelter or hospital where the animal is confined, hours during
which the animal can be reclaimed, and fees to be charged to the owner. The
owner shall also be advised that the failure to claim the animal within a
specified period of time may result in the disposition of the animal.
   B.   An owner reclaiming an impounded animal shall be responsible for all
facility charges due for each day the animal has been impounded.
   C.   Any animal not reclaimed by its owner within ten (10) working days
shall be placed for adoption in a suitable home or euthanized in a manner
prescribed by the local humane society.
(Ord. 355, passed 10-8-97; Am. Ord. 886, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 12.122. APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by any decision of an animal control officer or other
enforcement officer, except the issuance of a municipal infraction citation,
may appeal the same by filing an appeal with the Village within seven (7) days
of receiving notice of the decision. Any person aggrieved by any decision or
order of the Village may appeal the same to the Nineteenth Judicial Circuit
Court, Lake County, Illinois.
(Ord. 355, passed 10-8-97; Am. Ord. 886, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 12.123. ENFORCEMENT.
   Animal control officers or other designees of the Village Board shall be the
enforcement officials for this Chapter. These officials, along with police
officers, shall have the authority to act on behalf of the Village and the
Village Board in investigating complaints, impounding and destroying animals,
issuing citations, and taking other lawful actions as required to enforce the
provisions of this Chapter. It shall be a violation of this Chapter to
interfere with any animal control officer or other enforcement official in the
performance of his duties.
(Ord. 355, passed 10-8-97; Am. Ord. 886, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 12.124. VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   A.   It shall be a violation of this Chapter to:
      1.   Fail to comply with any provision of this Chapter;
      2.   Fail to comply with any lawful order of the Village Board, an animal
control officer, or police officer unless such order is lawfully stayed or
reversed; or
      3.   Fail to pay any fines, civil penalties or costs imposed by the
Village Board or animal control officer within fifteen (15) days of the
imposition of such fines or costs, unless payment thereof is lawfully stayed.
   B.   Any person who violates any provision of this Chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine as set forth in
Chapter 2, Village Government, Article X, Fines and Penalties. A separate
offense shall be deemed to have been committed for each and every day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues to exist.
(Ord. 355, passed 10-8-97; Am. Ord. 886, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 12.125. SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions of this Chapter are declared to be severable. If any section,
sentence, clause, or phrase of this Chapter shall for any reason be held to be
invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity of the remaining sections, sentences, clauses,
and phrases of this Chapter, but they shall remain in effect; it being the
legislative intent that this Chapter shall remain in effect notwithstanding the
validity of any part.
(Ord. 355, passed 10-8-97; Am. Ord. 886, passed 11-21-2023)
CHAPTER 13 - DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY AND
DISASTER SERVICES
SECTION
   
13.101   Establishment
   
13.102   Coordinator
   
13.103   Functions
   
13.104   Service as Mobile Support Team
   
13.105   Agreements with Other Political Subdivisions
   
13.106   Emergency Action
   
13.107   Reimbursement by State
   
13.108   Purchases and Expenditures
   
13.109   Oath
   
13.110   Appropriation; Levy of Taxes
SECTION 13.101. ESTABLISHMENT.
   In order to prevent, minimize, repair and alleviate injury or damage
resulting from disaster caused by enemy attack, sabotage or other hostile
action, or from natural or man-made disaster, in accordance with “The Illinois
Emergency Services and Disaster Act of 1975,” there is hereby established a
Department of Emergency Services and Disaster (ESDA), which shall be under the
jurisdiction and control of the Village President.
SECTION 13.102. COORDINATOR.
   The Coordinator of the Mettawa Department of Emergency Services and Disaster
shall be appointed by the Village President.
   A.   The Coordinator shall have direct responsibility for the organization,
administration, training and operation of the ESDA, subject to the direction
and control of the Village President, as provided by Statute.
   B.   In the event of the absence, resignation, death or inability to serve
as Coordinator, the Village President, or any person designated by him, shall
be and act as Coordinator until a new appointment is made as provided by this
Chapter.
SECTION 13.103. FUNCTIONS.
   The ESDA of the Village shall perform such ESDA functions within the
corporate limits of the Village as shall be prescribed in and by the State of
Illinois ESDA plan and program prepared by the Governor, and such orders, rules
and regulations as may be promulgated by the Governor, and in addition shall
perform such duties outside the corporate limits as may be required pursuant to
any Mutual Aid Agreement with any other political subdivision, municipality or
quasi-municipality entered into as provided in “The State ESDA Act of 1975.”
SECTION 13.104. SERVICE AS MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM.
   All or any member of the Mettawa ESDA organization may be designated as
members of a mobile support team created by the Director of the State ESDA as
provided by law.
   A.   The leader of the mobile support team shall be designated by the
Coordinator of the ESDA.
   B.   Any member of a mobile support team who is a Village employee or
officer while serving on call to duty by the Governor, or the State Director
shall have the powers, duties, rights and immunities incident to such
employment or office.
SECTION 13.105. AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   The Coordinator of the Mettawa ESDA may negotiate mutual aid agreements with
other municipalities or political subdivisions of the State, but no such
agreement shall be effective until it has been approved by the Village
President and by the State Director of ESDA.
SECTION 13.106. EMERGENCY ACTION.
   If the Governor proclaims that a disaster emergency exists in the event of
actual enemy attack upon the United States or the occurrence within the State
of Illinois of a major disaster resulting from enemy sabotage or other hostile
actions or from man-made or natural disaster, it shall be the duty of the
Mettawa ESDA to cooperate fully with the State ESDA and with the Governor in
the exercise of emergency powers as provided by law.
SECTION 13.107. REIMBURSEMENT BY STATE.
   The Village Treasurer shall receive and allocate to the appropriate fund,
any reimbursement by the State to the Village for expenses incident to training
members of the ESDA as prescribed by the State Director of ESDA, compensation
for services and expenses of members of a mobile support team while serving
outside the corporate limits of the Village in response to a call by the
Governor or State Director of ESDA, as provided by law, and any other
reimbursement made by the State incident to ESDA activities as provided by law.
SECTION 13.108. PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES.
   A.   The Village Board of Trustees may, on recommendation of the Village
Coordinator of ESDA, authorize any purchase of contracts necessary to place the
Village in a position to combat effectively any disaster resulting from the
explosion of any nuclear or other bomb or missile and to protect the public
health and safety, protect property and provide emergency assistance to victims
in the case of such disaster, or for man-made or natural disaster.
   B.   In the event of enemy caused or other disaster, the Village Coordinator
of ESDA is authorized, on behalf of the Village, to procure such services,
supplies, equipment or material as may be necessary for such purposes in view
of the exigency without regard to the statutory procedures or formalities
normally prescribed by law pertaining to Village contracts or obligations, as
authorized by “The State ESDA Act of 1975,” provided that if the Village
President meets at such time he shall act subject to the directions and
restrictions imposed by that body.
SECTION 13.109. OATH.
   Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the Mettawa ESDA
organization shall, before entering upon his duties, subscribe to the following
oath, which shall be filed with the Coordinator:
   “I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and defend and bear
true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of the United States of America
and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and the territory, institutions
and facilities thereof, both public and private, against all enemies, foreign
and domestic; that I take this obligation freely, without any mental
reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully
discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do further swear (or
affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I nor have I been a member of any
politics, party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government
of the United States of America or of this State by force or violence; and that
during such time as I am affiliated with the Mettawa Department of Emergency
Services and Disaster, I will not advocate nor become a member of any political
party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the
United States of America or of this State by force or violence.”
SECTION 13.110. APPROPRIATION; LEVY OF TAXES.
   The President and Board of Trustees of the Village may budget for ESDA
purposes in the manner provided by law, and may levy in addition for ESDA
purposes only, a tax not to exceed Five Cents ($.05) per One Hundred Dollars
($100) of the assessed value of all taxable property in addition to all other
taxes, as provided by “The State ESDA Act of 1975;” however, that amount
collectable under such levy shall in no event exceed Twenty-Five Cents ($.25)
per capita.
CHAPTER 14 - THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
INTRODUCTION
   The Village of Mettawa is a unique rural residential community including
woodlands and open lands covering a five and one half (5-1/2) square mile area
in Lake County, Illinois. Characterized by its large properties and unurbanized
landscape, its natural features convey a strong and unique community identity.
This updated Village of Mettawa Comprehensive Plan is adopted to protect and
enhance the particularly sensitive relationship between Village residents and
their natural surroundings. The Village of Mettawa is a low-density rural
residential community with many acres of private open space acting as a buffer
for public open space and protecting the diverse habitat for wildlife.
   Consistent with existing conditions, the Comprehensive Plan adopted in 1994
outlined the recommended land use, community facilities and thoroughfares
within the Village, and identified goals and objectives for the Village. In
1998, the Village upgraded its 1994 Village Comprehensive Plan by completing
and adopting a Comprehensive Plan Amendment. The Village updated the plan again
in 2006, adopted a new strategic plan in 2011, and chose to incorporate and
reflect the goals of both in this 2016 update.
PURPOSES OF THIS COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
   This Comprehensive Plan is adopted as an update and replacement of
previously adopted Comprehensive Plans. The overall purpose of the Plan is to
provide guidance to the Village in advancing the welfare of residents by
creating a sustainable environment composed of three interrelated parts -
social, economic, and physical. The intent of this Comprehensive Plan is not to
stop growth; rather, it is to guide development to ensure it conforms to the
goals of Village residents.
   As described in the Illinois Municipal Code, a comprehensive plan is an
advisory document "...and itself shall not be construed to regulate or control
the use of private property in any way, except as...has been implemented by
ordinances duly enacted." 65 ILCS 5/11-12-6. As such, the adoption of various
regulations and codes is necessary to implement this Comprehensive Plan. State
law does not specifically require that a plan be prepared to support zoning
controls, however case law reveals that land development regulations cannot be
arbitrary. Therefore, it is in the best interest of the Village to ensure that
there is consistency between the recommendations of the Comprehensive Plan and
the regulations contained within the Zoning Ordinance.
   This Comprehensive Plan is intended to provide the substantive and legal
framework in support of zoning and other day-to-day land use decisions required
of the Village. This Comprehensive Plan provides an overall policy framework
against which individual proposals will be evaluated by the Zoning, Planning
and Appeals Commission and the Village Board. This Comprehensive Plan is not
synonymous with a zoning map that gives specific regulations regarding land
use, density, and other development standards.
   In addition to having home rule powers as described in the Illinois
Constitution, the Village is also granted zoning and other regulatory authority
by the State under the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/1-1-1, et seq.). The
Village's Zoning Ordinance regulates land use (including but not limited to lot
size, building height and massing, building setbacks and parking requirements),
and it also establishes definitions, standards and procedures that enable the
Village Board President and Trustees to review and approve specific land
development proposals. There are additional development control ordinances that
supplement and support the zoning ordinance, such as subdivision regulations
and sign and building codes.
   In most instances the recommendations of this Comprehensive Plan can be
achieved on a project-by-project basis through the development review process
and only with cooperation of property owners. This is true for many areas
designated "conservation" which consist of floodplains, woodlands along creek
corridors, and scenic easements along roads. Many of these conservation areas,
if acquired by the public and connected as recommended in this Comprehensive
Plan, could become an extension of the "Northeastern Illinois Greenways and
Trails Plan" adopted by the Chicago Metropolitan Agency for Planning (CMAP).
These scenic corridors, created through the grant of scenic easements and front
yard setbacks, would provide additional opportunities for the extension of
additional equestrian/pedestrian/bike trails and would have the beneficial
effect of protecting existing high quality environmental habitats. Acquiring
and connecting greenways and scenic corridors will enhance the surrounding
environment, and consequently the quality of life in the Village, a key
objective of this Comprehensive Plan.
   Another purpose of this Comprehensive Plan is to inspire and ideally affect
desirable public and private improvements throughout the Village. This
Comprehensive Plan, underpinned by the Strategic Plan is the "overall
blueprint" for future Village development. It is a policy document and "vision"
statement that defines the Village's future economic, natural and social
environment, as desired by its residents. Unlike the Strategic Plan which looks
at shorter term project goals and objectives, the Comprehensive" Plan is
complete in scope, whereby land use, major streets, utilities, facilities and
land management plans are incorporated into a unified vision of the future.
This Comprehensive Plan does not advocate a rigid approach to the long-term
development of the Village. Rather, it is the approach to planning commonly
used in modern business - where "targets" or goals are set that are then used
to guide the decision process on "objective" projects. The intention,
therefore, is to have a plan which provides a vision of a future-state for the
Village.
   This Comprehensive Plan is a long-range guide for growth, affecting land use
and investment decisions of both public and private interests. This
Comprehensive Plan is long-range because it states a vision of the Village
through a planning period of twenty (20) or more years, and recites many ways
to achieve that vision. A shorter planning period like the one used in the
Strategic Plan requires the Village to re-evaluate and update this
Comprehensive Plan more often to ensure that it reflects the desired direction
of community.
REGIONAL PLANNING AREA
   As in prior amendments and updates, the Comprehensive Plan is applicable to
the "Regional Planning Area" that encompasses all unincorporated areas of Lake
County within one and one-half (1-1/2) miles of the Village's borders (herein
the Village's "Extraterritorial Limits") and all of the land located within the
Village's corporate limits. The Regional Planning Area includes approximately
19,500-acres (30.45 square miles) of land area. Within the Extraterritorial
Limits portion of this total Regional Planning Area are approximately 4,060-
acres, or 6.34 square miles of unincorporated land. The remaining incorporated
land within one and one-half (1-1/2) miles of the Village's borders is located
within the corporate limits of Bannockburn, Buffalo Grove, Green Oaks, Lake
Bluff, Long Grove, Libertyville, Lincolnshire, Mundelein, Vernon Hills, and
Lake Forest. While there is no stated intention for the Village to annex any of
the land in its Extraterritorial Limits, the Village can influence land use
decisions in its Regional Planning Area.
REGIONAL LOCATION
   The Village is best described as an island of low-density wooded and open
lands surrounded by commercial, office, and higher density residential uses.
The Village has distinct physical boundaries to both the east and the west. The
western edge is generally bordered by the Des Plaines River. The Des Plaines
River valley contains vegetation which forms a dense buffer and visual barrier.
The eastern edge is bordered principally by Interstate 94, the Illinois
Tollway.
   Situated to the north of the Village are the Villages of Libertyville and
Green Oaks, both with comparatively higher density residential development, as
well as commercial and industrial development. To the west is the Village of
Vernon Hills which has the second largest retail shopping center in Lake
County. To the south is the Village of Lincolnshire with a balanced mix of
residential, commercial, office, hotel, and industrial development. To the east
is the City of Lake Forest, an established, mature community that is comprised
of residential and urban land uses of a higher density.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/66c950a57e9910e3945c5f85920a0e118f90dca4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6932.jpg]
 
   Figure 1 Regional Location Map
PLANNING HISTORY
   In 1950, the residents of what is now the Village of Mettawa took a
significant step to ensure that the development trends in their area did not
significantly deviate from the rural residential development concept in
existence at that time. Residents prepared a petition, subsequently adopted by
the Lake County Board, which declared that the area bounded by Old School Road
to the north, the Des Plaines River to the west, Everett Road to the south, and
Bradley/Riverwoods Road to the east was to be established as an area of five-
acre residential zoning, with minor variations to permit existing non-
conforming, one to two acre lots. Five-acre zoning is the foundation for the
sound preservation of this rural residential community.
   To further ensure the survival of the community, in 1959 the residents
unanimously petitioned for incorporation as a Village of the State of Illinois.
Upon hearing the petition, the County Court directed an election for
incorporation be held, and in 1960 residents voted in favor of incorporation.
   The Village is unique in the context of the ever-increasing urban character
of Lake County and the Chicago Metropolitan Area, and is illustrative of how a
community with foresight and planning can preserve its natural resources and
desired quality of life.
VILLAGE DEMOGRAPHICS
POPULATION GROWTH TRENDS
   The Village experienced moderate growth from 1960-2000, and then rapidly
grew over the next 10 years. The growth trend during the period from the date
of its incorporation in 1960 to 2010 represents a population increase of 421
people, with a markedly accelerating growth rate between 2000 and 2010. The
following table reflects the US Census Bureau population figures for the
Village for the years 1960 through the 2011 estimate:
   The following exhibit reflects the population growth trend for the Village
of Mettawa from 1990 through 2014, including the 2014 estimate:
YEAR 1960 - 2014 VILLAGE POPULATION GROWTH
Census Year Population Percent Increase
Census Year     Population Percent Increase
1960               126  -
1970            285        126.2%
1980            330        15.8%
1990            348        5.5%
2000            367        5.5%
2010            547        49%
2014 (estimate) 571
 
Figure 2 Year 1960-2014 Village Population Growth
Source: US Census Bureau
   The following exhibit reflects the population growth trend for the Village
of Mettawa from 1990 through 2014, including the 2014 estimate:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/66c950a57e9910e3945c5f85920a0e118f90dca4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6934.jpg]
 
Figure 3 - Mettawa Population, 1960-2014
Source: US Census Bureau
   The US Census Bureau estimated population of 571 persons for the year 2014
represents an approximate 4.3 percent increase from the Year 2010 Census
figure, or an overall increase of 24 persons. The Chicago Metropolitan Agency
for Planning (CMAP), the official regional planning agency for the seven
counties of Northeastern Illinois, generated a Year 2040 Population Forecast
for the Village at 1,117 persons. This forecast growth figure is an approximate
104 percent population increase from the US Census Bureau year 2010 population
and reflects an overall increase of 991 persons from the population of 126 in
1960, the year the Village of Mettawa incorporated. The limited number of
undeveloped properties in the Village, the unlikely subdivision of property to
essentially double the number of home sites in the village, and national and
regional trends toward smaller households strongly suggest that the CMAP
estimates for 2040 are unrealistically high.
   According to the 2010 US Census Bureau figures, there were 229 households
occupying homes within the five and a half (5-1/2) square miles that comprise
the Village. This is an approximate increase of 69.6 percent over the 135
households reported in the 2000 Census. CMAP anticipates a continuation of this
trend, with their Year 2040 forecasts indicating an overall increase to 631
households, which is an approximate 175.5 percent increase from the year 2010.
The following exhibit graphically represents the historic and forecasted trend
in households for the Village:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/66c950a57e9910e3945c5f85920a0e118f90dca4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6936.jpg]
 
Figure 4 Number of households
Source: US Census Bureau, 2010 and CMAP
   The Year 2010 Census figures report an average household size for the
Village of 2.63 persons per household. This figure is a slight decrease from
the 2.9 average persons per household reported in the 1990 Census, and is
consistent with national trends. Nielsen SiteReports estimate there are 2.57
persons per household in 2012, showing a continuous gradual decrease from 1990.
In comparison, the average household sizes reported in the 2010 Census for the
United States, Illinois, and Lake County were 2.58, 2.59, and 2.82,
respectively.
   The 2010 Census figures indicate that there are 229 housing units within the
Village. Of this total, 202 units were reported as occupied and 27 were
reported as vacant, 4 of the latter being identified as "seasonal,
recreational, or occasional use."
AGE DISTRIBUTION
   According to the US Census Bureau figures for the year 2010, the largest
percentage of the Village's population, approximately thirty-one (31%) percent,
or 167 persons, falls within the age bracket of 35 to 54. Approximately twenty-
two (22%) percent of the Village's population, or 121 persons, is under 18, and
the retirement aged population (65 years of age and older) increased from the
13 percent figure reported in 2000 to the approximate 15 percent figure, or 82
persons, reported in the Year 2010 Census. Furthermore, the reported median age
for the Village in 2010 was 44.6 years of age, which is higher than the median
age of 36.7 reported for Lake County. The following exhibit offers a graphic
representation of the age distribution of the Village as reported in the 2010
Census.
   There have been changes in the formation and occupations of households due
to economic conditions between 2007 and 2014. This may change again as a result
of an improved economy and housing market.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/66c950a57e9910e3945c5f85920a0e118f90dca4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6938.jpg]
 
Figure 5 Population Pyramid, Lake County & Mettawa, 2010
Source: US Census Bureau, 2010
   In comparison to Lake County, the Village's population has twelve (12%)
percent more residents over the age of 55 and eleven (11%) percent fewer
residents under 35.
EXISTING LAND USES
VILLAGE CORPORATE LIMITS AND EXTRATERRITORIAL LIMITS
   Existing land uses within the Village limits are single-family residential,
dedicated open space (forest preserve), office, business park, hotel, office/
research, certain retail service and sales uses, and undeveloped land zoned for
single family residential use. The Village has no control over the zoning of
unincorporated property within the Village's Extraterritorial Limits, (see
Exhibit 1) but it does have authority to accept or reject the subdivision of
property within the Extraterritorial Limits. The existing use of unincorporated
parcels located within the Village's Extraterritorial Limits include single
family residential (some lots of which are one (1) acre or larger), Lake County
Forest Preserves, open space, recreation areas, retail, light industrial and
office, including the W.W. Grainger Office Campus.
OPEN SPACE AND LAKE COUNTY FOREST PRESERVE PROPERTY
   Open space is very important to the residents of the Village, and in 2015,
the Village completed and approved the "Village of Mettawa Open Lands
Recommendations Report." The Report records the existing conditions of open
land parcels in the Village and lists both observations and recommendations for
each one. In accordance with the Report, the Village now has an OS Open Space
Zoning District in the Mettawa Zoning Ordinance, and suitable properties have
been rezoned into this District, as reflected on the Village's official Zoning
Map. The Report also establishes priorities and a framework for future
conservation, restoration and stewardship of these properties.
   There are numerous natural resource areas within and surrounding the
Village, including the 1,174 acres of Forest Preserve that are owned by the
county but located within the corporate limits. In addition to the forest
preserve, Village open space includes the 24.01 acres at 701 Riverwoods/Everett
Pond North; the 20.89 acre Oasis Park; and the 11.18 acre Whippoorwill Park and
Restoration Area. The Village also benefits from additional parks and smaller
open spaces as indicated on the Parks, Trails and Open Space map included in
this report (figure 6).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/66c950a57e9910e3945c5f85920a0e118f90dca4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6940.jpg]
 
Figure 6 Parks, Trails and Open Space Map
   The majority of property within and surrounding the Village has been
developed at a very low density and as such contributes to the "open space"
character of the community. This includes many acres of wetlands, floodplain,
and natural wildlife habitats located on private property. The Village
residents benefit from these various open spaces through a system of trails
that allow pedestrian and equestrian access to the forest preserves and the Des
Plaines River Trail.
LAND USE CHANGES
   In the decade following incorporation, the Village experienced its most
significant and extensive development, predominantly low density residential
estates. Since 1970, growth has been more moderated, and still predominantly
residential estate development and residential additions and site improvements.
Historically since 1970, other land use changes have included:
   1.   The W.W. Grainger disconnection from the Village of 535 acres of its
property extending from the center to the south boundary of the Village, which
became unincorporated Lake County, a portion of which was zoned by the County
of Lake as "Urban" and the remainder as "Estate Residential" and "Open Space" -
all located within the Village's Extraterritorial Limits.
   2.   The construction of the W. W. Grainger corporate offices on their 155-
acre office campus.
   3.   The re-annexation into the Village of Mettawa of a portion of the 535
acres disconnected earlier, some of which had been donated by W.W. Grainger to
the Lake County Forest Preserve District to be held by it as open space.
   4.   The consent decree permitting office development upon the 85-acre
unincorporated Korhumel property located between Interstate 94 and Bradley
Road, north of Route 60.
   5.   The subsequent annexation of the Korhumel property for office/hotel and
single-family residential development within the corporate limits of the
Village. Two office buildings and two hotels have been constructed, in addition
to 33 single-family detached residential homes.
   6.   The annexation of portions of the Interstate 94 including the Tollway
Oasis complex.
   7.   The annexation and disconnection of various Lake County Forest Preserve
parcels.
   8.   The 20.89 acre Oasis Park Property was purchased by the Village and is
situated between Bradley Road and the Lake Forest Tollway Oasis.
   9.   The construction and operation of the Costco retail/warehouse and
fueling facility, south of Route 60, between Riverwoods Road and Interstate
294.
   10.   In 2006, the 39-acre property east of the Tollway and north of Conway
Business Park was disconnected from the Village.
   11.   Between 1994 and 2013 Lake County owned and administered potable water
and sanitary sewer facilities were extended to serve the W.W. Grainger,
Korhumel, Costco, and Deerpath Farm properties.
RESIDENTIAL GROWTH
   According to Village records, between the years 2006 and 2015, a total of
seventeen (17) building permits have been issued for new single-family homes.
Nielson SiteReports estimate that the combined value for all housing units in
Mettawa was $525,000 in 2012. The following exhibit charts the residential
building permit activity between 2000 and 2015:
Residential Building Permits
Mettawa, IL 2000-2015
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/66c950a57e9910e3945c5f85920a0e118f90dca4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6942.jpg]
 
Figure 7 Residential Building Permits, Mettawa 2000-2015
Source: Village of Mettawa (January 2016)
NATURAL RESOURCES
GEOLOGY SOILS AND WATER QUALITY
   Soils and water quality are major considerations in the planning of the
Village. Large portions of land near the Des Plaines River are composed of
silty clay loam with high water tables, and many of these areas are subject to
periodic flooding. The river width along the western border of the Village
varies from 150 to 200 feet and is bounded by silty banks 5 to 10 feet high.
Water flow depth in the river fluctuates between 5 and 10 feet.
   Most of the properties in the Village are served by private well and septic
systems. Therefore, development in the Village often requires special site
sensitivity to prevent surface and groundwater contamination. In addition,
intermittent streams, marshes and wet low areas must be protected, as they
provide recharge for groundwater or feed eventually into surface streams, lakes
or ponds. The difficulty in developing areas of wetlands in the Village is
mentioned in the report "Planning Analysis for the Lake Forest, Mettawa,
Lincolnshire Study Area" by the LML Joint Planning Committee (1993).
   Most of the Village's soil types are not well suited for septic fields;
however, low-density developments with large septic fields have worked
satisfactorily. Detailed maps of the soils in the Village are available from
the United States Department of Agriculture, Soil Conservation Service. The
soil types listed below are representative of the soils found within the
Village.
SOIL SERIES FOUND IN METTAWA
Soil Series Name Development Problems Septic Field Problems
Soil Series Name                 Development Problems  Septic Field Problems
107         Sawmill              Severe: Wetness,      Severe: Floods, Wetness
                                 Floods
153         Pella                Severe: Low Areas     Severe: High Water
                                                       Tables
228A-C      Nappanee             Severe: Wetness       Severe: Slow
                                                       Permeability
320A-B      Frankfort            Severe: Wetness       Severe: Slow
                                                       Permeability
330         Peotone              Severe: Wetness,      Severe: Slow
                                 Floods                Permeability
365         Aptakisic            Moderate: High Water  Moderate: High Water
                                 Table                 Table
465         Montgomery           Severe: Low Strength  Severe: Slow
                                                       Permeability
696A        Zurich               Moderate: Wetness     Moderate: Wetness
697A        Wauconda             Severe: Wetness       Severe: Wetness
981A        Wauconda & Frankfort Severe: Low Strength  Severe: Slow
                                                       Permeability
982A-B      Aptakisic & Nappanee Severe: Low Strength  Severe: Slow
                                                       Permeability
983B        Zurich & Nappanee    Severe: Wetness       Severe: Slow
                                                       Permeability
BA          Borrow Area          On-Site Investigation  
                                 Needed
ML          Made Land            On-Site Investigation  
                                 Needed
 
Figure 8 Soil Series in Mettawa
FLORA AND FAUNA
   Land of exceptional environmental quality can be found in and surrounding
the Village. The Illinois Natural Areas Inventory has found the MacArthur Woods
Forest Preserve, an Illinois Nature Preserve, to contain rare plants such as
the rattlesnake plantain, hoary willow and the endangered purple-fringed
orchid. Bobcats, coyotes, and red fox have been sighted; and red-shouldered and
broad-winged hawks, screech and great horned owls have used the area for
nesting. The wetlands located west of Riverwoods Road, 1/4 mile north of
Everett Road, may contain nesting sites for Virginia rails and American
bitterns. A privately commissioned wildlife survey in Mettawa during a three-
day period in 1989 found thirty-nine species of birds and eight species of
mammals. Part of the Middlefork Forest Preserve, east of Interstate 94, is in
the Village and is also an Illinois Nature Preserve.
COMMUNITY SERVICES
PRIVATE WATER SUPPLY AND WASTE DISPOSAL (SEPTIC SYSTEMS)
   An estimated 55% of Village residents obtain potable water from their own
water wells. These private wells range in depth from shallow to over 1,000
feet.
   The water varies considerably in quantity and quality. Reliance on well
water places great importance on the management of wetlands, stormwater runoff,
and pollutants, in order to preserve water quality and insure adequate
groundwater recharge.
   Approximately 90% of Village residents provide their own on-site wastewater
disposal and treatment systems. Although the soil is generally a silty clay
with slow percolation, septic systems with large areas for wastewater
dispersion have worked satisfactorily.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/66c950a57e9910e3945c5f85920a0e118f90dca4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6944.jpg]
 
Figure 9 Mettawa Joint Action Water Agency Map
PUBLIC WATER AND SANITARY SEWERS
   About 45% of Village residents receive potable water service from Lake
County, member of the Central Lake County Joint Action Water Agency, which also
supplies water to many nearby communities. The corporate limits of the Village
lie within Vernon Township and Libertyville Township whose common border is
Townline Road, better known as Illinois State Route 60 (herein "Route 60"). Of
those Village residences lying in Vernon Township on the date of this
Comprehensive Plan, potable water is supplied by private wells, except for 3
homes. Approximately 50% of Village residences located in Libertyville Township
are supplied potable water by Lake County, while the rest rely on private
wells. In 2009 the Village petitioned the County to annex the Village into Lake
County's Joint Action Water Agency (JAWA), which was granted later. JAWA
granted connection to the Lake Michigan water system to any resident through
January 1, 2018
   In Libertyville Township, approximately 6.5% of Village homes receive
sanitary sewer service from Lake County. In Vernon Township, public sanitary
sewers are virtually unavailable and Village residences located therein are
serviced by private septic systems. Sanitary sewer service for seventy-nine
(79) single-family homes located west of Interstate 94 and 41 homes north of
Rt. 60 in the Deerpath Farms development has been provided by Lake County from
its New Century Treatment Plant in Vernon Hills. An exhibit showing the current
boundaries of the Lake County Public Works South Central FPA has been included
in the Appendix of this document.
   The North Shore Sanitary District (herein "NSSD") provides sanitary sewer
service to the properties on Boulton Boulevard located in the Oasis Business
Park east of the Interstate 94. Organized in 1914 under the North Shore
Sanitary District Act of 1911, the NSSD is a municipal corporation that owns
and operates more than 100 miles of intercepting sanitary sewer lines and
pumping stations which collect and convey wastewater from local sewer systems
to sewer treatment plants in Gurnee, Waukegan, and Highland Park, Illinois. An
exhibit identifying the current NSSD District Boundaries has been included in
the Appendix of this document.
Mettawa Subdivisions/Streets Water Sewer
Mettawa Subdivisions/Streets                      Water Sewer
Bradley Road                                      X
Deerpath Farm Subdivision                         X     X
Everett Road
Hamilton Estates Subdivision                      X     X
Indian Ridge Road                                 X
Lake Forest Meadows Subdivision (Meadowoods)      X
Little Melody Lane                                X
Little Saint Marys Road (St. Marys to 15141 LSMR) X
Little Saint Marys Road (15210 to West)
Maureen Lane
Mettawa Lane                                      X
Mettawa Woods Subdivision                         X     X
Nektosha Way
Oak Hill Lane                                     X
Oasis Business Park                               X     X
Old School Road East (St. Marys to Bradley)       X
Old School Road West (St. Marys to 15101 OSR)     X
Old School West (15290 to West)
Riverside Preserve Subdivision                          X
Riverwoods Boulevard                              X     X
Riverwoods Road (Costco)                          X     X
Riverwoods Road
Saint Marys Road North (Rt. 60-Limits)
Saint Marys Road South (Rt. 60-Everett)
Sanctuary Estates Subdivision                     X
Shadowbrook Subdivision                           X
Shagbark Road
The Crest Subdivision                             X
The Enclave Subdivision                           X     X
Twin Drive                                        X
 
Figure 10 Village of Mettawa County and Sewer Water Chart
POLICE AND FIRE SERVICES
   The Village does not operate a police or fire department. Police protection
is provided through an agreement with the Lake County Sheriff. In 2011 the
Village established a contract with a private company to patrol the Village.
This service augments police services provided by the Lake County Sheriffs
office with which the security team coordinates calls and events. Fire
protection is provided by the Libertyville and Lincolnshire Riverwoods Fire
Protection Districts. An exhibit identifying the Fire Protection District
boundaries has been included in the Appendix of this document. The Village
works actively with each of these critical service providers in the areas of
strategic and tactical preparedness in an effort to assure the greatest
possible protection of life safety in the Village.
SCHOOL DISTRICTS
   The Village is served by four (4) elementary and two (2) high school
districts. Hawthorn Community Consolidated Elementary District #73 generally
services all areas west of St. Mary's Road, except the area north of the Old
School Forest Preserve, which is served by Libertyville School District #70.
Hawthorn District #73 also serves some properties east of St. Mary's Road near
Route 60. Roundout Elementary School District #72 serves the area east of St.
Mary's Road and north of Route 60 (except for the area served by Hawthorn
District #73). Lincolnshire-Prairie Elementary District #103 serves the area
south of Route 60 and East of St. Mary's Road.
   The high school districts are Adlai E. Stevenson High School District #125
and Libertyville Community High School District #128. Stevenson serves the part
of the Village south of Route 60 and east of St. Mary's Road. Libertyville
serves the rest of the Village. Exhibits identifying the Elementary and High
School District boundaries have been included in the Appendix of this document.
TRANSPORTATION
   The automobile is the predominant mode of transportation in the Village.
According to the Year 2000 Census data, approximately eighty-four (84%) percent
of the work-force commutes to work, with seventy-five (75%) percent driving or
carpooling, and nine (9%) percent using public transportation. However,
residents using public transportation must drive to a train station. The
remaining 16% of the population either walks (6%), travels by other means (9%),
or works at home (1%). The METRA commuter rail service that operates from both
of the Lake Forest train stations to downtown Chicago are assets to Mettawa
residents, making it practical to work in or visit the urban core, while living
in the countryside, rural setting.
   Mettawa's road system is rural in scale and character and generally meets
the needs of local residents. With the exception of the Interstate 94 and Route
60, most roads in the Village are paved and have two traffic lanes. It is
Village policy to oppose the widening of any road in the Village except
Interstate 94 and the Route 60 Bridge which crosses over Interstate 94.
   Where streets abut a subdivision, it is Village policy that land must be
dedicated to provide one-half the required right-of-way width as measured from
centerline of such street. The minimum width of street rights-of-way is as
follows:
      1.   Arterial/Strategic Regional: 80 Feet
      2.   Collector: 66 Feet
      3.   Local and Private Streets: 50 Feet
   The following table identifies the street classifications and jurisdictions
of the existing public road network within the Village of Mettawa:
Street Direction Classification Jurisdiction
Street                       Direction Classification       Jurisdiction
Alexandra Drive              E-W & N-S Local (SSA)          Village of Mettawa
Bennett/Farwell Road         E-W& N-S  Local (SSA)          Village of Mettawa
Black Bird Court             E-W       Private              Village of Mettawa
Boulton Boulevard            E-W       Private              Village of Mettawa
Bradley Road                 N-S       Collector            Village of Mettawa
East Oasis Service Road      N-S       Local (SSA)          Village of Mettawa
Emma Lane                    E-W       Private              Village of Mettawa
Everett Road                 E-W       Collector            Lake Co. Hwy. Dept.
Hickory                      E-W & N-S Local(SSA)           Village of Mettawa
Indian Ridge Road            E-W       Private              Village of Mettawa
Interstate 94                N-S       Tollway              Tollway Authority
Kotaba Drive                 N-S       Local(SSA)           Village of Mettawa
Little Melody Lane (partial) E-W       Local                Village of Mettawa
Little St. Mary's Road       E-W&N-S   Local                Village of Mettawa
Maureen Lane                 E-W       Private              Village of Mettawa
Meadowoods Lane              N-S & E-W Local                Village of Mettawa
Mettawa Lane                 E-W       Local                Village of Mettawa
Mettawa Woods Drive          E-W       Private              Village of Mettawa
Nektosha Way                 N-S       Local(SSA)           Village of Mettawa
Northwoods Lane              N-S       Local                Village of Mettawa
Oak Hill Lane                N-S       Private              Village of Mettawa
Old School Road              E-W       Collector            Village of Mettawa
Penny Lane                   N-S       Private              Village of Mettawa
Prairie View Lane            E-W       Private              Village of Mettawa
St. Mary's Road              N-S       Collector            Lake Co. Hwy. Dept.
Sanctuary Lane               E-W       Private              Village of Mettawa
Shagbark Road                E-W & N-S Private              Village of Mettawa
Southwoods Lane              N-S       Local                Village of Mettawa
State Route 60-Townline Road E-W       Major Arterial       IDOT
Riteway Road                 E-W & N-S Private              Village of Mettawa
Riverwoods Boulevard         N-S       Major Arterial (SSA) Village of Mettawa
Riverwoods Road/Cty W24      N-S       Collector            Lake Co. Hwy. Dept.
Trail Drive & Court          E-W & N-S Private              Village of Mettawa
Twin Drive                   E-W       Local                Village of Mettawa
Westwoods Lane               E-W       Local                Village of Mettawa
 
Figure 11 Street Classifications & Jurisdictions in Mettawa
   The 1994 Lake County Framework Plan estimated that a number of roads within
the Village would suffer from heavy congestion by the year 2000. The Village's
traffic network has been studied by the Lake County Highway Department, the
State of Illinois Department of Transportation (herein "IDOT") and by private
traffic consultants. IDOT has installed improvements of Route 60 including the
widening of the bridge over Interstate 94, the entrance and exit ramps at this
full interchange as well as the intersection of Route 60 and Riverwoods Blvd.
   The following table reflects the most recent available Average Daily Traffic
Counts as reported by IDOT for various road segments throughout the Village
(the Village should incorporate new counts as they become available):
AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC
Roadway Segment Estimate Year of Traffic Count
Roadway Segment                                 Estimate Year of Traffic Count
Bradley Road
(between IL Routes 60 and the 1-94 Bradley Road 4,050    2014
Bridge)
Bradley Road
(between the 1-94 Bradley Road Bridge and IL    6,000    2014
Highway 176)
St. Mary's Road                                 4,950    2014
(between IL Highway 60 and Everett Road)
St. Mary's Road                                 9,800    2014
(between IL Highway 60 and IL Highway 176)
St. Mary's Road                                 16,100   2014
(between IL 176 and Atkinson Road)
Route 60                                        39,300   2014
(between IL Route 21 and St. Mary's Road)
Route 60                                        36,400   2014
(between St. Mary's Road and Bradley Road)
Everett Road                                    5,100    2014
(between 1-94 & St. Mary's Road)
Old School Road                                 1,250    2014
(between St. Mary's Road and Bradley Road)
 
Figure 12 Average Daily Traffic Counts in Mettawa
Source: Illinois Department of Transportation (www.dot.illinois.gov/
gettingaroundillinois/)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/66c950a57e9910e3945c5f85920a0e118f90dca4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6946.jpg]
Figure 13 Traffic Count Map
IMPROVEMENTS PROPOSED BY THE TOLLWAY AUTHORITY AND IDOT
 
Areas of Concern                   Proposed Improvements
Route 60 between St. Mary's Road & Increase from 4 lanes to 6 lanes - IDOT*
Route 83
 
* Illinois Department of Transportation
Figure 14 Proposed Roadway Improvements
   Roadway improvements supported by the County of Lake and IDOT will not
eliminate the congestion on Route 60. This congestion is caused by traffic
generated outside of the Village's borders.
   The County's concern over the continued congestion of Route 60 is addressed
in the "Issues Report: A Compendium of Special Studies Providing Background for
the Lake County Framework Plan Update" by the Advanced Planning Section of the
Lake County Department of Planning, which states:
For example, the east-west portion of Route 60, from about Route 45 to I-94
which experiences congestion around the Hawthorn Center shopping mall in Vernon
Hills - would be widened from 4 lanes to 6 lanes to allow a freer traffic flow
and improve levels of service. However, even with these improvements, Lake
County Division of Transportation projects that the segment from Route 83 to
St. Mary's Road will still be operating over capacity. There would then
continue to be congestion at the major intersection of Route 60 and I-94 even
after the proposed widening of both roads and improvements to this
intersection.
   The Village will be adversely affected by and is opposed to the increase in
traffic volumes which will result from any widening of Route 60. Programmed
road improvements should be undertaken in a manner which will have the least
adverse impact on safety and the environment of the Village. In order to lessen
the impact of traffic on the Village, Illinois State Route 176 (herein "Route
176") should be widened to 4 lanes and its intersection with Interstate 94
should be converted to a full interchange. At the same time, Mettawa should
continue to pursue its plan for low-density single-family residential
development, which has negligible impact on traffic.
   St. Mary's, Bradley, Everett and Old School Roads, and Riverwoods Boulevard
are undergoing continuously more and more automobile travel as the development
along and to the north of them increases. The Village opposes the widening of
these roads. Additional and creative traffic management measures that encourage
through traffic to use other routes (including Waukegan Road, the Tollway,
Route 22, Route 176, and Milwaukee Avenue) should be introduced. The character
of these routes should be enhanced with native landscaping, replacement of dead
trees, and better summer maintenances routines. The Village should also
continue the establishment of the scenic easement system wherever it will have
a positive impact on the character of the roadway corridor.
DEVELOPMENT POLICIES - GOALS AND OBJECTIVES
   The planning process is based on a continuum of personal and collective
decision-making reflected in a shared vision for the community. The
identification of goals and the formulation of objectives in support of these
goals is the first step in the process of establishing a common vision. Goals
and objectives statements establish the policy framework which underpins all
land use decisions, both now and in the future. This Comprehensive Plan is a
declaration of intent. It is advisory and does not in and of itself constitute
a regulation. Adopted by the Village Board by ordinance, all goals, objectives,
principles, and standards herein are now Village policy.
   Based on the 1994 Village Comprehensive Plan, the following statements of
goals and objectives are updated hereby to incorporate new information, ideas,
and direction obtained from Village Staff and elected Officials. These same
terms were used as the foundation of the Strategic Plan produced from resident
input in 2014. The 2014 version of the Strategic Plan is included in the
appendix.
   Village Mission Statement:         The Village of Mettawa strives to
preserve and nurture our authentic rural and horse friendly environment and to
ensure the highest quality of family life for our residents.
   Goals:                  Goals statements are the stated ends that form the
vision; they are statements regarding general aims of the Village, with broad
or long-range intended outcomes.
   Objectives:               Objective statements describe a more specific
future condition to be attained; they outline a specific target established to
achieve a goal.
   Under each subject heading is a goal statement which is followed by a list
of objectives established to achieve the associated goal. It should be noted
that the listed objectives do not appear in a specific order of importance.
VILLAGE CHARACTER
   Goal 1:
   To retain the unique qualities of a rural residential environment with a
strong sense of community.
   Objectives:
   1.   Encourage the use and maintenance of native flora to further accentuate
the Village's rural heritage.
   2.   Communicate and encourage animal recovery through various outlets.
   3.   Nurture desirable and/or endangered wildlife and aquatic species and
enhance their habitats.
   4.   Maintain a residential density requiring a minimum of five (5)
builder's acres (a "builder's acre" is 40,000 square feet) per dwelling.
   5.   Through zoning enforce five (5)-acre density to keep the openness of
the land.
LAND USE
   Goal 1:
   To develop a land use policy which assures the protection and preservation
of the rural residential community.
   Objectives:
   1.   Continue the maximum residential density for developments of one (1)
residential dwelling unit per five (5) builder's acres.
   2.   Continue to allow the option of use of Planned Unit Developments to
meet overall density requirements as a means to preserve natural areas, to
allow for creative site planning, or to avoid higher density development.
   3.   Ensure that all planning preserves Mettawa's natural resources and a
desired quality of life as a low-density rural residential community.
   4.   Encourage the addition and designation of private and public open
spaces, and where appropriate place conservation easements on open lands.
   5.   Establish a maximum residential density for new developments of one
residential dwelling unit per 200,000 square feet of land, five (5) builder's
acres, within the areas so described on the Future Land Use Map, Figure 15.
   6.   Approve subdivisions of land within the Extraterritorial Limits,
provided the lots reflected on the plat comply with this Comprehensive Plan.
   7.   Encourage existing stables to upgrade in order to increase the
attractiveness and character of the Village.
   Goal 2:
   To retain a balanced relationship between the Village's natural ecological
system and Mettawa's residents.
   Objectives:
   1.   Retain as much of the natural topography, soils, and geology as is
possible.
   2.   Conserve groundwater supplies and protect underground aquifers from
contamination.
   3.   Provide for groundwater recharge; protect recharge areas.
   4.   Conserve and enhance native trees, plants, and other comparable
vegetative cover, especially the woodlands.
   5.   Nurture desirable and/or endangered flora and fauna and enhance their
habitats.
   6.   Protect lakes, rivers, streams, and wetlands from pollution and
degradation.
   7.   Maintain adequate stormwater drainage capacities of drainage basins,
floodplains, and waterways.
   8.   Mitigate adverse impacts of pesticides and fertilizers, air, noise, and
light pollution.
   9.   Initiate an educational and outreach program that can become a "natural
surroundings" resource for our residents.
   10.   Encourage individual residents to apply sustainability practices to
their personal property.
OPEN SPACE
Goal 1:
   To protect, maintain or expand where possible, the supply of public open
space in and around the Village.
Objectives:
   1.   Encourage support of open space with active collaboration with the
Mettawa Open Lands Association ("MOLA"), Lake Forest Open Lands, Lake County
Forest Preserve District or similar community organizations that will pursue
the establishment, protection, enhancement, and the best possible management of
all open space resources. Encourage the maintenance of open space.
   2.   Establish and maintain a comprehensive trail system in accordance with
the Village's Parks, Trails and Open Space Map (Figure 6) that allows residents
to benefit from the open space and allows access to existing trail systems
inside and outside the Village, forest preserves, and the Des Plaines River.
   3.   Educate and encourage the use of green infrastructure practices.
   4.   Discourage all development in designated Village owned open spaces and
in County Forest Preserves within the Village except for trails and the
existing stable in the Grainger Woods Forest Preserve.
   5.   Encourage the Lake County Forest Preserve District to provide the best
possible maintenance for all of its properties in the Village, and also to
enforce its rules against all violators.
SENSE OF COMMUNITY
Goal 1:
   To establish events, activities^ and facilities, as well as disseminate
information that will reinforce a sense of community.
Objectives:
   1.   Build awareness that living in Mettawa is different from living in
unincorporated Lake County, or in higher density municipalities.
   2.   Enhance communications and engage the community in public and civic
affairs.
   3.   Communicate Mettawa's unique qualities of a rural residential
environment.
   4.   Work to ensure public trust and encourage collaboration, participation
and engagement with the constituency.
   5.   Encourage residents to volunteer to serve as Village officials. The
Village is small and relies on volunteer officials to manage Village affairs.
   6.   Instill a sense of community that will motivate residents to respect
Village ordinances as a means of protecting and preserving their property
values and quality of life and encourage the updating of ordinances to support
and protect property values and quality of life.
   7.   Support MOLA and similar community organizations which pursue the
establishment and enhancement of open spaces contributing to sense of community
in Mettawa.
   8.   Consider and evaluate the need for Village administrative and meeting
facilities.
   9.   Plan additional Village events that build a sense of community.
TRANSPORTATION
Goal 1:
   To develop transportation policy which preserves the atmosphere of the rural
residential community.
Objectives:
   1.   Give special attention to the design of all roads, highways, and
utility rights-of-way to achieve the desired level of safety and function
within a rural environment. These design factors are to provide protection and
preservation of native trees, plants and shrubs in their natural state, and
discourage the installation of curb, excessive or unnatural looking berms and
wide shoulders.
   2.   Enhance the aesthetic image of roadway corridors through the use of
native landscaping, replacement of dead trees, and maintenance.
   3.   Discourage heavy, through-traffic movements on all roads in the
Village.
   4.   Seek to introduce additional and creative traffic management measures
in cooperation and collaboration with the County Sheriff's Department and/or
other organizations and agencies.
   5.   Continue the establishment of the scenic easement system where it
provides a positive impact on the character of the roadway system.
   6.   Continue to oppose the widening of roads in or through the Village.
   7.   Encourage the maintenance of the Mettawa Trail through the Village.
This trail allows pedestrian, bicycle, and equestrian users to travel
throughout the Village and connects to other trails inside and outside the
Village. An important feature of a rural residential lifestyle is the freedom
for pedestrians and horseback riders to move about. Design and utilization of
trails should be sensitive to the privacy and use of privately owned
properties.
   8.   Promote the improvement of air quality by developing the regional
arterial system designed to minimize the disruption of traffic flow due to
congestion without road widening.
   9.   Minimize noise and light impacts resulting from transportation related
improvements on office, hotel, Interstate 94, and recreational properties.
Encourage the Illinois Tollway Authority to maintain and extend the sound wall
on the west Interstate 94 boundary adjacent to all residentially zoned
property.
   10.   Work to reduce the speed limits on State and County roads in the
Village
VILLAGE SERVICES
Goal 1:
   Ensure that all residents have access to an affordable and reliable Lake
Michigan water system that exceeds health and safety standards.
Objectives:
   1.   Investigate the feasibility of such a system and collaborate with Lake
County on the development, planning and design.
   2.   Investigate preliminary engineering designs, investments, policies and
actions necessary to construct and support such a water infrastructure and
ensure efficient, sustainable locations to best support the Village.
   3.   Educate decision makers and citizens on the value of Lake Michigan
water, water distributions systems and the services provided.
   4.   Research and ensure that the water system is robust, scalable, and
cost-effective over its life cycle as well as being resource efficient and
consistent with community goals.
   5.   Evaluate and communicate funding mechanisms, estimates and strategies
for the offering of Lake Michigan water.
Goal 2:
   In coordination with the Lake County Health Department, insure essential
services for the health, safety and welfare of the residents.
Objectives:
   1.   Maintain as a high priority the protection of Village residents from
crime, fire and storms. Take those steps necessary to ensure residents enjoy
the same level of safety as provided by surrounding municipalities.
   2.   Insure that the private individual on-site wastewater treatment systems
are designed and constructed to high standards in order to provide service
indefinitely and not lead to pollution.
   3.   Encourage public sanitary sewer service where it is provided by other
units of government, and is limited to a specific development and will preserve
the goals and objectives of this Plan.
   4.   Encourage public water service access to residents, which may include
the County of Lake, another unit of local government, or an agency of either.
Private on-site wells must be provided by property owners when public potable
water service Is unavailable.
   5.   Maintain safety and the attractive appearance of Village roads, trails,
utility rights-of-way, and other public properties.
   6.   See that utilities are located underground so as not to disrupt planned
land uses or create hazards, while preserving the natural beauty of the
landscape.
   7.   Continue to provide public services to protect the health, safety and
welfare of Village residents.
ECONOMIC SUSTAIN ABILITY
Goal 1:
   To continue fiscally responsible budgeting and financial practices to ensure
efficient Village services, financial solvency, and transparency.
   1.   Objectives: Continue strong financial leadership combined with a
skilled financial team to develop a unified and actionable plan for addressing
and ensuring sound budgeting and financial practices.
   2.   Identify opportunities for cost reduction through innovation and
planning which may include bidding, comprehensive infrastructure assessments,
and capital outlay planning.
   3.   Communicate the financial conditions, benchmarks, and recommendations
for achieving the goals to residents.
LAND USE PLAN
   Based on the foregoing discussion of development factors, the strategy for
achieving community goals and objectives has three components: (1) perpetuating
the rural residential development of the community; (2) protecting the
Village's environmental resources; and (3) providing a viable alternative of a
rural life-style in contrast to with a higher density urban or suburban life-
style. Achieving these goals is the basis for the following recommendations.
LAND USE
   The Village is characterized by large residential lots, and includes
environmentally sensitive areas on private property and in Lake County Forest
Preserves. The Village continues to foster large lot zoning in order to
preserve its rural residential quality of life and to protect natural
resources.
   The only exceptions to this land use pattern are the nonresidential
developments east of the Tollway and Between the Tollway and Riverwoods
Boulevard and Riverwoods Road adjacent to IL Route 60. In these areas the
Village has provided for hotel/office-research/business park development
zoning. This area is also targeted by Lake County as part of the County's
economic development corridor, where future employment concentration is
expected. To that end the Village must continue to encourage the widening of
Route 176 so as to alleviate congestion at Route 60, and to establish the full
interchange for Route 176 and the Tollway. Similarly, the Village must continue
to oppose the widening of Old School, Bradley and St. Mary's Roads and Route 60
from their current width. The guidelines for future land use in the Village are
as follows:
   1.   Encourage five (5) builder's acre density rural residential development
of the properties lying west of Interstate 94 (except for existing one (1) acre
zoning east of Bradley Road), which is consistent with existing Village zoning.
   2.   Maintain the scenic qualities of all Village roads, and oppose the
widening of these roads.
   3.   Encourage site design practices responsive to the relationships between
land uses and existing environmental features.
   4.   Encourage designation of open lands.
   5.   Encourage the conservation of resident land and environmental features,
including native trees and plants, wetlands and flood plains.
   6.   Maintain a Village trail system, an essential feature that promotes the
rural lifestyle.
ENVIRONMENTAL CORRIDORS
   Environmental corridors have long been established as a method of protecting
linear geographic areas which have significant amounts of interdependent
natural features. These features include floodplains, soils, water recharge
areas, topography, vegetation and wildlife. These areas of natural resources
must be protected from development impacts.
   Two environmental corridors are found within the Village. The first area,
the Des Plaines River Corridor, includes the floodplains of the Des Plaines
River along the western edge of the Village. The second area, the MacArthur
Woods/Shagbark Road area corridor, lies along a floodplain, which crosses the
Village diagonally, from the area where Riverwoods Road is adjacent to
Interstate 94 south of Route 60 to the intersection of the Elgin-Joliet-Eastern
Railroad and the Des Plaines River (in MacArthur Woods).
DES PLAINES RIVER CORRIDOR
   The Des Plaines River Corridor is one of the major environmental features in
the Village. The river extends along the length of the Village and beyond. The
Corridor includes five (5) forest preserves (Old School, MacArthur Woods,
Captain Daniel Wright Woods, Grainger Woods Conservation Preserve and the
Stevenson Preserve) as well as the woodlands and marshes connecting these
preserves. Two (2) known water recharge areas are located in this corridor.
They are both located near the Adlai Stevenson Home Preserve, north of the
intersection of Everett and St. Mary's Roads. This preserve harbors a rare
stand of northern flatwoods, ecologically valuable wetlands, and several state-
listed threatened and endangered species. Two natural communities found on the
site include a wet-mesic prairie and a high quality sedge meadow that contain
more than 165 native plant species. Healthy, native plants are now thriving in
pastures where horses once grazed. Townline Stables operates a boarding stable
at the northwest corner of the preserve.
   Problems which could arise from any significant development within the Des
Plaines River Corridor, other than planned trails, include added storm water
runoff, soil erosion, contamination of water recharge areas, sedimentation
coming from exposed soils during construction processes, and disturbance of
wildlife habitats due to encroachment.
   With the exception of encouraging trail construction, development of
floodplains and water recharge areas, the modification of river and stream
channels and allowance of stormwater runoff into the river during construction
must be prohibited. River bank stabilization, preservation of scenic spaces,
and protection of the wildlife habitats should be encouraged.
THE MACARTHUR WOODS/SHAGBARK ROAD CORRIDOR
   This Corridor originates at Interstate 94 where Riverwoods Road is adjacent
to Interstate 94 just north of Shagbark Road. The Corridor crossing Riverwoods
Road, crosses a lake, and continues northwest across the W. W. Grainger Office
Campus to Route 60. It then crosses the Deerpath Farm property going northwest
across St. Mary's Road through MacArthur Woods to the EJ&E Railroad where the
railroad right of way crosses the Des Plaines River. Problems arising from
development along this corridor include added storm water runoff, soil erosion,
and sedimentation from exposed soils during construction, and diminishing
woodlands. Measures have been taken to alleviate potential problems with
development of the floodplain in order to preserve scenic spaces, protect
wildlife habitats, and to protect wetlands and other environmentally sensitive
land.
SCENIC CORRIDORS
   The scenic corridors provide a landscaping buffer and transition between
roadway traffic and adjoining properties. The corridors provide for the
continual protection and preservation of native trees, shrubs, and herbaceous
plants characteristic of the Mettawa community area. The establishment of a
system of scenic corridors along all major collector streets through the
Village's acquisition of scenic easements has been and continues to be a major
component of the Village's Comprehensive Plan. The corridors establish a
building setback measuring seventy-five (75) feet from the rights-of-way.
Unless approved by the Village Board, development within a corridor is
prohibited, except for driveways and utilities.
SUMMARY
   The rural residential characteristics of development in the Village of
Mettawa would be difficult to maintain if the Village encompassed a larger area
or did not include many acres of environmentally sensitive land. It is the
desire of the residents to protect and preserve the rural residential quality
of life that they have inherited. Therefore, Village officials have chosen to
maintain a level of control over land use and community services consistent
with the overall goals and objectives contained in this Comprehensive Plan.
This Comprehensive Plan and the Land Use Plan embodied herein delineate the
aspirations of Mettawa's residents.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/66c950a57e9910e3945c5f85920a0e118f90dca4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6948.jpg]
 
Figure 15 Future Land Use
CHAPTER 15 - ZONING REGULATIONS
Article I. Title, Purpose, and Applicability
SECTION
   
15.101   Title
   
15.102   Purpose
   
15.103   Applicability
   
15.104   Transition Rules
   
15.105   Severability
Article II. Definitions and Rules of Measurement
   
15.201   Rules of Interpretation
   
15.202   General Abbreviations
   
15.203   Definition of General Terms
   
15.204   Rules of Measurement
Article III. Zoning Map
   
15.301   Zoning Districts
   
15.302   District Zoning Map
   
15.303   Annexed Land
Article IV. Residential Districts
   
15.401   Purpose
   
15.402   Uses
   
15.403   Dimensional Standards
   
15.404   General Standards of Applicability
Article V. Commercial Districts
   
15.501   Purpose
   
15.502   Uses
   
15.503   Dimensional Standards
   
15.504   General Standards of Applicability
Article VI. Special Purpose Districts
   
15.601   Scenic Easement Overlay
   
15.602   Open Space District
Article VII. Uses
   
15.701   General Use Regulations
   
15.702   Use Matrix and Restrictions
   
15.703   Use Standards
   
15.704   Use Definitions
Article VIII. On-Site Development Standards
   
15.801   General Requirements
   
15.802   Accessory Structures and Uses
   
15.803   Permitted Encroachments
   
15.804   Temporary Uses
   
15.805   Performance Standards
Article IX. Off-Street Parking and Loading
   
15.901   General Provisions
   
15.902   Location of Parking Spaces
   
15.903   Off-Street Parking Space and Parking Facility Design Standards
   
15.904   Required Off-Street Vehicle Spaces
   
15.905   Required Off-Street Loading Spaces
   
15.906   Commercial and Recreational Vehicle Storage
Article X. Landscape
   
15.1001   Purpose and Applicability
   
15.1002   Required Landscape Selection, Installation and Maintenance
   
15.1003   Required Landscape Design Standards
   
15.1004   Parking Lot Perimeter Landscape
   
15.1005   Parking Lot Interior Landscape
   
15.1006   Site Landscape
   
15.1007   Buffer Yard
Article XI. Zoning Administration
   
15.1101   Zoning Officials
   
15.1102   Permit
   
15.1103   Application Processes Generally
   
15.1104   Zoning Text and Map Amendments
   
15.1105   Special Use
   
15.1106   Variation
   
15.1107   Site Plan Review
   
15.1108   Zoning Interpretation
   
15.1109   Zoning Certificate
   
15.1110   Zoning Appeals of Zoning Administrator Decisions
   
15.1111   Occupancy Certificate
Article XII. Planned Unit Developments
   
15.1201   Purpose
   
15.1202   Common Ownership
   
15.1203   Required Minimum Size
   
15.1204   PUD Procedure
   
15.1205   Development Plan Requirements
   
15.1206   PUD Review Standards
   
15.1207   Permitted Modifications and PUD Specific Standards
   
15.1208   Public Improvements and Guarantees
   
15.1209   Required Common Open Space
   
15.1210   Recordation
   
15.1211   Construction Timing
   
15.1212   Amendments to Approved PUD
Article XIII. Nonconformities
   
15.1301   General Applicability
   
15.1302   Nonconforming Uses
   
15.1303   Nonconforming Large Stables
   
15.1304   Nonconforming Structures
   
15.1305   Nonconforming Lots of Record
   
15.1306   Nonconforming Site Elements
Article XIV. Enforcement
   
15.1401   General Enforcement Authority and Duty
   
15.1402   Violations
   
15.1403   Civil and Administrative Enforcement
   
15.1404   Proceedings to Prevent Violation and Stay
   
15.1405   Penalties
ARTICLE I. TITLE, PURPOSE, AND APPLICABILITY
SECTION 15.101. TITLE.
   This Zoning Ordinance, which incorporates the Official Zoning Map, is known,
cited, and referred to as the “Mettawa Zoning Ordinance,” “Mettawa Zoning
Code,” or “Chapter 15 Zoning Regulations.”
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.102. PURPOSE.
   The intent of this Chapter is to establish land use regulations to serve the
Village of Mettawa. The purpose of this Chapter is to:
   A.   Promote the public health, safety, and welfare.
   B.   Promote the orderly development of the Village in accordance with the
Comprehensive Plan and adopted land use policies and maintain the Village's
rural residential character.
   C.   Establish zoning districts, according to use of land and structures,
bulk of structures, intensity of the use of the lot, and/or other
classification, best suited to carry out the purposes of this Chapter.
   D.   Preserve and protect the rural character of the Village and enhance the
value of structures, communities, and neighborhoods within the Village.
   E.   Support economic development that balances the needs of the current and
future economy with a high quality of life standard.
   F.   Provide for preservation, protection, and conservation of natural
resources.
   G.   Promote the principles of sustainability.
   H.   Maintain, develop, and plan for public facilities and utilities in an
economical and environmentally sound manner.
   I.   Provide for the protection of public investment in transportation,
water, stormwater management systems, sewage treatment and disposal, solid
waste treatment and disposal, schools, recreation, public facilities, open
space, and other public requirements.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.103. APPLICABILITY.
   A.   Territorial Application. This Chapter applies to all land, uses, and
structures within the Village.
   B.   General Application. In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this Chapter are held to be the minimum requirements for the
promotion and protection of the public health, safety, and welfare.
   C.   Required Conformance. Any portion or whole of a structure must be
erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved, or enlarged in conformance with the
requirements of this Chapter. Any structure or land must be used and occupied
in conformance with the requirements of this Chapter.
   D.   Relation to Private Agreements. This Chapter does not nullify any
private agreement or covenant. However, where this Chapter is more restrictive
than a private agreement or covenant, this Chapter controls. The Village does
not enforce any private agreement or covenant.
   E.   Relation to Other Laws and Regulations. Unless otherwise specifically
provided, this Chapter controls over less restrictive statutes, ordinances, or
regulations, and more restrictive statutes, ordinances, or regulations control
over the provisions of this Chapter.
   F.   Rules Regarding Illustrations and Graphics. Any illustrations,
graphics, and/or photos contained in this Chapter are to assist the reader in
understanding and applying the Chapter. If there is any inconsistency between
the text of the Chapter and any such illustration, graphic, and/or photo, the
text controls unless specifically stated otherwise.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.104. TRANSITION RULES.
   A.   Existing Uses.
      1.   Any use of land that was classified as a permitted use prior to the
effective date of this Chapter and is classified as a permitted use as of the
effective date of this Chapter or any subsequent amendment to this Chapter,
remains classified as a permitted use.
      2.   Any use of land that was classified a special use prior to the
effective date of this Chapter and is classified as a special use as of the
effective date of this Chapter or any subsequent amendment to this Chapter
remains a special use and is subject to the special use ordinance under which
it was approved.
      3.   Any use of land that was classified as a permitted use prior to the
effective date of this Chapter and is classified as a special use as of the
effective date of this Chapter or any subsequent amendment to this Chapter, is
classified as a special use. Any subsequent addition, enlargement, or expansion
of that use must obtain a special use approval.
      4.   Any use of land that was classified as a special use prior to the
effective date of this Chapter and is now classified as a permitted use as of
the effective date of this Chapter or any subsequent amendment to this Chapter,
is classified as a permitted use, so long as such use, and/or any subsequent
addition, enlargement, or expansion, of that use conforms to all Chapter
requirements for such use.
      5.   Any use of land classified as either a permitted use or special use
prior to the effective date of this Chapter which is no longer allowed by this
Chapter or any subsequent amendment to this Chapter as either a permitted or
special use in the zoning district in which it is located, is classified as a
nonconforming use.
   B.   Structures Rendered Nonconforming. Any structure existing lawfully
prior to the effective date of this Chapter that does not meet all standards
for the zoning district in which it is located, as set forth in this Chapter or
any subsequent amendment to this Chapter, is classified as a nonconforming
structure.
   C.   Lots Rendered Nonconforming. Any lot conforming to all requirements of
the Zoning Ordinance in effect prior to the effective date of this Chapter that
does not meet all standards set forth in this Chapter, or any subsequent
amendment to this Chapter is classified as a nonconforming lot. This does not
apply to any such lot that does not meet all standards set forth in this
Chapter solely by virtue of a taking for right-of-way.
   D.   Unlawful Uses, Structures, or Lots. Any use of land, structure or lot
not lawfully existing prior to the effective date of this Chapter that does not
comply with the requirements of this Chapter shall continue to remain unlawful.
   E.   Site Elements Rendered Nonconforming. If a site element existing on the
effective date of this Chapter was conforming before the effective date of this
Chapter but such site element does not meet all standards set forth in this
Chapter in the zoning district in which it is located, that site element is
classified as a nonconforming site element.
   F.   Existing Unlawful Uses. Any use that was unlawful prior to the
effective date of this Chapter that is in conflict with the requirements of
this Chapter remains unlawful.
   G.   Previously Issued Building Permits. If a building permit for a
structure was lawfully issued prior to the effective date of this Chapter and
if construction has begun within 90 days of the issuance of that permit, the
structure may be completed in accordance with the plans on the basis of which
the building permit was issued and may, upon completion, be occupied for the
use originally intended.
   H.   Previously Granted Variances. All variance approvals granted prior to
the effective date of this Chapter remain in full force and effect. The
recipient of the variance may proceed to develop the property in accordance
with the approved plans and all applicable conditions.
   I.   Existing Planned Unit Developments. Previously approved planned unit
developments (PUD) remain in effect and continue to control the development of
land that is subject to the PUD. Any amendments to existing PUD are subject to
the amendment procedures of this Chapter.
   J.   Pending Applications. An application that has been received and deemed
complete, and scheduled for a public hearing or meeting is subject to the rules
in effect on the date the application was deemed complete.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.105. SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, paragraph, subdivision, clause, sentence, or provision of
this Chapter is adjudged by any court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid,
that judgment does not affect, impair, invalidate, or nullify the remainder of
this Chapter. The effect of the judgment is confined to the section, paragraph,
subdivision, clause, sentence, or provision immediately involved in the
controversy in which judgment or decree was rendered.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
ARTICLE II. DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF MEASUREMENT
SECTION 15.201. RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The terms in the text of this Chapter are interpreted in accordance with the
following rules of construction:
   A.   The singular number includes the plural, and the plural the singular.
   B.   The present tense includes the past and future tenses, and the future
tense includes the present.
   C.   The terms “must,” “shall,” and “will” are mandatory.
   D.   The term “may” is permissive.
   E.   The terms “must not,” “will not,” “cannot,” “may not,” and “shall not”
are prohibiting.
   F.   Any gender includes all genders.
   G.   Whenever a defined word or term appears in the text of this Chapter,
its meaning must be construed as set forth in the definition. Words not defined
must be interpreted tn accordance with the definitions considered to be normal
dictionary usage.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.202. GENERAL ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations may be used within this Chapter:
   A.   GFA is an abbreviation for “gross floor area.”
   B.   ft. is an abbreviation for “feet.”
   C.   N/A is an abbreviation for “not applicable.”
   D.   sf. is an abbreviation for “square feet.”
   E.   SF is an abbreviation for “single-family.”
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.203. DEFINITION OF GENERAL TERMS.
   The following are definitions of general terms used throughout this Chapter
with the exception of use definitions, which are defined in Article 7.
   ABUT. To share a common wall or lot line without being separated by a street
or alley.
   ACCESSIBILITY RAMP. A ramp or similar structure that provides wheelchair or
similar access to a structure.
   ACCESS.  A way or means of approach to provide physical entrance to a
property or capability for physical entrance to a property.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A subordinate detached structure located on the same
lot as a principal building, the use of which is subordinate to that of the
principal building or use of the lot. An accessory structure includes an
accessory building.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE, DETACHED. An accessory structure surrounded by open
space located on the same lot as the principal building.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use which is ancillary or customarily incidental to the
principal use of or upon the lot.
   ACTIVE RECREATION.  Exclusive of pedestrian, equestrian, and bicyclist use
of the Mettawa Trail, recreation characterized by the participation in sports
programs, usually involving high vehicle trip generation or having the
potential for greater nuisance to adjacent properties due to light, noise,
glare and/or odor.
   ADDITION. Any change that increases the floor area or height of the building
or structure.
   ADJACENT. Touching, lying immediately next to, abutting, and/or sharing a
common wall or lot line.
   ADULT USE. See Section
15.704.
   AGRICULTURE.  See Section
15.704.
   ALLOWABLE USE.  A use allowed in a given zoning district under the terms of
this Chapter as either a permitted use or special use.
   AMATEUR (HAM) RADIO EQUIPMENT.  An amateur (HAM) radio station licensed by
the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), including equipment such as, but
not limited to, a tower or building-mounted structure supporting a radiating
antenna platform and other equipment.
   ANTENNA.  Any structure or device, including directional antenna such as
panels, microwave dish, satellite dish, and omni-directional antenna such as a
whip antenna, designed for the purpose of collecting or transmitting
electromagnetic waves for telephonic, radio, data, internet or other
communications, including appurtenant equipment attached to a tower or building
for the purpose of providing personal wireless services, including, for
example: “cellular,” “paging,” “low power mobile radio,” and “personal
communications services” telecommunications services, and their attendant base
stations. ANTENNA does not include a satellite dish of less than 40 inches at
its widest point.
   ANTENNA HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the base of the antenna
support structure at grade to the highest point of the antenna support
structure, even if said highest point is an antenna. Measurement of tower
height includes antennas, base pad, and other appurtenances and is measured
from the grade of the site. If the antenna support structure is on a sloped
grade, then the average between the highest and lowest grades is used in
calculating the antenna height.
   ANTENNA SUPPORT STRUCTURE. Any building, pole, mast, tower, tripod, or other
structure which supports or is a component part of the overall structure
supporting an antenna.
   ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE. A part or projection that contributes to the
aesthetics of a structure, exclusive of signs, that is not necessary for the
structural integrity of the structure or to make the structure habitable.
   ARENA/ARENA BUILDING. A large horse barn accessory to a large stable for
horses that may include an indoor ring or riding area for the sole use of the
residents of the development and their guests.
   ART GALLERY. See Section
15.704.
   ARTS AND FITNESS STUDIO. See Section
15.704.
   ASSEMBLY SPACE. An area within any place of public assembly, whether within
a structure or out of doors, where it is expected public assemblies will take
place on a recurring basis whether for the same or different purposes.
   AUDITORIUM. A room, hall or building made a part of a church, temple,
theater, school, recreation building, or other building assigned to the
gathering of people as an audience to hear lectures, plays, and other
presentations.
   AWNING. A temporary shelter supported entirely from the exterior wall of a
building, which shelter is composed of non-rigid materials, and which is either
stationary or able to be retracted, folded, or collapsed against the face of
the supporting building.
   BALCONY. A platform projecting from the wall of a building supported by
pillars, brackets or consoles or cantilevers from the main part of the building
and enclosed by a rail or coping.
   BAY WINDOW.  A window that projects outward from the structure, which does
not rest on the building foundation or on the ground.
   BED AND BREAKFAST. A single-family residential dwelling where a resident/
owner, who lives on the premises, provides lodging for a daily fee in guest
rooms with no in-room cooking facilities and prepares meals for guests.
   BERM.  An embankment of earth with gentle slopes which may be used to divert
storm water flows, to protect lower lying areas, to enhance landscaping, to
screen view, or to provide a restriction to create storm water storage areas.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES or PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES. The President and
Board of Trustees of the Village of Mettawa, Lake County, Illinois.
   BLOCK. See Section
15.204.
   BLOCKFACE. See Section
15.204.
   BOTANICAL GARDEN. See Section
15.704.
   BUFFER YARD.  An area within a property containing trees, shrubs, fences,
walls, and berms, or any combination thereof, used to visually separate or
screen the use of one property from another property, or to block noise,
artificial light or other potential nuisances.
   BUILDING.  A structure entirely enclosed with at least three substantial
walls and a roof, securely affixed to the land, which is designed or intended
for shelter, occupancy or use.
   BUILDING ENVELOPE/BUILDING PAD SITE.  The three-dimensional space within
which the structure is permitted to be built on a lot for which a special use
in the nature of a planned unit development is granted and shown upon the site
plan made a part of such permit.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. See Section
15.204.
   BUILDING HEIGHT APPURTENANCE. In regard to building height, a functional or
ornamental object accessory to and part of a building located on or above the
main rooftop. Building appurtenances include, but are not limited to, chimneys,
parapet walls, skylights, elevator bulkheads, rooftop accessory structures,
necessary mechanical appurtenances, or penthouses to house mechanical
appurtenances.
   BUILDING LINE. A line measured at the building wall of a structure between
parallel lot lines. For the purposes of establishing a building line, the
building wall does not include permitted encroachments of architectural
features, such as eaves, steps and stoops.
   BULK REGULATIONS. The zoning regulation of the depth of yards, and building
setback, the height and location of buildings upon any parcel or lot and
similar matters including but not limited to gross floor area, front yards,
rear yards and side yards, lot size, lot coverage and maximum building height.
   CALIPER. See Section
15.204.
   CANOPY.  A roof-like structure with posts or other ground support,
constructed to provide shelter to pedestrians or vehicles.
   CARPORT. A canopy for vehicle storage, open on three sides and attached to a
principal building.
   CELL SITE. A tract or parcel of land that contains personal wireless
telecommunications facilities including any antenna, an antenna support
structure, accessory building(s), and off-street parking, and may include other
uses associated with and ancillary to personal wireless services.
   CELLAR.  A building level having more than one-half (1/2) of its height
below grade.
   CHIMNEY.  A vertical shaft of reinforced concrete, masonry or other approved
material enclosing one or more flues, for the purpose of removing products of
combustion from solid, liquid, or gaseous fuel.
   CO-LOCATION.  Placement of equipment from more than one service or service
provider on a single tower or site.
   COLDFRAME STRUCTURE.  A temporary unheated outdoor structure consisting of a
wooden or concrete frame and a top of glass or clear plastic, used for
protecting seedlings and plants from the cold.
   COMMERCIAL USE. An activity conducted with the intent of realizing a profit
from the sale of goods or services to others, including office uses. For the
purpose of this Chapter, a COMMERCIAL USE also includes the operation of
nonprofit organizations.
   COMMERCIAL WECS. A Wind Energy Conversion System (WECS) designed or operated
to provide energy principally to consumers located off the premises whereon the
WECS is located and does not meet the requirements established for a
residential WECS.
   COMMERCIAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES. Licensed commercial
wireless telecommunication services including cellular, personal communication
services, specialized mobilized radio, enhanced specialized mobilized radio,
paging, and similar services that are marketed to the general public.
   COMMON OPEN SPACE.  Natural features, public and private underground
utilities, portions of a stormwater management system that consist of no
structure having a height in excess of 24 inches above grade, the open space
land in a planned unit development which is open to the sky and unobstructed
except for swimming pools and cabanas, large stables, loafing sheds, and
permitted accessory uses and structures, including fencing; which open space,
including the permitted accessory uses and structures thereon, is accessible
and usable by all persons who occupy a principal use in that planned unit
development.
   COMMON OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL. With respect to planned unit developments,
units of ownership or legal authority to act on behalf of all owners which must
be evidenced by deed, contract, or other written guarantee.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.  The Official Mettawa Comprehensive Plan, as same may be
amended from time to time.
   CONSERVATION EASEMENT. An easement granted in order to assure the continued
existence of open space for the benefit of the public.
   CONTIGUOUS OWNERSHIP. Ownership of any parcel or other tract of land by any
person who simultaneously holds ownership of any adjacent parcel or tract of
land.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A vehicular turnaround located at the termination of a dead-end
street.
   DAMAGE. Any destruction of or loss to real property including but not
limited to that caused by fire, windstorm, flooding, or act of God.
   DAY. A calendar day.
   DAY CARE CENTER. See Section
15.704.
   DISTRICT or ZONING DISTRICT.
   DRIVE-THROUGH FACILITY.  See Section
15.704.
   DRIVEWAY. A private access way that provides direct access from a street to
not more than one lot or principal building or use, unless otherwise allowed by
this Chapter.
   DWELLING - GUEST HOUSE.  See Section
15.704.
   DWELLING - SINGLE-FAMILY.  See Section
15.704.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms in a building providing complete
independent living facilities for one or more persons including permanent
provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation. The term
DWELLING UNIT does not include hotel rooms.
   EASEMENT. The right and privilege of a person to use the land of another for
a specific purpose by lawful agreement.
   EAVE. The projecting lower edges of a roof overhanging the wall of a
structure.
   EDUCATIONAL FACILITY - VOCATIONAL/TRADE.  See Section
15.704.
   ENCROACHMENT. The extension or placement of any structure, or a component of
such, into a required setback or right-of-way.
   EXTERIOR LIGHTING. The illumination of an outside area or object by any man-
made device that produces light by any means.
   FAA.  The Federal Aviation Administration of the United States of America.
   FCC.  The Federal Communications Commission of the United States of America.
   FENCE. A structure which is a barrier, and which is used as a means of
protection or confinement, providing privacy, security, weather control,
aesthetic appearance, and/or boundary definitions for land and land uses.
   FENCE, SOLID.  A fence, which may include gates, that has thick or dense
appearance or texture over its entire vertical and horizontal height and length
having no distributive open breaks or divisions and which conceals adjoining
properties from view. A shadowbox design fence is considered a solid fence.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/66c950a57e9910e3945c5f85920a0e118f90dca4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7124.png]
 
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION.  See Section
15.704.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR).  See Section
15.204.
   FOOT CANDLE. The illumination in all points one foot distant from a uniform
light source of one candle power.
   FOOTPRINT. The specific area depicted upon a perimeter site plan which
demonstrates the exact boundaries of structures, existing or proposed.
   FOREST PRESERVE.  See Section
15.704.
   FRONTAGE.  The portion of a lot or parcel of property extending along a
street or right-of-way.
   GARAGE.  A structure, either attached or detached, designed and/or used for
the parking and storage of vehicles. A detached garage is an accessory
structure to a residence.
   GAS STATION.  See Section
15.704.
   GLARE. Light emitting from a luminaire with an intensity great enough to
reduce a viewers' ability to see, cause discomfort, and, in extreme cases,
cause momentary blindness.
   GOVERNMENT OFFICES.  See Section 15.04.
   GRADE. See Section 15,204.
   HEALTH CLUB. See Section
15.704.
   HEDGE.  A row of closely planted shrubs, bushes, or any kind of plant
forming a boundary.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      1.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register.
      2.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily
determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district.
      3.   Individually listed on the State Inventory of Historic Places by the
Illinois Historic Preservation Agency.
      4.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that has
been certified by the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency.
   HOME OCCUPATION.  Any commercial activity conducted by a resident upon
residentially zoned property.
   HOTEL.  See Section
15.704.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE COVERAGE. Section
15.204.
   INDOOR RECREATION. See Section
15.704.
   INFRASTRUCTURE.  Facilities and services needed to sustain residential,
commercial, industrial, institutional, and other activities, including, but not
limited to, water lines, sewer lines, and rights-of-way.
   INTENSITY OF USE.  Square feet of gross floor area, number of dwelling
units, number of employees, or other factor used as a basis for requiring off-
street parking or loading facilities.
   INVASIVE SPECIES. A species that is not native to a geographical location
and that has a tendency to spread to a degree believed to cause damage to the
native environment.
   KENNEL.  The use of land and structures for the breeding and/or boarding of
dogs for commercial purposes.
   LARGE STABLES. Buildings and related structures for the keeping and stabling
of more than five horses allowed pursuant to special use ordinance, applicable
court order, or court approved agreement, approved and existing prior to
November 21, 2023.
   LEGAL DESCRIPTION.  The description of real property established by law and
created in specific cases from real property surveys drawn by licensed land
surveyors.
   LIVERY STABLE.  A stable from which horses are available for rent and/or for
sale to the general public.
   LOADING SPACE.  A space within a loading area exclusive of driveways,
aisles, maneuvering areas, ramps, columns, landscape, and structures for the
temporary parking of a commercial delivery vehicle while loading or unloading
goods or materials.
   LOAFING SHED.  Accessory to a stable, a roofed-over three-sided structure,
not a building, having a maximum area of 300 square feet, for the sheltering of
horses from the elements on a temporary basis.
   LOT. See Section
15.204.
      1.   LOT, CORNER. See Section
15.204.
      2.   LOT, FLAG.  See Section
15.204.
      3.   LOT, INTERIOR.  See Section
15.204.
      4.   LOT, THROUGH.  See Section
15.204.
   LOT AREA.  See Section
15.204.
   LOT COVERAGE.  See Section
15.204.
   LOT DEPTH.  See Section
15.204.
   LOT LINE. See Section 15,204.
      1.   LOT LINE, CORNER SIDE.  See Section
15.204,
      2.   LOT LINE, FRONT. See Section
15.204.
      3.   LOT LINE, INTERIOR. See Section
15.204.
      4.   LOT LINE, REAR. See Section
15.204.
      5.   LOT LINE STREET. See Section
15.204.
   LOT WIDTH.  See Section
15.204.
   MAINTAIN - HORSES. To keep, sustain, support and/or provide for a horse for
20 or more consecutive or non-consecutive hours within a given 24-hour period.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A manufactured home dwelling is a prefabricated structure
that is regulated by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
(HUD), via the Federal National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety
Standards Act of 1974, rather than local building codes. A MANUFACTURED HOME is
built in a factory on an attached chassis before being transported to a site.
MANUFACTURED HOMES include those transportable factory-built housing units
built prior to the Federal National Manufactured Housing and Safety Standards
Act (HUD Code), also known as mobile homes. Modular homes are not considered
MANUFACTURED HOMES, and refer to a method of construction for a dwelling.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A parcel of land with single control or unified
ownership that has been planned and improved for the placement of manufactured
homes for residential use.
   MEDICAL CANNABIS CULTIVATION FACILITIES. See Section
15.704.
   MEDICAL CANNABIS DISPENSING FACILITIES. See Section
15.704.
   MEDICAL/DENTAL CLINIC. See Section
15.704.
   METTAWA TRAIL. A path having a nominal minimum width of eight (8) feet and a
nominal maximum width of twelve (12) feet, owned by the Village for use by the
general public as and for equestrian, pedestrian and bicyclist use and located
within a public right-of-way owned by or dedicated to the Village.
   MINIMUM LIVABLE FLOOR AREA. See Section
15.204.
   MODULAR HOME. Modular buildings and modular homes are not considered
manufactured homes, and refer to a method of construction. Modular buildings
and modular homes are built in multiple sections called modules at a facility
and then delivered to the site where the modules are set onto the building's
foundation and joined together to make a single building. Modular buildings and
modular homes must conform to all zoning requirements for the dwelling type and
must meet all local building code requirements.
   NON-ASSEMBLY SPACE.  An area within any place of public assembly, whether
within a structure or out of doors, used for offices, research and/or storage
and not open to the general public for public assembly.
   NONCONFORMING LOT. A lot of record that at one time conformed to the lot
dimension requirements of the zoning district in which it is located, but
because of subsequent amendments to the Zoning Ordinance no longer conforms to
the applicable lot dimensions.
   NONCONFORMING SITE ELEMENT. A site development element, such as landscape or
lighting, that was constructed or installed in conformance with the applicable
zoning regulations, but because of subsequent amendments to the Zoning
Ordinance, no longer conforms to the current requirements.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE. A principal or accessory structure that at one time
conformed to applicable zoning regulations, but because of subsequent
amendments to the Zoning Ordinance no longer conforms to applicable dimensional
regulations.
   NONCONFORMING USE.  The use of a structure or land that at one time was an
allowed use within a zoning district, but because of subsequent amendments to
the Zoning Ordinance is no longer allowed.
   OFFICE.  See Section
15.704.
   OFFICE AND LIGHT INDUSTRIAL PARK. See Section
15.704.
   OPEN SPACE. That portion of land, either landscaped or left unimproved,
which is used to meet active or passive recreation or spatial needs, and/or to
protect water, air, or plant resources.
   OPEN SPACE - PUBLIC. See Section
15.704.
   OPEN SPACE, USABLE. Open space which has slopes of less than 10% has all
dimensions equal to a minimum of 20 feet, is located not less than 20 feet from
residential wall containing a window, and is easily accessible by all residents
occupying the same parcel or related parcels.
   OWNER.  The holder of legal or equitable title to and control over any land.
Whenever a statement of ownership and/or an application is required, full
disclosure of all legal and equitable interest in the property is required.
   OWNERSHIP PARCEL. Any legally described parcel of land. This includes
contiguous lots or parcels of land, owned in whole, or in part, by the same
property owner.
   PARCEL.  Any quantity of land capable of being described with such
definiteness that its location and boundaries may be established.
   PARCEL IDENTIFICATION NUMBER (PIN).  Permanent index number used to identify
properties for tax assessment.
   PARKING FACILITY. A parking lot and/or parking structure. PARKING FACILITY
does not include parking areas for single family dwellings or guest house
dwellings.
   PARKING LOT. An open area, other than a street, used for the storage of
operable passenger motor vehicles, whether for compensation or at no charge.
Parking areas accessory to a single-family dwelling or guest house are not
considered parking lots.
   PARKING STRUCTURE. A structure of one or more levels or floors used for the
parking or storage of operable passenger motor vehicles, whether for
compensation or at no charge. Parking structures, including detached and
attached garages, accessory to a single-family dwelling or guest house are not
considered PARKING STRUCTURES.
   PARTY WALL.  A wall starting from the foundation and extending continuously
through all stories to or above the roof that separates one building from
another, but is in joint use by each building.
   PATIO. A surfaced area other than a deck, which is used for sitting or
passive recreation.
   PERIMETER.  The boundary of all of the land held in contiguous ownership.
   PERSON.  Any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint stock
company, corporation, unit of government or any combination of individuals of
whatever form or character.
   PERSONAL SERVICES. See Section
15.704.
   PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE/PERSONAL WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY. The
definition as contained in Title 47, United States Code, Section 332(C)(7)(c)
and may include commercial wireless telecommunication services.
   PERVIOUS PAVING. A range of sustainable materials and techniques for
permeable paving with a base and sub-base that allow the movement of stormwater
through the surface. Gravel and loose rock are not considered pervious paving.
   PLACES OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY.  See Section
15.704.
   PORCH. A roofed-over platform that is raised more than six inches above the
underlying ground, which projects out from the wall or walls of a main
structure, and which may be open to the weather in part. A porch is open on all
sides that do not abut a principal building wall.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. The main or primary building on a parcel of land, as
distinguished from an accessory structure such as a barn, garage, guest house,
horse stable, or shed.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The main or primary function on a parcel of land, as
distinguished from an accessory, ancillary, or secondary use.
   RADIO/TELEVISION TOWERS - TRANSMITTING AND RECEIVING EQUIPMENT. See Section
15.704.
   RECONSTRUCTION. The act of rebuilding a structure or building.
   RECORD DRAWINGS. Construction drawings revised to show significant changes
made during the construction process, usually based on marked-up paints,
drawings, and other data furnished by the contractor to the Village.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.  Any vehicle or boat designed for temporary living
quarters, recreation, or temporary human habitation and not used as a
commercial vehicle including, but not limited to, the following: boat/
watercraft, camper trailer, motorized trailer, off-road vehicle, racing car or
cycle, travel trailer, and truck camper.
   REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR. A land surveyor registered in the State of
Illinois, under The Illinois Land Surveyors Act (225 ILCS 325/1 et seq.).
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. An engineer registered in the State of
Illinois, under The Illinois Professional Engineering Act (225 ILCS 325/1 et
seq.).
   RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.  See Section
15.704.
   RESTAURANT. See Section
15.704.
   RETAIL SALES.  See Section
15.704.
   RETAINING WALL. An artificial composition of wood, concrete, masonry or
other material utilized in conjunction with a drainage and grading plan
approved by the Village Engineer of the Village for the sole purpose of
stabilizing soil and/or existing natural features.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.  A strip of land designated for use for vehicular or
pedestrian access or passage or for installation of railroad tracks, utility
lines, or similar facilities.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY, PRIVATE. A right-of-way that has not been dedicated by
prescription or otherwise to or accepted by any government agency.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY, PUBLIC. A right-of-way that has been dedicated by prescription
or otherwise to and accepted by a government agency.
   SATELLITE DISH ANTENNA. A dish antenna designed for transmitting signals to
a receiver or receiving station or for receiving television, radio, data,
communication or other signals from other antennas, satellites or other
services.
   SCREENING. A structure erected or vegetation planted for the purpose of
concealing an area from view.
   SETBACK. See Section
15.204.
      1.   SETBACK, CORNER SIDE.  See Section
15.204.
      2.   SETBACK, FRONT.  See Section
15.204.
      3.   SETBACK, INTERIOR. See Section
15.204.
      4.   SETBACK, REAR. See Section
15.204.
   SHED.  An accessory structure, often purchased pre-built or as a kit in
prefabricated sections, that is not designed to be served by heat or plumbing
and does not need to be placed on a permanent foundation. A shed is typically
intended to store lawn, garden, or recreational equipment.
   SHORT TERM RENTAL. A single room, dwelling, or portion thereof within a
residential dwelling or detached accessory structure offered for rent or rented
for a period of less than 90 consecutive days.
   SHOWROOM - NO OUTDOOR STORAGE. See Section
15.704.
   STABLE. A building designed for the keeping and maintenance of and wherein
horses are kept and maintained.
   STACKING SPACE. A space specifically designed and designated as a waiting
area for vehicles patronizing a drive- through facility or service bay.
   STOOP. An exterior floor typically constructed of stone, concrete, and/or
masonry, with a finished floor elevation higher than the adjacent ground level,
often with steps leading up to it, and utilized primarily as an access platform
to a structure. A stoop may be roofed and designed with railings but cannot be
enclosed.
   STREAM. A course of running water flowing in a channel (includes creeks and
rivers).
   STREET.  A public or private way other than an alley, which affords a
primary means of access to abutting property.
   STREET LINE. A line separating a street right-of-way from other land, which
line may be coextensive with front lot lines.
   STREET, PRIVATE. Any street other than a public street and other than a
driveway.
   STREET, PUBLIC. A street that has been dedicated to and accepted by, under
the jurisdiction of, or otherwise acquired by, a government agency.
   STRUCTURE.  Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the
ground or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground,
including but not limited to buildings, garages, sheds, gazebos, decks, pools,
walls, fences, etc.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change or replacement of the supporting members
of a building, such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders,
or any substantial change in the roof or in the exterior walls, but not
including openings in bearing walls as permitted by ordinance.
   SUBDIVIDE.  To divide a lot or a parcel of land.
   SWALE. A vegetated channel, ditch or low-lying or depressional tract of land
that is periodically inundated by conveying stormwater from one point to
another.
   TEMPORARY STRUCTURE. A structure without any foundation or footings and
which is movable and not meant to be placed on a permanent basis.
   TOWER (INCLUDING SELF-SUPPORTING LATTICE TOWERS, GUY TOWERS, MONOPOLE
TOWERS). Any structure, typically higher than its diameter and high relative to
its surroundings, that is designed and constructed primarily for the purpose of
supporting one or more receiving and/or transmitting radio, television and/or
microwave antennas; bells; windmills; etc. The term encompasses radio and/or
television receiving or transmission towers, microwave towers, common-carrier
towers, cellular telephone towers or personal communications services towers,
alternative tower structures, and the like.
   USE. The purpose for which land or a structure is designed, arranged, or
intended and for which it is occupied or maintained, let, or leased.
   YARD. See Section
15.204.
      1.   YARD, CORNER SIDE.  See Section
15.204.
      2.   YARD, FRONT. See Section
15.204.
      3.   YARD, INTERIOR SIDE. See Section
15.204.
      4.   YARD, REAR. See Section
15.204.
   VEHICLE RENTAL ESTABLISHMENT - SECONDARY USE. See Section
15.704.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Mettawa, Lake County, Illinois.
   VILLAGE CLERK. The Village Clerk of the Village of Mettawa, Lake County,
Illinois.
   VISITING HORSE. A horse owned by a person brought upon the land of another
person and remaining there for less than 20 consecutive or non-consecutive
hours within a given 24 hour period.
   WAREHOUSE.  See Section
15.704.
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS).  See Section
15.704.
   WIND TURBINES/WINDMILL. A mill or turbine operated by the wind's rotation of
large, oblique sails or vanes radiating from a shaft, used as a source of
power.
   WIRELESS FACILITY, SMALL. See Section
15.704.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES. See Section
15.704.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE TOWER. Any ground-mounted pole, spire,
structure or combination thereof including a mast, intended primarily for the
purpose of mounting an antenna.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The Village Zoning Administrator appointed by the
Village President and such appointed assistants.
   ZONING LOT. A lot or combination of lots, which is designated by its owner
or developer to be used, developed, or built upon as a unit. A ZONING LOT may
coincide with a lot of record or may be comprised of one or more lots of
record.
   ZONING MAP.  The map or maps that are approved from time to time by the
President and Board of Trustees and which delineate the boundaries of all
mapped zoning districts within the physical boundary of the Village.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.204. RULES OF MEASUREMENT.
   This section provides the rules of measurement for the dimensional standards
and locational characteristics within the Chapter.
   A.   Block and Blockface.
      1.   A block is a tract of land bounded by streets, or in lieu of a
street or streets, by public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way,
bulkhead lines, or shorelines of waterways or corporate boundary lines of
municipalities.
      2.   Blockface is measured as that portion of a block or tract of land
facing the same side of a single street and lying between the closest
intersecting streets.
   B.   Building Height.
      1.   Maximum building height is measured from grade (see item E. below)
to the highest point of roof or parapet on a principal building or accessory
structure.
      2.   The following structures or parts thereof are exempt from maximum
height limitations, unless otherwise limited by any height restriction imposed
by any airport authority, or other similar federal, state, or local authority.
         a.   
         b.   Water tanks (standalone) and standpipes.
         c.   Building height of approved appurtenances may exceed the maximum
building height by 15 feet.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/66c950a57e9910e3945c5f85920a0e118f90dca4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7126.jpg]
   C.    Caliper. Tree caliper is the diameter of a free trunk, measured at 4.5
feet above the adjacent ground.
   D.    Coverage.
      1.    Lot Coverage. Lot coverage is the percentage of a lot that is
occupied by principal buildings and accessory structures. Maximum lot coverage
is calculated as the percentage of all principal building and detached
accessory structure footprint area against the total area of the lot. The
“pole” of a flag lot is not included in lot coverage calculations.
      2.    Impervious Surface Coverage. Impervious surface coverage is the
percentage of a lot that is occupied by buildings, structures, pavement, and
any other impervious surfaces that do not allow for the absorption of water
into the ground. Maximum impervious surface of a lot is calculated as the
percentage of all impervious surface area against the total area of the lot.
The “pole” of a flag lot is not included in impervious surface calculations.
When permeable paving is used, it is calculated as 50% impervious surface
subject to verification by the Village Engineer that the system will be
installed correctly to be pervious (e.g., if 100 square feet of area uses a
grasscrete paving system, then only 50 square feet is counted as impervious
surface).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/66c950a57e9910e3945c5f85920a0e118f90dca4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7128.jpg]
   E.   Grade. The average elevation of the ground surface of a lot measured at
the location of the proposed corners of the proposed structure.
   F.   Floor Area Ratio.
      1.   Floor area ratio (FAR) of the building or buildings on any zoning
lot is the gross floor area of the building or buildings on that zoning lot
divided by the area of such zoning lot.
      2.   Gross floor area is the sum of the gross horizontal area in square
feet of the several floors of a building measured from the exterior face of the
exterior walls devoted to such use, including accessory storage areas but
excluding cellars, which is a level of a building having more than one-half of
its height below grade.
   G.   Lot. A lot is the basic development unit for determination of lot area,
depth, and other dimensional regulations, whose boundaries have been
established by some legal instrument such as a recorded deed or recorded map,
with frontage upon a street. The following describes the types of lot
configurations:
      1.   An interior lot is a lot other than a corner or through lot, bounded
by two interior side lot lines.
      2.   A corner lot is a lot situated at the junction of, and abutting on,
two or more intersecting streets.
      3.   A through lot is a lot which fronts upon two parallel streets, or
which fronts upon two streets which do not intersect at the boundaries of the
lot. A through tot is also called a double frontage lot.
      4.   A flag lot is platted so that the main building site area (the
“flag”) is set back from the street on building site with the street.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/66c950a57e9910e3945c5f85920a0e118f90dca4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7130.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/66c950a57e9910e3945c5f85920a0e118f90dca4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7132.jpg]
   H.    Lot Area. The total area within the boundaries of a lot, excluding any
street right-of-way, usually defined in square footage.
   I.    Lot Depth. The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and
the rear lot line. In the case of a corner lot, the lot depth is the greater of
the mean horizontal distance between the front lot lines and the respective lot
line opposite each. For a flag lot, lot depth is the mean distance between the
rear lot line opposite the non-stem portion of the front lot line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/66c950a57e9910e3945c5f85920a0e118f90dca4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7134.jpg]
   J.    Lot Lin e. A line of rec ord bou nding a lot, whi ch divi des one lot
fro m anot her lot or from a public or private street or any other public or
private space, and includes:
      1.   A front lot line is the lot line separating a lot from a street
right-of-way. The front lot line of a comer lot is the shortest street lot line
of a comer lot abutting a street. A front lot line for a through lot is both
lot lines that abut a street. The front lot line of a flag lot is the lot line
of the “flag” portion of the lot.
      2.   A rear lot line is the lot line opposite and most distant from the
front lot line. In the case of triangular or similarly irregularly shaped lots,
the rear lot line is a calculated line of ten feet in length entirely within
the lot, parallel to and at a maximum distance from the front lot line.
      3.   On a corner lot, the corner side lot line is perpendicular or
approximately perpendicular to the front lot line and is the longer street
abutting lot line of a corner lot.
      4.   On an interior lot, the interior side lot line is perpendicular or
approximately perpendicular to the front lot line and abuts an adjacent lot.
      5.   A street lot line is any lot line separating a lot from a street
right-of-way.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/66c950a57e9910e3945c5f85920a0e118f90dca4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7136.jpg]
   K.    Lot Width.
      1.   For regular lots, lot width is the horizontal distance between the
side lot lines measured at right angles to its depth along a straight line
parallel to the required front setback.
      2.   For cul-de-sac lots, on those lots with a curved front lot line, lot
width is measured as follows:
         a.    A line is drawn at the midpoint of the lot between the side lot
lines, extending from the front lot line to the rear lot line.
         b.   Where the required front setback intersects the midpoint line at
a right angle, a line is drawn perpendicular to the midpoint line.
         c.   Lot width is determined as the length of the line between side
lot lines.
         d.   Where the side lot lines angle to increase width towards the
rear, the required lot width measured at the required setback is 75% of the lot
width required by the zoning district.
      3.   For flag lots, lot width is measured at the required front setback
as defined in this section.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/66c950a57e9910e3945c5f85920a0e118f90dca4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7138.jpg]
   L.    Minimum Livable Floor Area. Enclosed floor space arranged for living,
eating, and sleeping purposes, including bathrooms, water closet compartments,
laundries, pantries, foyers, hallways and other accessory floor spaces.
   M.   Setbacks and Yards.
      1.   General Definitions.
         a.   A required setback is the required minimum distance a principal
building must be located from a lot line, which is unoccupied and unobstructed
by a principal building, unless permitted by this Code. A setback is located
along the applicable lot line for the minimum depth specified by the zoning
district in which such lot is located.
         b.   A yard is the open space area between the building line of a
principal building and the adjoining lot lines, exclusive of facade
articulation, such as window or wall recesses and projections, A setback may be
equal to or lesser than a yard.
      2.   Front Yard and Front Setback. The front yard and front setback
extend the full width of the lot between side lot lines measured perpendicular
to the front lot line.
         a.   Front Yard. A front yard is located between a principal building
line and the front lot line.
         b.   Front Setback. A front setback is the required minimum distance
per the zoning district that a principal building must be located from the
front lot line.
         c.   A front setback is measured from the right-of-way line.
         d.   Front setbacks on irregular lots are subject to the additional
provisions:
            i.   On a lot with a radial (curved) front lot line, the required
front setback, as measured from the right-of-way line or lot line following the
curve of the lot line.
            ii.   For flag lots, the front yard and setback is measured from
the rear lot line of the lot that separates the flag portion of the lot from
the street. For multiple flag lots that utilize a common drive, the front yard
and setback may be measured from the lot line of the pole or access strip, as
extended into the lot.
      3.   Interior Side Yard and Interior Side Setback. The interior side yard
and interior side setback extend along the interior side lot line between the
front and rear yard or setback, measured perpendicular to the interior side lot
line.
         a.   Interior Side Yard. An interior side yard is located between a
principal building line and the interior side lot line.
         b.   Interior Side Setback. An interior side setback is the required
minimum distance per the zoning district that a principal building must be
located from the interior side lot line.
      4.   Corner Side Yard and Corner Side Setback. The corner side yard and
corner side setback extend along the corner side lot line between the front
yard or front setback and the rear lot line, measured perpendicular to the
corner side lot line.
         a.   Corner Side Yard. A corner side yard is located between a
principal building line and the corner side lot line.
         b.   Corner Side Setback. A corner side setback is the required
minimum distance per the zoning district that a principal building must be
located from the corner side lot line.
      5.   Rear Yard and Rear Setback. The rear yard and rear setback extend
between interior side lot lines, measured perpendicular to the rear lot line.
         a.   Rear Yard. A rear yard is located between a principal building
line and the rear lot line.
         b.   Rear Setback. A rear setback is the required minimum distance per
the zoning district that a principal building must be located from the rear lot
line.
         c.   In the case of a corner lot, the rear yard and rear setback
extend between the interior side lot line to the required corner side setback,
measured perpendicular to the rear lot line.
      6.   Yard and Setback Requirements for Through Lots. For through lots,
both the front and the rear required setbacks must meet the required front
setback of the zoning district.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/66c950a57e9910e3945c5f85920a0e118f90dca4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7140.jpg]
 
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21- 2023)
ARTICLE III. ZONING MAP
SECTION 15.301. ZONING DISTRICTS.
   In order to carry out the purpose and intent of this Chapter, the Village is
divided into the following zoning districts:
   A.   Residential Districts.
      R-1 Single-Family Residential District
      R-2 Single-Family Residential District
   B.   Commercial Districts.
      O/R Planned Office/Research District
      H Office/Hotel District
      TC Tollway Commercial District
   C.   Special Purpose Districts.
      Scenic Easement Overlay
      O/S Open Space District
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.302. DISTRICT ZONING MAP.
   A.   The boundaries of all zoning districts within the Village are hereby
established, as shown on the Official Zoning Map. A copy of the Official Zoning
Map is maintained and exhibited in the office of the Village Clerk and in the
office of the Zoning Administrator.
   B.   Any land whose classification is not shown on the Official Zoning Map
is classified as the R-1 District until a map amendment is approved.
   C.   Boundary lines are interpreted as follows:
      1.   Where the center line of a street, alley, public way, waterway, or
railroad right-of-way serves as a zoning district boundary, the zoning of such
areas, unless a particular zoning classification is otherwise specifically
designated, is deemed to be the same as that of the abutting property up to
such center line.
      2.   Where zoning district boundary lines coincide with a recorded
property line, the property line is construed to be the boundary line of the
district.
      3.   Where the district boundary lines do not coincide with a right-of-
way line or recorded property line, the district boundary is determined by
measuring such boundary line(s) by using the map scale as provided on the
Official Zoning Map.
   D.   Clarification of Boundary Lines. The Zoning Administrator will decide
any interpretations of zoning district boundary lines, where the application of
this section leaves doubt as to the boundary between two zoning districts.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.303. ANNEXED LAND.
   A.   All land annexed to the Village is classified automatically upon such
annexation as the R-1 District.
   B.   A petition for annexation to the Village of Mettawa may include a
request from the petitioner that the land being annexed may, upon annexation,
be zoned other than the R-1 District. Should such a request be contained in the
petition, the proper authorities will refer the matter to the Zoning, Planning,
and Appeals Commission to conduct a public hearing and make their
recommendations. Following the recommendation of the Zoning, Planning, and
Appeals Commission, the Village Board will proceed to take a vote as they
normally do in zoning matters and notify the petitioner of the results. If the
decision is adverse to his request, the petitioner then may withdraw his
petition for annexation or may continue with it. Should no request for zoning
other than R-1 District be made, the property upon annexation to the Village
will automatically be classified to the R-1 District.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
ARTICLE IV. RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION 15.401. PURPOSE.
   A.   R-1 Single-Family Residential District. The R-1 Single-Family
Residential District is intended for low density residential use, to provide
areas well suited as to location and topography, and to accommodate large lot
residential development. The district allows for very limited non-residential
uses that are compatible with residential areas and/or assist in providing
municipal services.
   B.   R-2 Single-Family Residential District. The R-2 Single-Family
Residential District is established to provide low density residential areas
for the principal use of single-family dwellings upon land with lesser land
area than required by the R-1 District. The district allows for very limited
non-residential uses that are compatible with residential areas and/or assist
in providing municipal services.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.402. USES.
   Article 7 lists permitted and special principal uses and temporary uses for
the residential districts.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.403. DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS.
   A.   Table 4-1: Residential Districts Dimensional Standards establishes the
dimensional standards for the residential districts. These regulations apply to
all uses within each district unless a different standard is listed for a
specific use.
   B.   The Scenic Easement Overlay design standards of Section
15.601 may apply.
                            R-1                    R-2
BULK                                                
Minimum Lot Area             200,000 sf             40,000 sf
Minimum Lot Width            300'                   100'
Maximum Principal Building   40'                    40'
Height
Maximum Impervious Surface   15%                    15%
Coverage
Minimum Livable Floor Area   2,000 sf for principal 2,000 sf for principal
                             dwelling               dwelling
Minimum Required Garage Area 400 sf for garage      400 sf for garage
 
 
                             R-1 R-2
SETBACKS                          
Minimum Front Setback         75' 35'
Minimum Interior Side Setback 50' 25'
Minimum Corner Side Setback   75' 35'
Minimum Rear Setback          75' 35'
 
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.404. GENERAL STANDARDS OF APPLICABILITY.
   A.   Site Development Standards. See Article 8 for additional on-site
development standards and requirements, such as exterior lighting, accessory
structures and uses, and permitted encroachments.
   B.   Off-Street Parking and Loading. See Article 9 for off-street parking
and loading standards and requirements.
   C.   Landscape. See Article 10 for landscape, buffering, and screening
standards and requirements.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
ARTICLE V. COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION 15.501. PURPOSE.
   A.   O/R Planned Office/Research District. The O/R Planned Office/Research
District is intended for office uses and limited business service uses to be
developed within a park-like setting. The O/R District is required to be
developed as a planned unit development and a minimum of ten acres in size in
common ownership.
   B.   H Office/Hotel District. The H Office/Hotel District, is intended for
office uses and limited business service uses to be developed and maintained
within a park-like setting in locations which abut or are adjacent to heavily
traveled, multi-laned major roadways. The uses allowed may include facilities
related to the traveler or highway user, as well as commercial activities that
require large land areas. Certain facilities that serve governmental,
educational, recreational, outdoor commercial, and other needs of the area may
also be appropriate for the H District, subject to subject to standards that
preserve and protect compatibility with adjacent districts.
   C.   TC Tollway Commercial District. The TC Tollway Commercial District is
intended for highway convenience commercial uses within a coordinated
development that is limited to uses directed to those using or traveling on the
tollway with main public access taken directly from the tollway. The TC
District must front upon the tollway and be a minimum of ten acres in size.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.502 USES.
   Article 7 lists permitted and special principal uses and temporary uses for
the commercial districts.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.503. DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS.
   A.   Table 5-1: Commercial Districts Dimensional Standards establishes the
dimensional standards for the residential districts. These regulations apply to
all uses within each district unless a different standard is listed for a
specific use.
   B.   The following restrictions apply to the O/R District:
      1.   All development in the O/R District is required to be a planned unit
development.
      2.   A minimum district size of ten acres is required.
      3.   The standards of Table 5-1 apply to individual lots unless such
standards are specifically modified by the PUD.
   C.   The following restrictions apply to the TC District:
      1.   The TC District may only be mapped on land that fronts upon the
tollway and has main public access from the tollway and is oriented toward
tollway users.
      2.   A minimum district size of ten acres is required.
 O/R H TC
                              O/R       H         TC
BULK                                             
Minimum Lot Area              40,000 sf 60,000 sf 40,000 sf
Minimum Lot Width             100'      100'      100'
Maximum Building Height       45'       45'       45'
Maximum FAR                   .50       .50       .50
Maximum Impervious Surface    75%       75%       80%
SETBACKS                                         
                                                  Abutting highway: None
Minimum Front Setback         20'       50'       required Abutting other ROW:
                                                  20'
Minimum Interior Side Setback 15'       50'       None required
                                                  Abutting highway; None
Minimum Corner Side Setback   20'       50'       required Abutting other ROW:
                                                  20'
                                                  50' when abutting any
Minimum Rear Setback          50'       50'       district other than TC
                                                  District
 
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.504. GENERAL STANDARDS OF APPLICABILITY.
   A.   Site Development Standards. See Article 8 for additional on-site
development standards and requirements, such as exterior lighting, accessory
structures and uses, and permitted encroachments.
   B.   Off-Street Parking and Loading. See Article 9 for off-street parking
and loading standards and requirements.
   C.   Landscape. See Article 10 for landscape, buffering, and screening
standards and requirements.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
ARTICLE VI. SPECIAL PURPOSE DISTRICTS
SECTION 15.601. SCENIC EASEMENT OVERLAY.
   A.   Purpose. The Comprehensive Plan of the Village of Mettawa provides for
the establishment of a system of scenic easements. Under the goals and
objectives related to transportation policy, the Plan states: “Continue the
establishment of the scenic easement system where it provides a positive impact
on the character of the roadway system.”
   B.   Applicability. The system of scenic easements applies to all land
adjacent to:
      1.   St. Mary's Road
      2.   Illinois Route 60
      3.   Everett Road
      4.   Riverwoods Road
      5.   Bradley Road
      6.   Old School Road between Bradley Road and St. Mary's Road.
   C.   Easement Requirements.
      1.   Scenic easements are established on all land 75 feet in depth
measured from the nearest right-of-way line of the roads/streets listed in item
B. above.
      2.   All required front setbacks of the district are included within the
75-foot setback for the scenic easement overlay.
      3.   All plats of subdivision and resubdivision presented for approval
containing land within the scenic easement overlay must provide for a
dedication of scenic easement.
   D.   Map Reference. The map in Figure 6-1 illustrates where these easements
apply. In the case of conflict between item B. above (Applicability) and the
map, item B. controls.
   FIGURE 6-1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/66c950a57e9910e3945c5f85920a0e118f90dca4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7142.png]
( Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.602. OPEN SPACE DISTRICT.
   A.   Purpose. The OS Open Space District is established to maintain and
encourage the use of land for open space preservation and enhancement, to
protect natural resources such as woodlands and wildlife areas, wetlands, and
marshes, to preserve or provide for scenic vistas, and to provide for
recreational activities and areas.
   B.   Uses. Article 7 lists permitted and special principal uses and
temporary uses for the OS District.
   C.   Dimensional Standards. Table 6-1: OS District Dimensional Standards
establishes the dimensional standards for the OS District. These regulations
apply to all uses within each district unless a different standard is listed
for a specific use.
BULK                                                 
Minimum Lot Area                                    None
Minimum Lot Width                                   None
Maximum Building Height - Principal Structures Only 40'
SETBACKS - APPLY TO PRINCIPAL STRUCTURES ONLY        
Minimum Front Setback                               35'
Minimum Interior Side Setback                       25'
Minimum Corner Side Setback                         35'
Minimum Rear Setback                                35'
 
   D.   General Standards of Applicability.
      1.   Site Development Standards. See Article 8 for additional on-site
development standards and requirements, such as exterior lighting, accessory
structures and uses, and permitted encroachments.
      2.   Off-Street Parking and Loading. See Article 9 for off-street parking
and loading standards and requirements.
      3.   Landscape. See Article 10 for landscape, buffering, and screening
standards and requirements.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
ARTICLE VII. USES
SECTION 15.701. GENERAL USE REGULATIONS.
   A.   No structure or land be used or occupied unless allowed as a permitted
or special use within the zoning district.
   B.   In the residential districts, only one principal use is allowed on a
lot.
   C.   All uses must comply with any applicable federal and state
requirements, and any additional federal, state, or village ordinances.
   D.   Any use that is not included in the use matrix and cannot be
interpreted as part of a use within the matrix is prohibited in all districts.
   E.   All uses must comply with the use standards of Section 15.703, as
applicable, as well as all other regulations of this Chapter and the Village.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.702. USE MATRIX AND RESTRICTIONS.
   A.   
Table 7-1: Use Matrix identifies the principal uses allowed within each zoning
district.
   B.   P indicates that the use is permitted by-right in the district. S
indicates that the use is a special use in the district and requires special
use approval. If a cell is blank, the use is not allowed in the district.
   C.   The following use restrictions apply:
      1.   Large stables (defined in Article 2) are not allowed pursuant to the
provisions of
Chapter 12, “Animal Regulations,” of the Mettawa Code of Ordinances. Only large
stables allowed and existing pursuant to special use ordinance, applicable
court order, or court approved agreement, adopted and existing prior November
21, 2023 may continue, subject to the provisions of Section
15.1303.
      2.   Manufactured homes and manufactured home parks (defined in Article
2) are not allowed. Travel trailers are prohibited for use as a dwelling.
      3.   Short-term rentals and bed and breakfasts (defined in Article 2) are
not allowed.
      4.   Kennels (defined in Article 2) are not allowed.
Table 7-1: Use Matrix
Uses R-1 R-2 O/ R H T C O S Use Standards
Uses                                       R-1 R-2 O/ R H T C O S Use Standards
Residential
Dwelling - Single-Family                   P   P                   
Dwelling - Guest House                     S                       
Cemeteries                                 S                       
Commercial
Adult Use                                          P              Sec.
                                                                  15.703.A
Art Gallery                                        S               
Ads and Fitness Studio                             P               
Day Care Center                                                    
Drive-Through Facility                             S               
Financial Institution                              S               
Gas Station (only as an accessory use to a         P               
principal use)
Health Club                                        P               
Hotel                                                   P          
Indoor Recreation                                  P    P          
Medical Cannabis Dispensing Facilities             S               
Medical/Dental Clinic                                              
Office                                             P    P          
Personal Services                                  P    P P        
Restaurant                                         P    S          
Retail Sales                                       P    P          
Vehicle Rental Establishment - Secondary                S         Sec.
Use                                                               15.703.D
Industrial
Medical Cannabis Cultivation Facilities            S               
Office and Light Industrial Park                   S              Sec. 15.703.B
Research & Development                             P               
Showroom - No Outdoor Storage                      P               
Warehouse                                                          
Wind Energy Conversion System                      S              Sec.
                                                                  15.703.E
Institutional/Assembly
Places of Public Assembly                  S       P              Sec.
                                                                  15.703.C
Educational Facility - Vocational/Trade            P               
Government Offices                                 P               
Radio/Television Towers - Transmitting &   S   S   S    S          
Receiving Equipment
Wireless Facility, Small                           P    P P   P    
Wireless Telecommunications Facilities             S    S         Sec.
                                                                  15.703.F
Agricultural/Open Space
Agriculture (only as an accessory use)     P                       
Botanical Garden                                              P    
Forest Preserve                                               P    
Open Space - Public                                      P    
 
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.703. USE STANDARDS.
   Where applicable, all principal uses are required to comply with all use
standards of this section, whether a permitted or special use, in addition to
all other regulations of this Chapter.
   1.   A.   Adult Uses.
      1.   No adult use is permitted within 500 feet of another existing adult
use.
      2.   No adult use is permitted within 250 feet of any residential
district.
      3.   No adult use is permitted within 250 feet of a place of public
assembly.
      4.   No adult use shall be permitted upon any premises licensed to sell
alcoholic liquor.
      5.   No adult use may be conducted in any manner that permits the
observation of any material depicting, describing, or relating to specified
anatomical areas or specified sexual activities from any public way. This
applies to all displays, decorations, signs, show windows, and other openings.
   B.   Office and Light Industrial Park.
      1.   Industrial facilities within an office and light industrial park
must be conducted wholly within an enclosed building.
      2.   No outside storage is permitted.
      3.   Industrial uses must not produce any outside impacts.
   C.   Places of Public Assembly.
      1.   Dimensional Standards. The following dimensional standards apply to
places of public assembly. If any provisions of this section are inconsistent
or in conflict with any other provision of this Chapter, the provisions of this
section control.
 
Dimensional         Neighborhood       Community Facility Regional Facility
Standard            Facility
Minimum Lot Size    5 acres            20 acres           30 acres
Maximum Gross Floor 11,000 sf          44,000 sf          66,000 sf
Area
Maximum Cubic Feet  433,600 cubic feet 1,500,400 cubic    2,400,600 cubic feet
of Building                            feet
Maximum Impervious  40%                25%                20%
Surface Coverage
 
      2.   Intensity of Use. All public assembly special uses must be
noncommercial operations that are operated on a not-for-profit basis and at
least 50% of the total gross floor area of any building utilized as a place of
public assembly must be nonassembly space.
      3.   Circulation.
         a.   Traffic flow must be designed to ensure the least possible impact
on neighboring properties and residential streets. To that end, a place of
public assembly must:
            i.   Be located adjacent to and take its access from and have
egress to a major arterial street or a collector street as identified in the
Comprehensive Plan of the Village of Mettawa.
            ii.   Not be operated in an existing single-family residence.
         b.   The permittee and the owner of the proposed assembly use are
responsible for all needed improvements to ensure safe traffic conditions are
maintained and must provide a traffic study to demonstrate that this provision
has been met.
         c.   Traffic management by uniformed persons authorized to direct
traffic, such as police officers, must be provided by the permittee during peak
traffic flows and at other times during which the Zoning Administrator finds
that additional police presence will ensure safe ingress to and egress from the
site of public assembly.
      4.   Landscape. Adequate landscaping is required to ensure compatibility
with the neighborhood. Where the Scenic Easement Overlay applies (Section
16.601), landscaping must be planted between the scenic easement and the
closest assembly space sufficient to completely screen the latter from view of
a six-foot-tall person standing at the closest point on the scenic easement to
the assembly space.
      5.   Exterior Illumination.
         a.   All outdoor lighting fixtures must reflect light downward and the
face or globe of the fixtures must be recessed so as not to be visible from the
view of a six-foot-tall person standing on the perimeter of the site.
         b.   Exterior lighting cannot be located at a height greater than 15
feet and excessive brightness must be avoided.
         c.   All exterior lighting fixtures are limited to a maximum
illumination of 25 foot-candles and 0.1 foot-candle at the perimeter of the
site or at the inside perimeter of any required screening, as the case may be.
         d.   All exterior lighting must be designed to eliminate illumination
one-half hour after the public assembly activities have been concluded each
day.
      6.   Conditions. In addition to the standards for special uses and the
standards of this section, the Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission and/or
the President and Board of Trustees may impose additional conditions that
create compatibility with the neighborhood but are the least burdensome to the
assemblage use.
      7.   Nonconformities. Any legal nonconforming or conforming existing
place of public assembly established prior to December 19, 2006, cannot be
altered or expanded in any manner, unless the alteration is necessary and part
of the customary maintenance of the land and structures and does not intensify
the existing use of the land and structures.
   D.   Vehicle Rental Establishment - Secondary.
      1.   Vehicle rental establishments are allowed only as a secondary use to
a hotel.
      2.   Car wash and maintenance facilities for the automobiles are
prohibited as part of vehicle rental establishments.
   E.   Wind Energy Conversion Systems (WECS).
      1.   The maximum tower height is 60 feet measured from the grade
surrounding the support pad(s) to the base of the wind generator of the WECS
measured along the vertical axis of the tower.
      2.   The minimum tower setback distance from nearest property line is a
distance measured from the mean grade surrounding the support pad(s) to the tip
of a blade in vertical position measured along the vertical axis of the tower.
      3.   The minimum distance from guy wire to any given lot line is 75 feet.
      4.   The blade color must be white or light gray.
      5.   The tower must be made inaccessible to unauthorized personnel.
      6.   The application for a special use permit for WECS must be
accompanied by the following documents in addition to other documents required
by this Chapter:
         a.   A site plan of the lot upon which the WECS is proposed to be
located, prepared and stamped by an Illinois licensed land surveyor, indicating
the location of the proposed WECS, existing and proposed structures,
aboveground utility lines, and any other significant features or appurtenances.
         b.   Structural drawings, prepared and stamped by a registered
professional engineer, of the wind tower, including pad design and guy wire
design, if applicable, as well as drawings that demonstrate the method of
making the tower inaccessible to unauthorized personnel.
         c.   Drawings and specifications, prepared and stamped by a registered
professional engineer, of the generator, hub and blades, electrical support
facilities, including transformers, cables, and control devices.
         d.   Sufficient data and documentation to establish that the WECS will
not produce noise levels in excess of those performance standards contained in
this Chapter.
         e.   Sufficient data and documentation to establish that the
installation will not cause electromagnetic interference.
      7.   Upon the issuance of any given special use permit and after building
permit plans have been approved and the WECS has been installed, the operation
of the WECS must comply with the following regulations, whether or not the
special use permit contains or alludes to them:
         a.   Noise control:
            i.   WECS cannot exceed 55 dB(A) at the lot line closest to the
wind energy system. This sound pressure level may be exceeded during short-term
events such as utility outages and/or severe wind storms.
            ii.   Following construction of the WECS, the Zoning Administrator
will authorize a person to perform and record sound measurements of ambient and
maximum permitted decibels emitted by the WECS to determine ambient and
operating decibel levels.
               (1)   Decibel level readings must be measured at the closest lot
line to the WECS and the sound level must be measured on a sound level meter
using the “A-weighing network.”
               (2)   If maximum readings are exceeded in violation of this
section, the installation is considered a public nuisance, which must be abated
immediately.
            iii.   At any time after the installation of a WECS, upon his
receipt of a complaint upon which the WECS is located, the Zoning Administrator
will authorize a person to perform and record measurements of ambient and
maximum permitted decibels.
               (1)   Following such recordation, such person must submit a
report of such sound measurements to the Zoning Administrator for his/her
review.
               (2)   The costs for the measuring and recordation services must
be paid by the complainant unless maximum permitted decibel readings have been
exceeded, in which case the WECS owner must pay the costs.
               (3)   Any violation must be corrected within 90 day's time from
the date of the report, and if the noise violation cannot be remedied, the WECS
must be removed within that time.
         b.   Electromagnetic interference:
            i.   The WECS installation must comply with Federal Communications
Commission Regulation 47 CFR 15.
            ii.   Whenever an owner of land in the vicinity of the lot upon
which the WECS is located complains to the Zoning Administrator that such WCS
is generating electromagnetic interference, the Zoning Administrator will
authorize a person to perform an investigation of the existence of such
electromagnetic interference.
               (1)   Following such investigation, such person must submit a
report of his findings to the Zoning Administrator his/her for review.
               (2)   The costs for the investigation services in connection
with such complaint of such electromagnetic interference must be paid by the
complainant unless there is non-compliance with Federal Communications
Commission Regulation 47 CFR 15, in which case the WECS owner must pay the
costs.
            iii. If electromagnetic interference is being caused by a WECS, the
installation is deemed in violation of this section and the WECS is deemed a
public nuisance, which must be abated within 90 days from the date of the
report. If the electromagnetic interference cannot be remedied, the WECS must
be removed.
         c.   If the WECS for any reason fails to generate power for one year
or more, the Zoning Administrator must cause the owner thereof to remove the
WECS within 90 days.
         d.   On the second anniversary of the issuance of the special use
permit for the installation of any given WECS and every two years thereafter,
the owner of such WECS must submit an Illinois licensed professional engineers'
structural report to the Zoning Administrator certifying to the structural
integrity of such WECS' wind generator, tower, and the entire support system.
   F.   Wireless Telecommunications and Radio/Television Towers.
      1.   Purpose and Interpretation.
         a.   The purpose of these standards is to provide specific regulations
for the placement, construction, and modification of wireless
telecommunications facilities and radio/television towers. The provisions of
this section are not intended and are not interpreted as prohibiting or having
the effect of prohibiting the provision of personal wireless services, nor are
these provisions to be applied in such a manner as to unreasonably discriminate
between providers of functionally equivalent personal wireless services. If any
provisions of this section are inconsistent or in conflict with any other
provision of this Chapter, the provisions of this section control.
         b.   In the course of reviewing any request for any approval, the
Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission must act within a reasonable period of
time after the request is duly filed with the Village Clerk, taking into
account the nature and scope of the request. A recommendation to deny such a
request must be in writing and supported by substantial evidence contained in a
written record.
         c.   Should the application of this section have the effect of
prohibiting a person or entity from providing personal wireless service or
other telecommunications service to all ora portion of the Village, such
provider may petition the President and Board of Trustees for an amendment to
this section. The President and Board of Trustees, upon receipt of such a
petition, must promptly undertake review of the petition and make a
determination on the petition within a reasonable period of time, taking into
account the nature and scope of the petition. A decision to deny such a
petition must be in writing and supported by substantial evidence contained in
a written record.
      2.   Small Wireless Facilities. Small wireless facilities are regulated
by the Village Code in Chapter 5, Article VI.
      3.   Wireless Telecommunications Facilities and Radlo/Teievision Towers
as Accessory Uses. Wireless telecommunications facilities and radio/television
towers are considered an accessory use when they meet all of the following
standards and do not require a special use. All other wireless
telecommunications facilities and radio/television towers are considered a
special use.
         a.   Wireless telecommunications facilities and radio/television
towers meet all minimum setback requirements of the district.
         b.   Wireless telecommunications facilities and radio/television
towers meet all applicable federal laws and regulations.
         c.   Wireless telecommunications facilities and radio/television
towers as an accessory use when either:
            i.   It is located in a wooded area and is camouflaged to appear to
be a tree similar to other trees in such wooded area.
            ii.   It is directly affixed to an existing building and the height
of the radio and/or television tower and/or other transmitting and receiving
equipment or personal wireless telecommunication facility does not exceed ten
feet above the roof of an existing building, whether or not a roof-mounted
antenna is used.
      4.   Standards.
         a.   Tower Height. FCC licensed wireless telecommunication towers and
radio/television towers are limited to a maximum height of 60 feet. However,
the applicant must demonstrate that tower height is the minimum required to
provide satisfactory operation, which may be less than 60 feet.
         b.   Color. Towers and antenna support structures and antennas must
have a finish color of non-contrasting black, blue, gray, or other color which
minimizes the visibility of the antenna support structure.
         c.   Compatibility. Wireless telecommunications facilities and radio/
television towers must be compatible architecturally with adjacent buildings
and land uses or otherwise integrated, through location and design, to blend in
with existing characteristics of the site to the extent practical. Site
location and erection of towers and facilities must preserve the pre-existing
character of the site as much as possible. Existing vegetation must be
preserved or improved, and disturbance of the existing topography of the site
must be minimized, unless such disturbance will result in less visual impact of
the site upon the areas adjacent thereto.
         d.   Design. Towers must be constructed according to the then current
standards of the Electronic Industries Association, the FAA, and the FCC.
         e.   Equipment Structures. All ground level equipment structures must
comply with the requirements of the Mettawa Building Code, cannot exceed 300
square feet in floor area, or a height of 12 feet. Equipment structures must be
screened by non-deciduous plantings from the view of persons of at least six
feet in height who stand 100 feet from all adjacent lot lines.
         f.   Fencing. To prevent unauthorized access thereto and minimize any
danger to persons, all towers and ground level equipment structures must be
fenced from adjacent areas by a six foot high fence meeting the requirements of
the Municipal Code of the Village of Mettawa of 2001.
         g.   Lights and Signs. Unless required by the FCC, all lights,
signals, and/or signs of any kind are prohibited on any tower, antenna, and
equipment.
         h.   Off-Street Parking. Paved off-street parking for at least two
trucks is required a minimum of ten feet in width and 25 feet in length.
         i.   Tower Setbacks. All towers must be set back from all lot lines a
distance equal to the height of the tower or the required setbacks of the
district, whichever is greater.
      5.   Prohibitions.
         a.   No wireless telecommunication facilities and radio/television
towers are allowed within the R-1 District that has been improved with a
principal building. No variance or special use may be granted to allow for a
tower.
         b.   No public utility service use which satisfies the definition of
wireless telecommunication facility is permitted in any zoning district in the
Village unless it complies with all applicable federal laws and regulations
concerning its use and operation.
      6.   Approvals.
         a.   In considering approval of wireless telecommunication facilities
and radio/television towers, the Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission and
the President and Board of Trustees must, in addition to the standards for a
special use, apply the criteria and other standards of this section and also
give due consideration and weight to whether:
            i.   The plans submitted will provide for co-location of other
antenna and equipment on the same support structure, so as to minimize the
proliferation of antenna support structures.
            ii.   The applicant has sought and been denied the opportunity to
co-locate its antenna(s) on an existing antenna support structure.
            iii.   The applicant has made adequate efforts but is unable to
obtain a site for its facilities within the O/R District.
         b.   The Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission and the President
and Board of Trustees, may impose conditions that require that the applicant
allow, on a commercially reasonable basis, other providers of
telecommunications services to co-locate additional personal wireless service
facilities on a free-standing pole which is part of the applicant's proposed
towers and facilities, where such co-location is technologically feasible.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.704. USE DEFINITIONS.
   All uses within
Table 7-1 are defined in this section. Certain uses are defined to be inclusive
of many uses. When a use meets a specific definition, it is regulated as such
and is not regulated as part of a more inclusive use category.
   ADULT USE. Adult is defined as follows:
      1.   ADULT BOOK OR ADULT VIDEO STORE. An establishment having as a
substantial or significant portion of its sales and/or stock in trade, books,
magazines, films, and/or videos for sale or viewing on the premises by use of
motion picture devices or any coin-operated means, and other periodicals which
are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on material depicting,
describing, or relating to specified anatomical areas or specified sexual
activities, or an establishment with a segment or section devoted to the sale
or display of such material, or an establishment that holds itself out to the
public as a purveyor of such materials based upon its signage, advertising,
displays, actual sales, presence of video preview, or coin operated booths, the
exclusion of minors from the establishment's premises, or any other factors
showing that the establishment's primary purpose is to purvey such material.
      2.   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CABARET. A public or private establishment
which, live or on motion pictures, features any of the following:
         a.   The performance of acts, or simulated acts, of sexual
intercourse, masturbation, sodomy, oral copulation, flagellation or any sexual
acts which are prohibited by law.
         b.   The actual or simulated touching, caressing or fondling of the
breasts, buttocks, anus or genitals.
         c.   The actual or simulated displaying of the breasts, pubic hair,
anus, vulva or genitals.
         d.   Entertainers who by reason of their appearance or conduct perform
in a manner which is designed primarily to appeal to the prurient interest of
the patron or entertainers who engage in, or engage tn explicit simulation of,
the specified sexual activities set forth above.
      3.   ADULT MINI MOTION PICTURE AND/OR VIDEO THEATER. An enclosed building
or an area within a building, having a capacity for less than 50 persons, and
used for presenting motion picture films, video cassettes, cable television,
and/or any other such visual media. All of such materials so presented
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing,
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for
observation by patrons therein.
      4.   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building, or an area
within a building, having a capacity of 50 or more persons, and used regularly
and routinely for presenting motion picture films, video cassettes, cable
television, and/or any other such visual media all of such materials so
presented having as a dominant theme material distinguished or characterized by
an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified anatomical
areas or specified sexual activities for observation by patrons therein.
      5.   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.  Less than completely and opaquely
covered: human genitals and pubic region; buttock; and female breast below a
point immediately above the top of the areola.
      6.   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any of the following:
         a.   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
         b.   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy.
         c.   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttock or female breast.
   AGRICULTURAL USES. All of the processes of planting, growing, cultivating,
harvesting of crops for the production of food, fiber, silviculture and forest
products, flowers, apiaries, aviaries, orchards, non-and non-commercial green
houses. The term agricultural use does not include the raising or keeping farm
animals except as allowed in Chapter 12, Sections
12.105 and
12.106 of the Village Code of Ordinances. An agriculture use is allowed only as
an accessory use to an associated single-family residential dwellings for the
residents.
   ART GALLERY. An establishment that sells, loans and/or displays paintings,
sculpture, photographs, video art, or other works of art. Art gallery does not
include places of public assembly, such as a library or museum, which may also
display paintings, sculpture, photographs, video art, or other works.
   ARTS AND FITNESS STUDIO. An establishment where an art or activity is
taught, studied, or practiced such as dance, martial arts, photography, music,
painting, gymnastics, pilates, or yoga. An arts studio also includes private
exercise studios for private sessions with trainers and/or private classes.
Arts and fitness studio do not include health clubs and indoor recreation.
   BOTANICAL GARDEN. An establishment where plants are grown for display to the
public and often for scientific study.
   DAY CARE CENTER. A licensed facility where, for a portion of a day, care and
supervision is provided for children or elderly and/or functionally-impaired
adults in a protective setting that are not related to the owner or operator.
Day care centers within a residential dwelling are prohibited.
   DRIVE-THROUGH FACILITY. That portion of a business where business is
transacted directly with customers via a service window that allows customers
to remain in their vehicle. A drive through facility must be approved
separately as a principal use when in conjunction with another principal uses
such as restaurants and financial institutions. A standalone ATM is considered
a drive-through facility for the purposes of this definition.
   DWELLING - SINGLE-FAMILY. A structure designed to contain one dwelling unit
which is entirely surrounded by open area on the same lot and is not connected
directly or indirectly to any other dwelling unit by roof, walls, porches, or
any other means.
   DWELLING - GUEST HOUSE. A detached residence accessory to the principal
building containing one dwelling unit that is used as temporary living quarters
for guests, none of whom pay rent, who are visiting persons who live in a
separate principal building located upon the same lot.
   EDUCATIONAL FACILITY - VOCATIONAL/TRADE. A facility that offers instruction
in industrial, clerical, computer, managerial, automotive, repair (electrical,
plumbing, carpentry, etc.), or commercial skills, or a business conducted as a
commercial enterprise, such as a school for general educational development.
Educational facility - vocational also applies to privately operated schools
that do not offer a complete educational curriculum.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. A bank, savings and loan, credit union, or mortgage
office. Financial institution does not include alternative financial services
(AFS) which are financial services provided outside a traditional banking
institution. AFS includes payday loans, tax refund anticipation loans, car
title loans, check cashing establishments, and currency exchanges.
   FOREST PRESERVE. Designated open space owned and operated by the Lake County
Forest Preserve District, and Parks owned and operated by the Village that
preserves and protects natural features, wildlife, and critical environmental
features, as well as sites of historical or cultural significance. A forest
preserve may include opportunities for passive recreation, such as hiking
trails and lookout structures, and environmental education.
   GAS STATION. A business where fuel for vehicles are stored and dispersed
from fixed equipment into the fuel tanks of motor vehicles. This may also
include ancillary retail uses, one automatic car wash facility (one stall), and
solar and/or electric charging stations.
   GOVERNMENT OFFICE. Offices owned, operated, or occupied by a governmental
agency to provide a governmental service to the public, such as village and
state offices and facilities.
   HEALTH CLUB. An establishment that provides health and fitness facilities
such as running, jogging, aerobics, weight lifting, court sports, and swimming,
and may include ancillary facilities such as locker rooms, showers, massage
rooms, saunas, sales of related health equipment and clothing, juice bars, and
other related uses.
   HOTEL. A building where units with bedrooms and baths are offered for
compensation to provide lodging for transient guests. A bed and breakfast or
short term rental is not a hotel.
   INDOOR RECREATION. A facility for spectator and participatory uses conducted
within an enclosed building, such as movie theaters, bowling alleys, escape
room/physical adventure game facilities, and pool halls. Indoor amusement
facilities do not include live performance venues. An indoor amusement facility
may include uses such as, but not limited to, concession stands, restaurants,
and retail sales as ancillary uses.
   MEDICAL CANNABIS CULTIVATION FACILITIES. A facility authorized by Illinois
law and operated by an organization or business registered by the Department of
Agriculture to grow, and/or cultivate, and/or perform necessary activities to
provide registered medical cannabis dispensing organizations with usable
medical cannabis, in accordance with all Illinois and Village statues,
ordinances, and regulations.
   MEDICAL CANNABIS DISPENSING FACILITIES. A facility authorized by Illinois
law and operated by an organization or business registered by the Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire, and/or sell, and/or dispense
medical cannabis from a registered medical cannabis cultivation facility, in
accordance with all Illinois and Village statutes, ordinances, and regulations.
   MEDICAL/DENTAL CLINIC. A facility operated by one or more physicians,
dentists, chiropractors, psychiatrists, physiotherapists, or other licensed
practitioners of the healing arts for the examination and treatment of persons
solely on an outpatient basis. Medical/dental offices also include alternative
medicine clinics, such as acupuncture and holistic therapies, and physical
therapy offices for physical rehabilitation.
   OFFICE. An establishment that engages in the processing, manipulation, or
application of business information or professional expertise. Such an OFFICE
may or may not offer services to the public. An OFFICE is not materially
involved in fabricating, assembling, or warehousing of physical products for
the retail or wholesale market, nor engaged in the repair of products or retail
services. An OFFICE does not include financial institution or government
office.
   OFFICE AND LIGHT INDUSTRIAL PARK. Coordinated developments of office and
light industrial uses with no outside impacts that are developed in campus-like
environments, and typically with multiple buildings oriented around plazas or
public spaces with a cohesive appearance.
   OPEN SPACE. Land and facilities that serve the recreational needs of
residents and visitors. Open space includes, recreational facilities such as
playgrounds, ballfields, athletic fields, basketball courts, tennis courts, dog
parks, and passive recreation areas with hiking, bicycle, and horse trails.
Public parks may also include non-commercial indoor recreation facilities.
   PERSONAL SERVICES. An establishment that provides frequent or recurrent
needed services of a personal nature. Typical uses include, but are not limited
to, beauty shops, barbershops, tanning salons, electronics repair shops, nail
salons, laundromats, health clubs, dry cleaners, and tailors.
   PLACES OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY. Any land or building used for public assembly on
a recurring basis, whether for educational, fraternal, governmental, religious
or other purposes and includes neighborhood facilities, community facilities
and/or regional facilities. Public assembly uses included uses such as places
of worship, aquariums, libraries, museums, and schools.
      1.   NEIGHBORHOOD FACILITY. A small establishment located to serve
governmental, educational, and other needs of residents for public assemblies
on a recurring basis within a convenient traveling distance and not intended to
attract substantial numbers of persons from outside the neighborhood.
      2.   COMMUNITY FACILITY. A mid-size establishment located to serve the
needs of residents and visitors for public assemblies which, due to the
characteristics of its size and location and corresponding frequency of trip
generations, may create a heavy traffic impact in the neighborhood wherein it
is located.
      3.   REGIONAL FACILITY. A large-size establishment located to serve the
needs of persons for public assemblies which require large land areas and may
have single-purpose characteristics creating a he avy traffic impact and
intended to attract substantial numbers of persons from outside the corporate
limits of the Village.
   RADIO/TELEVISION TOWERS - TRANSMITTING & RECEIVING EQUIPMENT. Towers used
for broadcasting and information relay services for radio and television
signals.
   RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT. A facility where research and development is
conducted in industries that include, but are not limited to, biotechnology,
pharmaceuticals, medical instrumentation or supplies, communication, and
information technology, electronics and instrumentation, and computer hardware
and software. Research and development does not involve the manufacture,
fabrication, processing, or sale of products.
   RESTAURANT.  An establishment where food and/or beverages are provided to
the public, which may be offered for on premises consumption by seated patrons,
delivery, carry-out, or a combination of such.
   RETAIL SALES. A commercial enterprise that provides physical goods, products
or merchandise directly to the consumer, where such goods are typically
available for immediate purchase and removal from the premises by the
purchaser. A retail goods establishment does not include auction houses,
antique shops, consignment shops, or secondhand goods dealer.
   SHOWROOM. An establishment where products are displayed for sale, such as
furniture, appliances, carpet, tile, or furnishings. Products are available for
purchase but are not manufactured on site and typically not available for
immediate removal from the premises and are rather delivered to the purchaser.
   VEHICLE RENTAL ESTABLISHMENT - SECONDARY. An establishment that rents
automobiles, including incidental parking and servicing of rental vehicles.
VEHICLE RENTAL ESTABLISHMENT does not include truck rental establishments or
rental of heavy equipment. As a secondary use, it may not be a standalone
establishment and must be part of another principal use on the site as
regulated by the use standards.
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS). Mechanisms, including all
appurtenances thereto, designed or operated for the purpose of converting wind
energy to electrical or mechanical powers.
   WIRELESS FACILITY, SMALL.  A wireless telecommunications facility that meets
both of the following qualifications: 1) each antenna is located inside an
enclosure of no more than six cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an
antenna that has exposed elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements
could fit within an imaginary enclosure of no more than six cubic feet; and 2)
all other wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole associated
with the facility is cumulatively no more than 25 cubic feet in volume. The
following types of associated ancillary equipment are not included in the
calculation of equipment volume: electric meter, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation box, ground-based enclosures, grounding
equipment, power transfer switch, cut-off switch, and vertical cable runs for
the connection of power and other services.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS. Towers, antennas, and facilities used to
transmit and receive signals that facilitate wireless telecommunications. The
following definitions describe the wireless telecommunications infrastructure
described within the general definition for wireless telecommunications:
      1.   ANTENNA. A specific device, the surface of which is used to transmit
and/or receive signals transmitted to or from other antennas. This does not
include satellite dish antennae.
      2.   FACILITY. A structure used to house and protect the equipment
necessary for processing telecommunications signals, which may include air
conditioning equipment and emergency generators. Facility also includes any
necessary equipment that facilitates wireless transmission.
      3.   TOWER. A structure designed and constructed to support one or more
wireless telecommunications antennae and including all appurtenant devices
attached to it.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
ARTICLE VIII. ON-SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
SECTION 15.801. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   A.   No structure may be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or
altered, except In conformity with the regulations of the district in which the
structure is located.
   B.   In the commercial districts and the OS District, there may be more than
one principal building on a lot. All structures must comply with all
dimensional standards of the zoning district.
   C.   Required open space:
      1.   All yards and other open spaces allocated to a building or planned
unit development must be located on the same lot as such building.
      2.   No legally required yards or other open space or minimum lot area
allocated to any building may by virtue of change of ownership or for any other
reason be used to satisfy yard or other open space or minimum lot area
requirements for any other building or development on a contiguous lot or
parcel.
      3.   The maintenance of yards, courts, and other open spaces and minimum
lot area legally required for a building are a continuing obligation of the
owner of such building or of the property on which it is located, as long as
the building is in existence.
   D.   No structure can exceed a height of three feet above the street grade
within 25 feet of the centerlines of the intersecting street lines bordering
corner lots.
   E.   The Lake County Watershed Development Ordinance, as most recently
amended by Lake County, is hereby adopted by reference and is in full force and
effect within the Village of Mettawa and is found in its own compilation.
   F.   All signs must be in conformance with
Chapter 10 of the Village Code.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.802. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND USES.
   All accessory structures and uses are subject to the requirements of this
section and the permitted encroachment requirements of Section
15.803. Additional accessory structures not regulated in this section may be
regulated in Section
15.803. Accessory uses not provided in Section
15.802 or
15.803 are prohibited.
   A.   General Regulations.
      1.   No accessory structure may be constructed on any lot prior to the
start of construction of the principal building to which it is accessory.
      2.   The total floor area of all detached accessory structures on a lot
in the residential districts is limited as follows:
         a.   In the R-1 District, no more than 3% of the total lot area.
         b.   In the R-2 District, no more than 5% of the total lot area.
      3.   The total floor area of all detached accessory structures on a lot
in the non residential districts are subject to the maximum coverage limitation
of the district.
      4.   Any detached accessory structure that has a gross floor area of more
than 2,000 square feet requires a special use permit.
      5.   The maximum height of any accessory structure is 30 feet, unless
otherwise permitted or restricted by this Chapter.
   B.   Amateur (HAM) Radio Equipment.
      1.   Towers that solely support amateur (HAM) radio equipment and conform
to all applicable performance criteria as set forth in Section
15.805 below are permitted only in the rear yard, and must be located 20 feet
from any lot line and any principal building. Tower height is permitted by-
right to the maximum building height of the district, unless a taller tower is
necessary to engage successfully in amateur radio communications. When a tower
exceeds the district height limit, special use approval is required.
      2.   Antennas may be building-mounted and are limited to a maximum height
of ten feet above the structure, unless a taller antenna is necessary to engage
successfully in amateur radio communications. When an antenna exceeds the
district height limit, special use approval is required.
      3.   When an antenna or tower is proposed to exceed the height
limitations, the operator must provide evidence that a taller tower and/or
antenna is necessary to engage successfully in amateur radio communications. In
addition, the applicant must provide evidence that the tower and/or antenna
will not prove a hazard and that it conforms to all applicable performance
criteria of Section 15.805. As part of the special use application, the
applicant must submit a site plan showing the proposed location of the tower or
antenna, as well as its relation to the principal building and accessory
structures.
   C.   Carport.
      1.   Carports must be located over a paved surface and accessed by a
driveway.
         2.   A carport is permitted only in the interior side, corner side, or
rear yard.
      3.   Carports must meet the corner side setback, and must be located 20
feet from a lot line in the interior side or rear yard. No carport may be
located in front of the front building line.
      4.   The total length of a carport is limited to 22 feet. The height of a
carport is limited to 20 feet.
      5.   A carport must be open on at least three sides except for the
necessary supporting columns and customary architectural features.
      6.   A carport must be constructed as a permanent structure. Temporary
tent structures are not considered carports.
   D.   Coldframe Structures.
      1.   Coldframe structures are permitted in the interior side, corner
side, and rear yards and must be 20 feet from any lot line.
      2.   Coldframe structures are limited to six feet in height.
      3.   Coldframe structures are limited to a maximum square footage of 120
square feet.
   E.   Electric Vehicle Charging Station.
      1.   Public commercial electric vehicle charging stations are permitted
as an accessory use within any public parking lot, public parking structure, or
gas station in non-residential districts.
      2.   Each public charging station space must be posted with a sign
indicating the space is only for electric vehicle charging purposes. Days and
hour of operations must be included if time limits of tow away provisions are
to be enforced by the owner. Information identifying voltage and amperage
levels or safety information must be posted.
      3.   Charging station equipment must be maintained in good condition and
all equipment must be functional. Charging stations no longer in use must be
immediately removed.
   F.   Exterior Lighting.
      1.   Maximum Lighting Regulations.
         a.   The maximum allowable footcandle at the lot line is one
footcandle in commercial districts and 0.5 footcandle in residential districts.
         b.   When additional security lighting is required for security
reasons in excess of the footcandle limit imposed by item a. above, additional
lighting may be allowed with a special use approval.
         c.   No glare onto adjacent properties is permitted.
      2.   Freestanding Luminaire Standards.
         a.   Cut Off Standards.
            i.   To be considered a cut off luminaire, the cut off angle must
be 75 degrees or less.
            ii.   The maximum total height of a freestanding cut off luminaire
is 20 feet.
            iii.   A cut off luminaire must be designed to completely shield
the light source from an observer 3.5 feet above the ground at any point along
an abutting lot line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/66c950a57e9910e3945c5f85920a0e118f90dca4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7144.jpg]
         b.   No Cut Off Standards.
            i.   A luminaire is considered to have no cut off if it is
unshielded or has a cut off angle greater than 75 degrees.
            ii.   The maximum permitted total height of a freestanding
luminaire with no cut off is 12 feet.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/66c950a57e9910e3945c5f85920a0e118f90dca4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7146.jpg]
      3.    Exceptions to Lighting Standards.
         a.   Luminaires used for public roadway illumination are not
controlled by this Chapter.
         b.   All temporary emergency lighting required by public safety
agencies, other emergency services, or construction are exempt from the
requirements of this Chapter.
         c.   Holiday and seasonal lighting designs are not subject to the
requirements of this Chapter.
         d.   Certain temporary uses may use lighting that does not meet the
requirements of this section. When such temporary uses are allowed, approval of
lighting design is part of the temporary use approval.
      4.    Prohibited Lighting.
         a.   Flickering or flashing lights are prohibited.
         b.   Searchlights, spotlights, laser source lights, or any similar
high intensity lights are prohibited.
         c.   Neon or LED lighting to outline doors, windows, architectural
features, and building facades is prohibited.
   G.   Fences and Walls. All fences and walls must be in conformance with
Chapter 9 of the Village Code.
   H.   Home Occupations.
      1.   The home occupation must be conducted by the occupant or occupants
residing in the dwelling. No outside employees are permitted.
      2.   Home occupations are permitted in any dwelling unit as an accessory
use provided that this use is clearly incidental and secondary to the primary
use of the dwelling for residential purposes and does not change the character
of the dwelling unit or adversely affect the surrounding residential district
of which it is a part.
      3.   A home occupation may be conducted in a detached accessory
structure, however any required parking spaces that may be located within such
detached accessory structure must be maintained as parking spaces.
      4.   Home occupations of an office or service-related businesses with
client visits are limited to one client at a time per home occupation in the
structure. Such client visits must be by appointment only.
         a.   For purposes of this section, CLIENT means one or more persons
meeting with the home occupation owner for the office or service-related
business home occupation at an appointed time.
         b.   For the purposes of this section, CLIENT does not mean regular
meetings of sales associates or a similar category of employee.
      5.   No alteration of the principal building may be made that changes the
residential character of that dwelling. Displays or activities that indicate
from the exterior that the structure is being used, in part, for any purpose
other than that of a residence are prohibited.
      6.   No commodities can be sold or services rendered that require receipt
or delivery of merchandise, goods, or equipment other than by a passenger motor
vehicle or by parcel or letter carrier mail services using vehicles typically
employed in residential deliveries.
      7.   The home occupation and all related activity, including storage,
must be conducted completely within the principal building or a permitted
accessory structure.
      8.   No toxic, explosive, flammable, combustible, corrosive, etiologic,
radioactive, or other restricted and/or hazardous materials may be used or
stored on the site. There must be no perceptible noise, odor, smoke, electrical
interference, vibration, or other nuisance emanating from the structure where
the home occupation is located in excess of that normally associated with
residential use.
      9.   The home occupation cannot create greater vehicular or pedestrian
traffic than is average for a residential area. The home occupation and any
related activity must not create any traffic hazards or nuisances in public
rights-of-way.
      10.   The following are prohibited as part of a home occupation:
         a.   All home occupations are subject to the restrictions on
commercial vehicles of Section 15.906.A. The storage of any heavy equipment,
such as construction equipment used in a commercial business, is also
prohibited.
         b.   Day care homes are prohibited as a home occupation.
         c.   Repair and service of any vehicles or any type of machinery,
small or heavy, is prohibited.
         d.   Rental services, where any materials for rent are stored on-site
and customers visit the residence to pick-up and return the product, is
prohibited.
         e.   The business of firearm sales or transfers is prohibited.
         f.   Kennels are prohibited as a home occupation.
   I.   Mechanical Equipment. Mechanical equipment includes heating,
ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) equipment, electrical generators, and
similar equipment. These requirements do not apply to window air conditioning
units or satellite dishes. These regulations do not apply to window air
conditioning units.
      1.   Ground-Mounted Equipment.
         a.   Mechanical equipment is permitted in the interior side or rear
yard only. No mechanical equipment is allowed in a required setback.
         b.   Ground-mounted mechanical equipment in the interior side yard, if
visible from the street, must be screened from view by a decorative wall, solid
fence, or landscaping that is compatible with the architecture and landscape of
a development site. The wall, fence, or plantings must be of a height equal to
or greater than the height of the mechanical equipment being screened.
      2.   Roof-Mounted Equipment. For roof-mounted equipment, there must be
either a parapet wall to screen the equipment or the equipment must be housed
in solid building material that is architecturally integrated with the
structure.
   J.   Refuse Containers and Dumpsters.
      1.   Residential refuse containers are prohibited in the front yard. For
those stored outdoors in an interior side or corner side yard, refuse
containers must be stored within an enclosure comprised of a sight-proof screen
composed of non-deciduous planting or a solid fence or wall.
      2.   Dumpsters for non-residential uses are prohibited in the front or
corner side yard. No dumpsters may be located on any right-of-way. Enclosures
are required for dumpsters, constructed as follows:
         a.   All refuse and recycling containers must be fully enclosed on
three sides by a solid fence, wall, or wall extension of the principal building
a minimum of six feet and a maximum of seven feet in height. The wall or wall
extension must be constructed as an integral part of the building's
architectural design.
         b.   The enclosure must be gated. Such gate must be solid and a
minimum of six feet and a maximum of seven feet in height. The gate must be
maintained in good working order and must remain locked except when refuse/
recycling pick-ups occur.
         c.   Refuse and recycling containers must remain in the enclosure with
the gate closed and/or locked.
      3.   Refuse from building or construction operations must be disposed of
in dumpsters. Such dumpsters cannot be located across public curbs or parkways.
Dumpsters are not allowed to stand unused at any site for longer than 30 days.
Overflow within dumpsters is prohibited.
   K.   Satellite Dish Antennas.
      1.   General Requirements.
         a.   Satellite dish antennas must be permanently installed on a
building, in the ground, or on a foundation, and cannot be mounted on a
portable or movable structure.
         b.   Subject to operational requirements, the dish color must be of a
neutral color, such as white or grey. No additional signs or advertising is
permitted on the satellite dish itself, aside from the logos of the satellite
dish service provider and/or dish manufacturer.
         c.   Antennas no longer in use must be immediately removed.
         d.   Satellite dish antennas must be installed in locations that are
not readily visible from neighboring properties or from the public right-of-
way.
      2.   Additional Standards for Large Satellite Dish Antennas. Large
satellite dish antennas, which are greater than one meter (3.28 feet) in
diameter, are subject to the general requirements above as well as the
following requirements:
         a.   Large satellite dish antenna are permitted only in the rear yard
and must meet all required setbacks.
         b.   Roof-mounting is permitted only if the satellite dish antenna is
entirely screened from public view along the right-of-way by an architectural
feature.
         c.   A large satellite dish antenna must be located and screened so
that it cannot be readily seen from public rights-of-way or adjacent
properties. Screening includes a solid fence or wall or non-deciduous planting
located to conceal the antenna and its support structure. Plants must be a
minimum of five feet tall at the time of installation.
   L.   Solar Panels.
      1.   Solar panels may be building-mounted or freestanding, subject to the
regulations of this section.
      2.   Solar panels must be placed so that concentrated solar radiation or
glare is not directed onto nearby properties or roadways.
      3.   A building-mounted system may be mounted on the roof or wall of a
principal building or accessory structure.
         a.   On pitched roof buildings, the maximum height a roof-mounted
solar panel may rise is 18 inches.
         b.   On flat roofed buildings, the roof-mounted solar panel system is
limited to a maximum height of six feet above the surface of the roof. Roof-
mounted solar energy systems are excluded from the calculation of building
height.
         c.   Wall-mounted solar panels may project up to four feet from a
building facade and must be integrated into the structure as an architectural
feature. Wall-mounted panels cannot encroach more than three feet into a
required setback.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/66c950a57e9910e3945c5f85920a0e118f90dca4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7148.jpg] 
      4.    A freestanding solar energy system is permitt ed in the rear yard
only and must meet the following standards:
         a.   A freestanding solar energy system cannot be located in any
required setback.
         b.   The system is limited to a maximum of 25 feet in height, measured
to the highest point of the structure including the solar panel.
         c.   Only the area directly beneath the solar panel is counted toward
total impervious surface coverage.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/66c950a57e9910e3945c5f85920a0e118f90dca4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7150.jpg]
   M.   Recreational Court (Private).
      1.   The recreational court is intended and is used solely for the
enjoyment of the occupants of the property on which it is located and their
guests.
      2.   A recreational court is permitted only in the rear yard and must
meet all setback requirements of the district.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.803. PERMITTED ENCROACHMENTS.
   An encroachment is the extension or placement of an accessory structure or
architectural feature into a required setback. Permitted encroachments are
indicated in Table 8-1: Permitted Encroachments into Required Setbacks. Section
15.802 contains regulations on additional accessory structures and
architectural features not listed in Table 8-1 below, which may include
additional permissions or restrictions for their permitted encroachment into
required setbacks.
 Front Setback Corner Side Setback Interior Side Setback Rear Setback
                   Front Setback Corner Side Setback Interior Side Rear Setback
                                                     Setback
Accessibility Ramp Y             Y                   Y             Y
Air Conditioner
Window Unit
Max. projection of Y             Y                   Y             Y
18' from building
wall
Arbor, Trellis-    Y             Y                   Y             Y
Attached
Arbor, Trellis-    N             N                   N             Y
Detached
Awning or Sunshade
Max. of 3' into    Y             Y                   Y             Y
setback
Bay Window
Max. of 5' into
any setback        N             Y                   Y             Y
Mln. of 24" above
ground
Chimney
Max. of 18" into   N             Y                   Y             Y
setback
Eaves
Max, of 3'into     Y             Y                   Y             Y
setback
Flagpole
Max. height of 40' Y             Y                   N             Y
Min. of 20' from
any lot line
Lawn Decorations,  Y             Y                   Y             Y
Exterior Lighting
Playground
Equipment
Prohibited in
front of front     N             N                   N             Y
building line
Min. of 20' from
any lot line
Porch - Unenclosed
Max. of 5' into
front or corner
side setback
(Enclosed porches  Y             Y                   N             N
are considered
part of the
principal
structure)
Retaining Wall
Min. of 5' from    Y             Y                   Y             Y
any lot line
Sills, belt
course, cornices,
and ornamental     Y             Y                   Y             Y
features Max. of
3'into setback
Steps & Stoops
Max. of 4' into    Y             Y                   Y             N
setback
 
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.804. TEMPORARY USES.
   A.   Temporary Use Permit.
      1.   Purpose. A temporary use permit allows for the short-term use and/or
placement of structures on a lot. The temporary use permit regulates temporary
uses that occur entirely on and within a lot. Temporary uses located within the
public right-of-way are not regulated by this section. Temporary uses cannot
include the construction or alteration of a permanent structure.
      2.   Initiation. A property owner, or person expressly authorized in
writing by the property owner, may initiate a temporary use permit application,
      3.   Authority. The Zoning Administrator will review and make final
decisions on temporary use permit applications.
      4.   Procedure. All applications for temporary use permit must be filed
with the Zoning Administrator, The Zoning Administrator will render a decision
on the temporary use permit within 30 days of the date the application is
deemed complete. The Zoning Administrator must review and evaluate the
application, pursuant to the standards of this section, and approve, approve
with conditions, or deny the application.
      5.   Expiration. The temporary use permit is valid only for the time
period granted as part of the approval.
   B.   General Standards. All temporary uses must be evaluated against the
following standards, as well as any standards specific to the temporary use per
item C. below:
      1.   The temporary use does not cause, or threaten to cause, an on-site
or off-site threat to the public health, safety, and welfare.
      2.   If required by the Village, the operator of the temporary use must
employ appropriate security personnel.
      3.   The temporary use does not conflict with another previously
authorized temporary use.
      4.   The temporary use provides adequate parking if needed, if located on
a lot with an operational principal use, does not impact the parking and site
circulation of the principal use.
   C.   Permitted Temporary Uses. The following temporary uses are permitted
subject to the standards for each and the standards of item B. above. A
temporary use permit is required unless the standards specifically state
otherwise.
      1.   Residential Real Estate Development Sales Office and Model Unit.
         a.   Model Home.
            i.   The model home must be associated with the sale or rental of
homes within the development in which it is located.
            ii.   A model home must be closed after 90% of the lots or units
are sold and/or rented.
         b.   Residential Real Estate Development Sales Office.
            i.   A development is limited to one temporary stand-alone real
estate sales office, which cannot exceed 1,000 square feet in gross floor area
and cannot be located in any required setback.
            ii.   All standalone real estate sales offices must be closed and
removed within 30 days after the sale or rental of the last unit of the
development.
      2.   Temporary Contractor's Office and Contractor's Yard.
         a.   A temporary contractor's office is allowed incidental to a
construction project and must be located upon the same lot as the construction
project.
         b.   The temporary contractor's office must be removed within 30 days
of completion of the construction project.
      3.   Temporary Outdoor Entertainment - Public Events.
         a.   Temporary outdoor entertainment - public event is permitted in
association with a place of public assembly in the residential district, and in
association with any use in the commercial districts and OS District.
         b.   A management plan is required as part of the temporary use permit
application that demonstrates the following:
            i.   The on-site presence of a manager during the event.
            ii.   General layout of performance areas, visitor facilities, such
as any seating areas and restrooms, parking areas, and all ingress and egress
points to the site.
            iii.   Provision for waste removal and for recycling, if available.
            iv.   The days and hours of operation, including set-up and take-
down times.
            v.   A description of crowd control and security measures,
including noise control measures.
            vi.   A lighting plan describing all temporary lighting to be
installed.
         c.   Any temporary structures must be removed within three days of
conclusion of the event.
         d.   Events are limited to three events per calendar year and a
maximum duration of two days per event, with a minimum of 30 days between
events. This limitation applies to the lot, not the operator of the temporary
use.
      4.   Temporary Outdoor Storage Container.
         a.   Temporary storage containers are permitted in any zoning district
when used for loading or unloading of the property located on the site.
Containers are permitted on site for a period not to exceed ten days with no
temporary use permit. If a longer time period is required, a temporary use
permit is required and the timeframe will be determined as part of the
temporary use permit approval. There must be a minimum of 30 days between
periods of a temporary storage container placed on-site.
         b.   Temporary storage containers may not be used for permanent
storage. They may not serve as a substitute for permanent storage needs on the
site on which they are located. Containers may not be permanently attached to
the ground, serviced with permanent utilities, or stacked on the site.
         c.   Temporary storage containers cannot be placed in the public
right-of-way or placed on a lot to block ingress/egress or impede right-of-way
traffic.
         d.   Temporary storage containers for residential uses may be placed
in a driveway only but cannot block the right-of-way, including sidewalks. No
temporary storage containers may be placed within any yard.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.805. PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   All uses must comply with the performance standards established in this
section unless any federal, state, or local law, ordinance, or regulation
establishes a more restrictive standard, in which case, the more restrictive
standard applies.
   A.   Noise. No activity or use can be conducted in a manner that generates a
level of sound that violates Village nuisance ordinances related to noise.
   B.   Glare and Heat. Any activity or the operation of any use that produces
glare or heat must be conducted so that no glare or heat from the activity or
operation is detectable at any point off the lot on which the use is located.
Flickering or intense sources of light must be controlled or shielded so as not
to cause a nuisance across lot lines.
   C.   Vibration. No earthborne vibration from the operation of any use may be
detectable at any point off the lot on which the use is located.
   D.   Dust and Air Pollution. Dust and other types of air pollution, borne by
the wind from sources, such as storage areas, yards, roads, conveying equipment
and the like, within lot boundaries, must be kept to a minimum by appropriate
landscape, screening, sheltering, paving, fencing, wetting, collecting, or
other acceptable means.
   E.   Discharge and Disposal of Radioactive and Hazardous Waste. The
discharge of fluid and the disposal of solid radioactive and hazardous waste
materials must comply with applicable federal, state, and local laws, and
regulations governing such materials or waste. Radioactive and hazardous
material waste must be transported, stored, and used in conformance with all
applicable federal, state, and local laws.
   F.   Electromagnetic Interference. Electromagnetic interference from any
operation of any use must not adversely affect the operation of any equipment
located off the lot on which such interference originates.
   G.   Odors. Any condition or operation which results in the creation of
odors of such intensity and character as to be detrimental to the public health
and welfare, or which interferes unreasonably with the comfort of the public,
must be removed, stopped, or modified so as to remove the odor.
   H.   Fire and Explosion Hazards. Materials that present potential fire and
explosion hazards must be transported, stored, and used only in conformance
with all applicable federal, state, and local regulations.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
ARTICLE IX. OFF-STREET PARKING AND LEADING
SECTION 15.901. GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   A.   Existing Parking Facilities. Existing off-street parking and loading
areas that do not conform to the requirements of this Chapter, but were in
conformance with the requirements of this Chapter at the time the parking or
loading facilities were established, are permitted to continue as a
nonconforming site element. However, the existing number of off-street parking
and loading spaces may not be reduced below the requirements of this Chapter
and if the number of such existing spaces is already less than required, it may
not be further reduced.
   B.   Prior Approved Building Permits. If a building permit for a structure
was issued prior to the effective date of this Chapter or any amendment
thereto, and if construction has begun within one year of the issuance of the
permit, the number of off-street parking and loading spaces must be provided in
the amount required at the issuance of the building permit, unless the amount
required by this Chapter or any amendment is less, in which case the number
required by this Chapter or amendment must be installed.
   C.   Change in Use or Intensity.
      1.   Change in Use. When the existing use of a structure or land is
changed to a new use, parking and loading spaces must be provided as required
for the new use.
      2.   Change in Intensity of Use. When the intensity of use of any
structure or land is increased through additions, expansions, or any increase
in floor area or dwelling units, additional parking and loading spaces must be
provided as required herein. When the intensity of use of any structure or land
is decreased by the loss of floor area or dwelling units, the number of parking
and loading spaces may be reduced so long as the parking requirements of this
Chapter are met for the structure or land as modified.
   D.   Provision of Additional Spaces. Nothing in this Chapter prevents the
voluntary establishment of additional off-street parking or loading facilities,
provided that all regulations governing the location, design, and construction
of such facilities are met.
   E.   Completion of Off-Street Parking and Loading Facilities. All off-street
parking and loading facilities must be completed prior to the issuance of the
certificate of occupancy for the use.
   F.   Use of Parking Facilities.
      1.   The sale or display for sale of any good, vehicles, equipment,
materials, or supplies, and the servicing and repair of any goods, vehicles,
equipment, materials, or supplies in off-street parking facilities is
prohibited.
      2.   The property owner is responsible for ensuring that parking
facilities and loading areas are only used by tenants, employees, visitors,
and/or other authorized persons.
      3.   Space allocated to any off-street loading space may not be used to
satisfy the requirement for any off-street vehicle parking space or access
aisle or portion thereof. Conversely, the area allocated to any off-street
vehicle parking space may not be used to satisfy the replacement for any off-
street loading space or portion thereof.
      4.   Off-street parking for a residential use must be used for the
parking of vehicles owned by the occupants of the dwelling and their guests.
   G.   Parking Facility Plot Plans. Any application for a building permit or
for a certificate of occupancy, when no building permit is required, must
include a plot plan, drawn to scale and fully dimensioned, showing all parking
facilities and/or loading areas to be provided in compliance with this Article.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.902. LOCATION OF PARKING SPACES.
   All required parking spaces must be located on the same lot as the use
served.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.903. OFF-STREET PARKING SPACE AND PARKING FACILITY DESIGN STANDARDS.
   A.   Dimensions. Off-street parking facilities must meet the minimum
dimensions for parking spaces and drive aisles in
Table 9-1: Off-Street Parking Space Minimum Dimensions.
 
Figure 9-1: Off-Street Parking Space Minimum Dimensions
Parking Angle Stall Width(A) Stall Depth(B) Aisle Width Aisle Width Vertical
                                            Two-Way (C) One-Way (D) Clearance
0° (Parallel)9'             20'            22'         12'         7'6"
90° (Head-In)9'             18'            22'         22'         7'6"
60°          9'             21'            N/A         18'         7'6'
45°          9'             17'            N/A         12'         7'6'
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/66c950a57e9910e3945c5f85920a0e118f90dca4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7152.jpg]
   B.    Parking Lot Siting. Parking lots are prohibited with the require front
and corner side setbacks. No parking lots may be located within 30 feet of the
interior side and/or rear lot line. No parking structures may be located within
a required setback.
   C.    Access.
      1.    Parking for Commercial Uses.
         a.    Each off-street parking space must open directly upon an aisle
or driveway as per
Table 9-1 to provide safe and efficient means of vehicular access to such
parking space.
         b.   All off-street parking facilities must be designed with
appropriate means of vehicular access to a street in a manner which will least
interfere with traffic movements.
         c.   Parking facilities must be designed to allow the driver to
proceed forward into traffic, rather than back out.
         d.   No commercial curb cut can exceed a width of 40 feet.
         e.   Cross-access to parking areas are prohibited between a commercial
lot and a residential lot.
         f.   Dead end parking lots without a turnaround space are prohibited.
A turnaround space must have a minimum depth and width of nine feet, and must
be designated with signs stating "No Parking" and painted to indicate parking
is prohibited.
      2.   Parking for Residential Uses.
         a.   A residential lot is limited to a maximum of two curb cuts.
         b.   No residential curb cut can exceed a width of 22 feet.
   D.   Surfacing. For parking facilities, all materials and construction,
including earthwork, must be in accordance with “Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction,” the Illinois Department of Transportation,
latest edition and revisions, and the requirements of the Village. All off-
street parking lots and driveways must be improved with an all-weather dustless
material consisting of either:
      1.   Portland cement concrete pavement not less than six inches thick.
      2.   A minimum of:
         a.   Class I Type 2, and 11/2" Bituminous Concrete Surface Course
Class I Type 2; or 10" Aggregate Base Course Type B CA-6, 2" Bituminous
Concrete Binder Course.
         b.   6" Bituminous base course (BAM) and 2" Bituminous Concrete
Surface Course Class I Type 2. Additional thickness must be provided in truck
aisles.
   E.   Striping.
      1.   Off-street parking facilities of five or more spaces must delineate
parking spaces with paint or other permanent materials, which must be
maintained in clearly visible condition.
      2.   Accessible spaces must be in accordance with the Illinois
Accessibility Code, as amended, and any additional governing codes and
applicable laws.
   F.   Curbing. Curbing is required when a parking space within a parking
facility abuts a pedestrian walkway, landscape, structure, or fence. Breaks in
curbing may be provided to allow for drainage into landscape areas that can
absorb water. Such curbing must be constructed of permanent materials, such as
concrete or masonry, a minimum height of four inches above ground level, and
permanently affixed to the paved parking area. Wheel stops are prohibited.
   G.   Landscape. All parking lots must be landscaped in accordance with
Article 10.
   H.   Parking Structure. Parking structures are permitted only as a parking
facility ancillary to a principal nonresidential use.
      1.   All parking structures are limited to a maximum height of 35 feet.
      2.   On facades that front on public streets, fagade design and screening
must mask the interior ramps.
      3.   Parking structures must be designed to minimize blank facades
through architectural detail and landscape.
      4.   On portions of the ground floor facade where parking spaces are
visible, a decorative fence and landscape or a kneewall is required to screen
parking spaces. Such fence or kneewall must be a minimum of four feet in
height.
      5.   For parking structures with rooftop open-air parking, a four foot
parapet wall is required for screening,
      6.   A vehicular clear sight zone must be included at vehicular exit
areas as follows:
         a.   The fagade of vehicular exit areas must be set back from any
pedestrian walkway along that facade a minimum of eight feet for the portion of
the facade that includes the vehicle exit area and eight feet on each side of
the exit opening.
         b.   A sight triangle is defined by drawing a line from the edge of
the vehicular exit area to a point on the property line abutting the pedestrian
walkway eight feet to the side of the exit lane.
         c.   In the sight triangle (bound by the parking structure wall,
pedestrian walkway and vehicular exit lane), groundcover, landscape, or
decorative wall must be used to act as a buffer between the exit aisle and the
pedestrian walkway. Landscape or a decorative wall must not exceed three feet
in height in order to maintain driver sightlines to the pedestrian walkway.
         d.   The upper story facade(s) of the parking structure may overhang
the vehicular clear sight zone.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/66c950a57e9910e3945c5f85920a0e118f90dca4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7154.jpg]
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.904. REQUIRED OFF-STREET VEHICLE SPACES.
   A.    
Table 9-2: Off-Street Parking Requirements states the minimum number of off-
street parking spaces to be provided for the designated uses.
Table 9-2 lists parking requirements for the uses listed within the districts.
Certain uses listed within the use matrix do not have parking requirements;
these uses are not listed within
Table 9-2.
   B.   The total number of required parking spaces is calculated by the
principal use of the lot. When more than one use occupies the same lot. the
number of required spaces is the sum of the separate requirements for each use.
The following standards for computation apply:
      1.   When calculating the number of off-street parking spaces required
and such calculation results in a requirement of a fractional space, any
fraction of one-half or less may be disregarded while a fraction in excess of
one-half is counted as one parking space.
      2.   In places of assembly in which patrons or spectators occupy benches,
pews, or similar seating facilities, each 24 inches of such seating facility is
counted as one seat for the purpose of determining the requirement for off-
street parking facilities. Floor area of a prayer hall is counted as one seat
per marked prayer mat space or one seat for every five square feet in the
prayer hall if prayer mat spaces are not marked.
   C.   Parking spaces within a garage do not count towards required parking
for a single-family dwelling or a guest house.
   D.   Bus Parking. Bus parking must be provided for places of public assembly
which provide bus service in connection with the activities of the use. Bus
parking must include adequate area for the loading and unloading of passengers
entirely on the property.
TABLE 9-2
TABLE 9-2
Residential
Dwelling - Single-Family                2 spaces
Dwelling-Guest House                    2 spaces
Commercial
                                        1 space/250 sf for first 60% of GFA
Adult Use                               then
                                        1 space/500 sf for remaining GFA
                                        1 space/250 sf for first 60% of GFA
Art Gallery                             then
                                        1 space/500 sf for remaining GFA
                                        1 space/250 sf for first 60% of GFA
Arts and Fitness Studio                 then
                                        1 space/500 sf for remaining GFA
Day Gare Center                         1 space/500 sf GFA
Financial Institution                   1 space/250 sf for first 60% GFA then
                                        1 space/500 sf for remaining GFA
Gas Station                             1 space/250 sf GFA of any structure +
                                        1 space per pump
Health Club                             1 space/250 sf for first 60% of GFA
                                        then 1 space/500 sf for remaining GFA
Hotel                                   1.5 spaces/guest room
                                        1 space/250 sf for first 60% of GFA
Indoor Recreation                       then
                                        1 space/500 sf for remaining GFA
Medical Cannabis Dispensing Facilities  1 space/300 sf GFA
Medical/Dental Clinic                   1 space/50 sf GFA
                                        1 space/250 sf for first 60% of GFA
Office                                  then
                                        1 space/500 sf for remaining GFA
                                        1 space/250 sf for first 60% of GFA
Personal Services                       then
                                        1 space/500 sf for remaining GFA
Restaurant                              1 space/100 sf GFA
                                        1 space/250 sf for first 60% of GFA
Retail Sales                            then
                                        1 space/500 sf for remaining GFA
Industrial
Medical Cannabis Cultivation Facilities 1 space/2,500 sf GFA
Office and Light Industrial Park        1 space/300 sf GFA of office +
                                        1 space/2,500 sf GFA of warehouse area
Research & Development                  1 space/300 sf GFA
Showroom - No Outdoor Storage           1 space/500 sf GFA
Warehouse                               1 space/2,500 sf GFA
Institutional/Assembly
                                        1 space/4 persons of assembly space GFA
Places of Public Assembly               +
                                        3.5 spaces/1,000 sf of non-assembly
                                        space GFA
                                        Parking Maximum: 115% of required
Educational Facility - Vocational/Trade minimum parking
                                        1 space/300 sf GFA
Government Offices                      1 space/300 sf GFA
Agricultural/Open Space
Botanical Garden                        1 space/2,500 sf GFA
 
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.905. REQUIRED OFF-STREET LOADING SPACES.
   A.   Location.
      1.   All required loading berths must be located on the same lot as the
use served.
      2.   No loading berth for vehicles over two tons capacity may be closer
than 50 feet to any lot line of a lot within a residential district unless
completely enclosed by building walls or a uniformly painted solid fence or
wall, or a combination, a minimum of six feet and a maximum of eight feet in
height.
      3.   All loading berths must be located in the rear yard. Truck loading
bays and off-street truck parking spaces must be located in building walls or
areas of the lot parallel or adjacent to a rear lot line. Such bays must be
bermed, fenced, and/or planted in a manner so that any vehicles within such
bays are not visible from the street.
      4.   No permitted or required loading berth may be located within 25 feet
of the nearest point of intersection of any two streets.
   B.   Dimensions. A loading berth must be a minimum of ten feet in width and
a minimum of 50 feet in length, exclusive of aisles and maneuvering spaces. A
loading berth must have a vertical clearance a minimum of 15 feet.
   C.   Access. Each required off-street loading berth must be designed with
appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or alley in a manner which
will least interfere with traffic movement.
   D.   Surfacing. All open off-street loading berths must be improved with a
compacted macadam base, not less than seven inches thick, surfaced with no less
than two inches of asphaltic concrete or some comparable all-weather dustless
material.
   E.   Repair and Service Prohibited. Motor vehicle repair work or service of
any kind is prohibited within the loading berth and associated area.
   F.   Required Loading Berths. A minimum of one loading space is required for
any commercial or industrial use of 10,000 square feet or more of gross floor
area.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.906. COMMERCIAL AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE STORAGE.
   A.   Commercial Vehicles.
      1.   Residential Lots.
         a.   No commercial vehicle may be parked outdoors on a residential
lot, with the following exceptions:
            i.   Vehicles engaged in loading or unloading or current work being
done to the adjacent premises.
            ii.   Commercial vehicles that are standard size passenger motor
vehicles including, but not limited to, vans, sports utility vehicles (SUVs),
standard passenger size livery vehicles, and pick-up trucks, may be stored or
parked outdoors overnight on lots in residential districts in a permitted
parking area. Such permitted commercial vehicles may include the logo of the
commercial business painted on or applied to the vehicle.
         b.   All other commercial vehicles including, but not limited to,
semi-truck tractor units, with or without attached trailers, commercial
trailers, flatbed trucks, box vans and box trucks, buses, tow trucks,
construction vehicles, livery vehicles that exceed standard passenger vehicle
size, such as limousines, or other large commercial vehicles are not permitted
to be stored or parked outdoors overnight on a residential lot.
      2.   Nonresidential Lots. On nonresidential lots, commercial vehicles
with the logo of the commercial business painted on or applied to the vehicle
that are being operated and stored in the normal course of business, such as
signs located on delivery trucks, promotional vehicles, moving vans, and rental
trucks, are permitted to be stored on the lot in areas related to their use as
vehicles, provided that the primary purpose of such vehicles is not the display
of signs. All such vehicles must be in operable condition.
   B.   Recreational Vehicles.
      1.   No recreational vehicle or trailer licensed to transport
recreational vehicles or equipment may be stored outdoors within the front
yard, including on a residential driveway, for more than five days.
      2.   Recreational vehicles must be stored within the side yard behind the
front building line or in the rear yard. If a recreational vehicle and any
trailer that is more than six feet in height as measured to the highest point
of the vehicle, it must be located at least ten feet from any lot line.
      3.   The area devoted to recreational vehicle storage must be on a hard
surfaced, all-weather dustless material; pervious paving is encouraged and may
also be used. Gravel is prohibited.
      4.   There is no limit on the storage of recreational vehicle within
fully enclosed structures. Temporary storage tents do not meet the requirement
of a fully enclosed structure.
      5.   No recreational vehicle may be used for living, sleeping, or
housekeeping purposes in any district and may not be hooked up to any public
utilities.
      6.   All recreational vehicles must be maintained in mobile condition. No
recreational vehicle may be parked or stored in such manner as to create a
dangerous or unsafe condition on the lot where it is parked or stored. If the
recreational vehicle is parked or stored, whether loaded or not, so that it may
tip or roll, it is considered to be a dangerous and unsafe condition.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
ARTICLE X. LANDSCAPE
SECTION 15.1001. PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY.
   A.   Purpose. Landscaping is required to create attractive development, to
protect and preserve the appearance and character of the surrounding area, and
to help delineate and define vehicular and pedestrian passageways and open
space within the development.
   B.   Applicablity. The landscape requirements of this Article do not apply
to single-family dwellings and guest house dwellings.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.1002. REQUIRED LANDSCAPE SELECTION, INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   When landscape is required by this Article, the following standards apply.
   A.   Selection.
      1.   All plant materials must be of good quality and meet American
Horticulture Industry Association (AmericanHort) or its ANSI accredited
successor's standards for minimum acceptable form, quality, and size for
species selected.
      2.   Native plants, indigenous to the northern Illinois region, must be
used for landscaping.
      3.   Invasive species are prohibited.
   B.   Installation.
      1.   All landscape materials must be installed in accordance with current
nursery industry standards and must be properly supported to ensure survival.
Support devices such as guy wires or stakes cannot create a safety hazard and
must not interfere with pedestrian or vehicular movement.
      2.   No plantings may be installed to impede water flow unless part of an
approved stormwater plan.
      3.   No landscape can be located within any utility easement, with the
exception of lawn grass or other resilient groundcover. If landscape material
is located within a utility easement and repair or replacement of the utility
is needed, the Village or utility is not responsible for the replacement of any
landscape that may be damaged.
      4.   All plant materials must be free of disease and installed so that
soil of sufficient volume, composition, and nutrient balance are available to
sustain healthy growth. Installation of plant materials during the appropriate
growing season is encouraged.
      5.   In the case of required plantings, any fractions are rounded up to
the nearest whole number.
   C.   Maintenance.
      1.   Sites must be permanently maintained in good condition with at least
the same quality and quantity of landscaping as initially approved.
      2.   If any of the plant materials required on the site plan die or are
seriously damaged, they must be replaced. Failure to maintain the site in
accordance with the approved site plan constitutes a zoning violation and will
be enforced in accordance with this Chapter.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.1003. REQUIRED LANDSCAPE DESIGN STANDARDS.
   When landscape is required by this Article, the following design standards
apply.
   A.   Minimum Planting Sizes. Minimum planting sizes are as follows. For the
purposes of determining trunk size, the diameter/caliper is measured at six
inches above ground level, unless otherwise specified in current ANSI
accredited Horticultural Standards.
      1.   Evergreen trees must have a minimum height of six feet.
      2.   Shade trees must have a 1.5 inch caliper.
      3.   Single stem ornamental trees must have a 1.5 inch caliper.
      4.   Multiple stem ornamental trees must have a minimum height of eight
feet.
      5.   Evergreen or deciduous shrubs must have a minimum height of 18
inches.
   B.   Species Diversity. Diversity among required plant material is required
for visual interest and to reduce the risk of losing a large population of
plants due to disease. Table 10-1: Plant Diversity Requirements indicates the
percentage of diversity required based on the total quantity of species being
used. (For example, if a development requires 45 shade trees, no more than 18
trees (40%) can be of one species, and there must be a minimum of five
different species within the 45 trees.) When the calculation of plant diversity
requirements results in a fraction, the fraction is rounded up.
 
Total Number of Plants per Maximum Number of One Minimum Number of Species
Plant Type                 Species
5-10                       60%                   2
11-15                      45%                   3
16-75                      40%                   5
76-500                     25%                   8
500-1,000                  30%                   10
1,000+                     15%                   15
 
   C.   Stormwater Management.
      1.   Bio-retention areas are encouraged and are considered to meet the
landscaping requirements. If a stormwater management pond is proposed, it must
be integrated into the overall development and serve as a visual amenity to the
site.
      2.   Parking lot islands and landscape areas are encouraged to be
designed to accommodate stormwater detention and infiltration.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.1004. PARKING LOT PERIMETER LANDSCAPE.
   A parking lot perimeter landscape is required for all parking lots that abut
a street. A perimeter landscape yard is also required where a parking lot abuts
an adjacent public space such as a plaza, public seating area, or park in any
district. The landscaped area must be improved as follows:
   A.   Perimeter landscape must be established along the edge of the parking
lot abutting a street, plaza, public seating area, or park to create a visually
attractive environment. The landscape treatment must run the full length of the
parking lot perimeter between the lot line and the edge of the parking lot,
with the exception of accessways. Perimeter landscape area must be a minimum of
15 feet in width.
   B.   Shrubs must be planted and spaced sufficiently to form a continuous
linear hedgerow at plant maturity a minimum of three feet in height within
three years and achieve a minimum of four feet in height. The minimum number of
shrubs required is one shrub for every three linear feet. Alternatively, a mix
of shrubs, perennials, native grasses, and other planting types that provide a
continuous screening of a minimum of three feet in height within three years
may be used.
   C.   A minimum of one shade tree must be provided for every 40 linear feet
of perimeter landscape yard. Two ornamental trees may be substituted for one
shade tree and must be spaced one ornamental tree every 20 feet. Trees may be
spaced linearly on-center or grouped to complement an overall design concept.
   D.   60% of the remaining landscape area outside of shrub and tree masses
must be planted in live groundcover, perennials, or ornamental grasses. Mulch
or other permeable landscape materials are required for any remaining area.
   E.   The following alternatives are allowed in place of the requirements of
items B. through D. (one of the two):
      1.   A low pedestrian masonry, brick, or stone wall a minimum of four
feet to a maximum of six feet in height may be used. A mix of shrubs,
perennials, native grasses, and other planting types must be installed between
the front lot line and the wall to provide a softening effect.
      2.    An ornamental fence that is a minimum of 50% open a minimum of four
feet to a maximum of six feet in height may be used. Shrubs as required above
must be planted but shade trees are not required. 60% of the landscape area
outside of required shrub and any tree masses must be planted in live
groundcover, perennials, or ornamental grasses. Permeable landscape materials
are required for any remaining area.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/66c950a57e9910e3945c5f85920a0e118f90dca4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7156.jpg]
 
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.1005. PARKING LOT INTERIOR LANDSCAPE.
   The purpose of parking lot interior landscape is to help delineate vehicular
and pedestrian passageways, minimize the negative visual impact of large
expanses of pavement, provide shade and reduce heat and glare, and accommodate
stormwater management techniques. All parking lots of 15 or more spaces are
required to install parking lot interior landscape as follows:
   A.   Where more than 15 parking stalls are provided in a row, one parking
lot island must be provided between every 15 parking spaces. Parking lot island
locations may be varied based on specific site requirements or design scheme,
but the total number of islands must be no less than the amount required of one
island for every 15 spaces.
   B.   Parking lot islands must be at least the same dimension as the parking
stall. Double rows of parking must provide parking lot islands that are the
same dimension as the double row.
   C.   A minimum of one shade tree must be provided in every parking lot
island or landscape area. If a parking lot island extends the width of a double
row, then two shade trees are required. In addition to the required shade
trees, a minimum of 30% of the area of every parking lot island must be planted
in shrubs, live groundcover, perennials, or ornamental grasses.
   D.   In addition to parking lot islands, additional landscape areas must be
provided within the interior of parking lots when the parking area is 20,000
square feet or more in area, which includes parking stalls, islands, and area
for vehicular circulation. The minimum total landscape area of a parking lot,
including parking lot islands, must be 10% of the total parking lot area.
Parking lot perimeter landscape is excluded from the calculation of total
parking lot area square footage and is not counted toward required landscape
area.
   E.   Clearly delineated crosswalks of paving, brick paver, bituminous brick
pattern stamping, or painted striping must connect landscaped areas and parking
lot islands to building entrances to improve safe passageway for pedestrians.
Curb cuts must be included on landscaped areas or islands where such crosswalks
are located.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/66c950a57e9910e3945c5f85920a0e118f90dca4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7158.jpg]
(Ord. 885, passe d 11- 21- 2023 )
SECTION 15.1006. SITE LANDSCAPE .
   A.    Areas of any lot that are not covered by structures or pavement must
be planted with live landscaping.
   B.   For non-residential uses, the total landscaping requirement for
building sites must consist of one tree for each 3,000 square feet of lot area.
Existing trees and trees required for plantings as per this Article are counted
toward this requirement. Where building sites limit planting, the placement of
trees in parkways or paved areas is encouraged.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.1007. BUFFER YARD.
   A.   Buffer Yards.
      1.   O/R and TC Districts.
         a.   Where the interior side or rear lot line abuts a residential
district: 100 feet.
         b.   Where the front or corner side lot line is located across the
street from a residential district - this applies when at least 80% or more of
the frontage directly across the street and between two consecutive
intersecting streets is in a residential district: 100 feet.
      2.   H District.
         a.   Where the interior side or rear lot line abuts a residential
district: 50 feet or the applicable interior side or rear minimum setback for
the abutting residential district, whichever is greater.
         b.   Where the front or corner side lot line is located across the
street from a residential district - this applies when at least 80% or more of
the frontage directly across the street and between two consecutive
intersecting streets is in a residential district: 50 feet or the applicable
interior side or rear minimum setback for the abutting residential district,
whichever is greater.
         c.   Where the front or corner side lot line is a continuation of a
residential district's front or corner side lot line (no intersecting street):
50 feet or the applicable interior side or rear minimum setback for the
abutting residential district, whichever is greater.
   B.   Rear and Interior Side Setback Buffer Yard. The required buffer yard in
rear and interior side setbacks must be planted as required by this section.
These are all new planting requirements.
      1.   Zone A. Zone A comprises the first 25 feet of the buffer yard,
measured perpendicularly from the rear or interior side lot line. Requirements
for plantings within zone A are as follows:
         a.   All areas outside of delineated planting beds must be seeded or
sodded, except where natural vegetation is acceptable as approved by the Zoning
Administrator.
         b.   One shade tree must be planted for every 20 linear feet of buffer
yard length. As part of site plan approval, trees may be spaced at various
intervals based upon specific site features or an overall design schema, but
the total number of trees planted must be no less than one per 20 linear feet
of buffer yard length. Existing trees in the buffer yard may count toward the
buffer yard tree requirement. This credit is a 1:1 ratio (one existing tree for
one required tree) regardless of the size of the existing tree.
         c.   One evergreen tree must be planted for every 30 feet of buffer
yard length. As part of site plan approval, trees may be spaced at various
intervals based upon specific site features or an overall design schema, but
the total number of trees planted must be no less than one per 30 linear feet
of buffer yard length. Existing trees in the buffer yard may count toward the
buffer yard tree requirement. This credit is a 1:1 ratio (one existing tree for
one required tree) regardless of the size of the existing tree.
         d.   One evergreen shrub must be planted for every three linear feet
of buffer yard length. Required shrubs must be staggered, planted in two or
more rows to provide depth and visual interest, and to lessen the visual gaps
between required tree plantings. As part of site plan approval, shrubs may be
spaced at various intervals based upon specific site features or an overall
design schema, but the total number of shrubs planted must be no less than one
per three linear feet of buffer yard length.
         e.   A solid fence or wall, constructed of wood, brick, masonry, or
stone a minimum of six feet and a maximum of eight feet in height must be
erected at the lot line for 100% of the buffer yard length, with the exception
of required ingress/egress points. If constructed on a berm, the height of the
berm is included, and the maximum height of a fence and berm combined is eight
feet.
         f.   Required plant material may not be located closer than five feet
from the fence line.
      2.   Zone B. Zone B comprises the remainder of the required buffer yard
outside of zone A. Requirements for plantings within zone B are as follows:
         a.   All areas outside of delineated planting beds must be seeded or
sodded, except where natural vegetation is acceptable as approved by the Zoning
Administrator.
         b.   One shade tree is required per 3,000 square feet of buffer yard
area within zone B. Ornamental trees may be substituted for shade trees at a
ratio of 1.5 ornamental trees per one shade tree.
         c.   One deciduous or evergreen shrub is required per 300 square feet
of buffer yard area within zone B.
         d.     In lieu of requ ired shru bs, as part of site plan review,
alter native plan tings incl uding nati ve land scape treat ments such as
prairie, meadow, or wildflower communities may be approved. Such alternative
plantings must occupy 40% of the area of zone B.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/66c950a57e9910e3945c5f85920a0e118f90dca4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7160.jpg]
   C.   Front and Corner Side Setback Buffer Yard. The required buffer yard in
front and corner side setbacks must be planted as required by this section.
These are all new planting requirements.
      1.   All areas outside of delineated planting beds must be seeded or
sodded, except where natural vegetation is acceptable as approved by the Zoning
Administrator.
      2.   One shade tree is required per 2,000 square feet of buffer yard
area. Ornamental trees may be substituted for shade trees at a ratio of 1.5
ornamental trees per one shade tree.
      3.   One deciduous or evergreen shrub is required per 150 square feet of
buffer yard area.
      4.    In lieu of required shrubs, as part of site plan review,
alternative plantings including native landscape treatments such as prairie,
meadow, or wildflower communities may be approved. Such alternative plantings
must occupy 60% of the buffer yard area.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/66c950a57e9910e3945c5f85920a0e118f90dca4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7164.jpg]
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
ARTICLE XI. ZONING ADMINISTRATION
SECTION 15.1101. ZONING OFFICIALS.
   A.   Village Board. The Village Board has the following specific powers,
pursuant to this Chapter:
      1.   To make final decisions on zoning text and map amendments.
      2.   To make final decisions on special use permits.
      3.   To make final decisions on variations.
      4.   To make final decisions on planned unit developments.
   B.   Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission. The Zoning, Planning, and
Appeals Commission has the following specific powers, pursuant to this Chapter:
      1.   To make recommendations on zoning text and map amendments.
      2.   To make recommendations on special use permits.
      3.   To make recommendations on variations.
      4.   To make final decisions on zoning appeals of Zoning Administrator
decisions.
      5.   To make recommendations on planned unit developments.
   C.   Zoning Administrator.
      1.   Designation. The Director of Building and Zoning of the Village of
Mettawa serves ex officio as the head of the office of the Zoning Administrator
and is referred to as the Zoning Administrator.
      2.   Powers and Duties. The Zoning Administrator, or his/her designee,
has the following specific powers and duties, pursuant to this Chapter:
         a.   To review and make final decisions on applications for zoning
certificates.
         b.   To review and make final decisions on applications for occupancy
certificates.
         c.   To conduct inspections of structures or the use of land to
determine compliance with this Chapter and, in the case of any violation, to
notify in writing the person or persons responsible, specifying the violation
and order a corrective action.
         d.   To maintain in current status the Official Zoning Map.
         e.   To maintain permanent and current records required by this
Chapter including, but not limited to, zoning certificates, inspections, and
all official action on appeals, variations, and amendments.
         f.   To prepare and have available in book, pamphlet, or map form, on
or before March 31 of each year:
            i.   The compiled text of the Zoning Ordinance, including all
amendments thereto through the preceding December 31.
            ii.   A zoning map or maps, showing the zoning districts,
divisions, and classifications in effect on the preceding December 31.
         g.   To notify applicable officials of the Village as to pending
matters and from time-to-time coordinate and arrange, under the auspices of the
Village President, meetings between developers, builders, etc., and
administrative officials of the Village of Mettawa to facilitate the solving of
engineering, layout, and design problems prior to hearings before the Zoning,
Planning, and Appeals Commission.
         h.   To maintain for distribution to the public a supply of the rules
and bylaws of the Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission.
         i.   To accept applications for public hearings before the Zoning,
Planning, and Appeals Commission and to forward same to the Office of the
Village Clerk for processing and publication of proper legal notice.
   D.   Restrictions on Zoning Official. No official or employee responsible
for the enforcing of this Chapter may engage directly or indirectly in the
construction industry or the building professions, or in any type of gainful
employment or business that conflicts with such official's duties or the
interests of the business incorporated in this Chapter.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.1102.  PERMIT.
   A.   No application for a building permit, certificate of use or occupancy,
or other permit or license may be approved by the Zoning Administrator which
would authorize the use or a change in use of any building or land contrary to
the provisions of this Chapter, or the construction, moving, alteration,
enlargement, or occupancy of any building designed or intended to be used for a
purpose or in a manner contrary to the provisions of this Chapter.
   B.   No permit may be issued:
      1.   When an appeal is pending before the Zoning, Planning, and Appeals
Commission.
      2.   While a recommendation of the Zoning, Planning, and Appeals
Commission may be pending before the Village Board.
      3.   While litigation is pending in any court challenging the Village's
actions.
      4.   During the time within which such appeal from a court's action can
lawfully be taken.
   C.   However, the Zoning Administrator may certify to the Village Board
after the notice of appeal has been filed, by the reason of facts stated in the
certificate, a stay would, in his/her opinion, cause imminent peril to life or
property. In this event, the proceedings cannot be stayed other than by a
restraining order entered by a court of competent jurisdiction on due cause
shown.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.1103. APPLICATION PROCESSES GENERALLY.
   A.   Applications.
      1.   Filing and Optional Pre-Application Conference.
         a.   All zoning applications must be filed with the Village Clerk with
a copy submitted to the Zoning Administrator. The application must be on forms
provided by the Village and filed in such quantity as required by the
instructions.
         b.   Prior to formal submittal of an application, a pre-application
conference with the Zoning Administrator is optional. The purpose of the pre-
application conference, which does not require a formal application or fees, is
to provide informal advice and assistance to the applicant. Any opinions or
advice provided are not binding with respect to any official action that may be
taken on the appiication. Certain applications may require a pre-application
conference.
      2.   Completeness.
         a.   The application must include all information, plans, and data as
specified in the application requirements. Any required plans must be at a
scale sufficient to permit a clear and precise understanding of the proposal,
unless specifically required to be at a set scale.
         b.   The Zoning Administrator will examine all applications to
determine completeness. If the application does not include all the submittal
requirements for the application, the Zoning Administrator will reject the
application and provide the applicant with the reasons for the rejection. The
Zoning Administrator will take no further steps to process the application
until all deficiencies are remedied.
         c.   After an application is determined to be complete, any
substantive change made by the applicant to the application requires
resubmittal of the entire application and a new completeness review. However,
such revisions do not require an additional payment of fees. However, once the
application is under consideration by the appropriate body, additional
information or revisions requested during review do not constitute a change to
the application.
      3.   Withdrawal of Application. An applicant has the right to withdraw an
application at any time prior to the final decision on the application by a
board or official, including the ability to withdraw the application if it has
been tabled. The applicant must submit a request for withdrawal in writing.
There will be no refund of fees.
      4.   Consideration of Successive Applications.
         a.   Within one year of the date of denial, a subsequent application
for the same zoning approval will not be reviewed or heard unless the applicant
can show there is substantial new evidence available or that changed
circumstances exist.
         b.   If the application is resubmitted earlier than one year from the
date of denial, the subsequent application must include a detailed statement of
the grounds justifying its consideration. The Zoning Administrator will make a
determination as to whether the subsequent application is appropriate for
resubmittal prior to the expiration of the one year wait requirement. If the
Zoning Administrator finds that there are no new grounds for consideration of
the subsequent application, he/she will summarily, and without hearing, deny
the request.
      5.   Fees. Payment of filing fees are required in accordance with the
Comprehensive Fee Schedule adopted by the Village Board.
   B.   Notice.
      1.   Required Notice. Table 11-1: Required Notice indicates the types of
notice required for zoning applications. Item 5 below also describes a courtesy
notice for public hearing that may be provided by the Village.
Zoning Application Notice Type
                   Published Mailed Posted on Property
Zoning Application                          Notice Type
                                            Published Mailed Posted on Property
Zoning Text Amendment                      X
Notice for Public Hearing
Zoning Map Amendment                        X         X      X
Notice for Public Hearing
Zoning Map Amendment - Comprehensive Zoning
Map Amendment Initiated by the Village      X
Notice for Public Hearing
Special Use                                 X         X      X
Notice for Public Hearing
Variation                                   X         X      X
Notice for Public Hearing
Zoning Appeals                              X
Notice for Public Hearing
 
      2.   Published Notice. When published notice is required in
Table 11-1, the Village Clerk will publish notice in one or more newspapers
published in the Village or, if no newspaper is published within the Village,
then in one or more newspapers with a general circulation within the Village.
The notice must include the date, time, place, and purpose of such hearing, and
the common address and Parcel Identification Number (PIN) of the subject
property. Notice must be published no less than 15 days and no more than 30
days in advance of the scheduled hearing date.
      3.   Mailed Notice. When mailed notice is required in
Table 11-1, the applicant is responsible for the mailing, by regular U.S. Mail,
as described below, and must furnish the Village Clerk an affidavit that such
notices were mailed prior to the date of the hearing.
         a.   Written notice must be mailed no less than 15 and no more than 30
days in advance of the scheduled hearing date to all taxpayers of record of
property laying within 1,000 feet of the subject property.
         b.   Distance is measured from the property line in each direction
from the subject property. All roads, streets, and other public ways are
excluded from the distance requirements.
         c.   The notice must include the date, time, place, and purpose of
such hearing, and the common address and Parcel identification Number (PIN) of
the subject property.
         d.   Nothing in this section is intended to prevent the applicant or
the Village from giving additional notice as he/she may deem appropriate.
         e.   If the taxpayer of record of any property on which notice is to
be sent cannot be found at his/her last known address, the notice requirements
are deemed satisfied.
      4.   Posted Notice. When posted notice is required in
Table 11-1, it must be located on the subject property in accordance with the
following provisions:
         a.   The required posting period must be no less than 15 days and no
more than 30 days in advance of the scheduled hearing date.
         b.   The sign must be posted at a prominent location on the property,
near the sidewalk or public or private right-of-way so that it is visible to
pedestrians and motorists. Properties with more than one street frontage are
required to post one sign visible on each street frontage.
         c.   The sign must include the date, time, place, and purpose of the
public hearing.
         d.   The Village will install the sign during the required posting
period.
      5.   Website/Email Public Hearing Courtesy Notice.
         a.   The Zoning Administrator will coordinate with the Village Clerk
to post notice to the Village website and to send email notification to a
Village-maintained email list regarding public hearings conducted by the
Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission.
         b.   Public hearing notice will be posted to the Village website if
the Village maintains a website at least 15 days before the public hearing.
         c.   Public hearing notice will be emailed to recipients on an email
list maintained by the Village if the Village maintains such an email list at
least 15 days before the public hearing.
         d.   Such notice is a courtesy notice not required by State law. The
unavailability of such applications or notices on the Village's website, or the
failure to send or receive such emails, as described above, does not
invalidate, impair, or otherwise effect any approval granted following a public
hearing. Website and email notice, as described above, are for the convenience
of the public and not a jurisdictional prerequisite to the Zoning, Planning,
and Appeals Commission's public hearing and recommendation, or for the Village
Board's decision on any application.
   C.   Public Hearing.
      1.   Examination of Documents. Upon receipt by the Zoning Administrator
of an application that requires a public hearing, the Zoning Administrator will
assign a case and/or docket number to the application and maintain a file for
such. The file will be open to the public for inspection during regular
business hours. All documents pertinent to the case (application, legal notice,
evidence, exhibits, transcript or record of proceedings, etc.) will be placed
in said file by the Zoning Administrator.
      2.   Conduct of the Public Hearing.
         a.   The public hearing must be conducted in accordance with all
applicable requirements of Illinois law and the rules and regulations of the
body conducting the hearing.
         b.   Any party in interest may appear and be heard at a public hearing
held for an application, and such appearance may be made in person, by agent
(if a corporation), or by attorney.
      3.   Continuances. The body conducting the hearing may continue a public
hearing. No new notice is required to reopen the public hearing if the hearing
is continued to a date specific, provided that a public announcement of the
future date, time, and place of the continued hearing is made at the current
hearing and recorded in the minutes. If the hearing is adjourned, rather than
continued to a date specified, in order to reopen the hearing all notice must
be given that would have been required for the initial public hearing.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.1104. ZONING TEXT AND MAP AMENDMENTS.
   A.   Purpose. The regulations imposed and the districts created by this
Chapter may be amended from time to time in accordance with this section. This
process for amending the Zoning Ordinance text or the Official Zoning Map is
intended to allow modifications in response to omissions or errors, changed
conditions, or changes in Village policy. Amendments are not intended to
relieve particular hardships or confer special privileges or rights upon any
person or party.
   B.   Initiation. Amendments to this Chapter may be initiated by the Village
Board, the Village President, the Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission, any
Village property owner or his/her authorized designee(s), or by any interested
citizen of the Village of Mettawa.
   C.   Authority. The Village Board, after receiving a recommendation from the
Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission, will take formal action on requests
for zoning text and map amendments.
   D.   Procedure. All applications must be filed with the Village Clerk in
accordance with Section
15.1103.
      1.   Action by the Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission.
         a.   After receipt of a complete application, the Zoning, Planning,
and Appeals Commission will consider the proposed application at a public
hearing. Notice for the public hearing must be in accordance with Section
15.1103.
         b.   Within 45 days of the close of the public hearing, the Zoning,
Planning, and Appeals Commission will prepare findings of fact and make its
recommendation with respect to the proposed amendment and forward their
findings and recommendation to the Village Board, as well as the Village Clerk
and Zoning Administrator.
         c.   If, at the expiration of such 45 days, the Zoning, Planning, and
Appeals Commission has not made findings and a recommendation, it is concluded
that the Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission has made negative findings
and has recommended denial of the proposed amendment.
         d.   The Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission must evaluate the
application based upon the evidence presented at the public hearing, pursuant
to the approval standards of this section. For zoning text amendments, the
Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission must recommend approval, approval with
modifications, or denial of the application. For zoning map amendments, the
Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission must recommend approval or denial of
the application.
      2.   Action by the Village Board.
         a.   The Village Board must act on the application within 180 days of
receipt of the Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission's findings and
recommendation. If, at the expiration of 180 days, the Village Board has not
acted, the application is denied.
         b.   The following applies to when an application has been referred to
a committee of the Village Board:
            i.   Whenever the findings and recommendations of the Zoning,
Planning, and Appeals Commission have been referred to any committee of the
Village Board, the committee must make its report to the Village Board within
160 days of the date that the findings and recommendations are referred to it.
            ii.   If the committee does not make its report within 160 days,
then the Village President will discharge the said committee from further
responsibility in consideration of the said findings and recommendations and
place the application for such proposed amendment on the agenda of the next
regular meeting of the Village Board.
         c.   The Village Board must take action in the form of approval,
approval with modifications, or denial on applications for zoning text
amendments, and approval or denial on applications for zoning map amendments.
         d.   No amendments may be proposed within six months of the date of
adoption of the Official Comprehensive Plan for the Village of Mettawa by the
Village Board unless such amendment is approved by a favorable vote of two-
thirds of all of the members of the Village Board then holding office.
   E.   Approval Standards. The Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission
recommendation and the Village Board decision on any zoning text or map
amendment is a matter of legislative discretion. In making their recommendation
and decision, the Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission and the Village
Board considers the following standards. The approval of an application is
based on a balancing of these standards.
      1.   Approval Standards for Map Amendments.
         a.   The consistency of the proposed amendment with the Comprehensive
Plan.
         b.   The compatibility with the existing use and zoning of nearby
property.
         c.   The extent to which the proposed amendment promotes the public
health, safety, and welfare of the Village.
         d.   The relative gain to the public, as compared to the hardship
imposed upon the applicant.
         e.   The suitability of the subject property for the purposes for
which it is presently zoned.
         f.   The length of time that the subject property in question has been
vacant, as presently zoned, considered in the context of development in the
area where the property is located.
         g.   The extent to which the proposed amendment creates
nonconformities.
      2.   Approval Standards for Text Amendments.
         a.   The consistency of the proposed amendment with the Comprehensive
Plan.
         b.   The extent to which the proposed amendment promotes the public
health, safety, and welfare of the Village.
         c.   Whether the proposed amendment corrects an error or omission,
adds clarification to existing requirements, or reflects a change in policy.
         d.   The extent to which the proposed amendment creates
nonconformities.
   F.   Protest. In case of a written protest against any proposed map
amendment, signed and acknowledged by the owners of 20% of the frontage
proposed to be altered, or by the owners of 20% of the frontage immediately
adjacent, or by the owners of 20% of the frontage directly opposite the
frontage proposed to be altered, is filed with the Village Clerk, the proposed
amendment cannot be passed except by a favorable vote of two-thirds of all of
the members of the Village Board then holding office.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.1105. SPECIAL USE.
   A.   Purpose. The development and execution of this Chapter is based upon
the division of the Village into zoning districts, within which the use of land
and buildings, and the bulk and location of buildings and structures in
relation to land, are substantially uniform. It is recognized, however, that
there are specific uses which, because of their unique characteristics cannot
be properly classified in any particular district or districts without
consideration in each individual case of the impact of those special uses upon
neighboring land and of the public need for that particular special use at that
particular location. Such uses may be either public or private and are of such
an unusual nature that their operation may give rise to unique problems with
respect to their impact upon neighboring property or public facilities.
   B.   Initiation. Special uses may be initiated by any Village property owner
or his/her authorized designee(s).
   C.   Authority. The Village Board, after receiving a recommendation from the
Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission, will take formal action on requests
for special uses.
   D.   Procedure. All applications must be filed with the Village Clerk in
accordance with Section
15.1103.
      1.   Action by the Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission.
         a.   After receipt of a complete application, the Zoning, Planning,
and Appeals Commission will consider the proposed application at a public
hearing. Notice for the public hearing must be in accordance with Section
15.1103.
         b.   The Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission will review the
following regarding the special use application: site plan, existing and
proposed structures, architectural plans, neighboring uses, parking areas,
driveway locations, street access, traffic generation and circulation,
drainage, sanitary and storm sewer, water systems, landscaping, park
requirements and proposed operation. The Zoning, Planning and Appeals
Commission will also review conditions such as landscaping, architectural
design, type of construction, construction commencement and completion dates,
lighting, fencing, planting screens, hours of operation, traffic improvements,
deed restrictions, increased yards, or parking requirements.
         c.   The Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission must evaluate the
application based upon the evidence presented at the public hearing, pursuant
to the approval standards of this section. The Zoning, Planning, and Appeals
Commission must recommend approval, approval with conditions, or denial of the
application.
         d.   Within 45 days of the close of the public hearing, the Zoning,
Planning, and Appeals Commission will prepare findings of fact and make its
recommendation with respect to the proposed special use and forward their
findings and recommendation to the Village Board, as well as the Village Clerk
and Zoning Administrator.
         e.   If, at the expiration of such 45 days, the Zoning, Planning, and
Appeals Commission has not made findings and a recommendation, it is concluded
that the Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission has made negative findings
and has recommended denial of the special use.
      2.   Action by the Village Board.
         a.   The Village Board is authorized to take action to approve by
ordinance or deny the application for special use approval, following receipt
of the Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission recommendations. Ordinances
regarding special use approvals must make reference to a site plan attached to
the ordinance. The Village Board may refer the matter back to the Zoning,
Planning, and Appeals Commission for further consideration.
         b.   The Village Board must take action in the form of approval,
approval with conditions, or denial, on special use applications. If an
application for a proposed special use is not acted upon finally by the Village
Board within 180 days of the date upon which the findings and recommendations
of the Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission are filed with the Board, it is
deemed denied.
         c.   In the event the Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission
recommends against the special use permit, then authority for issuance of the
special use permit requires the favorable vote of a majority of all of the
members of the Village Board.
         d.   The terms and conditions of a granted special use will be
specifically set forth within the ordinance approving the special use permit.
No special use can be conducted in violation of the terms and conditions of the
ordinance approving the special use permit.
   E.   Approval Standards. The Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission
recommendation and the Village Board decision on a special use will be based
upon consideration of the following standards:
      1.   The special use will serve the public convenience at the location of
the subject property and that the establishment, maintenance, or operation of
the special use will not be detrimental to or endanger the public health,
safety, or welfare.
      2.   The location and size of the special use, the nature and intensity
of the operation involved in or conducted in connection with said special use,
the size of the subject property in relation to such special use, and the
location of the site with respect to streets given access to it, is such that
it will be in harmony with the appropriate, orderly development of the district
in which it is located and will not alter the essential character of the
locality where it will be located.
      3.   That the special use will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment
of other property in the immediate vicinity of the subject property for the
purposes already permitted in such zoning district, nor substantially diminish
and impair other property valuations within the neighborhood.
      4.   The nature, location, and size of the buildings or structures
involved with the establishment of the special use will not impede,
substantially hinder, or discourage the orderly development and use of adjacent
land and buildings.
      5.   Adequate utilities, access streets, drainage, and/or other necessary
facilities have been or will be provided,
      6.   Parking areas are of adequate size for the particular special use
and are properly located and suitably screened from adjoining residential uses.
The entrance and exit driveways to and from these parking areas must be
designed so as to prevent traffic hazards, eliminate nuisance, and minimize
traffic congestion in the public streets.
      7.   The special use conforms to the applicable regulations of the
district in which it is located, except as such regulations may, in each
instance, be modified as provided by this Chapter.
   F.   Other Requirements. When the zoning district regulations authorize a
special use in a particular zoning district and that special use has additional
standards set forth, a special use permit cannot be recommended or granted
unless the applicant establishes compliance with all such standards.
   G.   Conditions.
      1.   The Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission may impose conditions
and restrictions upon the establishment, location, construction, maintenance,
and operation of the special use as deemed necessary for the protection of the
public health, safety, and welfare, which will be contained within the
ordinance granting the special use permit.
      2.   All special uses granted by the Village Board, as the case may be,
are hereby amended as a matter of law to include the following text, whether or
not such text was included in the special use granted. In the event of any
conflict between the terms of a special use and the terms of the following
text, the following text controls and supersedes any conflicting term in the
special use: That the failure of any owner of the subject property to comply
strictly with any one or more of the conditions contained in this Chapter will
cause, unless cured by the owner upon 14 days of notice from the Village, or
some other greater time period set by the Village in the notice, a revocation
of the special use permit issued hereby as well as every other permit and/or
license issued by the Village of Mettawa by reason of the adoption of this
Chapter upon expiration of the cure period set forth herein.
   H.   No Presumption of Approval. The listing of a use as a special use
within a zoning district does not constitute an assurance or presumption that
such special use will be approved. Rather, each proposed special use is
evaluated on an individual basis, in relation to all applicable standards of
this Code. Such evaluation will determine whether approval of the special use
is appropriate at the particular location and in the particular manner
proposed. The burden is on the applicant to establish that the special use
requested is appropriate at the particular location and in the particular
manner proposed.
   I.   Expiration. The following special use expiration provisions apply only
to special uses approved on or after November 21, 2023. A special use approval
expires if any one of the following conditions occurs and no request for an
extension of the special use approval is pending.
      1.   When an approved special use is changed to another use.
      2.   For special uses granted in conjunction with new construction or
additions or enlargements to an existing structure, the special use approval
expires within 12 months of the date of approval is a building permit has not
been filed. Further, the special use expires if construction has not begun
within 15 months of the date of approval and completed within 24 months of the
date of approval. The Village Board may approve an extension of these periods
of validity if the applicant applies in writing for an extension of time a
minimum of four weeks prior to the date of expiration.
      3.   For special uses within existing structures or on lots where no
structure is planned, the special use approval expires 12 months of the date of
approval if any licenses or permits required for the operation or maintenance
of the use have not been obtained.
   J.   Revision. Any proposed change in the authorizing ordinance, conditions,
or restrictions, or site plan alterations that involve building size or
integral changes to the design and location of proposed site elements,
constitutes a request for special use revision. These changes must be submitted
to the Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission who will make findings of fact
and recommendations that will be transmitted to the Village Board for their
approval. Minor site plan additions or changes must be submitted to the Zoning,
Planning, and Appeals Commission for site plan review approval. The decision to
process site plan additions or changes as a special use revision will be the
responsibility of the Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission.
   K.   Revocation.
      1.   The Village Board, after public hearing, may revoke the special use
permit at any time if it is not in compliance with the conditions imposed or if
there has been substantial change in the development without prior written
approval of said changes by the Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission.
      2.   A public hearing shall be held before the Village Board prior to any
revocation of special use. A notice of such public hearing must be published at
least once, not more than 30 nor less than 15 days before the hearing, in a
newspaper of general circulation in the Village. The notice must contain the
date, time, and place of hearing, the street address or common description of
the property involved, and a brief statement of the violation alleged to have
occurred. Written notice must also be sent, postage prepaid, to the last known
address of the possessor of the special use permit.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.1106. VARIATION.
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of the variation process is to provide a narrowly
circumscribed means by which relief may be granted from unforeseen applications
of this Chapter that create practical difficulties or particular hardships.
   B.   Initiation. A variation may be initiated by any Village property owner
or his/her authorized designee(s). A property owner or his/her designee may
only propose a variation for property under his/her control.
   C.   Authority. The Village Board, after receiving a recommendation from the
Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission, will take formal action on requests
for variations.
   D.   Limitations. Variations to allow a use within a district that is not
allowed as either a permitted or special use (use variations) are prohibited.
   E.   Procedure. All applications must be filed with the Village Clerk in
accordance with Section
15.1103.
      1.   Action by the Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission.
         a.   After receipt of a complete application, the Zoning, Planning,
and Appeals Commission will consider the proposed application at a public
hearing. Notice for the public hearing must be in accordance with Section
15.1103.
         b.   The Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission must evaluate the
application based upon the evidence presented at the public hearing, pursuant
to the approval standards of this section. The Zoning, Planning, and Appeals
Commission must recommend approval, approval with conditions, or denial of the
application.
         c.   Within 45 days of the close of the public hearing, the Zoning,
Planning, and Appeals Commission will prepare findings of fact and make its
recommendation with respect to the proposed variation and forward their
findings and recommendation to the Village Board, as well as the Village Clerk
and Zoning Administrator.
         d.   If, at the expiration of such 45 days, the Zoning, Planning, and
Appeals Commission has not made findings and a recommendation, it is concluded
that the Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission has made negative findings
and has recommended denial of the variation.
      2.   Action by the Village Board. Following receipt of the Zoning,
Planning, and Appeals Commission recommendation, the Village Board must take
action in the form of approval, approval with conditions, or denial on
variation applications. If an application for a proposed variation is not acted
upon finally by the Village Board within 180 days of the date upon which the
findings and recommendations of the Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission
are filed with the Board, it is deemed denied.
   F.   Approval Standards. The Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission
recommendation and the Village Board decision must make findings to support
each of the following:
      1.   The strict application of the terms of this Chapter will result in
hardship unless the specific relief requested is granted.
      2.   The particular physical surroundings, shape, or topographical
conditions of the specific property impose a particular hardship upon the
owner, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience, if the strict letter of the
regulations were to be carried out.
      3.   The plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances that do not
apply to a majority of adjoining or nearby property and is not a self-created
hardship.
      4.   The relief requested is the minimum necessary to eliminate the
hardship.
      5.   The variation, if granted, will not alter the essential character of
the locality.
   G.   Conditions. The Village Board may impose conditions and restrictions
upon the variation as deemed necessary for the protection of the public health,
safety, and welfare which must be contained within the ordinance granting the
variation. The Village Board may grant a variation that is less than that
requested when it has been decided that the applicant is entitled to some
relief of the hardship, but not to the entire relief requested in the variation
application.
   H.   Expiration. An approved variation will expire one year from the date of
approval unless a building permit is obtained or construction has begun prior
to the end of the one-year period. The Village Board may grant an extension for
a period of validity longer than one year as part of the original approval or
it may shorten such period of validity as part of the original approval. An
applicant may apply in writing for an extension of time at any time prior to
the date of expiration, which will be processed as a new variation application
including all required notice and fees.
   I.   Restriction on Application. No variation will be granted within six
months after the date upon which an official Comprehensive Plan for the Village
of Mettawa is adopted by the Village Board, unless such variation is approved
by a two-thirds vote of the Village Board or the Zoning, Planning and Appeals
Commission, as the case may be.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.1107. SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   A.   Purpose. The site plan review process is intended to promote orderly
development in the Village, and to assure that such development occurs in a
manner that is harmonious with surrounding properties, is consistent with the
Village's Comprehensive Plan, and promotes the public health, safety, and
welfare. This section provides standards by which to determine the physical
layout and design to achieve compatibility of uses and structures, efficient
use of land, and minimization of traffic and safety hazards.
   B.   Authority. The Village Board reviews and issues final approval of site
plans.
   C.   Applicability. Site plan review is required for the following:
      1.   Development within the O/R, H, TC, and OS Districts.
      2.   Any non-residential use within an R-1 or R-2 District.
   D.   Procedure. All applications must be filed with the Village Clerk in
accordance with Section
15.1103.
      1.   After receipt of a complete site plan, the Village Board will review
the proposed site plan at a public meeting. The Village Board must approve or
deny the site plan.
      2.   Following approval of a site plan, the Zoning Administrator will
issue a building permit, provided all other provisions of applicable
ordinances, statutes, and/or other regulations have been satisfied by the
applicant.
      3.   If a site plan is denied, the Village Board will notify in writing
the applicant or his/her representative of the review standards that have not
been satisfied and the aspects of the proposed site plan that should be
modified. No building permit will be issued for a structure until the modified
site plan has received the approval of the Village Board.
      4.   The Village Board will evaluate the site plan based upon the review
standards of this section.
   E.   Review Standards.
      1.   General Application and Purpose.
         a.   The purpose of these review standards is to provide a means to
evaluate those items which may affect the physical aspects of the Village's
environment and the development. Pertinent to appearance is the design of the
site, building and structures, plantings, signs, detention and/or retention
basins, and other site elements that are able to be observed by the public.
         b.   These standards and criteria are not intended to restrict
imagination, innovation, or variety, but rather to assist in solutions that
will develop a satisfactory visual appearance within the Village, preserve
taxable values, and promote the public health, safety and welfare.
      2.   Siting Standards.
         a.   The site must be planned to accomplish a desirable transition of
scale, style, line, and mass of buildings and signs within the site and
adjoining buildings.
         b.   Without restricting the permissible limits of the district, the
scale of each building or other structure must be compatible with its site and
existing or anticipated adjoining buildings.
         c.   Newly installed utility services and service revisions
necessitated by exterior alterations must be underground.
      3.   Compatibility Standards.
         a.   Landscape treatment, screens and materials must be used to
provide a harmonious transition between buildings within the site and adjacent
to the site which may vary in architectural style.
         b.   Scale of structures within the site to those adjoining the site
must be made compatible by providing a gradual transition of building scale
from the boundaries of the site.
      4.   Landscape and Site Treatment. Landscape elements included in these
criteria consist of all forms of planting and vegetation, ground forms, rock
groupings, water patterns, and all visible construction except buildings and
utility structures.
         a.   Where natural or existing topographic patterns contribute to the
beauty and utility of a development, they must be preserved and developed.
Modification to topography will be permitted where it contributes to good
appearance.
         b.   Grades of walks, parking spaces, terraces, and other paved areas
must provide an inviting and stable appearance for walking and, if seating is
provided, for sitting.
         c.   Landscape treatment must be provided to enhance architectural
features, strengthen vistas and important axes, and provide shade.
         d.   Unity of design must be achieved by repetition of certain plant
varieties and other materials, and by correlation with adjacent developments.
         e.   Plant material must be selected for interest in its structure,
texture, and color and for its ultimate growth. Plants that are indigenous to
the area and others that will be hardy, harmonious to the design, and of good
appearance must be used.
         f.   Plant materials cannot be located where they will be susceptible
to injury by pedestrian or motor traffic.
         g.   Parking areas and traffic ways must be enhanced with landscaped
spaces containing trees or tree groupings. Shrubs may be used only where they
will not obscure vision and will not require excessive maintenance.
         h.   Exterior lighting, when used, must enhance the landscape adjacent
to any permanent identification sign or, in the case of buildings, the building
design and the adjoining landscape.
         i.   Lighting standards and building fixtures must be of a design and
size compatible with the building and adjacent areas. Excessive brightness must
be avoided.
         j.   All lights in parking facilities must be designed and situated so
as to reflect light downward and away from residential property.
      5.   Building Design.
         a.   Architectural style is not restricted. Evaluation of appearance
of a project must be based on quality of its design and relationship to
surroundings.
         b.   Buildings must have harmonious scale with permanent neighboring
development.
         c.   Materials must have good architectural character and must be
selected for harmony of buildings within the site. In any design in which the
structural frame is exposed to view, the structural materials must be
compatible with themselves and harmonious to their surroundings.
         d.   Building components, such as windows, doors, eaves, and parapets,
must have good proportions and relationship to one another.
         e.   Mechanical equipment or other utility hardware on roofs, ground,
or buildings as well as refuse and waste removal areas, service yards, storage
yards, and exterior work areas must be screened from public view with materials
harmonious with the building or located as not to be visible from public ways.
         f.   Monotony of design in single or multiple building projects must
be avoided. Variation of detail, form, and siting must be used to provide
visual interest. In multiple building projects, variable siting or individual
buildings may be used to prevent a monotonous appearance.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.1108. ZONING INTERPRETATION.
   A.   Initiation. The Village Board, the Zoning, Planning, and Appeals
Commission, or a Village property owner or his/her designee may request a
zoning interpretation. All interpretation requests must be for the purpose of
furthering some actual development.
   B.   Authority. The Zoning Administrator will review and make final
decisions on written requests for zoning interpretations.
   C.   Procedure. All applications must be filed with the Village Clerk in
accordance with Section
15.1103. The Zoning Administrator must review a written request for an
interpretation and render the interpretation in writing within a reasonable
time. The Zoning Administrator may request additional information prior to
rendering an interpretation.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.1109. ZONING CERTIFICATE.
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of a zoning certificate is to promote compliance
with this Chapter by establishing a procedure by which the Zoning Administrator
may certify that an existing or proposed use of a lot or any existing or
proposed structure on a lot complies with this Chapter.
   B.   Authority. Upon the request and application of an applicant, the Zoning
Administrator will issue a zoning certificate.
   C.   Procedure. Within 30 days of a request for a zoning certificate, the
Zoning Administrator will issue a certificate, unless a longer time period of
review is agreed to by the applicant and the Zoning Administrator.
   D.   Expiration. Unless construction, moving, remodeling, or reconstruction
of a structure is commenced or a use is commenced within six months of the date
the zoning certificate is issued, a zoning certificate becomes null and void.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.1110. ZONING APPEALS OF ZONING ADMINISTRATOR DECISIONS.
   A.   Purpose. An appeal from any decision or ruling of the Zoning
Administrator made in interpreting, applying, and/or enforcing the regulations
contained in this Chapter.
   B.   Initiation. An appeal may be filed by any person, firm, or corporation
aggrieved by said decision or ruling or by any either officer, department,
board or commission of the Village. Appeals must be filed within 45 days of the
decision or ruling of the Zoning Administrator.
   C.   Authority. The Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission will hear and
make decisions on zoning appeals.
   D.   Procedure. All applications must be filed with the Village Clerk in
accordance with Section
15.1103.
      1.   After receipt of a complete application, the Zoning, Planning, and
Appeals Commission will consider the proposed application at a public hearing.
Notice for the public hearing must be provided in accordance with Section
15.1103.
      2.   The Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission must confirm or
overturn the Zoning Administrator's decision within 45 days of the close of the
public hearing. The Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission may also request
an additional 45-day extension from the Village Board.
      3.   Any party in interest may appear and be heard at the hearing held
pursuant to any such application for appeal, and such appearance may be made in
person, by agent (if a corporation), or by attorney.
      4.   In the hearing on such appeal, the Zoning, Planning and Appeals
Commission will consider all matters de novo.
      5.   The concurring vote of five members of the Zoning, Planning and
Appeals Commission is necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or
determination of the Zoning Administrator.
      6.   Findings of fact based upon the evidence presented during the
hearing must be included in the minutes of and final orders of decisions
entered in each case on appeal, and the reasons for recommending or denying
such appeal must be specified.
      7.   If, at the expiration of such 45 days, the Zoning, Planning, and
Appeals Commission has not made a decision, it is concluded that the Zoning,
Planning, and Appeals Commission has decided to deny the petition on appeal.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.1111. OCCUPANCY CERTIFICATE.
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of an occupancy certificate is to ensure there is
compliance with all of the applicable provisions and requirements the Municipal
Code including but not limited to this Chapter prior to occupancy and use of a
structure or land.
   B.   Applicability. An occupancy certificate is required:
      1.   To occupy or commence a new use of any building or structure, in
whole or in part, (including any nonconforming building or structure) or
addition to any such building or structure erected, constructed, enlarged,
remodeled, altered, reconstructed, or moved.
      2.   To commence a new use of any vacant land, in whole or in part.
   C.   Authority. The Zoning Administrator will issue occupancy certificates.
   D.   Procedure.
      1.   An occupancy certificate will be issued when the Zoning
Administrator has inspected the property and determined full and complete
compliance with all of the applicable regulations of the district in which it
is located, and the plans and specifications of the building permit, if
applicable. However, when construction has been partially completed in
accordance with plans and specifications, upon request, a temporary occupancy
certificate may be issued pursuant to the following schedule:
         a.   Single-family dwelling building permits. A temporary occupancy
certificate may be issued when the entire residence or residential structure or
addition is completed and only exterior weather-sensitive construction and/or
landscaping remains to be completed.
         b.   Commercial building permits. A temporary occupancy certificate
may be issued when an area of such building or addition thereto, as shown on
the plans and specifications as an “area” or “suite,” have been completed and
adequate safety precautions taken in accordance with the following. Where a
partial occupancy certificate is requested for other than an entire building or
addition to an existing building, the permittee first must provide and, after
issuance of the partial occupancy certificate, continue to maintain during the
remaining construction and until the final occupancy certificate has been
issued for the entire building:
            i.   Fully completed ingress to and egress from the area or suite
or entire floor for which the partial occupancy certificate is sought in order
not to jeopardize the lives or property of the general public occupying or
visiting such building.
            ii.   Complete and total quarantine and isolation of all
uncompleted areas in the said building or addition for which an occupancy
certificate has not been issued, which includes, but is not limited to,
separate ingress to and egress from areas under construction so as to keep
workmen and building materials outside of the completed areas of such building
or addition.
      2.   Upon request, the Zoning Administrator may issue duplicate occupancy
certificates and duplicate temporary occupancy certificates.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
ARTICLE XII. PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION 15.1201. PURPOSE.
   In an effort to promote ingenuity, imagination, and design efforts on the
part of owners, builders, architects, and developers and to produce
developments which are in keeping with overall land use intensity and open
space objectives of the Comprehensive Plan, this Article creates the planned
unit development (PUD) procedure that allows for departure from the strict
application of the specific zoning requirements of the district where the
development is located. The intent is to:
   A.   Permit flexibility to allow for a creative approach to the development
of land.
   B.   Accomplish a more desirable environment than would be possible through
the strict application of the minimum requirements of this Chapter.
   C.   Provide for an efficient use of land facilitating a more economic
arrangement of buildings, circulation systems, land use, and utilities.
   D.   Enhance the appearance of neighborhoods through the preservation of
natural features, the provision of underground utilities, and the provision of
recreation and open space.
   E.   Provide an environment of stable character compatible with surrounding
areas.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.1202. COMMON OWNERSHIP.
   A.   A planned unit development must be on a tract of land under common
ownership or control. Common ownership or control means unity of ownership or
legal authority to act on behalf of all owners which must be evidenced by deed,
contract, management agreement, or other written guarantee.
   B.   Such common ownership or control must extend to all common open space,
landscaping, exterior maintenance and all other exterior common area aspects of
the development.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.1203. REQUIRED MINIMUM SIZE.
   Any planned unit development requires a minimum of ten or more contiguous
acres under common ownership.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.1204. PUD PROCEDURE.
   A.   General.
      1.   A planned unit development is a special use in all zoning districts.
A planned unit development must be granted in accordance with the procedures
and standards of this Article, and the special use provisions of Section
15.1105.
      2.   An application for a planned unit development must be accompanied by
a tentative plat of subdivision which meets the requirements of the subdivision
regulations of the Village.
      3.   The Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission may recommend, and the
Village Board may impose additional restrictions, conditions, or development
schedules that are particularly applicable to the planned unit development.
   B.   Preliminary Development Plan.
      1.   Action by Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission.
         a.   After receipt of a complete application, the Zoning, Planning,
and Appeals Commission will consider the proposed PUD application at a public
hearing. Notice for the public hearing must be in accordance with Section
15.1103.
         b.   Within 45 days of the close of the public hearing, the Zoning,
Planning, and Appeals Commission will prepare findings of fact and make its
recommendation with respect to the proposed PUD and forward their findings and
recommendation to the Village Board.
         c.   The Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission must evaluate the
application based upon the standards of this Article. The Zoning, Planning, and
Appeals Commission must recommend approval, approval with conditions, or denial
of the PUD application.
      2.   Action by the Village Board.
         a.   The Village Board must act on the application for a preliminary
development plan within 90 days of receiving the report from the Zoning
Planning and Appeals Commission unless the applicant agrees to a time
extension. Failure of the Village Board to act within the 90 day period or the
agreed-upon extended time shall constitute denial of the application.
         b.   The Village Board must take action in the form of approval,
approval with conditions, or denial on PUD special use applications.
         c.   The Village Board may refer the preliminary development plan back
to the Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission for further consideration and
public hearing.
         d.   Approval of the preliminary development plan vests no rights to
the applicants other than the right to submit a final development plan.
   C.   Final Development Plan.
      1.   Timeframe.
         a.   Within six months following the approval of the preliminary
development plan, the applicant must initiate the second stage of their
application process by filing with the Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission
a final development plan and final subdivision plat.
         b.   Upon written request by the applicant, the Zoning, Planning, and
Appeals Commission, for good cause, may extend the period for filing the final
development plan for a period not to exceed an additional six months.
      2.   Action by Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission.
         a.   Within 60 days after the proposed final development plan and all
other necessary documents is filed, the Zoning, Planning, and Appeals
Commission must recommend approval, approval with modification, or disapproval,
and transmit its findings of fact and recommendation to the Village Board.
Failure of the Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission to act within the 60-
day period constitutes a recommendation of denial of the final development
plan.
         b.   If the proposed final development plan does not include any
changes from the approved preliminary development that exceed the criteria of
this section, the Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission may review the
proposed final development plan without conducting a public hearing.
         c.   If the proposed final development plan includes changes from the
approved preliminary development plan which exceed the criteria of this
section, the Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission must conduct a new public
hearing in order to review the proposed final development plan.
         d.   If changes are required by engineering or other circumstances not
foreseen at the time the preliminary development plan was approved, minor
changes in the location, siting, and height of structures, streets, driveways,
and open spaces may be authorized by the Zoning, Planning, and Appeals
Commission to be included in the final development plan in accord with the
following procedure without additional public hearings. No change authorized by
this subsection may cause any of the following:
            i.   A change in the use or character of the development.
            ii.   An increase of more than 1% in the overall land coverage of
structures.
            iii.   An increase in floor area or, in the case of residential
areas, an increase in density.
            iv.   An increase in the problems of traffic circulation and public
utilities.
            v.   A reduction of more than 1% in approved common open space.
            vi.   A reduction in off-street parking and loading spaces.
            vii.   A reduction in required pavement widths.
      3.   Action by the Village Board.
         a.   Upon receipt of the Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission
recommendation, the Village Board may by ordinance approve such planned unit
development granting the applicant a special use to proceed in accordance with
the final development plan and any supporting documents, subject to any
additional conditions or restrictions upon such terms the Village Board deems
necessary or appropriate to protect and promote the public health, safety, and
welfare.
         b.   The ordinance must include all standards, conditions, or
restrictions which the Village Board deems necessary to effectuate the proposed
planned unit development and protect the public interest.
         c.   In addition to the restrictions and conditions imposed in the
ordinance approving the planned unit development, the applicant shall execute
such agreements as necessary to guarantee the maintenance of public and private
open space.
            i.   Such agreements may include the conveyance of such open space
to the Village or other municipal corporation, a not-for-profit corporation, or
other legal entity that holds the open space for the benefit of the public.
            ii.   In the event a private not-for-profit corporation or similar
entity is established for the purpose of maintaining common open space, the
Village may require that said corporation provide maintenance and improvements
of such common open space and have the right to exact from the property owners
the cost of such maintenance or improvement in a legally enforceable manner.
   D.   Subdivision Review Required.
      1.   The applicable subdivision review required under the Village
subdivision regulations must be carried out as an integral part of the review
of a planned unit development permit under this Article. The plans required
must be submitted in a form which substantially satisfies the requirements of
the subdivision regulations for preliminary and final plat approvals.
      2.   The submission of subdivision applications for the whole, a part, or
parts of the overall planned unit development permit as indicated by phases in
the development plan is permitted.
      3.   If any provisions of this Chapter and the subdivision regulations
are in conflict, the more restrictive or detailed requirements control, unless
specifically waived or altered by the Village Board upon recommendation of the
Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission.
      4.   If a subdivision is created as a part of the processing of a planned
unit development, the normal subdivision processing fee required by the Village
subdivision regulations must be submitted to the Village, as well as the fee
for a special use permit required by this Chapter.
      5.   The on-site internal street system, together with the provision and
construction of public improvements, must be in compliance with the
requirements and standards set forth in the Village subdivision regulations.
The Village Board for good cause shown, upon recommendation of the Zoning,
Planning, and Appeals Commission, may permit such changes or alterations of
such standards as are consistent with the spirit and intent of this Chapter.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.1205. DEVELOPMENT PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   A.   Preliminary Development Plan. An application for a planned unit
development must be accompanied by preliminary architectural drawings as well
as by a preliminary development plan, which contains the following:
      1.   Statement of Objectives. A statement of the planning objectives to
be achieved by the particular design approach proposed by the applicant is
required. This statement should include a description of the character of the
proposed development and the rationale behind the assumptions and choices made
by the applicant. This statement should also describe the public benefits that
will be achieved through the proposed planned unit development that would
otherwise not result from a conventional type of development or subdivision of
the site.
      2.   Statement of Ownership and Proposed Use. A statement of the
applicant's intentions with regard to the future selling or leasing of all or
portions of the land areas or structures and the proposed use thereof is
required. A statement and documentation verifying that the applicant has, or
will have, ownership and control overall land included in the proposed planned
unit development is also required.
      3.   Quantitative Summary. A quantitative summary including, but not
limited to, the following is required. If the development is to be phased, the
quantitative summary must also be broken down into the phase components.
         a.   Area of the subject parcel in acres and square feet.
         b.   In the case of residential uses, residential density.
         c.   Total area and footprint area of principal buildings in square
feet.
         d.   Total area and footprint area of accessory buildings in square
feet.
         e.   Area of streets in square feet.
         f.   Area of exterior parking facilities in square feet.
         g.   Number of parking spaces.
         h.   Lot coverage (in percentage of entire parcel) of principal
buildings, accessory buildings, parking areas, streets, and recreational
facilities, individually and collectively.
         i.   Area of open space on-site in square feet.
         j.   Area of commonly owned and maintained open space in square feet.
         k.   In the case of residential uses, maximum residential density that
would be achievable through a conventional subdivision of the site.
         l.   A preliminary list of the variations from the underlying zoning
that would likely be required to construct the planned unit development as
proposed.
      4.   Open Space Statement. A statement is required describing why the
area for usable common open space was chosen, the unique advantages it offers,
and how it is envisioned that residents or patrons will utilize the space
either actively or passively.
      5.   Traffic Study. A recent traffic survey prepared by a qualified
expert setting forth and analyzing the effect upon traffic in and outside the
Village is required whenever the application contemplates a residential planned
unit development of eight or more dwelling units or a non-residential planned
unit development of 10,000 or more square feet. Such survey is not limited to
the effect on adjacent streets but must extend to all of the surrounding areas
affected and indicate the anticipated points of origin and the direction,
amount, and density of traffic flow to, from, and within the proposed planned
unit development.
      6.   Covenants.
         a.   The developer must establish an owners' association through a
declaration of covenants and easements which will be recorded and run with the
land and be binding upon any purchaser of any lot or dwelling unit in the
planned unit development. The declaration must be submitted to the Zoning,
Planning, and Appeals Commission for review and to the Village Attorney for
final approval. Such declaration must include, but is not limited to,
provisions requiring:
            i.   The developer to convey the private streets or roads,
detention or retention facilities, and common areas to the owners' association.
            ii.   The owners' association to maintain and repair any and all
private streets or roads, detention or retention ponds, and common areas and
any and all appurtenances thereto.
            iii.   That, if the owners' association fails to maintain and
repair any and all private streets or roads, detention or retention ponds, and
common areas, the Village may, but is not required to, enter upon the property
to maintain and repair such items and the owners' association will pay all
associated costs.
         b.   The Village may also require the establishment of a special
service area to ensure maintenance of the common areas.
      7.   Maps and Illustrations.
         a.   Existing Site Conditions. A map is required that illustrates
existing site conditions including topography, water-related features,
vegetation, wetlands, ravines, floodplains, unique soils conditions, and other
environmental data including a tree survey.
         b.   Surrounding Conditions. A map is required that illustrates the
land use and environmental conditions of the surrounding neighborhood within a
500-foot radius around the subject site, particularly illustrating the adjacent
lots showing their lot lines, structures, setbacks, and driveways, as well as
nearby streets.
         c.   Cross Sections. A minimum of two cross sections are required
through the entire site illustrating the bulk and heights of proposed
structures in relation to the topography, vegetation, and surrounding
structures.
         d.   Utility and Drainage Plan. A plan is required that illustrates
existing and proposed utilities and drainage facilities. Stormwater detention
and flood plain compensatory storage facilities must be included if required by
Village ordinances.
         e.   Circulation Plan. A plan is required that illustrates the
circulation of all vehicles, including emergency vehicles, internal to the
site, consistent with approved engineering and design standards, that
illustrates the relationship of the development's internal private streets to
the street plan in the Comprehensive Plan.
         f.   Landscape, Free Preservation, and Grading Plan. A plan is
required that illustrates the earth moving, if any, to be done on the site,
together with a preliminary plan for the enhancement of the vegetation on the
site, including a tree preservation plan.
         g.   Subdivision Sketch Plan. A sketch plan is required that
illustrates the maximum number of lots and/or dwelling units that could be
achieved through a conventional subdivision of the site including the location
of public street(s) that would be required to provide access to such lots or
dwelling units. The design and layout of all lots and streets in such
subdivision sketch plan must comply with all standards and requirements found
in this Chapter and the subdivision regulations. The purpose of said sketch
plan is to assist in determining the maximum number of lots or dwelling units
that may be located in the proposed planned unit development.
      8.   Other Information. The Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission may
require other materials to be included in a preliminary development plan. These
may include market studies, traffic studies, soil borings, applicable approvals
from other agencies, and all other items that may be reasonably required.
   B.   Final Development Plan.
      1.   The final development plan must contain in final form all of the
information required in the preliminary development plan together with
revisions, if any, along with such other documents as may be necessary to
implement the plan or to comply with all applicable requirements of this
Chapter.
      2.   The final development plan must include the following:
         a.   Phasing Program. A document describing any proposed phasing
program of the development for all structures, recreational and other common
facilities, and open space improvements, including time schedule for
commencement and completion dates of construction of each phase, intermediate
phases cannot exceed overall project density and a pro rata allocation of
common open space must be made as each phase is developed.
         b.   Common Open Space Agreement. A copy of the formal agreement with
a public agency or private association for the ownership and maintenance of the
common open space is required.
         c.   Plats for Recording. A copy of the subdivision plat, plat of
dedication, or plat of vacation that is a necessary part of the planned unit
development is required.
         d.   Covenants. Restrictive covenants, in a form acceptable to the
Village Attorney, limiting development of and construction upon the tract as a
whole to such development and construction as complies with the final
development plan and the special use granted by the Village Board, which
document must include, but is not limited to, provisions granting the Village a
right to enforce same as well as its stormwater management regulations.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.1206. PUD REVIEW STANDARDS.
   In addition to the standards applicable to special uses (Section
15.1105), as provided in Article XI herein, the Zoning, Planning, and Appeals
Commission must also find:
   A.   The planned unit development conforms to the intent and specific
proposals of the Comprehensive Plan.
   B.   The planned unit development is responsive to a demonstrated need
within the community.
   C.   The uses permitted in the planned unit development must conform to
those in the zoning district where the planned unit development is located and
must be compatible with each other and with existing land use in the
surrounding area. Uses are deemed compatible if they are so designed, located,
and proposed to be operated so that the public health, safety, and welfare will
be protected, and such uses will not cause appreciable injury or damage to
other property in the area in which it is located.
   D.   The planned unit development includes a traffic plan that provides
ingress and egress designed to minimize traffic congestion in the public
streets outside the PUD and facilitate the free flow of traffic, both vehicular
and pedestrian, within the PUD. The streets and other traffic thoroughfares,
public or private, provided in such planned unit development must conform with
the minimum requirements for streets and public ways of Village ordinances.
   E.   The landscape is preserved in its natural state, insofar as
practicable, by minimizing tree and soil removal, and any grade changes must be
in keeping with the general appearance of neighboring developed areas.
   F.   Proposed structures are related harmoniously to the terrain and to
existing structures in the vicinity and have a visual relationship to the
existing nearby structures. The achievement of such relationship may include
the creative enclosure of space in conjunction with other existing buildings or
other proposed buildings and the creation of focal points with respect to
avenues of approach, terrain features or other buildings.
   G.   Exposed storage areas, trash, and garbage retainers, exposed machinery
installations, service areas, truck loading areas, utility buildings and
structures, and similar accessory areas and structures are accounted for in the
design of the project and made as unobtrusive as possible. They may require
additional setbacks, special planting, or other screening methods as reasonably
required to prevent their being incongruous with the existing or contemplated
environment and the surrounding properties.
   H.   The development provides reasonable visual and acoustical privacy for
each building and dwelling unit. Fences, insulation, walks, barriers and
landscaping must be used as appropriate, for the protection and aesthetic
enhancement of property and the privacy of its occupants, screening of
objectionable views or uses, and reduction of noise.
   I.   In conformance with the Lake County Watershed Development Ordinance,
proper site surface drainage must be installed so that removal of surface
waters will not adversely affect neighboring properties or the public storm
drainage system. Surface water in all paved areas must be collected at
intervals so that it will not obstruct the flow of vehicular or pedestrian
traffic.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.1207.  PERMITTED MODIFICATIONS AND PUD SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   A.   Permitted Modifications.
      1.   The off-street parking and loading, yard, setback (including scenic
easements), lot size, lot shape, FAR, open space, maximum lot coverage, and
site plan review regulations of the district in which the site is located may
be modified in conjunction with a planned unit development, provided the
Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission determines that the site plan complies
with the spirit and intent of this Article.
      2.   In addition, the height and sign regulations of the O/R, TC, and H
Districts may be modified in conjunction with a planned unit development,
provided the Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission and/or Village Board
determines that the site plan complies with the spirit and intent of this
Article. Any such modifications must be explicitly indicated in the site plan
or otherwise the normal district regulations control.
      3.   A permitted modification may only be granted if the applicant
demonstrates a substantial public benefit to the Village. Design
characteristics and amenities to be considered in this determination include,
but are not limited to, the following:
         a.   Use of sustainable design and architecture, such as green roofs,
white roofs and other energy efficient design concepts, new building
technologies,, and approval of buildings as Leadership in Energy and
Environmental Design (LEED) or LEED-equivalent structures.
         b.   Community amenities including plazas, formal gardens, places to
congregate, outdoor seating, public art, and pedestrian and transit facilities.
         c.   Preservation of natural areas and site design that is sensitive
to environmental features.
         d.   Additional public infrastructure improvements in addition to the
minimum required by the planned unit development, such as new or repaved
streets, provision of bicycle paths, installation of gutters and sewers, and
traffic control devices to improve traffic flow.
   B.   Height in Planned Unit Developments.
      1.   The maximum height permitted in the planned unit development,
exclusive of steeples, belfries, spires, chimneys, smokestacks, cooling towers,
elevator bulkheads, parapet walls, and building equipment penthouses cannot
exceed the maximum height permitted for the district where the PUD is located.
      2.   For buildings that do not exceed 30 feet in height, the minimum
horizontal distance between buildings, including their appurtenances, of one
story, two stories, three stories, or combinations thereof, must be a minimum
of 15 feet.
      3.   For buildings of 30 feet or more in height, the space between
buildings must be equal to the height of the tallest building from which the
measurement is taken.
   C.   Required Yards in Planned Unit Developments.
      1.   The only required yards are adjacent to the periphery of the planned
unit development and must be at least equal in width or depth to the greater of
the required yard for the district where the planned unit development is
located, the required yard for real property adjacent to the planned unit
development or a distance not less than the height of the closest building to
such lot line.
      2.   In the event the PUD is located adjacent to real estate owned by the
Illinois Toll Highway Authority, the yard adjacent to such Toll Highway
Authority real estate is 50 feet. No other yards are required.
   D.   Residential Density.
      1.   In the case of a residential development, residential density of the
planned unit development cannot exceed in number of dwelling units the maximum
number of lots that could be achieved through a conventional subdivision of the
site as demonstrated by the subdivision sketch plan.
      2.   When the development is located in more than one zoning district,
the number of allowable dwelling units must be separately calculated for each
portion of the development that is in a separate zoning district. Thereafter
the combined total of all dwelling units so calculated as allowable may be
constructed and distributed within the entire planned unit development.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.1208. PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS AND GUARANTEES.
   A.   All public improvements and facilities to be provided under the
provisions of the planned unit development must be located underground and
completed for each phase prior to the issuance of occupancy permits within any
such phase and in accordance with the phase plan submitted as part of the
application.
   B.   The installation and completion of such improvements must be guaranteed
by the deposit in escrow of the amount equal to 110% of the Village Engineer's
estimate of the cost of improvements or subdivision bonds or letter of credit
in the form and as approved by the Village Attorney.
   C.   At the time of completion and acceptance of the public improvement, in
addition to guarantees for the installation of public facilities, the Village
requires a deposit in cash or other suitable security of an amount equal to 15%
of the estimated cost of such improvements.
   D.   This security will be held for the purpose of guaranteeing the
satisfactory operation and maintenance of the public facilities constructed
within the planned unit development for a period of 24 months following
completion of construction of the entire public facilities by the developer and
acceptance by the Village of said public facilities.
   E.   The security deposit herein required will be refunded at the expiration
of said 24 month period if no defects have developed in the public
improvements; provided, however, that the Village may utilize such deposit for
the purpose of correcting defects during said period, in which case the Village
is required to return only that portion of the guarantee remaining on deposit.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.1209. REQUIRED COMMON OPEN SPACE.
   Each residential planned unit development must have a site plan that
contains at least 20% usable common open space, unless modified by the Zoning,
Planning, and Appeals Commission in accord with this Chapter.
   A.   Ineligible Area. Usable common open space does not include:
      1.   Areas reserved for the exclusive use or benefit of an individual
occupant.
      2.   Dedicated streets and other public rights-of-way.
      3.   Vehicular drives, private streets, and parking, loading, and storage
areas.
      4.   Strips of land less than ten feet wide.
      5.   Stormwater detention and retention areas and wetlands.
   B.   Access. Primary (abutting) access from such common open space to each
building site is not required. However, convenient access through a permanent
easement must be provided and perpetually guaranteed to all residents not
granted primary access.
   C.   Recreational Facilities. The only recreational facilities permitted
within any common open space tract are those which are graphically shown on the
face of the site plan at the time of approval by the Village Board. However,
the site plan may be amended through the procedures specified in this Article.
   D.   Character and Quality. No proposed area on a site plan may be accepted
as usable common open space unless its character and quality have been approved
by the Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission. When making its determination,
the Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission must consider the following:
      1.   The size and character of the structures to be constructed within
the planned unit development.
      2.   The character of surrounding development.
      3.   The topography and existing amenities of the proposed area,
including trees, groundcover, and other natural features.
      4.   The manner in which the proposed area is to be improved and
maintained for recreational or amenity purposes.
      5.   The existence of public parks or other public recreational
facilities in the vicinity and the relationship thereto.
   E.   Ownership and Maintenance.
      1.   All land shown on the final site plan as common open space must be
conveyed to a private association or similar organization formed by a
condominium agreement, townhouse declaration, indenture, restrictive covenant,
or other binding agreement acceptable to the Village Board.
      2.   The legal instrument(s) creating such association or organization
must specify that the common open space and related authorized improvements
will be maintained according to the criteria enumerated in this Article and
must include a provision granting the Village a right to enforce the same.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.1210. RECORDATION.
   A.   The specific ordinance granting a special use in the nature of a
planned unit development must contain a legal description of the property
subject to the planned unit development.
   B.   The ordinance must be recorded in the Office of the Recorder of Deeds
of Lake County, Illinois, together with all such restrictive covenants as may
be required by the Village Board.
   C.   Restrictive covenants must be in a form which will effectuate the
development of the subject property in accordance with the planned unit
development and provide for the maintenance and continued protection of all
public open space and common open space and all privately owned common open
space.
   D.   In addition to all other interested parties, the Village may require
that said covenants must run to and be for the benefit of the Village and
extend to the Village the right to enforce said covenants by any appropriate
action in law or in equity.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.1211. CONSTRUCTION TIMING.
   A.   Timeframe.
      1.   Except in cases involving a written agreement to the contrary, the
construction of a planned unit development permit must commence within 12
months from the date of the passage of the authorizing special use permit
ordinance by the Village Board and must proceed to completion in accordance
with the phasing program, if any, contained therein.
      2.   Upon application by a permittee of a planned unit development, the
Village Board may extend the time for the commencement of construction as
follows:
         a.   If a delay, or anticipated delay, is caused by governmental
action without fault on the part of the developer, an extension may be granted
for a period not longer than the period of the governmental delay.
         b.   For good cause shown, an extension may be granted for a period of
time as the Village Board deems appropriate but not exceeding 12 months
exclusive of extensions authorized under item a above.
   B.   Establishment of Common Open Spaces and Facilities. The establishment
of common open space and construction of public or common recreational
facilities shown on the final development plan together with the construction
of other non residential structures must proceed substantially in accordance
with the phasing program approved as part of the final development plan.
      1.   Occupancy Permits. No occupancy permit for any structure in the
development will be issued until a pro rata share of the common open spaces and
facilities required in compliance with the phasing plan have also been placed
in a condition suitable for use or occupancy.
      2.   Developer Responsibility. The developer must maintain control of all
common open spaces and facilities, and be responsible for required maintenance,
until the same are formally turned over to a public agency or private
association. The Village Board may determine when the common open spaces and
facilities must be formally turned over, based upon the status of the
development, when this item is not adequately addressed in the phasing program.
   C.   Revocation of Permits.
      1.   The Village Board may at any time request written reports on the
progress and development of the proposed planned unit development.
      2.   If the Village Board is satisfied that the permittee has abandoned
the development of the proposed planned unit development, or failed to follow
the final development plan, it may hold a public hearing for the purpose of
considering the revocation of all permits issued and action taken.
      3.   Written notice of said hearing must be sent by certified mail
(return receipt) to the permittee at the business address stated in the
application for the planned unit development or such other address provided by
the permittee in writing. Publication of said hearing must also be given in
accordance with the provisions of this Chapter.
      4.   If the Board determines that there has been abandonment of the
proposed planned unit development project or a failure to follow the final
development plan, it may then revoke the planned unit development special use
permit.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.1212. AMENDMENTS TO APPROVED PUD.
   A.   Any substantial change in character of any existing planned unit
development requires the adoption of an ordinance that makes such changes and
modifications in said planned unit development as may be approved by the
Village Board.
   B.   Substantial change is defined as a deviation from the approved planned
unit development ordinance that:
      1.   Changes the general character of the planned unit development.
      2.   Changes the density in any residential planned unit development.
      3.   Causes a relocation of principal or accessory structures of more
than five feet.
      4.   Causes a relocation of parking, loading or recreation areas by more
than five feet or a reduction in parking.
      5.   Increases traffic or causes a relocation of traffic facilities or
street pattern.
      6.   Increases by more than one percent (1%) the land coverage of
structures and parking areas.
      7.   Increases the gross floor area of buildings or the number of
dwelling units.
      8.   Changes the building materials or height of any principal building
or accessory structure.
      9.   Reduces the amount of approved open space, landscaping or screening.
      10.   Does not comply with the requirements of the district within which
the planned unit development is located.
      11.   Deviates from the conditions and restrictions of the special use/
planned unit development ordinance.
      12.   Changes the installation or requires relocation of any public
utilities.
   C.   The amendatory ordinance may be adopted only after a public hearing by
and recommendation of the Zoning, Planning, and Appeals Commission in like
manner as is required herein for the adoption of an original planned unit
development ordinance.
   D.   The Village President may approve a change to the final development
plan in the construction of the planned unit development that does not
constitute a substantial change from the specific planned unit development
ordinance. Before any changes are approved by the Village President become
effective, however, the Village President must within seven days notify in
writing the Village Board of such changes and the Village Board will, at their
next regular meeting, ratify the action of the Village President or deny such
changes until an amendatory ordinance has been adopted in accordance with the
provisions of this section.
   E.   Nothing in this section may be construed to indicate that the Village
Board must pass an amendatory ordinance to grant any changes requested.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
ARTICLE XIII. NONCONFORMITIES
SECTION 15.1301. GENERAL APPLICABILITY.
   A.   Authority to Continue. Any nonconforming use, structure, lot, or site
element that legally existed as a nonconformity as of the effective date of
this Chapter, and any use, structure, lot, or site element that has been made
nonconforming as of the effective date of this Chapter, and any subsequent
amendments, may continue, subject to the provisions of this Article, so long as
it remains otherwise legal. Any use, structure, lot, or site element that is
illegal as of the effective date of this Chapter, remains illegal.
   B.   Burden on Property Owner. The burden of establishing the legality of a
nonconformity under the provisions of this Chapter is the responsibility of the
property owner of the nonconforming use, structure, lot, or site element, or
the operator of the use.
   C.   Safety Regulations. All police power regulations enacted to promote
public health, safety, and welfare including, but not limited to, all building,
fire and health codes apply to nonconformities.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.1302. NONCONFORMING USES.
   A.   Expansion. A nonconforming use of a structure or land cannot be
expanded, extended, enlarged, added to or increased in intensity. Such
prohibited activity includes additions or enlargements of any structure devoted
to a nonconforming use, and any expansion, extension, or relocation of a
nonconforming use to any other structure, any portion of the floor area, or any
land area currently not occupied by such nonconforming use.
   B.   Relocation. A nonconforming use of a structure or land cannot be
relocated, in whole or in part, to any other structure or location on the same
lot. The nonconforming use may be relocated to another structure or lot only if
the use conforms to all regulations of the zoning district where it is to be
relocated.
   C.   Change of Use. A nonconforming use can only be changed to a use allowed
within the zoning district where it is located. When a nonconforming use has
been changed, in whole or in part, to an allowed use, the whole or part that
conforms cannot be changed back to a use that is not allowed in the district. A
change of use occurs when an existing nonconforming use has been terminated and
another use has commenced. In addition, any change in use to a use prohibited
by the provisions of this Chapter is deemed to be an abandonment of the
previously existing nonconforming use.
   D.   Abandonment.
      1.   If a nonconforming use is voluntarily discontinued with an intent
not to reestablish the use, such discontinuance shall constitute prima facie
evidence that the nonconforming use as been abandoned, and the nonconforming
use shall be terminated. Any subsequent use or occupancy of such land or
structure must comply with all regulations of the zoning district in which the
structure or land is located. Abandonment of a nonconforming use may be
established by any positive act indicating such intent, any conscious failure
to take necessary measures to resume the nonconforming use, or the
discontinuance of the use for the time periods set forth in this Section.
      2.   If a nonconforming use is discontinued for the time periods in this
section, such discontinuance constitutes prima facie evidence that the
nonconforming use has been abandoned, and the nonconforming use must be
terminated. Any subsequent use or occupancy of such land or structure must
comply with all regulations of the zoning district in which the structure or
land is located.
      3.   A period of discontinuance caused by acts of god are not included in
calculating the length of discontinuance or abandonment for this section.
      4.   When a nonconforming use is offered for sale, such sale period is
not included in calculating the length of discontinuance for this section so
long as all equipment, building design, and similar use infrastructure is
maintained in working condition during the sale period. However, when land upon
which a nonconforming use is located is offered for sale, but the nonconforming
use is not also offered for sale, such sale constitutes prima facie evidence of
abandonment of the nonconforming use and the period will be included in
calculating the length of discontinuance.
      5.   The following periods of discontinuance constitute abandonment:
         a.   Nonconforming use within an enclosed structure. Discontinued or
abandoned for 24 months.
         b.   Nonconforming use on a lot, no structures. Discontinued or
abandoned for 90 consecutive days or for a total of six months during any one-
year period.
   E.   Damage or Destruction.
      1.   In the event that any structure that is devoted in whole or in part
to a nonconforming use is structurally damaged or destroyed through no fault of
the property owner or tenant, the nonconforming use may be reestablished
provided that no new nonconformities are created and the degree of the previous
nonconformity is not increased.
      2.   If the structure containing the nonconforming use is a nonconforming
structure, the structure may only be rebuilt, restored, repaired, or
reconstructed in accordance with Section
15.1304.
      3.   However, if a building permit is not obtained within one year of the
date of damage or destruction, then the nonconforming use may not be
reestablished unless it conforms to all regulations of the zoning district in
which it is located, including use. This time period to obtain a building
permit may be extended based on evidence showing good reason for the delay.
      4.   This section does not apply to large stables, which are controlled
by Section
15.1303.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.1303. NONCONFORMING LARGE STABLES.
   Large stables, as defined in Article 2, previously authorized by special use
ordinance, applicable court order, or court approved agreement, adopted and
existing prior to November 21, 2023, are allowed to continue subject to these
standards of this section.
   A.   As of November 21, 2023, pursuant to Chapter 12, “Animal Regulations,”
of the Mettawa Code of Ordinances, the maximum number of horses allowed in the
Village is limited and therefore no new large stables are allowed in the
Village.
   B.   Large stables legally existing as of November 21, 2023 are considered
nonconforming uses and allowed to continue as provided in the special use
ordinance, applicable court order, or court approved agreement and subject to
the provisions of this section. In the case of conflict, the conditions and
restrictions of the special use ordinance, applicable court order, or court
approved agreement control over the requirements of this section.
   C.   Large stables and related structures cannot be altered unless:
      1.   The alteration is necessary and part of the normal care and
maintenance or repair of the existing large stable and existing related
structures; or
      2.   The alteration is required by law or is necessary to restore the
structure to a safe condition or protect public safety; and
      3.   The alteration does not enlarge or intensify the existing large
stable and/or existing related structures.
   D.   Improvements allowed by a special use ordinance, applicable court
order, or court approved agreement, approved and existing prior to November 21,
2023 may be constructed and used, and a large stable legally established prior
to November 21, 2023 may continue to be used subject to the conditions and
restrictions of the special use ordinance, applicable court order, or court
approved agreement.
   E.   New improvements may be allowed only by amendment to a special use
ordinance and only if the requested amendment does not intensify use of the
large stable and/or related structures, or is for public and/or animal safety
purposes and within current operational parameters.
   F.   Unless specifically addressed by a special use ordinance, applicable
court order, or court approved agreement, approved and existing prior to
November 21, 2023, all large stables must conform to the following standards.
Variations to these standards are prohibited.
      1.   The owner of the premises resides upon the premises.
      2.   Facilities for horses must meet the following:
         a.   An inside stall is provided for each horse.
         b.   Box stalls are available for all horses stabled. Box stalls must
be a minimum size of 11.5 feet by 11.5 feet.
         c.   All stalls must have feeders and water available.
         d.   At least one working and unexpired fire extinguisher is required
for every five horses housed and must be located in the structures where the
horses are housed.
      3.   No more than one horse stall per 40,000 square feet of contiguous
lot area is permitted. The maximum number of horses cannot exceed the number of
horses approved by the special use. For the purposes of calculation, this may
include contiguous land located outside the Village's corporate limits.
      4.   Stable operations must be conducted as follows:
         a.   The following are prohibited:
            i.   Livery stables are prohibited.
            ii.   Horse shows are prohibited. This prohibition includes
exhibitions that may be open to the public of horses, competition between
horses and riders in riding, driving, and jumping, at which an entry fee is
charged for horses, hay, bedding, stalls, or trailers.
            iii.   Horse clinics are prohibited. This prohibition includes
events at which instruction or coaching in a particular equestrian discipline
is given by a professional trainer who is not the large stable's regular and
routine trainer, which professional trainer is paid to give instruction to
outside horses and/or riders who may trailer into the large stable for
instruction and at which auditors may be allowed to watch the clinic for a fee.
            iv.   Horse demonstrations and exhibitions are prohibited. This
prohibition includes events open to the public to a promote a single
professional rider and/or trainer or to showcase skills of a breed of horse or
exhibit of a discipline of riding such as, but not limited to, dressage,
jumping, or breed of horse challenges.
         b.   Instruction of riders in horsemanship must be by private lessons
only, provided, however, that where the nature of instruction requires that
other horses and riders be present at the same time, group lessons of up to
four riders and horses are permitted.
         c.   Stalls must be cleaned daily. Manure and used bedding must be
removed from the premises on no less than a weekly basis. Each week, between
such removal, manure may only be stored in appropriate containers. The
containers must be located at least 250 feet from any dwelling not on the lot
where the stable is located and 100 feet from any lot line. A pile containing
putrescible refuse and/or manure is prohibited and cannot be composted.
Spreading of manure is prohibited.
         d.   Grain and other feeds must be stored to minimize the presence of
mice, rats, and other vermin.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.1304. NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   A.   Maintenance. Normal maintenance and repair may be performed on any
nonconforming structure. No repairs or reconstruction are permitted that would
create any new nonconformity or increase the degree of the previously existing
nonconformity.
   B.   Structural Alterations. Structural alterations are permitted only in
the following situations:
      1.   When the alteration is required by law or is necessary to restore
the structure to a safe condition upon the order of any official charged with
protecting public safety.
      2.   When the alteration will eliminate the nonconformity.
      3.   When the alteration will not create any new nonconformity or
increase the degree of any existing nonconformity. For example, if a structure
is nonconforming in terms of the required front setback (i.e., does not meet
the required minimum), a rear addition to the structure may be added if it
meets all other regulations of the district.
   C.   Relocation. A nonconforming structure cannot be relocated, in whole or
in part, to any other location on the same lot unless such relocation will make
the structure conforming. A nonconforming structure may be relocated to another
lot if the structure will conform to all regulations of the zoning district
where it is relocated.
   D.   Damage or Destruction.
      1.   In the event that any nonconforming structure is damaged or
destroyed to the extent of 50% or more of its replacement value at the time,
then the structure may not be restored or rebuilt unless the structure,
including foundation, conforms to ail regulations of the zoning district in
which it is located.
      2.   When a nonconforming structure is damaged or destroyed to the extent
of less than 50% of the replacement value at the time, it may be repaired and
reconstructed provided that no new nonconformities are created and that the
existing degree of the nonconformity is not increased. A building permit must
be obtained for such rebuilding, restoration, repair, or reconstruction within
six months of the date of damage or destruction and the construction completed
within one year of the date the permit is issued. In the event that the
building permit is not obtained or construction not completed within the
timeframes, then the structure cannot be restored unless it conforms to all
regulations of the district in which it is located.
      3.   The replacement value of the structure is based on:
         a.   Assessed value or an appraisal within the last two years or, if
that is not available;
         b.   The amount for which the structure was insured prior to the date
of the damage or destruction: or,
         c.   An alternative method determined acceptable by the Village.
   E.   Exemptions. Whenever a lawfully existing structure otherwise conforms
to the Chapter regulations but is structurally nonconforming only in the
particular circumstances described below, the structure is deemed conforming in
regard to that particular element:
      1.   In any district, when a given single-family dwelling or an accessory
structure to a single-family dwelling has met all of the requirements of the
district within which it was located at the time it was constructed, and the
nonconformity is caused solely by a changed district bulk regulation. However,
such building or lot cannot be altered in any way so as to increase the number
of dwelling units on the lot and provided further that a minimum of 80,000
contiguous square feet is necessary in the event a horse is stabled on any lot
not meeting the minimum lot area requirements of this Chapter.
      2.   In any nonresidential district, where the existing structure is
closer to the lot line of an adjacent residential district than that specified
in the regulations for the district in which it is located. This provision
applies only to structures that were built in compliance with the Chapter at
the time of construction or where a variance was approved. Structures built in
violation of the Chapter at the time are not deemed conforming.
      3.   In any district, an existing building or structure which has been
placed on the National Register of Historic Places and/or designated by the
Village Board as a Mettawa Landmark or Historic District and is nonconforming
in any respect with the standards prescribed in this Chapter.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.1305. NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.
   A.   Use. A nonconforming lot of record may be used for a single-family
dwelling so long as construction of the single-family dwelling meets all
applicable dimensional regulations of the district in which it is located, with
the exception of that lot dimension requirement that renders it nonconforming.
   B.   Lot Division. No division of a conforming or a nonconforming lot is
permitted that creates a nonconforming lot and/or renders a lot or lots
remaining nonconforming.
   C.   Common Ownership Limitation. When two or more parcels of land that may
contain a lot or lots of record are contiguous and one or more of such parcels
lack adequate lot area or lot width per the zoning district where it is
located, the parcels must be maintained and used as one zoning lot for such use
in the event such parcels have been held in contiguous ownership at any time
after November 7, 1984 or the date of adoption of any amendment prescribing lot
area or dimension requirements with which such parcel does not comply,
whichever is later.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.1306. NONCONFORMING SITE ELEMENTS.
   A.   Maintenance. Normal maintenance and incidental repair to a
nonconforming site element may be performed. However, no repairs or
reconstruction are permitted that would create any new nonconformity or
increase the degree of the previously existing nonconformity.
   B.   Required Conformance.
      1.   General. All nonconforming site elements must be brought into
conformance when the following occurs:
         a.   A new principal building is constructed on a site. This includes
construction of a second principal building on the site.
         b.   An existing principal building is increased in building footprint
square footage by 30% or more.
      2.   Nonconforming Parking Lot Landscape. When a parking lot of 15 or
more spaces does not conform to required parking lot landscape requirements, it
must be brought into conformance when such parking lot is fully reconstructed
or expanded by an additional 50% or more spaces (viz., the total number of
spaces after expansion is 150% or more of the spaces prior to expansion).
Resealing, repaving, resurfacing, and/or re-striping of an existing parking lot
is not considered reconstruction.
      3.   Nonconforming Exterior Lighting. For exterior lighting, when 25% or
more of exterior lighting fixtures are replaced, all exterior lighting on the
site must be brought into conformance. This requirement is calculated by
dividing the installation of new lighting posts and/or non-post mounted
lighting fixtures by the total lighting installed, by the type of mounting. For
example, if over 25% of the wall-mounted fixtures are to be replaced, all wall-
mounted fixtures must be brought into conformance while nonconforming
freestanding fixtures may remain.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
ARTICLE XIV. ENFORCEMENT
SECTION 15.1401. GENERAL ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY AND DUTY.
   The Zoning Administrator, or his/her designee, has primary responsibility
for enforcing this Zoning Chapter. Upon finding the existence of any violation
of this Chapter the Zoning Administrator has the authority and duty to take or
direct all actions necessary or appropriate to abate and redress such
violation.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.1402. VIOLATIONS.
   Unless otherwise expressly allowed by this Chapter, any violation, including
but not limited to the following, may be subject to the remedies and penalties
as set forth in this Chapter:
   A.   To use land or buildings in any way not consistent with the
requirements of the Chapter.
   B.   To erect a building or structure in any way not consistent with the
requirements of the Chapter.
   C.   To engage in the use of land, a building, or a structure or any other
activity requiring one or more approvals or permits without having obtained
such approvals or permits.
   D.   To engage in the use of land, a building, or structure or any other
activity requiring one or more permits or approvals in a manner inconsistent
with such permit or approval or any conditions imposed by such permit or
approval.
   E.   To violate the terms of any permit or approval granted under this
Chapter or any condition imposed by the permit or approval.
   F.   To violate any lawful order issued by a person or entity under this
Chapter.
   G.   To continue to violate this Chapter after receipt of notice of a
violation.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.1403. CIVIL AND ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   A.   Stop and Cease and Desist Orders. Upon finding the existence of any
violation of this Chapter, the Zoning Administrator will notify, in writing,
the person responsible for such violation, indicating the nature of the
violation and ordering the action necessary to correct it, including but not
limited to the discontinuance of any illegal use of land or structures, the
removal of illegal structures, additions, or alterations, and/or the
discontinuance of illegal work being done.
   B.   Legal Actions. The Zoning Administrator will exercise all the powers
authorized by the statutes of the State of Illinois and Village codes and
ordinances to ensure compliance with, or to prevent or abate any violation of,
the provisions of this Chapter and will, where necessary or appropriate,
institute or cause to be instituted by the Village Attorney in the name of the
Village any and all actions, legal or equitable, including appeals, that may be
required for the enforcement of this Chapter.
   C.   Abatement and Liens. The Zoning Administrator may order any work
necessary to abate any violation of this Chapter and will assess the cost of
such work to the lot owner. Upon the failure of the owner to pay such cost, the
Zoning Administrator will file a lien for such costs and for all costs of
collection against the lot in question.
   D.   Revocation of Rezonings, Permits, Variations, or Approvals. The
violation of any provision of this Chapter, or of any permit or approval
granted pursuant to this Chapter, or of any condition imposed pursuant to this
Chapter is grounds for the revocation of any rezoning, permit, variation, or
approval granted and affecting the lot involved in the violation. The Zoning
Administrator may recommend and the Village Board may order such revocation;
provided, however, that where the original rezoning, permit, variation, special
use, or approval was granted following a public hearing required pursuant to
this Chapter, the revocation must be preceded by a similar public hearing.
   E.   Fines. In the enforcement of this Chapter, the Zoning Administrator
will, where necessary and appropriate, order the issuance and enforcement of
citations to recover fines and penalties for the violation of this Chapter as
authorized by law.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.1404. PROCEEDINGS TO PREVENT VIOLATION AND STAY.
   A.   In the event any building or structure, including fixtures, is
constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted, or maintained, or in
the event any such building or structure, including fixtures or land, is used
in violation of this Chapter or any other ordinance of the Village, any owner
or tenant of real property located within 500 feet in any direction of the
property on which the building or structure or land in question is located who
shows that his/her property or person will be substantially affected by the
alleged violation, may institute any appropriate action or proceeding for one
or more of the following:
      1.   To prevent the unlawful construction, reconstruction, alteration,
repair, conversion, maintenance, or use.
      2.   To prevent the occupancy of the building, structure, or land.
      3.   To prevent any illegal act, conduct, business, or case in or about
the premises.
      4.   To restrain, correct, or abate the violation.
   B.   When such action is instituted by an owner or tenant, notice of such
action must be served upon the Village at the time suit is begun, by serving a
copy of the complaint on the Village Clerk in order that the Village may join
as a party plaintiff, if it so elects. In any such case where the Village fails
to join as a party plaintiff, the Village will be named as a party defendant in
any such action.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
SECTION 15.1405. PENALTIES.
   A.   Any person, firm, corporation, or agent, employees, contractors, or
owners who violate, disobey, omit, neglect, refuse to comply with, or who
resist enforcement of any of the provisions of this Chapter will be subject to
fines and/or penalties in accordance with the provisions set forth in Chapter
2, Village Government, Article X, Fines and Penalties.
   B.   For purposes of this section and this Chapter, each day that a
violation is permitted to exist constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. 885, passed 11-21-2023)
CHAPTER 16 - SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
SECTION
Article I. Jurisdiction
   
16.101   Short Title
   
16.102   Intent and Purpose
   
16.103   Applicability
Article II. Design Standards–All Subdivisions
   
16.201   Minimum Design Standards
   
16.202   Endangered Species Consultation Agency Action Report
Article III. Expedited Procedure–Minor Subdivisions Only
   
16.301   Submission and Review of Plats for Minor Subdivisions
Article IV. Procedure–Major Subdivisions
   
16.401   Submission and Review of Plats for Major Subdivisions
   
16.402   Avoidance of Preliminary Plat Procedures
Article V. Enforcement
   
16.501   Recording of Plats
   
16.502   Installation Requirements and Construction Methods–Bonded Improvements
   
16.503   Issuance of Building Permits and Certificates of Occupancy
   
16.504   Required Approvals
   
16.505   Recapture Ordinance
   
16.506   Penalty
Article VI. Construction
   
16.601   Rules and Definitions
Article VII. Variations
   
16.701   Variations and Exceptions
Article VIII. Violations
   
16.801   Penalty
Article I. Jurisdiction
SECTION
   
16.101   Short Title
   
16.102   Intent and Purpose
   
16.103   Applicability
SECTION 16.101. SHORT TITLE.
   This Chapter may be known and cited as "The Mettawa Subdivision Code".
SECTION 16.102. INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   These regulations are intended to serve the following purposes:
   A.   To assist in the carrying out and implementation of the Comprehensive
Plan of the Village of Mettawa.
   B.   To set forth rules and regulations for the division and consolidation
of real property.
   C.   To provide for the proper location and/or width of streets and alleys,
the Mettawa Trail, buildable areas, open spaces, utilities and drainage
easements, and public use facilities and areas.
   D.   To protect neighborhood character and to provide quality neighborhoods
by requiring minimum lot widths, depths, and areas.
   E.   To provide minimum standards for public improvements and provision for
modernizing infrastructure, including drainage.
   F.   To provide for and secure the actual construction of public
improvements.
(Am. Ord. 591, passed 9-18-2007)
SECTION 16.103. APPLICABILITY.
   The owner of any land which is within the corporate limits of the Village,
or unincorporated land which is located within one and one-half miles of said
corporate limits, who proposes to subdivide such land into lots of record or
consolidate into a single lot of record, or who proposes to dedicate streets,
alleys or other lands for public use, shall cause a plat to be prepared in
accordance with the regulations of this Chapter, unless otherwise excepted.
Replats and resubdivisions shall conform to these regulations. However, before
undertaking the formal procedures outlined in this Subdivision Code, an
applicant is urged to submit a tentative plat and discuss the proposal with the
Village Engineer to ascertain the requirements affecting the subdivision.
ARTICLE II. DESIGN STANDARDS — ALL SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION
   
16.201   Minimum Design Standards
   
16.202   Endangered Species Consultation Agency Action Report
SECTION 16.201. MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS.
   Every subdivision plat shall comply with the terms and conditions of this
Chapter, the Zoning Ordinance and with the Comprehensive Plan, except that any
plat which has received preliminary approval shall be exempt from any
subsequent amendments to the Zoning Ordinance rendering the plat non-conforming
as to bulk or use, provided that approval of the final plat is obtained within
the one (1) year period. In addition, the plat shall meet the minimum design
standards outlined below. Immediately following receipt of an application for
the approval of a subdivision, the Village Clerk shall forward copies of the
entire application with all supporting documentation to the Village Engineer
for his review and analysis.
   A.   Lots.
      1.   Lot shapes. Every lot shall have four (4) sides. Exceptions may be
approved when the applicant demonstrates that a four-sided lot is not feasible
because of peculiar topographical conditions, abutting lots of record or
abutting parcels not owned directly or indirectly by the applicant, or pre-
existing buildings not owned directly or indirectly by the applicant. A lot of
other than four (4) sides will not be approved if it appears that such lot has
been so formed solely to comply with the minimum area, depth and width
requirements of the Zoning Ordinance. As nearly as practicable, intersecting
lot lines shall form right angles with each other.
      2.   Lot depths. The minimum depth of lots shall be three hundred
seventy-five (375) feet.
      3.   Conformance with Zoning Ordinance.
         a.   Minimum lot area and lot width. Except as otherwise set forth in
this Chapter, minimum lot area and lot width shall correspond to the zoning
regulations of the district within which the land being subdivided is located
and the minimum design standards set forth herein. In the case of land lying
within one and one-half (1-1/2) miles of the corporate limits of the Village,
minimum lot area and lot width and density requirements shall correspond to
those of the Future Planning Area on the Future Land Use Map within which the
land being subdivided is located.
         b.   Existing structures. A subdivision shall not be approved when
said subdivision places an existing permanent structure in violation of the
requirements of the Zoning Ordinance and/or the minimum design standards of
this Chapter.
         c.   Fractional Tracts. A subdivision shall not be approved when said
subdivision places an existing adjacent tract of land in nonconformity with
requirements of the Comprehensive Plan, the Zoning Ordinance and/or the minimum
design standards of this Chapter.
      4.   Required area of tableland. Each proposed lot shall contain at least
twenty-five (25) percent tableland.
      5.   Relationship to streets. Each lot shall have principal frontage on a
street. Through lots are prohibited.
      6.   The regulations contained in this subsection shall not apply to real
property developed as a planned unit development.
   B.   Streets and Pedestrian Ways. The plat of the proposed subdivision shall
provide for dedication of the necessary land for public streets proposed by the
plat or projected by the Comprehensive Plan. Where streets and alleys abut a
subdivision and are indicated by the Comprehensive Plan to be widened, land
shall be dedicated to provide one-half (1/2) the required right-of-way width as
measured from the required centerline of such street or alley.
      1.   Width of rights-of-way. Width of street and alley rights-of-way
shall be as shown on the Major Street Plan; provided, however, that minimum
right-of-way widths shall be as follows:
         a.   Major arterial streets: 80 feet.
         b.   Collector (minor arterial) streets: 66 feet.
         c.   Local (minor and private) streets: 50 feet.
      2.   Street and Mettawa Trail relationships, connections, and dead-end
streets (cul-de-sacs).
         a.   As the same may be amended from time to time, the Comprehensive
Plan shall act as an aid but not a limitation in considering and formulating
the arrangement, character, extent, width, grade, and location of streets, the
Mettawa Trail and other rights-of-way. All of these shall be considered in
their relation to existing and planned streets, the Mettawa Trail and other
rights-of-way as well as topographical and soil conditions, public convenience
and safety, and the proposed uses of the land to be served.
         b.   Generally, the arrangement of streets, the Mettawa Trail and
other rights-of-way within a subdivision shall make provision for the
continuation of existing or proposed streets, the Mettawa Trail and other
rights-of-way in adjoining areas and, when a new subdivision adjoins land
susceptible of being subdivided or resubdivided, new streets, the Mettawa Trail
and other rights-of-way shall be carried to the boundaries of the tract
proposed to be subdivided.
         c.   Whenever, in the opinion of the President and Board of Trustees,
topography, lakes, rivers, water courses, or other physical conditions require
the platting and establishment of dead-end streets, such streets shall have
adequate width for turn around, which may include cul-de-sacs having a radius
of no less than fifty (50) feet from center of cul-de-sac to outside edge of
pavement to ensure that emergency vehicles can access all lots fronting upon
the dead-end street within a reasonable amount of time.
         d.   Streets and the Mettawa Trail in or near floodways. Streets
platted near and/or within floodways shall be located in compliance with the
storm water management ordinances of the Village. In all instances, the
elevation of street and driveway pavement shall be at least one (1) foot above
flood protection elevations.
         e.   Streets and the Mettawa Trail along railroads. The nearest right-
of-way line of streets platted more or less parallel to railroad rights-of-way
shall be located not less than one hundred twenty- five (125) feet from the
nearest line of such railroad right-of-way, and the nearest right-of-way line
of the Mettawa Trail platted more or less parallel to railroad rights-of-way
shall be located not less than twenty-five (25) feet from the nearest line of
such railroad right-of-way.
      3.   Street construction shall conform with the State of Illinois
Department of Transportation standards for roadway construction.
      4.   Pedestrian access ways may be required in locations identified in
the Comprehensive Plan.
   C.   Other Public Use Areas and Public Use Facilities. In accordance with
the general concepts contained within the Comprehensive Plan, the plat of the
proposed subdivision shall provide for dedications of rights-of-way or
easements of the land necessary for bicycle paths, the Mettawa Trail and other
greenways, such storm or flood water run-off channels and basins, ways for
public facilities, parks, playgrounds, school grounds and other public grounds
as may be required by the Plan Commission to conform to the general principles
set forth in the Comprehensive Plan. In addition, any public grounds designated
on the Comprehensive Plan which lie within a proposed subdivision shall be
dedicated for the use intended in the Comprehensive Plan.
   D.   Utility and Drainage Easements. The plat of the proposed subdivision
shall provide for dedications of easements of sufficient widths to provide
subdivided lots with utility services; however in no event shall such an
easement be less than twenty feet (20’) in width. Where practicable such
easements shall be located at the rear and sides of each lot so as to provide
continuity of alignment of such easements from block to block. In addition, the
plat of the proposed subdivision shall provide for dedications of easements
necessary for storm or flood water run-off channels and basins.
   E.   Scenic Easements and Trail Easements. Unless waived by the Village
President and Board of Trustees, every plat of subdivision submitted for
approval for land adjacent to the following streets shall reflect the location
of the scenic easements called for in the Zoning Code and/or the Comprehensive
Plan of the Village: St. Mary’s Road, Illinois Route 60, Everett Road,
Riverwoods Road, Bradley Road and Old School Road between Bradley Road and St.
Mary’s Road. The text of the scenic easements must be recorded prior to the
recordation of the subject plat of subdivision. The location of the scenic
easement shall be the seventy-five (75) feet of such land nearest the right-of-
way line of the roads and streets listed herein. All or a portion of the Zoning
Ordinance required front yard setbacks along the streets designated herein
shall be included within the seventy-five (75) foot setback for the Scenic
Easement.
   F.   Special Standards for Lots-in-depth.
      1.   In the "R1", and "R2" single family residential districts, whenever
a proposed subdivision provides for the division of an existing parcel of land,
one or more lots-in-depth may be permitted provided dividing the parcel in
question into conventional lots, each having full frontage upon a street, is
impossible because of lot configuration or natural features located on the land
within the proposed subdivision (such as watercourses, steep slopes, or bodies
of water) or because of the desire to preserve the rural characteristics of the
area or nationally or locally registered historical structures.
      2.   Provided the proposed subdivision meets the above requirements, a
lot-in-depth must conform to the following additional requirements:
         a.   The lot-in-depth shall have frontage upon an existing street by
means of its stem, which shall be at least thirty (30) feet wide, containing a
minimum twelve foot (12’) wide driveway.
         b.   Minimum nine foot (9’) wide landscape buffers shall be provided:
(i) adjacent to adjoining properties on both sides of the stem, and (ii) within
the stem. In order to assure visual clearance at the street, the shrub screen
and groundcover plantings located in these buffers and within ten feet (10’) of
the edge of pavement shall meet the approval of the Village Engineer prior to
the issuance of an occupancy certificate by the Village for structures located
on the lot-in-depth.
         c.   No building or other structure shall be placed or constructed
upon any part of the stem.
         d.   Exclusive of the entire area of the Stem, the entire remaining
area included within any permitted lot-in-depth shall contain 100% of the
minimum lot area for conventional lots in any such zoning district.
         e.   Upon its review of a plat containing a lot-in-depth, the Plan
Commission shall require building setback lines to be installed upon the
platted area of the lot-in-depth. The minimum required building setback lines
of a lot-in-depth shall be dependent upon the required zoning yards of any
other lots adjacent to such lot-in-depth. Where a lot-in-depth abuts a front or
rear yard of an adjacent lot, the required building setback lines shall be
equal to 120% of the required abutting front or rear yard. Where a lot-in-depth
abuts a side yard, the required building setback lines shall be equal to a 100%
of the required abutting side yard.
         f.   Lots-in-depth shall conform to all other applicable regulations
of this Subdivision Code.
   G.   Unbuildable Parcels. A subdivision shall not create or include
"outlots" or unsubdivided parcels. In addition, no subdivision shall include a
portion of a lot of record, without including the entire lot of record unless,
prior to the date of adoption of this Chapter the portion of the lot of record
not included in the subject subdivision has been under separate ownership from
the portion of the lot of record included in the subject subdivision.
(Am. Ord. 488, passed 7-16-2002; Am. Ord. 562, passed 7-18-2006; Am. Ord. 591,
passed 9-18- 2007; Am. Ord. 773, passed 11-18-2014; Am. Ord. 774, passed 2-17-
2015)
SECTION 16.202. ENDANGERED SPECIES CONSULTATION AGENCY ACTION REPORT.
   In its exercise of its home rule power, the Village hereby delegates to each
applicant for subdivision approval the obligation to file with the Illinois
Department of Natural Resources an Endangered Species Consultation Agency
Action Report and, prior to the recordation of a plat of subdivision, receive
the DNR response of “No adverse impact” with respect to all subdivisions.
   A.   However, if within thirty (30) days following the aforesaid filing the
DNR responds that a State-listed species or its essential habitat is present
upon the real property sought to be subdivided, the applicant shall make a
further filing with the DNR on behalf of the Village, including but not limited
to a detailed action report, and otherwise comply with the rules of the DNR; or
   B.   If the DNR fails to respond within the thirty (30) day period following
the date of the aforesaid initial filing or if the DNR determines that no
State-listed species is present, no further consultation with the DNR is
required.
ARTICLE III. EXPEDITED PROCEDURE — MINOR SUBDIVISIONS ONLY
SECTION
   
16.301   Submission and Review of Plats for Minor Subdivisions
SECTION 16.301. SUBMISSION AND REVIEW OF PLATS FOR MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   Expedited procedures are available for one-lot subdivisions (lot
consolidations) and two-lot subdivisions which require no bonded improvements,
require no variations from the subdivision or Zoning regulations, and which
meet all other requirements of this Section. Such applications shall comply
with the requirements outlined below:
   A.   Preparation Requirements for Minor Subdivision Plats.
      1.   Scale. Each minor subdivision plat shall be drawn to a scale no
smaller than one inch equals 50 feet.
      2.   Property boundaries and features. The plat shall show the boundaries
of the property to be subdivided and (if any) the adjacent section, half
section and quarter section lines, existing streets, water courses, and One
Hundred Year Flood Plain, as well as other existing features pertinent to
proper subdivision.
      3.   Municipal boundaries. All corporate boundary lines within or
adjacent to the proposed subdivision shall be so designated.
      4.   Lots, blocks, and existing building lines. All lot lines shall be
shown, with lots and blocks numbered or lettered. Dimensions of lots and
blocks, and existing building setback lines, shall be shown.
      5.   Dimensions. All necessary dimensions, both linear and angular, shall
be shown. Linear dimensions shall be shown in feet and decimals of a foot, and
all deflection angles, radii, arcs and central angles of all corners on
property lines adjacent to each street shall be shown in degrees, minutes and
seconds.
      6.   Names. The name of the proposed subdivision and the name of the
owner shall be shown.
      7.   Existing utilities, easements, and dedications. The plat shall
indicate location of existing dedications of all easements whether for cable
television or utilities, including but not limited to water mains, telephone
and electric and natural gas lines, sanitary sewer trunk lines, private
sanitary sewage septic system, and storm sewer mains, if any. All easements
shall be indicated on the plat and copies of all proposed and existing easement
agreements affecting any lot or involving adjacent land shall accompany the
same.
      8.   Date. The date of preparation and a proper north sign shall be
shown.
      9.   Legal description. A legal description of the property shall be
given which includes reference to the section, township and range. Government
section lines and corners, half-section lines, the location and dimension of
all streets (with their names), alleys and all other lands to be dedicated to
public uses; and the lines and dimension of abutting roads and streets (with
their names) and alleys shall be shown. State plane coordinates shall be
indicated for all lot corners when the subdivision is of two or more acres.
      10.   Monuments. The description and location of all survey monuments
erected in the subdivision shall be shown. Permanent monuments shall be erected
at all lot corners, street corners, at all points where street lines intersect
the exterior boundaries of the subdivision and angle points and points of curve
in each street. Such monuments shall be either non-corrosive iron pipe or rod,
3/4 inch in diameter and 30 inches long, or stone or concrete not less than
four inches in diameter and 24 inches long.
      11.   The provisions of Subsection A.3. and Subsections A.6. through
A.10. shall not be applicable to a minor subdivision required by the
acquisition by a unit of local government of a portion of undivided property to
be used as open space or which shall be zoned OS Open Space.
      12.   Building set back lines. Front yard set back lines may be inserted
where they are equal to or exceed the requirements of the Zoning Ordinance
provided that such platted set back lines shall not control when in conflict
with a greater set back line established by any amendments to the Zoning
Ordinance. In the case of a lot-in-depth, front yard, side yard, and rear yard
setbacks shall be shown in conformance with the requirements of this Chapter.
      13.   Certificates. All certificates, seals and notarized signatures as
required by law shall be shown.
   B.   Filing Fee. At the time original application is made for subdivision,
resubdivision or consolidation of a parcel or parcels of property within the
Village, the applicant shall pay such fees to the Village Clerk in the amounts
thereof established by resolution of the President and Board of Trustees from
time to time which shall include an estimated amount to reimburse the Village
its costs for engineering and legal review by the Village Engineer and the
Village Attorney. A current copy of such resolution shall be maintained in the
office of the Village Clerk. No application for subdivision shall be accepted
by the Village Clerk or the Secretary until all such fees have been paid, with
the understanding that no subdivision plat shall be filed with the Lake County
Recorder of Deeds for recordation until all such engineering and legal fees
have been fully reimbursed the Village by the applicant.
   C.   Filing Requirements. No application for subdivision shall be accepted
unless accompanied by a completed application form, the filing requirements
listed hereinbelow, and any other documents requested by the Village Clerk or
the Secretary. There must be adherence to all filing requirements at least 30
days prior to the date of Plan Commission review. The following documents must
accompany the filing of such application:
      1.   Plat of subdivision. A plat of subdivision prepared and sealed by a
land surveyor duly licensed by the State of Illinois (five full-size copies on
standard sheets not larger than 24 x 36 inches and drawn to a scale not less
than one inch equals 50 feet and ten 11 x 17 inch reduced copies).
      2.   Plat of survey. A current plat of survey dated within six (6) months
of the date of submittal (five full-size copies and ten 11 x 17 inch reduced
copies) prepared and sealed by a land surveyor duly licensed by the State of
Illinois.
      3.   Tree survey. A tree survey (five full-size copies and one 11 x 17
inch reduced copy) of the lot shall be drawn on a scale of not less than 1"=30'
and shall show trees with a DBH of six inches (6") or greater and include a
listing of the species of each such tree which will be impacted by construction
activity caused by the subdivision. For sites on which development is to occur
on less than the entirety of the site, the Village Engineer may provide that
the tree survey exclude those portions of the site which he determines will not
be affected by any development activities caused by the Subdivision.
      4.   Title policy. A copy of title policy.
      5.   Affidavit of title. An executed affidavit of title for the period of
time from the effective date of the title policy to the date of application for
subdivision.
      6.   Wetlands delineation report. A wetlands delineation report prepared
by a wetlands scientist or professional engineer licensed to practice in the
State of Illinois is required whenever a site contains or has the potential to
contain wetlands.
      7.   Topographical survey. A topographical survey showing contour lines
at one foot intervals and the proposed location and dimensions of all proposed
buildings or construction is required when a subdivision will result in the
creation of a lot with less than 80% tableland.
      8.   Site context plan. The boundaries of the site shall be clearly
delineated on an aerial photograph which reveals the site and all property
within a 1000 foot radius (as measured from the outside boundaries of the site)
and all public rights-of-way within and adjacent to the site at a scale of not
less than one inch equals 50 feet. For adjacent properties, such site context
plan shall indicate existing rear, front, and side yard setbacks.
      9.   Engineering Plan. A drawing prepared by a professional engineer duly
licensed by the State of Illinois that contains the design of streets (if any
dedication or pavement construction is proposed), drainage facilities, and
other public improvements.
      10.   Soil Classification Study. A study that identifies suitable septic
soils on each proposed lot.
   D.   Action on Minor Subdivision Plat.
      1.   Plan Commission recommendation.
         a.   If, by reason of the general character or topography of the
property to be subdivided, or of any lot to be created by such subdivision, it
appears likely to the Village Engineer and Chairman of the Plan Commission
that:
            i.   No variation from the application of the Zoning Ordinance or
waiver of portions of the Building Code will be sought after approval of the
plat for recording as submitted, then the Chairman of the Plan Commission may
recommend approval of the Minor Subdivision Plat on behalf of the entire Plan
Commission and, in such case, shall sign the plat and the Secretary shall
attest his signature thereon and he shall make his report containing the
recommendation of the Plan Commission to the entire membership of the Plan
Commission and the President and Board of Trustees. If the Chairman does not
sign the Minor Subdivision Plat within seven (7) days of his receipt thereof,
the plat of subdivision shall be reviewed by the members of the Plan Commission
during a regular or special meeting thereof and, following such meeting. In all
events the Chairman shall make his report containing the recommendation of the
Plan Commission to the entire membership of the Plan Commission and the
President and Board of Trustees. If the recommendation of the Plan Commission
is to approve the plat, the Chairman shall sign the plat and the Secretary
shall attest his signature thereon and forward the original thereof to the
President and Board of Trustees with the recommendation of the Plan Commission.
            ii.   If a variation from the application of the Zoning Ordinance
or waiver of portions of the Building Code will be sought after approval of the
plat for recording as submitted, then the Chairman of the Plan Commission shall
require that the plat of subdivision shall be reviewed by the members of the
Plan Commission during a regular or special meeting thereof and, following such
meeting, the Chairman shall make his report containing the recommendation of
the Plan Commission to the entire membership of the Plan Commission and the
President and Board of Trustees. If the recommendation of the Plan Commission
is to approve the plat, the Chairman shall sign the plat and the Secretary
shall attest his signature thereon and forward the original thereof to the
President and Board of Trustees with the recommendation of the Plan Commission.
         b.   Following the review of the plat of each such Minor Subdivision,
the Secretary or the Chairman of the Plan Commission will send the President
and Board of Trustees a copy of the Chairman's written report containing the
recommendation of the Plan Commission regarding the plat.
      2.   President and Board of Trustees consideration. Upon its receipt of a
written recommendation from the Chairman of the Plan Commission, such minor
subdivision plat shall be acted upon by the President and Board of Trustees.
(Am. Ord. 591, passed 9-18-2007; Am. Ord. 860, passed 6-10-2021)
ARTICLE IV. PROCEDURE — MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION
   
16.401   Submission and Review of Plats for Major Subdivisions
   
16.402   Avoidance of Preliminary Plat Procedures
SECTION 16.401. SUBMISSION AND REVIEW OF PLATS FOR MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   A.   Preparation Requirements — Preliminary Plats of Major Subdivisions.
Preliminary plats for major subdivisions shall be prepared containing the
material indicated for minor subdivisions in Subsection A of Section 16.05 of
this Chapter, as well as the following:
      1.   Streets and public ways. All streets shown on the plat shall be
named in conformity with the street naming plan of the Village and all street
names shall be shown. The width and location of roads, streets, alleys, the
Mettawa Trail, and other public ways shall be shown. The full widths of streets
bounding the proposed subdivision (with their names), and the widths and names
of intersecting streets in the property immediately adjacent, shall be shown.
      2.   If applicable, the plat shall have lettered upon it a statement of
dedication properly conveying all lands dedicated for public use.
   B.   Filing Fee. At the time original application is made for a major
subdivision, resubdivision or consolidation of a parcel or parcels of property
within the Village, the applicant shall pay such fees to the Village Clerk in
the amounts thereof established by resolution of the President and Board of
Trustees from time to time which shall include an estimated amount to reimburse
the Village its costs for engineering and legal review by the Village Engineer
and the Village Attorney. A current copy of such resolution shall be maintained
in the office of the Village Clerk. No application for subdivision shall be
accepted by the Village Clerk or the Secretary until all such fees have been
paid, with the understanding that no subdivision plat shall be filed with the
Lake County Recorder of Deeds for recordation until all such engineering and
legal fees have been fully reimbursed the Village by the applicant.
   C.   Filing Requirements for Preliminary Plat of Major Subdivision. No
application for approval of a preliminary plat of subdivision shall be accepted
unless accompanied by a completed application form, the filing requirements
listed herein, and any other documents requested by the Plan Commission,
including but not limited to preliminary engineering and a soil classification
study. There must be adherence to all filing requirements at least 30 days
prior to the date of Plan Commission review. The following documents must
accompany the filing of such application:
      1.   Preliminary plat of subdivision prepared and sealed by a land
surveyor duly licensed by the State of Illinois (five full-size copies on
standard sheets not larger than 24 x 36 inches and drawn to a scale of not less
than one inch equals 50 feet and ten 11 x 17 inch reduced copies).
      2.   The filing requirements contained in Subsection C of Section
16.301 of this Chapter, except that the above preliminary plat of subdivision
shall suffice for the plat of subdivision.
      3.   Tree preservation plan. An approved tree preservation plan, as more
specifically described elsewhere in this Municipal Code, is required whenever
there will be construction of bonded improvements, demolition activity, earth
moving, or other construction activity related to the subdivision. When no such
activity is related to the proposed subdivision, a statement signed by the
applicant indicating that no trees will be removed prior to issuance of a
building permit may be submitted instead of a tree preservation plan.
   D.   Action on Preliminary Plat.
      1.   Plan Commission review.
         a.   If, by reason of the general character or topography of the
property to be subdivided, or of any lot to be created by such subdivision, it
appears likely to the Village Engineer and the Plan Commission that a variation
from the application of the Zoning Ordinance or waiver of a portion of the
Mettawa Building Code will be sought after approval of the final plat for
recording as submitted, then the Plan Commission may reject the entire
preliminary plat of subdivision, or may direct that such lots as to which it
appears likely that a variation will be sought be excluded therefrom.
         b.   In the event the said plat does not conform to the provisions of
this Chapter or other pertinent ordinances, including but not limited to the
zoning ordinance, or is not consistent with the Comprehensive Plan or with the
general design and layout of similar areas of the Village, the subdivider may
then make such changes as are specified or required by the Plan Commission.
         c.   Following its review of such preliminary plat, if there is
consensus that the plat should be given approval, the Plan Commission will
request the Village Engineer to review the preliminary engineering plans and
specifications and prepare a written report thereon.
      2.   Following its approval of the engineering plans and specifications,
the Plan Commission shall give the preliminary plat its approval and file a
written report thereof with the President and Board of Trustees.
         a.   The approval of a preliminary plat by the Plan Commission shall
be effective for a period of one (1) year.
         b.   Thereupon the Plan Commission shall certify said action by
stamping or lettering on said plat the following certificate:
“Preliminary approval by the Plan Commission of the Village of Mettawa,
Illinois, this day of ___________, A.D. 20___, subject to all conditions or
preliminary approval as set forth in the Plan Commission’s report to the
President and Board of Trustees, shall be effective for one (1) year from the
date hereof.
                                                            
         Chairman”
   E.   Major Subdivision, Final Plat Procedure.
      1.   Filing deadline. Within 180 days after the date of the approval of
the preliminary plat by the President and Board of Trustees, the subdivider
shall submit to the Plan Commission the final plat of a Major Subdivision for
approval and recording as described hereinbelow.
         a.   Time extensions. Upon the request of the subdivider made within
the first 150 days following the date of the approval of the preliminary plat
as aforesaid, and for good cause shown, the Plan Commission may extend the time
for submitting the final plat for approval for an additional 90 days, provided
that only one such extension may be granted with respect to any given
subdivision proposal.
         b.   Revocation of preliminary plat approval. The subdivider's failure
to submit a final plat to the Plan Commission for approval within the time or
extension thereof set forth above shall operate as an automatic revocation of
the approval of the preliminary plat, and the subsequent subdivision of the
same property shall proceed only upon application to the Village as set forth
herein for original applications.
      2.   Filing Requirements for final plat of major subdivision. These
requirements are cumulative to and augment the filing requirements for a
preliminary plat of a major subdivision. At the time of filing of final plat of
major subdivision, the subdivider shall submit an engineering, drainage and
grading plan containing detailed plans and specifications along with a natural
resource opinion, theretofore approved by the Village Engineer, for the
installation, construction and design of all Bonded Improvements, including but
not limited to street pavements, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, trails and
pathways, fire hydrants, water mains, storm sewers and storm water storage
facilities, street lights and other bonded improvements detailing the existing
centerline elevations of all streets and alleys in the proposed subdivision and
the centerline elevations of proposed pavements [Elevations shall refer to
U.S.G.S. datum]. Profiles shall be drawn to a horizontal scale of not more than
one inch equals 50 feet and vertical scale of not less than one inch equals
five feet, which plans and profiles shall be prepared by an engineer licensed
by the State of Illinois in accord with all applicable codes and ordinances of
the Village as well as with the more detailed regulations contained below:
         a.   All proper certificates and seals as required by law shall be
shown on the subdivision plat including the signature and seal of the Illinois
registered land surveyor who prepared the plat.
         b.   No engineering, drainage, and grading plan shall be deemed
approved unless the certificate of the Village Engineer is reflected thereon,
certifying that the bonded improvements described thereon in the owner/
subdivider statement and the plan meet the minimum requirements of this Chapter
and all other applicable ordinances of the Village, which certificate shall
include the Village Engineer's estimate of the cost of such improvements, as
well as the costs of engineering and inspection.
   F.   Plan Commission Recommendation. Provided the final plat meets the
conditions (if any) set forth upon which the preliminary plat had been approved
and is otherwise in accord with the preliminary plat and with all applicable
regulations of this Subdivision Code, the Secretary of the Chairman will make
and send the President and Board of Trustees a written report containing the
Plan Commission recommendation.
   G.   Subdivider's Agreement. At the time of the approval of any final plat
of a major subdivision, the plat shall not be signed by the Village President
or attested by the Village Clerk until the President and Board of Trustees
shall be in receipt of the subdivider's written agreement in form approved by
the Village Attorney wherein the subdivider agrees: To install and construct
all bonded improvements in accordance with all applicable Codes and ordinances
of the Village; to establish responsibility for operation and maintenance of
the detention area in a homeowners' association or other private entity
pursuant to a declaration of covenants approved as part of the subdivider's
agreement; to pay all required fees in accordance with the requirements of the
ordinances of the Village; and to make all required donations and financial
guarantees, including reimbursement of the fees and charges of the Village
Attorney and Village Engineer. While a subdivider's agreement may be amended
(by mutual agreement of the subdivider and the President and Board of Trustees)
to extend the time for commencing and completing bonded improvements, the
subdivider's agreement shall contain the approximate date when installation of
bonded improvements will commence and a reasonable date for completion of said
bonded improvements, subject to the condition that, at the latest, the
improvements shall be completed within two (2) years of the date of the
recordation of the final form of a major plat of subdivision by the Lake County
Recorder of Deeds following the President and Board of Trustees' approval
thereof. If not otherwise specifically addressed or otherwise provided in the
subdivider's agreement, the following shall apply to all major and minor
subdivisions:
      1.   The subdivider may freely assign, transfer or convey real property
within a platted subdivision, but such assignment, transfer or conveyance shall
not affect the principal obligation of the subdivider to perform the
obligations set forth in the subdivider's agreement, which shall bind the
assignees and successors in interest of the subdivider;
      2.   The bonded improvements associated with a building permit for a
model home need not be constructed and installed prior to the issuance of such
permit, provided that such model home is otherwise constructed in accordance
with the applicable ordinances of the Village;
      3.   If the subdivider has deposited a financial guarantee with the
Village Treasurer, the issuer of such financial guarantee will pay all
attorney's fees and other costs incurred by the Village in enforcing collection
of such financial guarantee in the event that the issuer fails to honor the
Village's demand for payment under the terms of such financial guarantee;
      4.   Unless the subdivider has deposited with the Village Treasurer a
financial guarantee in a form meeting the requirements of this Chapter and
approved by the Village Attorney, no building permit associated with a lot in a
major subdivision shall be issued until all of the bonded improvements are
constructed, fully completed and approved for use by the President and Board of
Trustees, including but not limited to: The Mettawa Trail and street pavement
systems, including bituminous base, asphalt binder course, stormwater detention
systems and street inlets, and storm sewers or swales;
      5.   No certificate of occupancy associated with a lot in a major
subdivision shall be issued until grading of the street parkways across the
frontage of the subject lot and final grading and installation of top soil,
seeding/sod, and landscaping of the common areas, if any, in the entire major
subdivision have been completed and installed; and
      6.   If constructed, no sewer and water utilities within the subdivision
shall be connected to the sewer and water utilities belonging to the Village,
except in accordance with the applicable provisions of the municipal code and
upon payment of the connection fees required therein.
   H.   President and Board of Trustees Consideration. Upon receipt of a
recommendation from the Plan Commission, such final plat of major subdivision
shall be acted upon by the President and Board of Trustees. If approved by the
President and Board of Trustees it is understood that such approval is
conditioned upon the owner/subdivider depositing the financial guarantee and
executing the subdivider's agreement in the form approved by the Village
Attorney, unless noted to the contrary by the President and Board of Trustees.
   J.   Financial Guarantee. In the event an applicant seeks to have a building
permit associated with a lot in a major subdivision issued prior to bonded
improvements being constructed, accepted and approved for use, the subdivider
must deposit a suitable financial guarantee, which includes the maintenance
guarantee, with the Village Treasurer to guarantee the Village the completion
of all bonded improvements as determined by the Village Engineer in accordance
with the subdivider's agreement and the ordinances of the Village, together
with all other commitments made by the subdivider; which financial guarantee
shall be either a letter of credit (in a form to be approved by the Village
Attorney), or subdivision bond, or cash. Any such letter of credit must be
irrevocable and made by a sound and reputable bank whereby a sum of money is
set aside and restricted as payment for the performance of specific obligations
by the subdivider:
      1.   The financial guarantee submitted in accordance with this Subsection
to guarantee the completion of bonded improvements shall be in an amount equal
to one hundred fifteen percent (115%) of the Village Engineer's estimated cost
of installing and constructing said bonded improvements and shall provide as
follows:
         a.   An expiration date not less than two (2) years from the date of
issuance or an express provision that such financial guarantee will not expire
prior to completion and acceptance of said bonded improvements by the President
and Board of Trustees;
         b.   That the financial or insurance company issuing the financial
guarantee shall give written notice by certified or registered mail to the
Village Clerk and the Village Engineer not less than forty-five (45) days
before the expiration of the financial guarantee, which financial guarantee
shall not expire absent such notice;
         c.   That failure of the subdivider to complete the bonded
improvements secured by such financial guarantee prior to the scheduled
completion date shall be considered a default by the subdivider and the issuing
institution;
         d.   That failure of the subdivider to submit a successor financial
guarantee in accordance with this Subsection, to be effective upon expiration
of the initial financial guarantee deposited with the Village Treasurer, shall
be unlawful and considered a default by the subdivider and the issuing
institution;
         e.   That the financial guarantee shall be irrevocable;
         f.   That (in the case of a payout instrument) the principal amount of
the instrument will not be discharged or reduced by the issuer except upon
written certificate of the Village Engineer that such surety may be discharged
or reduced in a specified amount in accordance with Paragraph 3 below; and
         g.   That the issuer will pay all attorneys' fees and other costs
incurred by the Village in enforcing collection of such financial guarantee in
the event that the issuer fails to honor the Village's demand for payment under
the terms of such financial guarantee.
      2.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, a standby financial guarantee
submitted in accordance with this Subsection to guarantee the completion of
bonded improvements may be reduced in amount prior to completion and acceptance
of such bonded improvements in the sole discretion of the President and Board
of Trustees as follows:
         a.   Provided he approves of the installation of any given
improvement, following his inspection and review of the installation of the
bonded improvements and usual and customary waivers of lien attendant thereto,
the Village Engineer shall recommend reduction of the surety to the President
and Board of Trustees; and
         b.   Upon its receipt of the recommendation of the Village Engineer,
the said President and Board of Trustees may authorize the reduction of the
amount of a financial guarantee — it being understood that the total amount of
the maintenance guarantee shall not be reduced but shall be retained in the
financial guarantee, to be held by the Village for the two (2) year period
following approval and acceptance of the improvements by the President and
Board of Trustees in order to guarantee the installation and materials used in
constructing the bonded improvements.
      3.   In the event the financial guarantee submitted in accordance with
this Subsection to guarantee the completion of the bonded improvement is a
"pay-out" instrument, it is understood that such financial guarantee shall be
reduced periodically to reflect payment by the subdivider for the bonded
improvements as follows:
         a.   Provided he approves of the installation of any given bonded
improvement, the Village Engineer, following his inspection and review of the
installation of the bonded improvements and usual and customary waivers of lien
attendant thereto, shall authorize payment to be made from the financial
guarantee; and
         b.   In no event shall the Village engineer authorize a reduction in
the amount of the maintenance guarantee, which shall be retained in the
financial guarantee, to be held by the Village for the two (2) year period
following approval and acceptance of the improvements by the President and
Board of Trustees in order to guarantee the installation and materials used in
constructing the bonded improvements.
      4.   In the event a financial guarantee submitted in accordance with this
Subsection shall be discharged upon acceptance by the President and Board of
Trustees of all bonded improvements for which said financial guarantee was
submitted, a maintenance financial guarantee (in form of cash, bond, or letter
of credit) guaranteeing said improvements against defects in materials or
workmanship in the amount of fifteen percent (15%) of the actual costs of said
improvements shall be deposited with the Village by the owner/subdivider to be
effective for a period of two (2) years from the date of such acceptance of
said bonded improvements.
(Am. Ord. 591, passed 9-18-2007)
SECTION 16.402. AVOIDANCE OF PRELIMINARY PLAT PROCEDURES.
   An applicant may waive the right to preliminary approval process and may
instead file all of the data required in this Article for such approval at the
same time as such applicant files engineering plans and the final plat.
However, before undertaking the formal procedures outlined in this Subdivision
Code, an applicant is urged to submit a tentative plat and discuss the proposal
with the Village Engineer to ascertain the requirements affecting the
subdivision.
ARTICLE V. ENFORCEMENT
SECTION
   
16.501   Recording of Plats
   
16.502   Installation Requirements - Construction Methods - Bonded Improvements
   
16.503   Issuance of Building Permits and Certificates of Occupancy
   
16.504   Required Approvals
   
16.505   Recapture Ordinance
   
16.506   Penalty
SECTION 16.501. RECORDING OF PLATS.
   A.   No plat of any subdivision of land within the corporate limits of the
Village of Mettawa shall be entitled to recordation by the Lake County Recorder
of Deeds or have any validity until it shall have been approved in the manner
prescribed by law and this Subdivision Code.
   B.   Within six (6) months after the date of final approval of such plat by
the President and Board of Trustees, and provided that all fees and costs have
theretofore been paid, at the sole cost and expense of the subdivider, the
Village shall cause such plat to be recorded in the office of the Recorder of
Deeds of Lake County, Illinois, and thereafter shall retain the original plat
in and as part of the official records of the Village. In the absence of a
provision in a development agreement to the contrary, if such final plat of
subdivision is not so recorded within said six (6) month period from and after
the final approval thereof by the President and Board of Trustees, the said
President and Board of Trustees approval thereof shall be deemed null and void,
and of no further force and effect; and in such case any subsequent attempt to
record such plat shall proceed only upon a new application for subdivision in
the manner set forth in this Chapter.
   C.   Recordation of an approved plat shall constitute acceptance by the
President and Board of Trustees of ownership of or easement rights, as the case
may be, associated with land shown thereon as provided for or dedicated to
public use, unless otherwise indicated.
(Ord. 591, passed 9-18-2007)
SECTION 16.502. INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS AND CONSTRUCTION METHODS — BONDED
IMPROVEMENTS.
   A.   Plans and Specifications To Be Approved. Before commencement of
construction of bonded improvements required by this Chapter or a development
agreement, as the case may be, all plans and specifications for such bonded
improvements shall be reviewed by and must receive the approval of the Village
Engineer and must thereafter receive the approval of the Village Board.
   B.   All Construction To Be Approved. It shall be unlawful to install and/or
construct any bonded improvement in a manner inconsistent with applicable
regulations of the Municipal Code, including but not limited to the following:
      1.   Sidewalks. In order to aid in the preservation of the rural
character of the Village, sidewalks shall not be installed unless their
installation and construction have first been approved by the President and
Board of Trustees.
      2.   Mettawa Trail. No portion of this trail system shall be altered or
extended unless provisions are made for the concurrent installation thereof,
the plans for installation have first been approved by the President and Board
of Trustees, and construction approved by the Village Engineer.
      3.   Pavements. No street shall be paved unless provisions are made for
the concurrent installation of other street appurtenances contained in the
engineering plans approved by the Village Engineer, including storm sewers or
swales herein required.
      4.   Fire hydrants. Provided public potable water is available within
1000 feet of the subdivision and, in the event no existing fire hydrant is
located within four hundred (400) feet (measured along the extended ingress to
and egress from a lot-in-depth and thence along the center line of the
previously existing street upon which said lot-in-depth has frontage) of the
buildable area of any proposed lot-in-depth, fire hydrants shall be installed
at such locations(s) as are designated by the Village Engineer, one of which
hydrants shall be located within the said four hundred (400) foot distance. All
such fire hydrants shall be connected by a minimum six (6) inch diameter water
main constructed from an existing main having not less than a six (6) inch
diameter.
      5.   Storm water facilities.
         a.   A storm sewer or swale system shall be constructed throughout the
entire subdivision which shall be separate and independent of all septic
systems and which shall provide an efficient outlet for storm water after
collection thereof. Storm sewers or swales shall be installed and constructed
on both sides of a street or on one (1) side of the street and no street shall
be paved unless provision is made for the concurrent installation of other
street appurtenances contained in the engineering plans approved by the Village
Engineer, including construction of storm sewers or swales for the full length
of the street pavement. Only storm sewers located within the public right-of-
way or within an easement in favor of the Village shall be public storm sewers.
         b.   Private storm sewers. In the event the Village Engineer shall
determine that storm drainage to a public storm sewer or swale is required for
a lot-in-depth or privately maintained street because of the topography of the
land in and around the parcel being subdivided, private storm sewers shall be
installed within the subdivision pursuant to plans approved by the Village
Engineer.
         c.   Private maintenance of storm water detention areas. Storm water
detention areas (including basins and below ground detention structures)
required to comply with the Village's Storm Water Management Ordinance will be
sited in common area specifically set aside for such use. The responsibility
for operation and maintenance of the detention area and special stormwater
drainage facilities shall be that of a homeowners' association or other private
entity pursuant to a declaration of covenants required as part of the
subdivision approval and included in the subdivider's agreement.
      6.   Street signs. Metallic street name signs shall be erected on
metallic posts at each intersection. The type of sign, its location and its
erection shall be determined by the Village Engineer, who shall be guided by
the provisions of the current edition of the "State Manual for Uniform Traffic
Control Devices", to the extent applicable.
      7.   Street lights and public utilities.
         a.   Street Lights. Standard street lights shall be installed,
however, the subdivider may request use of an ornamental/decorative street
light other than the standard street lights approved for installation by
Commonwealth Edison. Such ornamental/decorative street lighting system shall be
submitted for the approval of the Village Engineer. The maintenance, repair,
and replacement of such ornamental/decorative street lighting system shall be
that of a homeowners' association or other private entity pursuant to a
declaration of covenants required as part of the subdivision approval.
Electrical energy for such lights shall be located underground and charges for
electricity for such lights placed in the public right-of-way shall be the
responsibility of the Village.
         b.   All other utility distribution lines, for telephone and gas and
electric services, to be installed, as well as cable television cable, shall be
placed underground within easements or dedicated public rights-of-way.
   C.   Inspection at Subdivider's Expense. During the course of construction,
all improvements proposed to be made under provisions of this Chapter shall be
inspected by the Village Engineer or his duly designated agent. All fees and
costs established by the President and Board of Trustees by Resolution adopted
from time to time hereafter in connection with such inspection shall be
reimbursed to the Village by the subdivider.
   D.   Maintenance and Service of Private Roads, Sewers, Common Areas, and/or
Detention/retention Ponds. Private roads and easements shall be serviced and
maintained by the owners thereof; no officer, agent or employee of the Village
shall at any time service or maintain or offer or agree to service or maintain
any private road or easement or any part thereof. When a subdivision includes a
private road, common area, sewer, and/or a detention/retention pond, a covenant
shall be drafted and recorded requiring the establishment of a suitable method
(which may include the creation of an homeowners' association) to provide for
the maintenance of such private road, common area, sewer, and/or detention/
retention pond.
(Ord. 591, passed 9-18-2007)
SECTION 16.503. ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY.
   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Chapter, whether
or not a financial guarantee has been deposited with the Village Engineer, with
respect to any final plat of subdivision approved by the Village President and
Board of Trustees and recorded with the Recorder of Deeds of Lake County:
   A.   No building permit shall be issued unless the extent of street
improvements shall be adequate for vehicular police and fire equipment access
to the proposed building site; and
   B.   No certificate of occupancy for any building in the subdivision shall
be issued prior to the completion of all such bonded improvements and all
public improvements have been formally accepted and approved for use by the
President and Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 591, passed 9-18-2007)
SECTION 16.504. REQUIRED APPROVALS.
   Where any approval is required of them in this Chapter, nothing in this
Chapter shall be construed as requiring any or all of the Plan Commission, the
Village Engineer and the Village Board to give any such approval if plans and
specifications or other matters requiring their approval do not comply with
applicable provisions of this Chapter or a given development agreement, as the
case may be.
(Ord. 591, passed 9-18-2007)
SECTION 16.505. RECAPTURE ORDINANCE.
   A.   Recapture. If: 1) a municipal ordinance of the village or the President
and Board of Trustees require the installation of any water mains, sanitary
sewers, storm drains, roadways or other public facilities; and 2) in the
opinion of the corporate authorities such facilities may be used for the
benefit of additional property not controlled by the person of whom
installation is required; and 3) such water mains, sanitary sewers, storm
drains, roadways or other facilities are to be dedicated to the public, the
corporate authorities may, by ordinance, require other property which benefits
by such facilities to contribute a fair and reasonable portion of certified
costs of installation, including engineering costs, to the installing party.
      1.   The village shall have the sole authority to determine the
following:
         a.   The amount of interest, if any, to be charged to a benefited
property owner (not to exceed 10 percent simple interest/annum);
         b.   The method by which the costs are to be certified;
         c.   The fair and reasonable apportionment of costs;
         d.   The party responsible for collection of the apportioned costs;
         e.   The service charge due the village for establishment of the
recapture ordinance;
         f.   The amount of time (not to exceed 10 years) that the ordinance is
to remain in effect;
         g.   The amount by which the apportioned costs are to be reduced due
to depreciation;
         h.   The method by which the ordinance is to be enforced;
         i.   Any other matters pertinent to the adoption of the ordinance.
   B.   Recordation. Any ordinance adopted pursuant to this section shall be
recorded against all parcels to be benefited by the facilities with the
recorder of deeds of Lake County. It shall be the responsibility of the
installing owner to record the ordinance whether so stated in the recapture
ordinance or not.
   C.   Notification to Property Owners. The recording of the ordinance, in
this manner, shall serve to notify persons interested in such additional
property of the fact that there will be a charge in relation to such property
for the connection to and use of the facilities constructed under the
ordinance.
   D.   Hold Harmless. The village shall be held harmless by the installing
property owner and successors against any claims made on account of the
adoption of the recapture ordinance, any attempted implementation of the
ordinance and any failure on the part of the village or its officials to
collect the recapture amount.
   E.   Collection of Recapture Fee - Interest - Payment to Developer. At the
time when an application is filed with the Village for a building permit for
the construction of a building upon any portion of the other property or when
an application is filed with any other governmental agency for a utility tap-on
permit for connection of such other property to such public improvement,
directly or indirectly, (whichever event first occurs), the Village shall
collect from such titleholder of record of such portion of other property the
amount of the recapture fee calculated with interest in accordance this section
from the date of completion of such public improvements to the date of
collection. Upon receipt of the recapture fee, the Village shall issue its
receipt therefor and reimburse the developer the total developer cost portion
of the recapture fee, plus the interest collected.
   F.   Creation of Special Service Areas - New Local Sewer Systems. When and
if the Village ascertains that the titleholders of records of non-commercial
and/or non-industrial uses of other property within the corporate limits of the
Village desire sanitary sewer service, such service shall be available only
upon the titleholders of record of such non-commercial and/or non-industrial
other property paying for the installation of a local sewer system. In such
cases, Mettawa may require that funding of construction of the local sewer
system and the payment therefor by these titleholders of record of such other
property shall be by means of one or more special service areas created by the
Village, subject to the Village receiving recapture as set forth in the
pertinent recapture agreement. In all cases and prior to the creation of the
SSA, the titleholder of record of each parcel of other property who seeks a
sanitary sewer connection shall execute a restrictive covenant in favor of the
County and the Village by which such titleholder of record agrees that, absent
County and Village consent, no titleholder of record of such parcel shall
thereafter extend any sanitary sewer easement or extend or permit any extension
of any sanitary sewer service to any other land and that no such titleholder of
record shall seek to develop the land except in accordance with the authorized
density thereof reflected on the parcel chart attached to the recapture
agreement.
   G.   Other Fees. The collection of the recapture fee contemplated shall be
in addition to and over and above any and all other building permit fees, water
tap-on fees, sewer connection fees, and/or any or all other applicable fees
required to be paid by the titleholder of record of any of the other property
pursuant to the ordinances of the Village and other regulatory agencies, and/or
Statutes of the State of Illinois.
   H.   Costs Expended by the Village. Whenever the Village of Mettawa has
caused the oversizing of sewer and/or water mains or otherwise provided for
access thereto and/or provided for sewer and/or water service to be afforded an
owner or owners of any property or properties other than the owner installing
the improvement, the Village shall have the right to reimbursement and
recapture of its costs in connection with such oversizing or affording such
service to such owner. Accordingly, no such owner shall thereafter apply to the
Village for a permit, or have a right to tap into or make connection with such
sewer line or water main or shall be required by any ordinance to connect or
tap into said improvement without first reimbursing the Village its costs with
interest thereon at a rate to be determined by the Village in accordance with
Section A(l)(a) above from the date of the installation to the date of such
application and payment of such recapture costs. Upon such application by such
owner, the Village Engineer shall compute and certify to such applicant the
pro-rata cost of construction of that section of such sewer and/or water main
and, before issuing any permit to tap into or connect therewith, shall receive
such pro-rata amount of such recapture reimbursement on behalf of the Village;
and upon receipt remit the same to the Village Treasurer for distribution in
the manner authorized by the President and Board of Trustees of the Village of
Mettawa.
   I.   Village Engineer determination of Contribution. The determination of
the Village Engineer as to the amount of such recapture contribution shall, in
the absence of willful fraud or misconduct, be conclusive. Such recapture
payment shall be in addition to and exclusive of any other fees required and
fixed by any other ordinance as inspection or permit fees for connection with
or tap into such sewer or water mains.
(Ord. 614, passed 11-18-2008; Am. Ord. 766, passed 9-19-2014)
SECTION 16.506. PENALTY.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for a titleholder of record of other property or
any other person, firm or corporation having an interest in any other property
or any portion thereof, or any contractor, agent or representative of such
titleholder of record or person, firm or corporation to make any connection
with any of the public improvements which are the subject of a recapture
agreement without first making application for a permit therefor and paying the
amount required under such recapture agreement.
   B.   Any such person, firm or corporation upon conviction of a violation of
Subsection A of this Section
16.506, shall be fined in an amount as set forth in Chapter 2, Village
Government, Article X, Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1003, Fine and Penalty Schedule. Each day that such connection exists in
contravention of this Section shall be a separate violation. The Village shall
have the right without further notice or permission to remove all such
connections so made.
(Ord. 614, passed 11-18-2008; Am. Ord. 852, passed 10-20-2020)
ARTICLE VI. CONSTRUCTION
SECTION
   
16.601   Rules and Definitions
SECTION 16.601. RULES AND DEFINITIONS.
   A.   The language in the text of this Chapter shall be interpreted in
accordance with the following rules of construction:
      1.   The singular number includes the plural number, and the plural the
singular;
      2.   The word "shall" is mandatory; the word "may" is permissive; and
      3.   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
   B.   Whenever hereafter in this Chapter the following words and phrases are
used, they shall, for the purposes of this Chapter, have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this Subsection, except when the context
otherwise indicates.
      "Applicant" Any person, firm or corporation who files an application for
a building permit or for zoning consideration.
      "Arterial Street" A street that provides or that will provide for traffic
with a high degree of continuity.
         a.   "Major arterial street" An arterial street that provides or that
will provide for fast or heavy traffic of considerable continuity and that will
be used primarily as a traffic artery for intercommunication between large
areas in and near the Village, and shall include those streets designated or
that may be designated "arterial street", by the State of Illinois and those
streets shown or that may be shown as "major street", on the Major Street Plan.
         b.   "Minor arterial street" An arterial street that carries or that
will carry traffic from minor streets to arterial streets, and shall include
the principal entrance streets of a subdivision development and the primary
circulating streets therein.
      "Bonded Improvements" All public improvements and those privately owned
improvements (e.g. stormwater retention and/or detention ponds, special
stormwater drainage, street pavement, and walkways within private streets) and
other improvements including but not limited to: The Mettawa Trail and street
pavement systems, bituminous base, asphalt binder course, curb, gutter and
street inlets, and storm sewers or swales.
      "Building Code"
Chapter 9 of the municipal code.
      "Building Official" The Building Official of the Village.
      "Certificate of Occupancy" For purposes of this Chapter, the certificate
of occupancy issued pursuant to the building and zoning regulations contained
in Chapters
15 and
16 of the municipal code upon completion of construction. For purposes of this
Chapter, "certificate of occupancy" includes a partial certificate of
occupancy.
      "Comprehensive Plan" or "Comprehensive Plan" The official Comprehensive
Plan of the Village of Mettawa of 1977, as amended.
      "County" The County of Lake, an Illinois unit of local government.
      "Cul-de-sac" The area intended for vehicle turnaround located at the
termination of a dead-end street.
      "DBH" The diameter of a tree at breast height.
      "Developer" The Village or other person, firm or corporation which pays
for the construction of a public improvement.
      "DNR" or "Illinois Department of Natural Resources" The Department of
Natural Resources of the State of Illinois.
      "Engineer's Estimate" The estimate of the Village Engineer of the cost of
bonded improvements, which shall automatically change to become identical to
the actual cost of the bonded improvements set forth in the contract or
contracts entered into for the construction and installation of such bonded
improvements.
      "Engineering Plans or Final Engineering Plans" The Public Improvement
installation and construction specifications, consistent with the Preliminary
Engineering Plans, including, as a minimum, the following plans for: The
Mettawa Trail and public streets, including pavement, curb, gutter, swales and
landscaping; wetlands mitigation and protection; stormwater management,
including final drainage and grading; public sanitary sewer lines and potable
water mains, if any; and appurtenances to all of the foregoing.
      "Established lot width" The average lot width established on one side of
an entire block where at least sixty percent (60%) of the lots have a lot width
greater than that required by the zoning ordinance.
      "Financial Guarantee" In order to assure the Village that the
construction and installation of bonded improvements will occur in a timely
fashion and workmanlike manner, the deposit with Village made in accordance
with the regulations contained in this Chapter and held by the Village
Treasurer — whether such deposit is in the form of a subdivision bond, letter
of credit or cash — the amount of which shall include the amount of the
maintenance guarantee.
      "Front lot line" With respect to any lot other than a Lot-in-Depth, the
line thereof coextensive with the right-of-way line of any adjacent street.
      "Grand Total Cost" The total developer cost, plus an additional twenty
percent (20%) payable to the Village to reimburse the Village for legal,
engineering and clerical expenses and an additional three percent (3%) payable
to the Village to reimburse the Village for the Village's costs of collection
of the recapture fee.
      "Local Sewer System" A grid of sanitary sewer lines and lateral sewers
(including any extension of a trunk line that is necessary to connect the grid
to a trunk line, force main or an extension of either or both) as well as all
necessary rights-of-way or easements therefor, constructed in accordance with
all applicable County standards, regulations and ordinances within a
subdivision or other land proposed to receive sanitary sewer service in order
to collect sanitary sewerage generated by residents of such subdivision or
land, which grid is connected directly into the a trunk line, force main or an
extension of either or both constructed by a developer and to which a recapture
agreement pertains.
      "Lot" A portion of platted land measured, set apart, and subdivided as a
distinct parcel having its principal frontage upon a street and created and
delineated upon a duly approved plat of subdivision or resubdivision and so
recorded by the Recorder of Deeds of Lake County, Illinois.
      "Lot depth" The mean horizontal distance between the front and the rear
lot lines. For a lot-in-depth, lot depth shall be the average distance between
the rear lot line and the non-stem portion of the front lot line.
      "Lot-in-depth" A lot of record, most of which is adjacent to and located
behind another lot of record and derives its only access to a street by a Stem.
      "Maintenance Guarantee" In order to insure the Village against risk in
defects in materials and/or workmanship associated with the construction and
installation of bonded improvements, a portion of the financial guarantee equal
to fifteen percent (15%) of the engineer's estimate, held by the Village for
two years following acceptance of the improvements by the President and Board
of Trustees.
      "Major Subdivision" Any subdivision which involves installation and/or
construction of bonded improvements.
      "Mettawa Trail" The formal name of a path owned by the Village for
equestrian, pedestrian and bicyclist use by the public and located as shown on
a plat of subdivision within a twenty (20) foot wide public right-of-way
easement dedicated to the Village as a planned continuation of the path from
off-site, which path shall have a minimum width of eight (8) feet and a maximum
width of twelve (12) feet and shall be constructed as a public improvement.
      "Minor Street" A street in a residential area that is or that will be
used primarily for access to abutting residential properties.
      "Minor Subdivision" Any subdivision which does not involve the
installation and/or construction of bonded improvements.
      "Municipal Code" The Municipal Code of the Village of Mettawa of 2001, as
same may be amended from time to time hereafter.
      "Official Village standards" Those standards of installation,
construction and design on file for public inspection in the office of the
Village Engineer, as the same may be adopted and amended from time to time by
the President and Board of Trustees.
      "Other Property" Displayed on a Recapture Area Map and/or Chart, the
parcels of land lying within the corporate limits of the Village that are
entitled to or are benefited by a public improvement constructed and installed
subject to a recapture agreement duly entered into in accordance with the terms
of this Chapter, the titleholder of record of which is not otherwise assessed
or required to pay for such public improvement at the time of the installation
thereof.
      "Parcel Chart" A list identifying the parcels of land eligible to receive
sanitary sewer service and specifying the maximum P.E. that each such parcel
will be entitled to deliver to the County sanitary sewer system.
      "P.E." or "Population Equivalents" The permissible sewage flow from land
eligible for sanitary sewerage service. One P.E. is equivalent to 100 gallons
per day.
      "PIN" A permanent index number assigned to each parcel of land within the
County that identifies each such parcel for assessment and other purposes.
      "Plan Commission" The Plan Commission of the Village.
      "Plat" or "Plat of Subdivision" A plat of subdivision.
      "Preliminary Engineering Plans" The Public Improvement installation and
construction conceptual specifications of the bonded improvements required for
any given subdivision.
      "Private Sanitary Sewage Septic System" or "System" A sewage treatment
and disposal system which infiltrates treated wastewater into soil where the
projected daily flow is less than 1,500 gallons.
      "Private Street" Other than a Public Street, the entire right-of-way of
every roadway thoroughfare or other place conveyed and/or reserved by
dedication as a roadway and/or driveway not for use by the general public.
      "Public Improvement" Any improvement, found on or described in final
engineering plans or related documents, which shall be dedicated to use by the
general public and/or the ownership of which shall be conveyed to the Village,
including but not limited to: The Mettawa Trail and street pavement, curb,
gutter and walkways within a right-of-way dedicated to or for the use of the
Village or other governmental agency; the Mettawa Trail; and, if any, sanitary
sewer and potable watermain.
      "Public Street" The entire right-of-way or width of every road, way,
thoroughfare, or place conveyed and/or dedicated by prescription or plat or
other instrument for use by the general public or conveyed and/or dedicated to
the Village or other public agency and that is or may be open to the use of the
public for the primary purpose of vehicular traffic but shall not be deemed to
include the Mettawa Trail or any other such right-of-way twenty (20) feet or
less in width.
      "Rear lot line" The line of any lot that is most distant from and
opposite of the front lot line thereof.
      "Recapture Agreement" An agreement between the Village and a developer or
between the County and the Village (as developer) whereby the developer who
pays in whole or in part for the installation of a public improvement or
portion thereof is entitled to receive full or partial re-payment of such
developer's costs of such installation.
      "Recapture Area Map and Chart" Attached hereto and hereby made a part of
a recapture agreement, being a map and/or a chart containing a PIN for each
parcel of Other Property and which may include the maximum P.E. of each such
parcel of Other Property that is eligible to receive sanitary sewerage service.
      "Recapture Fee or Recapture" The fee collected by the Village calculated
and charged on a proportionate basis in accordance with the formulae contained
in Section
16.505 of this Chapter.
      "Receipt" Issued by the Village, an acknowledgment of payment of
recapture fees that are allocated to a given parcel of other property.
      "Side lot line" Any lot line of a lot between a front lot line and the
rear lot line thereof unless such lot line lies opposite a front lot line, in
which case such lot line shall be a rear lot line.
      "Special Service Area" or "SSA" A statutory special service area
established by the Village and, in the case of a recapture agreement, created
to pay for the costs of necessary public improvements other than those
constructed subject to the recapture agreement and, in the case of a recapture
agreement for sanitary sewer to pay for the costs of necessary public
improvements to the County's sewer system, such as the costs of constructing a
local sewer system.
      "Stem" The extended portion of a lot-in-depth which provides access to a
street. For purposes of this Subdivision Code, a stem of a lot-in-depth is
considered the lot's principal street frontage. No portion of a stem shall be
considered a yard. In the case of lots-in-depth created by subdivision approved
prior to January 1, 2000, the extended portion of a lot-in-depth may consist of
an easement providing access to a street.
      "Street" Any public street or private street.
      "Subdivider's Agreement" or "Development Agreement" An agreement entered
into by and between the Village and an owner (or subdivider) of land to govern
the development of such land and the construction of improvements associated
therewith.
      "Subdivision" Any change or rearrangement in the boundaries or division
lines of any lot, parcel, piece or tract of land, or the division of such lot,
parcel, piece or tract of land into one or more lots, including the
consolidation or rearrangement in the boundaries or division lines of any lot,
parcel, piece or tract of land into a single lot.
      "Subdivision Code" This
Chapter 16 of the municipal code.
      "Tableland" Land where the cross slope in any direction does not exceed
ten percent (10%).
      "Through Lot" A Lot, other than a corner lot, which has frontage on two
(2) streets.
      "Total Developer Cost" The developer's costs of constructing the public
improvement determined by actual contracts entered into by the developer for
labor (including engineering) and materials, with the understanding that, in
the absence of any such contract or contracts, the Village Engineer's estimate
of such costs shall be used to determine the total developer cost.
      "Village" The Village of Mettawa, an Illinois municipal corporation and
home rule unit as described in the Illinois Constitution.
      "Village Attorney" The Village Attorney of the Village.
      "Village Board" or "President and Board of Trustees" The President and
Board of Trustees of the Village of Mettawa.
      "Village Clerk" The Village Clerk of the Village.
      "Village Engineer" The Village Engineer of the Village.
      "Village President or Mayor" The Village President or Mayor of the
Village.
      "Water Course" A river, creek, lake, or floodway.
      "Zoning Ordinance"
Chapter 15 of the municipal code.
      "Zoning Ordinance District Map" The official "Zoning Ordinance District
Map" of the Zoning Ordinance, as amended and as the same may be amended from
time to time.
(Ord. 591, passed 9-18-2007; Am. Ord. 614, passed 11-18-2008)
ARTICLE VII. VARIATIONS
SECTION
   
16.701   Variations and Exceptions
SECTION 16.701. VARIATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS.
   A.   Variations from these regulations shall not be granted as a right.
However, the Plan Commission may recommend and the President and Board of
Trustees may grant variations from the regulations contained in this
Subdivision Code in specific cases which do not affect the general plan or the
spirit of the Subdivision Code.
   B.   Exceptions from the regulation that every lot shall have four (4) sides
may be approved when the applicant demonstrates that a four-sided lot is not
feasible because of peculiar topographical conditions, abutting lots of record
or abutting parcels not owned directly or indirectly by the applicant, or the
presence of pre-existing buildings not owned directly or indirectly by the
applicant. When granted, any given such exception shall not be construed as a
variation from the terms and conditions set forth in this Chapter.
(Am. Ord. 591, passed 9-18-2007)
ARTICLE VIII. VIOLATIONS
SECTION
   
16.801   Penalty
SECTION 16.801. PENALTY.
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to file or attempt
to file a plat of subdivision with the Lake County Recorder of Deeds for
recordation without first having secured the approval of the President and
Board of Trustees of the Village in accord with the procedures set forth in
this Chapter.
   B.   Every person, firm or corporation found by a court of law to have
violated any provision of this section shall be guilty of a business offense
and upon conviction shall be punished by a fine as set forth in Chapter 2,
Village Government, Article X, Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1003, Fine and Penalty Schedule, for each offense; and a separate offense
shall be deemed to have been committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Am. Ord. 488, passed 7-16-2002; Am. Ord. 852, passed 10-20-2020)
CHAPTER 17 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS
SECTION
Article I. General
   
17.101   Rules and Definitions
   
17.102   Purpose
   
17.103   Registration
   
17.104   Telecommunications License
   
17.105   Telecommunications Franchise
   
17.106   Cable Television Franchise
   
17.107   Application to Existing Franchise Ordinances and Agreements
   
17.108   Penalties
   
17.109   Other Remedies
   
17.110   Severability
Article II. Registration of Telecommunications Carriers and Providers
   
17.201   Registration Required
   
17.202   Registration Fee
   
17.203   Purpose of Registration
Article III. Telecommunications License
   
17.301   Telecommunications License
   
17.302   License Application
   
17.303   Determination by the Village
   
17.304   Agreement
   
17.305   Nonexclusive Grant
   
17.306   Rights Granted
   
17.307   Term of Grant
   
17.308   License Route
   
17.309   Location of Facilities
   
17.310   Construction Permits
   
17.311   Compensation to Village
   
17.312   Service to Village Users
   
17.313   Amendment of Grant
   
17.314   Renewal Applications
   
17.315   Renewal Determinations
   
17.316   Obligation to Cure as a Condition of Renewal
Article IV. Telecommunications Franchise
   
17.401   Telecommunications Franchise
   
17.402   Franchise Application
   
17.403   Determination by the Village
   
17.404   Agreement
   
17.405   Nonexclusive Grant
   
17.406   Term of Grant
   
17.407   Rights Granted
   
17.408   Franchise Territory
   
17.409   Location of Facilities
   
17.410   Construction Permits
   
17.411   Compensation to Village
   
17.412   Nondiscrimination
   
17.413   Service to the Village
   
17.414   Amendment of Grant
   
17.415   Renewal Applications
   
17.416   Renewal Determination
   
17.417   Obligation to Cure as a Condition of Renewal
Article V. Cable Franchise [Reserved] 
Article VI. Fees and Compensation
   
17.601   Purpose
   
17.602   Application and Review Fee
   
17.603   Other Village Costs
   
17.604   Reserved Compensation for Public Ways
   
17.605   Compensation for Village Property
   
17.606   Construction Permit Fee
   
17.607   Annual Fees
   
17.608   Cable Fees
   
17.609   Regulatory Fees and Compensation Not a Tax
Article VII. Conditions of Grant
   
17.701   Location of Facilities
   
17.702   Construction Permit
   
17.703   Interference with the Public Ways
   
17.704   Damage to Property
   
17.705   Notice of Work
   
17.706   Repair and Emergency Work
   
17.707   Maintenance of Facilities
   
17.708   Relocation or Removal of Facilities
   
17.709   Removal of Unauthorized Facilities
   
17.710   Emergency Removal or Relocation of Facilities
   
17.711   Damage to Grantee's Facilities
   
17.712   Restoration of Public Ways, Other Ways, and Village Property
   
17.713   Facilities Maps
   
17.714   Duty to Provide Information
   
17.715   Leased Capacity
   
17.716   Grantee Insurance
   
17.717   General Indemnification
   
17.718   Performance and Construction Surety
   
17.719   Security Fund
   
17.720   Construction and Completion Bond
   
17.721   Coordination of Construction Activities
   
17.722   Assignments or Transfers of Grant
   
17.723   Transaction Affecting Control of Grant
   
17.724   Revocation or Termination of Grant
   
17.725   Notice and Duty to Cure
   
17.726   Hearing
   
17.727   Standards for Revocation or Lesser Sanctions
Article VIII. Construction Standards
   
17.801   General
   
17.802   Construction Codes
   
17.803   Construction Permits
   
17.804   Applications
   
17.805   Engineer's Certification
   
17.806   Traffic Control Plan
   
17.807   Issuance of Permit
   
17.808   Construction Schedule
   
17.809   Compliance With Permit
   
17.810   Display of Permit
   
17.811   Survey of Underground Facilities
   
17.812   Noncomplying Work
   
17.813   Completion of Construction
   
17.814   As-Built Drawings
   
17.815   Restoration of Improvements
   
17.816   Landscape Restoration
   
17.817   Construction Surety
   
17.818   Exceptions
   
17.819   Responsibility of Owner
Article IX. Cable/Video Service Provider Fee and PEG Access Support Fee
   
17.901   Cable/Video Service Provider Fee Imposed
   
17.902   PEG Access Support Fee Imposed
   
17.903   Fee Payments
   
17.904   Credit for Other Payments
   
17.905   No Impact on Other Taxes Due from Holder
   
17.906   Audits of Cable/Video Service Provider
   
17.907   Late Fees/Payments
   
17.910   Severability
Article X. Cable and Video Customer Protection Law
   
17.1001   Customer Service and Privacy Protection
   
17.1002   Enforcement
   
17.1003   Penalties
   
17.1004   Customer Credits
   
17.1005   Severability
ARTICLE I. GENERAL
SECTION 17.101. RULES AND DEFINITIONS.
   A.   Rules of Word Construction. The language set forth in the text of this
Article shall be interpreted in accordance with the following rules of
construction:
      1.   The singular number includes the plural number and the plural the
singular.
      2.   The word “shall” is mandatory; the word “may” is permissive.
      3.   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
   B.   Definitions. Whenever in this Article the following words and phrases
have been used, they shall, for the purposes of this Chapter, have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this subsection, except when the context
otherwise indicates:
      AFFILIATE. A person who (directly or indirectly) owns or controls, is
owned or controlled by, or is under common ownership or control with another
person.
      CABLE ACT. The Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, 47 USC Section
532, et seq., as now and hereafter amended.
      CABLE OPERATOR. A telecommunications carrier providing or offering to
provide “cable service” within the Village as that term is defined in the Cable
Act.
      CABLE SERVICE. That term as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6).
      CORPORATE AUTHORITIES. The President and Board of Trustees of the
Village.
      EXCESS CAPACITY. The volume or capacity in any existing or future duct,
conduit, manhole, handhole or other utility facility within the public way that
is or will be available for use for additional telecommunications facilities.
      FCC or FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION. The Federal administrative
agency, or lawful successor, authorized to regulate and oversee
telecommunications carriers, services and providers on a national level.
      GRANTEE. Encompasses both licensees and franchisees, being a recipient of
either a license or a franchise.
      GROSS REVENUES. All consideration of any kind or nature, including but
not limited to cash, credits, property, and in-kind contributions received by
the holder for the operation of a cable or video system to provide cable
service or video service within the holder's cable service or video service
area within the Village as well as.
         a.   Recurring charges for cable or video service;
         b.   Event-based charges for cable service or video service, including
but not limited to pay-per-view and video-on-demand charges;
         c.   Rental of set top boxes and other cable service or video service
equipment;
         d.   Service charges related to the provision of cable service or
video service, including but not limited to activation, installation, and
repair charges;
         e.   Administrative charges related to the provision of cable service
or video service, including but not limited to service order and service
termination charge;
         f.   Late payment fees or charges, insufficient funds check charges
and other charges assessed to recover the costs of collecting delinquent
payments;
         g.   A pro rata portion of all revenue derived by the holder or its
affiliates pursuant to compensation arrangements for advertising or for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services derived from the operation
of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service within the
Village, utilizing the following formula: The number of subscribers within the
corporate limits of the Village divided by the total number of subscribers in
relation to the relevant regional or national compensation arrangement;
         h.   Compensation received by the holder that is derived from the
operation of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service
with respect to commissions that are received by the holder as compensation for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services on the holder's network,
such as a "home shopping" or similar channel, subject to subsection (ix);
         i.   In the case of a cable service or video service that is bundled
or integrated functionally with other services or capabilities or applications,
the portion of the holder's revenue attributable to such other services or
capabilities or applications shall be included in the gross revenue, unless the
holder can reasonably identify the division or exclusion of the revenue from
its books and records that are kept in the regular course of business;
         j.   The service provider fee permitted by 220 ILCS 5/21-801(b); and
         k.   Revenue of an affiliate of a holder shall be included in the
calculation of gross revenues to the extent the treatment of the revenue as
revenue of the affiliate rather than the holder has the effect of evading the
payment of the fee permitted by 220 ILCS 5/21-801(b) which would otherwise be
paid by the cable service or video service.
   It is understood, however, gross revenues do not include any of the
following:
         a.   Revenues not actually received, even if billed, such as bad debt,
subject to 220 ILCS 5/21-801(c)(1)(vi);
         b.   Refunds, discounts, or other price adjustments that reduce the
amount of gross revenues received by the holder of the State-issued
authorization to the extent the refund, rebate, credit, or discount is
attributable to cable service or video service;
         c.   Regardless of whether the services are bundled, packaged, or
functionally integrated with cable service or video service, any revenues
received from services not classified as cable service or video service,
including, without limitation, revenue received from telecommunication
services, information services, or the provision of directory or Internet
advertising, including yellow pages, white pages, banner advertisement, and
electronic publishing or any other revenues attributed by the holder to
noncable service or nonvideo service in accordance with the holder's books and
records and records kept in the regular course of business and any applicable
laws, rules, regulations, standards, or orders;
         d.   The sale of cable services or video services for resale in which
the purchaser is required to collect the service provider fee from the
purchaser's subscribers to the extent the purchaser certifies in writing that
it will resell the service within the Village and pay the fee permitted by 220
ILCS 5/21-801(b) with respect to the service;
         e.   Any tax or fee of general applicability imposed upon the
subscribers or the transaction by a city, State, Federal, or any other
governmental entity and collected by the holder of the State-issued
authorization and required to be remitted to the taxing entity, including sales
and use taxes;
         f.   Security deposits collected from subscribers; and
         g.   Amounts paid by subscribers to "home shopping" or similar vendors
for merchandise sold through any home shopping channel offered as part of the
cable service or video service.
      HOLDER or CABLE OR VIDEO PROVIDER. A person or entity that has received
authorization to offer or provide cable or video service from the Illinois
Commerce Commission pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/21-401.
      ICC or ILLINOIS COMMERCE COMMISSION. The State administrative agency, or
lawful successor, authorized to regulate and oversee telecommunications
carriers, services and providers in the State of Illinois.
      OTHER WAYS. The highways, streets, alleys, utility easements or other
rights-of-way, within the Village, but under the jurisdiction and control of a
governmental entity other than the Village.
      OVERHEAD FACILITIES. Utility poles, utility facilities and
telecommunications facilities located above the surface of the ground,
including the underground supports and foundations for such facilities.
      PEG. Public, education and governmental.
      PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE. The amount paid under this Chapter and 220 ILCS
5/21-801(d) by the holder to the Village for the service areas within its
territorial jurisdiction.
      PERSON. Includes corporations, companies, associations, joint stock
companies or associations, firms, partnerships, limited liability companies and
individuals and includes their lessors, trustees and receivers.
      PUBLIC STREET. Any highway, street, alley or other public right of way
for motor vehicle travel under the jurisdiction and control of the Village
which has been acquired, established, dedicated or devoted to highway purposes
not inconsistent with telecommunications facilities.
      PUBLIC WAY. Includes all public streets and utility easements, as those
terms are defined herein, now or hereafter owned by the Village, but only to
the extent of the Village's right, title, interest or authority to grant a
license or franchise to occupy and use such streets and easements for
telecommunications facilities.
      SERVICE. The provision of "cable service" or "video service" to
subscribers and the interaction of subscribers with the person or entity that
has received authorization to offer or provide cable or video service from the
Illinois Commerce Commission pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/21-401.
      SERVICE PROVIDER FEE. The amount paid under this Chapter and 220 ILCS 5/
21-801 by the holder to a Village for the service areas within its territorial
jurisdiction.
      STATE. The State of Illinois.
      SURPLUS SPACE. The portion of the usable space on a utility pole which
has the necessary clearance from other pole users, as required by the orders
and regulations of the Illinois Commerce Commission, to allow its use by a
telecommunications carrier for a pole attachment.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIER. Every person that directly or indirectly
owns, controls, operates or manages plant, equipment or property within the
Village, used or to be used for the purpose of offering telecommunications
service.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES. The plant, equipment and property,
including but not limited to, cables, wires, conduits, ducts, pedestals,
antennae, electronics and other  appurtenances used or to be used to transmit,
receive, distribute, provide or offer telecommunications services.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER. Includes every person who provides
telecommunications service over telecommunications facilities without any
ownership or management control of the facilities.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. The providing or offering for rent, sale or
lease, or in exchange for other value received, of the transmittal of voice,
data, image, graphic and video programming information between or among points
by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio, satellite or similar
facilities, with or without benefit of any closed transmission medium.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM. Shall have the same meaning as
“Telecommunications Facilities,” defined above.
      UNDERGROUND FACILITIES. Utility and telecommunications facilities located
under the surface of the ground, excluding the underground foundations or
supports for overhead facilities.
      USABLE SPACE. The total distance between the top of a utility pole and
the lowest possible attachment point that provides the minimum allowable
vertical clearance as specified in the orders and regulations of the Illinois
Commerce Commission.
      UTILITY EASEMENT. Any easement owned by the Village and acquired,
established, dedicated or devoted for public utility purposes not inconsistent
with telecommunications facilities.
      UTILITY FACILITIES. The plant, equipment and property, including but not
limited to the poles, pipes, mains, conduits, ducts, cables, wires, plant and
equipment located under, on or above the surface of the ground within the
public ways of the Village and used or to be used for the purpose of providing
utility or telecommunications services.
      VIDEO SERVICE. Video programming and subscriber interaction, if any, that
is required for the selection or use of such video programming services, and
which is provided through wireline facilities located at least in part in the
public right-of-way without regard to delivery technology, including Internet
protocol technology. This definition does not include any video programming
provided by a commercial mobile service provider defined in 47 U.S.C. § 332(d)
or any video programming provided solely as part of, and via, service that
enables users to access content, information, electronic mail, or other
services offered over the public Internet.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Mettawa.
      VILLAGE PROPERTY. Includes all real property owned by the Village, other
than public streets and utility easements as those terms are defined herein,
and all property held in a proprietary capacity by the Village, which are not
subject to right-of-way licensing and franchising as provided in this Chapter.
      WORK. Undertaking any, some, or all of the following: construction,
installation, operation, disconnection, relocation, removing, maintaining, or
otherwise locating telecommunications facilities in, under, over or across any
public way of the Village.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97; Am. Ord. 593, passed 11-19-2007)
SECTION 17.102. PURPOSE.
   The purpose and intent of this Chapter is to:
   A.   Establish a local policy concerning telecommunications providers and
services;
   B.   Establish clear local guidelines, standards and time frames for the
exercise of local authority with respect to the regulation of
telecommunications providers and services;
   C.   Promote competition in telecommunications;
   D.   Minimize unnecessary local regulation of telecommunications providers
and services;
   E.   Encourage the provision of advanced and competitive telecommunications
services on the widest possible basis to the businesses, institutions and
residents of the Village;
   F.   Permit and manage reasonable access to the public ways of the Village
for telecommunications purposes on a competitively neutral basis;
   G.   Conserve the limited physical capacity of the public ways held in
public trust by the Village;
   H.   Assure that the Village's current and ongoing costs of granting and
regulating private access to and use of the public ways are fully paid by the
persons seeking such access and causing such costs;
   J.   Secure fair and reasonable compensation to the Village and the
residents of the Village for permitting private use of the public ways;
   K.   Assure that all telecommunications carriers providing facilities or
services within the Village comply with the ordinances, rules and regulations
of the Village;
   L.   Assure that the Village can continue to fairly and responsibly protect
the public health, safety and welfare; and
   M.   Enable the Village to discharge its public trust consistent with
rapidly evolving federal and state regulatory policies, industry competition
and technological development.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.103. REGISTRATION.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, any telecommunications carrier having
any telecommunications facilities within the corporate limits of the Village
and offers or provides
telecommunications services to customer premises within the Village shall
register with the Village on forms provided by the Village pursuant to Article
II of this Chapter.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.104. TELECOMMUNICATIONS LICENSE.
   Except as otherwise provided therein, it shall be unlawful for a
telecommunications carrier to work for the sole purpose of providing
telecommunications service to persons and areas outside the Village without
first obtaining a license for the use of such public ways from the Village
pursuant to Article III.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.105. TELECOMMUNICATIONS FRANCHISE.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, it shall be unlawful for a
telecommunications carrier to work in, under, over or across any public way of
the Village, and to also provide telecommunications service to persons or areas
within the Village, without first obtaining a franchise license for the use of
such public ways from the Village pursuant to Article IV of this Chapter.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.106. CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISE.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, it shall be unlawful for a
telecommunications carrier to work in any public way of the Village for the
purpose of providing cable service to persons in the Village without first
obtaining a cable franchise license from the Village as provided in Article V.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.107. APPLICATION TO EXISTING FRANCHISE ORDINANCES AND AGREEMENTS.
   This Chapter shall have no effect on any existing franchise ordinance or
franchise agreement until:
   A.   The expiration of said franchise ordinance or agreement; or
   B.   The effective date of an amendment to an unexpired franchise ordinance
or franchise agreement, unless both parties agree to defer full compliance to a
specific date not later than present expiration date.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.108. PENALTIES.
   A.   Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting
or refusing to comply with any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be fined
in an amount as set forth in Chapter 2, Village Government, Article X, Tax,
Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1003, Fine and Penalty Schedule.
   B.   A separate and distinct offense shall be deemed committed each day on
which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97; Am. Ord. 852, passed 10-20-2020)
SECTION 17.109. OTHER REMEDIES.
   Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed as limiting any judicial remedies
that the Village may have, at law or in equity, for enforcement of this
Chapter.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.110. SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or other portion of
this Chapter, or its application to any person, is, for any reason, declared
invalid, in whole or in part by any court or agency of competent jurisdiction,
said decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions hereof.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
ARTICLE II. REGISTRATION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS AND PROVIDERS
SECTION 17.201. REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   All telecommunications carriers having telecommunications facilities within
the corporate limits of the Village and all telecommunications carriers or
providers who offer or provide telecommunications service to customer premises
within the Village shall register with the Village on forms provided by the
Village Clerk which shall include the following:
   A.   The identity and legal status of the registrant, including any
affiliates;
   B.   The name, address and telephone number of the officer, agent or
employee responsible for the accuracy of the registration statement;
   C.   A description of registrant's existing or proposed telecommunications
facilities within the Village;
   D.   A description of the telecommunications service that the registrant
intends to offer or provide, or is currently offering or providing, to persons,
firms, businesses or institutions within the Village;
   E.   Information sufficient to determine whether the registrant is subject
to public way licensing or franchising under this Chapter;
   F.   Information sufficient to determine whether the transmission,
origination or receipt of the telecommunications services provided or to be
provided by the registrant constitutes an occupation or privilege subject to
any municipal telecommunications tax, utility message tax or other occupation
tax imposed by the Village;
   G.   Information sufficient to determine that the applicant has applied for
and received any certificate of authority required by the Illinois Commerce
Commission to provide telecommunications services or facilities within the
Village;
   H.   Information sufficient to determine that the applicant has applied for
and received any construction permit, operating license or other approvals
required by the Federal Communications Commission to provide telecommunications
services or facilities within the Village; and
   J.   Such other information as the Village Clerk may reasonably require.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.202. REGISTRATION FEE.
   Each application for registration as a telecommunications carrier or
provider shall be accompanied by a fee as set forth in Chapter 2, Village
Government, Article X, Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1002, Fee Schedule.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97; Am. Ord. 852, passed 10-20-2020)
SECTION 17.203. PURPOSE OF REGISTRATION.
   The purposes of registration under this Article II are:
   A.   To provide the Village with accurate and current information concerning
the telecommunications carriers and providers who offer or provide
telecommunications services within the Village, or that own or operate
telecommunication facilities within the Village;
   B.   To assist the Village in enforcement of this Chapter;
   C.   To assist the Village in the collection and enforcement of any
municipal taxes, franchise fees, license fees or charges that may be due the
Village; and
   D.   To assist the Village in monitoring compliance with local, State and
Federal laws.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
ARTICLE III. TELECOMMUNICATIONS LICENSE
SECTION 17.301. TELECOMMUNICATIONS LICENSE.
   A telecommunications license shall be required of any telecommunications
carrier who desires to work in specific public ways of the Village for the sole
purpose of providing telecommunications services solely to persons or areas
outside the Village.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.302. LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Any person that desires a telecommunications license pursuant to this
Article III shall file an application with the Village which shall include the
following information:
   A.   The identity of the license applicant, including all affiliates of the
applicant;
   B.   A description of the telecommunications services that are or will be
offered or provided by licensee over its telecommunications facilities;
   C.   A description of the transmission medium that will be used by the
licensee to offer or provide such telecommunications services;
   D.   Preliminary engineering plans, specifications and a network map of the
facilities to be located within the Village, all in sufficient detail to
identify:
      1.   The location and route requested for applicant's proposed
telecommunications facilities;
      2.   The location of all overhead and underground public utility,
telecommunication, cable, water, sewer drainage and other facilities in the
public way along the proposed route;
      3.   The location(s), if any, for interconnection with the
telecommunications facilities of other telecommunications carriers; and
      4.   The specific trees, structures, improvements, facilities and
obstructions, if any, that applicant proposes to temporarily or permanently
remove or relocate.
   E.   If applicant is proposing to install overhead facilities, evidence that
surplus space is available for locating its telecommunications facilities on
existing utility poles along the proposed route;
   F.   If applicant is proposing an underground installation in existing ducts
or conduits within the public ways, information in sufficient detail to
identify:
      1.   The excess capacity currently available in such ducts or conduits
before installation of applicant's telecommunications facilities; and
      2.   The excess capacity, if any, that will exist in such ducts or
conduits after installation of applicant's telecommunications facilities.
   G.   If applicant is proposing an underground installation within new ducts
or conduits to be constructed within the public ways:
      1.   The location proposed for the new ducts or conduits; and
      2.   The excess capacity that will exist in such ducts or conduits after
installation of applicant's telecommunications facilities.
   H.   A preliminary construction schedule and completion date;
   J.   A preliminary traffic control plan in accordance with the IDOT Manual
on Uniform Traffic Control Devices;
   K.   Financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles demonstrating the applicant's financial ability to do the
work;
   L.   Information in sufficient detail to establish the applicant's technical
qualifications, experience and expertise regarding the telecommunications
facilities and services described in the application;
   M.   Information to establish that the applicant has obtained all other
governmental approvals and permits to construct and operate the facilities and
to offer or provide the telecommunications services;
   N.   All fees, deposits or charges required pursuant to Article VI of this
Chapter; and
   O.   Such other and further information as may be required by the Village
Clerk.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.303. DETERMINATION BY THE VILLAGE.
   Within one hundred twenty (120) days, or as extended by the Corporate
Authorities, after receiving a complete application hereunder, the Corporate
Authorities shall make a determination granting or denying the application in
whole or in part. If the application is denied, the determination shall include
the reasons for denial. The following standards shall apply when determining to
grant or deny the application:
   A.   The financial and technical ability of the applicant;
   B.   The legal ability of the applicant;
   C.   The capacity of the public ways to accommodate the applicant's proposed
facilities;
   D.   The capacity of the public ways to accommodate additional utility and
telecommunications facilities if the license is granted;
   E.   The damage or disruption, if any, of public or private facilities,
improvements, service, travel or landscaping if the license is granted;
   F.   The public interest in minimizing the cost and disruption of
construction within the public ways;
   G.   The service that applicant will provide to the community and region;
   H.   The effect, if any, on public health, safety and welfare if the license
is granted;
   J.   The availability of alternate routes and/or locations for the proposed
facilities;
   K.   Applicable federal and state telecommunications laws, regulations and
policies; and
   L.   Such other factors as may demonstrate that the grant to use the public
ways will serve the community interest.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.304. AGREEMENT.
   No license granted hereunder shall be effective until the applicant and the
Village have executed a written agreement setting forth the particular terms
and provisions under which the licensee will do work within the public ways of
the Village will be granted.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.305. NONEXCLUSIVE GRANT.
   No license granted under this Article shall confer an exclusive right,
privilege, license or franchise to occupy or use the public ways of the Village
for delivery of telecommunications services or any other purposes.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.306. RIGHTS GRANTED.
   A.   No license granted hereunder shall convey any right, title or interest
in the public ways, but shall be deemed a license only to use and occupy the
public ways for the limited purposes and term stated in the grant.
   B.   No license granted hereunder shall authorize or excuse a licensee from
securing such further easements, leases, licenses, permits or other approvals
as may be required to lawfully occupy and use a public way, excess capacity in
any underground facility or surplus space in an overhead facility.
   C.   No license granted hereunder shall be construed as any warranty of
title.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.307. TERM OF GRANT.
   Unless otherwise specified in a license agreement, a telecommunications
license granted hereunder shall be in effect for a term of five (5) years.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.308. LICENSE ROUTE.
   A telecommunications license granted under this Article shall be limited to
a grant of specific public ways and defined portions thereof.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.309. LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   Unless otherwise specified in a license agreement, all facilities shall be
constructed, installed and located in accordance with the following terms and
conditions:
   A.   Telecommunications facilities shall be installed within an existing
underground duct or conduit whenever excess capacity exists within such utility
facility.
   B.   A licensee with written authorization to install overhead facilities
shall install its telecommunications facilities on pole attachments to existing
utility poles only, and then only if surplus space is available.
   C.   Whenever any existing electric utilities, cable facilities or
telecommunications facilities are located underground within a public way of
the Village, a licensee with written authorization to occupy the same public
way must also locate its telecommunications facilities underground.
   D.   Whenever any new or existing electric utilities, cable facilities or
telecommunications facilities are located or relocated underground within a
public way of the Village, a licensee that currently occupies the same public
way shall relocate, at its sole cost and expense, its facilities underground
within a reasonable period of time, which shall not be later than the end of
the grant term. Absent extraordinary circumstances or undue hardship as
determined by the Village Engineer, such relocation shall be made concurrently
to minimize the disruption of the public ways. It is the responsibility of the
licensee to obtain written authorization from the owner of the facility.
   E.   Whenever new telecommunications facilities will exhaust the capacity of
a public street or utility easement to reasonably accommodate future
telecommunications carriers or facilities, the licensee shall provide
additional ducts, conduits, manholes and other facilities for nondiscriminatory
access to future telecommunications carriers.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.310. CONSTRUCTION PERMITS.
   All licensees are required to obtain construction permits as required in
Article VIII herein, provided, however, that nothing in this Article shall
prohibit the Village and a licensee from agreeing to alternative plan review,
permit and construction procedures in a license agreement, provided such
alternative procedures provide substantially equivalent safeguards for
responsible construction practices.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.311. COMPENSATION TO VILLAGE.
   Each license granted hereunder is subject to the Village's right, which is
expressly reserved, to fix annually or on any other basis a fair and reasonable
compensation to be paid for the property rights granted to the licensee;
provided, nothing in this Chapter shall prohibit the Village and a licensee
from agreeing to the compensation to be paid.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.312. SERVICE TO VILLAGE USERS.
   A licensee may be permitted to offer or provide telecommunications services
to persons or areas within the Village upon submitting an application for
approval pursuant to this Chapter.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.313. AMENDMENT OF GRANT.
   A.   A new license application and grant shall be required of any
telecommunications carrier that desires to work in public ways of the Village
which are not included in a license previously granted under this Chapter.
   B.   If any given licensee is ordered by the Village to locate or relocate
its telecommunications facilities in public ways not included in a previously
granted license, the Village shall grant a license amendment without further
application.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.314. RENEWAL APPLICATIONS.
   A licensee that desires to renew its license hereunder, not more than 180
days nor less than ninety (90) days before expiration of the current license,
file an application with the Village for renewal of its license which shall
include the following information:
   A.   The information required pursuant to Section 17-302 of this Article;
and
   B.   Any other information required pursuant to the license agreement
between the Village and the licensee.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.315. RENEWAL DETERMINATIONS.
   Within ninety (90) days, or as extended by the corporate authorities, after
receiving a complete application under Section 17.314 hereof, the corporate
authorities shall make a determination granting or denying the renewal
application in whole or in part. If the renewal application is denied, the
determination shall include the reasons for nonrenewal. The following standards
shall apply when determining to grant or deny the application:
   A.   The financial and technical ability of the applicant.
   B.   The legal ability of the applicant.
   C.   The continuing capacity of the public ways to accommodate the
applicant's existing facilities.
   D.   The applicant's compliance with the requirements of this Chapter and
the license agreement.
   E.   Applicable federal, state and local telecommunications laws, rules and
policies.
   F.   Such other factors as may demonstrate that the continued grant to use
the public ways will serve the community interest.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.316. OBLIGATION TO CURE AS A CONDITION OF RENEWAL.
   No license shall be renewed until any ongoing violations or defaults in the
licensee's performance of the license agreement, or of the requirements of this
Chapter, and all applicable laws, statutes, codes, ordinances, rules and
regulations have been cured, or a plan detailing the corrective action to be
taken by the grantee has been approved by the Village.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
ARTICLE IV. TELECOMMUNICATIONS FRANCHISE
SECTION 17.401. TELECOMMUNICATIONS FRANCHISE.
   A telecommunications franchise license shall be required of any
telecommunication carrier who desires to work within the public ways of the
Village and to provide telecommunications services to any person or area in the
Village.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.402. FRANCHISE APPLICATION.
   Any person who desires a telecommunications franchise license hereunder
shall file an application with the Village which shall include the following
information:
   A.   The identity of the franchise applicant, including all affiliates of
the applicant.
   B.   A description of the telecommunications services that are or will be
offered or provided by the franchise applicant over its existing or proposed
facilities.
   C.   A description of the transmission medium that will be used by the
franchisee to offer or provide such telecommunications services.
   D.   Preliminary engineering plans, specifications and a network map of the
facilities to be located within the Village, all in sufficient detail to
identify:
      1.   The location and route requested for applicant's proposed
telecommunications facilities.
      2.   The location of all overhead and underground public utility
telecommunication, cable, water, sewer drainage and other facilities in the
public way along the proposed route.
      3.   The location(s), if any, for interconnection with the
telecommunications facilities of other telecommunications carriers.
      4.   The specific trees, structures, improvements, facilities and
obstructions, if any, that applicant proposes to temporarily or permanently
remove or relocate.
   E.   If the applicant is proposing to install overhead facilities, evidence
that surplus space is available for locating its telecommunications facilities
on existing utility poles along the proposed route.
   F.   If the applicant is proposing an underground installation in existing
ducts or conduits within the public ways, information in sufficient detail to
identify:
      1.   The excess capacity currently available in such ducts or conduits
before installation of applicant's telecommunications facilities; and
      2.   The excess capacity, if any, that will exist in such ducts or
conduits after installation of applicant's telecommunications facilities.
   G.   If the applicant is proposing an underground installation within new
ducts or conduits to be constructed within the public ways:
      1.   The location proposed for the new ducts or conduits; and
      2.   The excess capacity that will exist in such ducts or conduits after
installation of applicant's telecommunications facilities.
   H.   A preliminary construction schedule and completion dates.
   J.   A preliminary traffic control plan in accordance with the IDOT Manual
on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
   K.   Financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles demonstrating the applicant's financial ability to do the
work.
   L.   Information in sufficient detail to establish the applicant's technical
qualifications, experience and expertise regarding the telecommunications
facilities and services described in the application.
   M.   Information to establish that the applicant has obtained all other
approvals from applicable utility companies, governmental approvals, and
permits to construct and operate the facilities and to offer or provide the
telecommunications services.
   N.   Whether the applicant intends to provide cable service, video system
service or other video programming service and sufficient information to
determine whether such service is subject to cable franchising.
   O.   An accurate map showing the location of any existing telecommunications
facilities in the Village that applicant intends to use or lease.
   P.   A description of the services or facilities that the applicant will
offer or make available to the Village and other public, educational and
governmental institutions.
   Q.   A description of applicant's access and line extension policies.
   R.   The area or areas of the Village the applicant desires to for build-out
to the entire franchise area.
   S.   All fees, deposits or charges required pursuant to Article VI of this
Chapter.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.403. DETERMINATION BY THE VILLAGE.
   Within one hundred fifty (150) days, or as extended by the corporate
authorities, after receiving a complete application hereunder, the Corporate
Authorities shall make a determination granting or denying the application in
whole or in part. If the application is denied, the determination shall include
the reasons for denial. The following standards shall apply when determining to
grant or deny the application:
   A.   The financial and technical ability of the applicant.
   B.   The legal ability of the applicant.
   C.   The capacity of the public ways to accommodate the applicant's proposed
facilities.
   D.   The capacity of the public ways to accommodate additional utility and
telecommunications facilities if the franchise is granted.
   E.   The damage or disruption, if any, of public or private facilities,
improvements, service, travel or landscaping if the franchise is granted.
   F.   The public interest in minimizing the cost and disruption of
construction within the public ways.
   G.   The service that applicant will provide to the community and region.
   H.   The effect, if any, on public health, safety and welfare if the
franchise requested is granted.
   J.   The availability of alternate routes and/or locations for the proposed
facilities.
   K.   Applicable federal and state laws, regulations and policies.
   L.   Such other factors as may demonstrate that the grant to use the public
ways will serve the community interest.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.404. AGREEMENT.
   No franchise shall be granted hereunder unless the applicant and the Village
have executed a written agreement setting forth the particular terms and
provisions under which the franchise license to do work within the public ways
of the Village will be granted.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.405. NONEXCLUSIVE GRANT.
   No franchise granted hereunder shall confer any exclusive right, privilege,
license or franchise to occupy or use the public ways of the Village for
delivery of telecommunications services or any other purposes.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.406. TERM OF GRANT.
   Unless otherwise specified in a franchise agreement, a telecommunications
franchise granted hereunder shall be valid for a term of ten (10) years.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.407. RIGHTS GRANTED.
   A.   No franchise granted hereunder shall convey any right, title or
interest in the public ways, but shall be deemed a franchise only to use and
occupy the public ways for the limited purposes and terms stated in the grant.
   B.   No franchise granted hereunder shall authorize or excuse a franchisee
from securing such further easements, leases, franchises, permits or other
approvals as may be required to lawfully occupy and use a public way, excess
capacity in an underground facility or surplus space in an overhead facility.
   C.   No franchise granted hereunder shall be construed as any warranty of
title.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.408. FRANCHISE TERRITORY.
   A telecommunications franchise granted hereunder shall be limited to the
specific geographic area of the Village to be served by the franchisee, and the
specific public ways necessary to serve such areas.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.409. LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   Unless otherwise specified in a franchise agreement, all facilities shall be
constructed, installed and located in accordance with the following terms and
conditions:
   A.   Telecommunications facilities shall be installed within an existing
underground duct or conduit whenever excess capacity exists within such utility
facility.
   B.   A franchisee with permission to install overhead facilities shall
install its telecommunications facilities on pole attachments to existing
utility poles only, and then only if surplus space is available.
   C.   Whenever any existing electric utilities, cable facilities or
telecommunications facilities are located underground within a public way of
the Village, a franchisee with written authorization to occupy the same public
way must also locate its telecommunications facilities underground.
   D.   Whenever any new or existing electric utilities, cable facilities or
telecommunications facilities are located or relocated underground within a
public way of the Village, a franchisee who currently occupies the same public
way shall relocate, at its sole cost and expense, its facilities underground
within a reasonable period of time, which shall not be later than the end of
the grant term. Absent extraordinary circumstances or undue hardship as
determined by the Village Engineer, such relocation shall be made concurrently
to minimize the disruption of the public ways. It is the responsibility of the
franchisee to obtain written authorization from the owner of the facility.
   E.   Whenever new telecommunications facilities will exhaust the capacity of
a public street or utility easement to reasonably accommodate future
telecommunications carriers or facilities, the franchisee shall provide, at its
sole cost and expense, additional ducts, conduits, manholes and other
facilities for nondiscriminatory access to future carriers.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.410. CONSTRUCTION PERMITS.
   All franchisees are required to obtain construction permits for
telecommunications facilities as required in Article VIII herein, provided,
however, that nothing in this Chapter shall prohibit the Village and a
franchisee from agreeing to alternative plan review, permit and construction
procedures in a franchise agreement, provided such alternative procedures
provide substantially equivalent safeguards for responsible construction
practices.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.411. COMPENSATION TO VILLAGE.
   Each franchise license granted hereunder is subject to the Village's right,
which is expressly reserved, to fix annually or on any other basis a fair and
reasonable compensation to be paid for the property rights granted to the
franchisee; provided, nothing in this Article shall prohibit the Village and a
franchisee from agreeing to the compensation to be paid.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.412. NONDISCRIMINATION.
   A franchisee shall make its telecommunications services available to any
customer within its franchise area who shall request such service, without
discrimination as to the terms, conditions, rates or charges for franchisee's
services; provided, however, that nothing in this Chapter shall prohibit a
franchisee from making any reasonable classifications among differently
situated customers.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.413. SERVICE TO THE VILLAGE.
   A franchisee shall make its telecommunications services available to the
Village at its most favorable rate for similarly situated users, unless
otherwise provided in a license or franchise agreement.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.414. AMENDMENT OF GRANT.
   A.   A new franchise application and grant shall be required of any
telecommunications carrier that desires to work in public ways of the Village
which are not included in a franchise previously granted under this Chapter.
   B.   If any given licensee is ordered by the Village to locate or relocate
its telecommunications facilities in public ways not included in a previously
granted franchise, the Village shall grant a franchise amendment without
further application.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.415. RENEWAL APPLICATIONS.
   A franchisee who desires to renew its franchise hereunder shall, not more
than two hundred forty (240) days nor less than one hundred fifty (150) days
before expiration of the current franchise, file an application with the
Village for renewal of its franchise which shall include the following
information:
   A.   The information required pursuant to Section
17.402 of this Article; and
   B.   Any other information required pursuant to the franchise agreement
between the Village and the franchisee.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.416. RENEWAL DETERMINATION.
   Within one hundred fifty (150) days, or as extended by the corporate
authorities, after receiving a complete application hereunder, the corporate
authorities shall make a determination granting or denying the renewal
application in whole or in part. If the renewal application is denied, the
determination shall include the reasons for nonrenewal. The following standards
shall apply when determining to grant or deny the application:
   A.   The financial and technical ability of the applicant.
   B.   The legal ability of the applicant.
   C.   The continuing capacity of the public ways to accommodate the
applicant's existing facilities.
   D.   The applicant's compliance with the requirements of this Chapter and
the franchise agreement.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.417. OBLIGATION TO CURE AS A CONDITION OF RENEWAL.
   No franchise shall be renewed until any ongoing violations or defaults in
the franchisee's performance of the franchise agreement, or of the requirements
of this Chapter, and all applicable laws, statutes, codes, ordinances, rules or
regulations have been cured, or a plan detailing the corrective action to be
taken by the grantee has been approved by the Village.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
ARTICLE V. CABLE FRANCHISE RESERVED
ARTICLE VI. FEES AND COMPENSATION
SECTION 17.601. PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this Article to provide for the payment and recovery of
all direct and indirect costs and expenses of the Village related to the
enforcement and administration of this Chapter.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.602. APPLICATION AND REVIEW FEE.
   A.   Any applicant for a license or franchise pursuant to Articles III or IV
of this Chapter shall pay a fee in the amount set forth in Chapter 2, Village
Government, Article X, Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1002, Fee Schedule.
   B.   The application and review fee shall be deposited with the Village as
part of the application filed pursuant to Article III or Article IV of this
Chapter.
   C.   An applicant whose license or franchise application has been withdrawn,
abandoned or denied shall, within sixty (60) days of its application and review
fee written request, be refunded the balance of its deposit under this section,
less:
      1.   The amount set forth in Chapter 2, Village Government, Article X,
Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1002, Fee Schedule; and
      2.   All ascertainable costs and expenses incurred by the Village in
connection with the application.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97; Am. Ord. 852, passed 10-20-2020)
SECTION 17.603. OTHER VILLAGE COSTS.
   All license or franchise grantees shall, within thirty (30) days after
written demand therefor, reimburse the Village for all direct and indirect
costs and expenses incurred by the Village in connection with any modification,
amendment, renewal or transfer of the license or franchise or any license or
franchise agreement.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.604. RESERVED COMPENSATION FOR PUBLIC WAYS.
   The Village reserves its right to annually fix a fair and reasonable
compensation to be paid for the property rights granted to a telecommunications
license or franchise grantee. Nothing in this Article shall prohibit the
Village and a grantee from agreeing to the compensation to be paid for the
granted property rights.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.605. COMPENSATION FOR VILLAGE PROPERTY.
   If the right is granted, by lease, license, franchise or other manner, to
use and occupy Village Property for the installation of telecommunications
facilities, the compensation to be paid shall be fixed by the Village.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.606. CONSTRUCTION PERMIT FEE.
   Prior to issuance of a construction permit, the permittee shall pay a permit
fee in the amount set forth in Chapter 2, Village Government, Article X, Tax,
Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1002 Fee Schedule, or .5% of the estimated cost of constructing the
telecommunication facilities, as certified by the applicant's engineer and
approved by the Village Engineer, whichever is greater.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97; Am. Ord. 852, passed 10-20-2020)
SECTION 17.607. ANNUAL FEES.
   Unless otherwise agreed in a license or franchise grant agreement, each
license or franchise grantee shall pay an annual license fee to the Village in
the amount as set forth in Chapter 2, Village Government, Article X, Tax, Fee,
Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1002, Fee Schedule, as reimbursement for the Village's costs in connection
with reviewing, inspecting and supervising the use and occupancy of the public
ways on behalf of the public and existing or future users.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97; Am. Ord. 852, passed 10-20-2020)
SECTION 17.608. CABLE FEES.
   Cable television franchisees shall be subject to the franchise fees,
payments and costs provided in Article V of this Chapter.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.609. REGULATORY FEES AND COMPENSATION NOT A TAX.
   The regulatory fees and costs provided for in this Article, and any
compensation charged and paid for the public ways provided for in Section
17.604 of this Article, are separate from, and additional to, any and all
federal, state, local and Village taxes as may be levied, imposed or due from a
telecommunications carrier or provider, its customers or subscribers, or on
account of the lease, sale, delivery or transmission of telecommunications
services.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
ARTICLE VII. CONDITIONS OF GRANT
SECTION 17.701. LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   All facilities shall be constructed, installed and located in accordance
with the following terms and conditions, unless otherwise specified in a
license or franchise agreement:
   A.   A grantee shall install its telecommunications facilities within an
existing underground duct or conduit whenever excess capacity exists within
such utility facility.
   B.   A grantee with written authorization to install overhead facilities
shall install its telecommunications facilities on pole attachments to existing
utility poles only, and then only if surplus space is available.
   C.   Whenever any existing electric utilities, cable facilities or
telecommunications facilities are located underground within a public way of
the Village, a grantee with written authorization to occupy the same public way
must also locate its telecommunications facilities underground.
   D.   Whenever any new or existing electric utilities, cable facilities or
telecommunications facilities are located or relocated underground within a
public way of the Village, a grantee who currently occupies the same public way
shall relocate, at its sole cost and expense, its facilities underground within
a reasonable period of time, which shall not be later than the end of the grant
term. Absent extraordinary circumstances or undue hardship as determined by the
Village Engineer, such relocation shall be made concurrently to minimize the
disruption of the public ways.
   E.   Whenever new telecommunications facilities will exhaust the capacity of
a public street or utility easement to reasonably accommodate future
telecommunications carriers or facilities, the grantee shall provide, at its
sole cost and expense, additional ducts, conduits, manholes and other
facilities for nondiscriminatory access to future carriers.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.702. CONSTRUCTION PERMIT.
   All license or franchise grantees are required to obtain construction
permits for telecommunications facilities as required in Article VIII of this
Chapter. However, nothing in this Article shall prohibit the Village and a
grantee from agreeing to alternative plan review, permit and construction
procedures in a license or franchise agreement, provided such alternative
procedures provide substantially equivalent safeguards for responsible
construction practices.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.703. INTERFERENCE WITH THE PUBLIC WAYS.
   No license or franchise grantee may locate or maintain its
telecommunications facilities so as to unreasonably interfere with the use of
the public ways by the Village, by the general public or by other persons
authorized to use or be present in or upon the public ways. All such facilities
shall be moved by the grantee, temporarily or permanently, as determined by the
Village Engineer.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.704. DAMAGE TO PROPERTY.
   No license or franchise grantee nor any person acting on a grantee's behalf
shall take any action or permit any action to be done which may impair or
damage any Village Property, public ways of the Village, other ways or other
property located in, on or adjacent thereto.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.705. NOTICE OF WORK.
   Unless otherwise provided in a license or franchise agreement, no license or
franchise grantee, nor any person acting on the grantee's behalf, shall
commence any non-emergency work in or about the public ways of the Village or
other ways without ten (10) working days advance notice to the Village.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.706. REPAIR AND EMERGENCY WORK.
   In the event of an unexpected repair or emergency, a grantee may commence
such repair and emergency response work as required under the circumstances,
provided the Grantee shall notify the Village as promptly as possible, before
such repair or emergency work or as soon thereafter as possible if advance
notice is not practicable.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.707. MAINTENANCE OF FACILITIES.
   Each license or franchise grantee shall maintain its facilities in good and
safe condition and in a manner that complies with all applicable federal, state
and local requirements.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.708. RELOCATION OR REMOVAL OF FACILITIES.
   Within thirty (30) days following written notice from the Village a license
or franchise grantee shall, at its own expense, temporarily or permanently
remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any telecommunications
facilities within the public ways whenever the corporate authorities shall have
determined that such removal, relocation, change or alteration is reasonably
necessary for:
   A.   The construction, repair, maintenance or installation of any Village or
other public improvement in or upon the public ways;
   B.   The operations of the Village or other governmental entity in or upon
the public ways;
   C.   The vacation of a public street or the release of a utility easement;
and/or
   D.   Abandonment of a facility within the public ways of the Village. A
facility will be considered abandoned when it is deactivated, out of service,
or not used for its intended and authorized purpose for a period of ninety (90)
days or longer. A facility will not be considered abandoned if it is
temporarily out of service during performance of repairs or if the facility is
being replaced.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.709. REMOVAL OF UNAUTHORIZED FACILITIES.
   Within thirty (30) days following written notice from the Village, any
grantee, telecommunications carrier, or other person who owns, controls or
maintains any unauthorized telecommunications system, facility or related
appurtenances within the public ways of the Village shall, at its own expense,
remove such facilities or appurtenances from the public ways of the Village. If
such grantee fails to remove such facilities or appurtenances, the Village may
cause such removal and charge the grantee its costs incurred. A
telecommunications system or facility is unauthorized and subject to removal in
any one or more of the following circumstances:
   A.   Upon expiration or termination of the grantee's telecommunications
license or franchise.
   B.   Upon abandonment of a facility within the public ways of the Village.
   C.   If the system or facility was constructed or installed without the
prior grant of a telecommunications license or franchise.
   D.   If the system or facility was constructed or installed without the
prior issuance of a required construction permit.
   E.   If the system or facility was constructed or installed at a location
not permitted by the grantee's telecommunications license or franchise.
   F.   Any other circumstance deemed necessary by the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.710. EMERGENCY REMOVAL OR RELOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   The Village retains the right and privilege to cut or move any
telecommunications facilities located within the public ways of the Village, as
the Village may determine to be necessary, appropriate or useful in response to
any public health or safety emergency.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.711. DAMAGE TO GRANTEE'S FACILITIES.
   Unless directly and proximately caused by the willful, intentional or
malicious acts by the Village, the Village shall not be liable for any damage
to or loss of any telecommunications facility within the public ways of the
Village as a result of or in connection with any public works, public
improvements, construction, excavation, grading, filling, or work of any kind
in the public ways by or on behalf of the Village.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.712. RESTORATION OF PUBLIC WAYS, OTHER WAYS, AND VILLAGE PROPERTY.
   A.   When a license or franchise grantee, or any person acting on its
behalf, does any work in or affecting any Public Ways, Other Ways or Village
Property, it shall, at its own expense, promptly remove any obstructions
therefrom and restore such ways or property to as good a condition as existed
before the work was undertaken, unless otherwise directed by the Village. The
restoration will be deemed to have been completed when it has been approved by
the Village Engineer of the Village.
   B.   If weather or other conditions do not permit the complete restoration
required hereunder, the grantee shall temporarily restore the affected ways or
property. Such temporary restoration shall be at the grantee's sole expense and
the grantee shall promptly undertake and complete the required permanent
restoration when the weather or other conditions no longer prevent such
permanent restoration.
   C.   A grantee or other person acting in its behalf shall use suitable
barricades, flags, flagmen, lights, flares and other measures as required for
the safety of all members of the general public and to prevent injury or damage
to any person, vehicle or property by reason of such work in or affecting such
ways or property.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.713. FACILITIES MAPS.
   Each license or franchise grantee shall provide the Village with an accurate
map or maps certifying the location of all telecommunications facilities within
the public ways. Each grantee shall provide updated maps annually.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.714. DUTY TO PROVIDE INFORMATION.
   Within ten (10) days of a written request from the Village Clerk, each
license or franchise grantee shall furnish the Village with information
sufficient to demonstrate:
   A.   That grantee has complied with all requirements of this Chapter;
   B.   That all municipal sales, message and/or telecommunications taxes due
the Village in connection with the telecommunications services and facilities
provided by the grantee have been properly collected and paid by the grantee;
and
   C.   All books, records, maps and other documents, maintained by the grantee
with respect to its facilities within the public ways shall be made available
for inspection by the Village at reasonable times and intervals.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.715. LEASED CAPACITY.
   A license or franchise grantee shall have the right, without prior Village
approval, to offer or provide capacity or bandwidth to its customers, provided:
   A.   The grantee shall furnish the Village with a copy of any such lease or
agreement; and
   B.   The customer or lessee has complied, to the extent applicable, with the
requirements of this Chapter.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.716. GRANTEE INSURANCE.
   Unless otherwise provided in a license or franchise agreement, each grantee
shall, as a condition of the grant, secure and maintain the following liability
insurance policies provided by an insurer rated at least “A” by Best Insurance
Rating Service and insuring both the grantee and the Village, and its elected
and appointed officers, officials, agents and employees as co-insureds:
   A.   Comprehensive general liability insurance with limits not less than
      1.   Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000) for bodily injury or death to each
person;
      2.   Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000) for property damage resulting from
any one accident; and
      3.   Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000) for all other types of liability.
   B.   Automobile liability for owned, non-owned and hired vehicles with a
limit of Three Million Dollars ($3,000,000) for each person and Three Million
Dollars ($3,000,000) for each accident.
   C.   Worker's compensation within statutory limits and employer's liability
insurance with limits of not less than One Million Dollars ($1,000,000).
   D.   Comprehensive form premises-operations, explosions and collapse hazard,
underground hazard and products completed hazard with limits of not less than
Three Million Dollars ($3,000,000).
   E.   The liability insurance policies required by this section shall be
maintained by the grantee throughout the term of the telecommunications license
or franchise, and such other period of time during which the grantee is
operating without a franchise or license hereunder, or is engaged in the
removal of its telecommunications facilities. Each such insurance policy shall
contain the following endorsement:
   “It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled nor
the intention not to renew be stated until 90 days after receipt by the
Village, by registered mail, of a written notice addressed to the Village Clerk
of such intent to cancel or not to renew.”
   F.   Within sixty (60) days after receipt by the Village of said notice, and
in no event later than thirty (30) days prior to said cancellation, the grantee
shall obtain and furnish to the Village replacement insurance policies meeting
the requirements of this Section.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.717. GENERAL INDEMNIFICATION.
   Each license or franchise agreement shall include, to the extent permitted
by law, grantee's express undertaking to defend, indemnify and hold the Village
and its officers, employees, agents and representatives harmless from and
against any and all damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable
attorney's fees and costs of suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or
alleged to arise out of or result from the negligent, careless or wrongful
acts, omissions, failures to act or misconduct of the grantee or its
affiliates, officers, employees, agents, contractors or subcontractors in the
construction, operation, maintenance, repair or removal of its
telecommunications facilities, and in providing or offering telecommunications
services over the facilities or network, whether such acts or omissions are
authorized, allowed or prohibited by this Chapter or by a grant agreement made
or entered into pursuant to this Chapter.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.718. PERFORMANCE AND CONSTRUCTION SURETY.
   Before a license or franchise granted pursuant to this Chapter is effective,
and as necessary thereafter, the grantee shall provide and deposit such monies,
bonds, letters of credit or other instruments in form and substance acceptable
to the Village as may be required by this Chapter or by an applicable license
or franchise agreement.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.719. SECURITY FUND.
   Each grantee shall establish a permanent security fund with the Village by
depositing the amount of Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000) with the Village in
cash, an unconditional letter of credit, or other instrument acceptable to the
Village, which fund shall be maintained at the sole expense of grantee so long
as any of grantee's telecommunications facilities are located within the public
ways of the Village.
   A.   The fund shall serve as security for the full and complete performance
of this Chapter, including any costs, expenses, damages or loss the Village
pays or incurs because of any failure attributable to the grantee to comply
with the codes, ordinances, rule, regulations or permits of the Village.
   B.   Before any sums are withdrawn from the security fund, the Village shall
give written notice to the grantee:
      1.   Describing the act, default or failure to be remedied, or the
damages, costs or expenses which the Village has incurred by reason of
grantee's act or default;
      2.   Providing a reasonable opportunity for grantee to first remedy the
existing or ongoing default or failure, if applicable;
      3.   Providing a reasonable opportunity for grantee to pay any monies due
the Village, if applicable;
      4.   That the grantee will be given an opportunity to review the act,
default or failure described in the notice with the Village Clerk or his
designee.
   C.   Within fourteen (14) days after being given written notice from the
Village that there is a deficiency in the amount of the fund, such grantee
shall replenish the security fund.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.720. CONSTRUCTION AND COMPLETION BOND.
   Unless otherwise provided in a license or franchise agreement, a performance
bond written by a letter of credit acceptable to the Village Attorney equal to
at least 100% of the estimated cost of constructing grantee's
telecommunications facilities within the public ways of the Village shall be
deposited before construction is commenced.
   A.   The construction bond shall remain in force until sixty (60) days after
substantial completion of the work, as determined by the Village Engineer,
including restoration of public ways and other property affected by the
construction.
   B.   The construction bond shall guarantee, to the satisfaction of the
Village:
      1.   Timely completion of construction;
      2.   Construction in compliance with applicable plans, permits, technical
codes and standards;
      3.   Proper location of the facilities as specified by the Village;
      4.   Restoration of the public ways and other property affected by the
construction;
      5.   The submission of "as-built" drawings after completion of the work
as required by this Chapter; and
      6.   Timely payment and satisfaction of all claims, demands or liens for
labor, material or services provided in connection with the work.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.721. COORDINATION OF CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES.
   All grantees are required to cooperate with the Village and with each other.
   A.   By February 1 of each year, grantees shall provide the Village with a
schedule of their proposed construction activities in, around or that may
affect the public ways.
   B.   Each grantee shall meet with the Village Engineer and other grantees
and users of the public ways annually or as determined by the Village to
schedule and coordinate construction in the public ways.
   C.   All construction locations, activities and schedules shall be
coordinated, as ordered by the Village Engineer, to minimize public
inconvenience, disruption or damages.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.722. ASSIGNMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF GRANT.
   Ownership or control of a telecommunications system, license or franchise
may not, directly or indirectly, be transferred, assigned or disposed of by
sale, lease, merger, consolidation or other act of the grantee, by operation of
law or otherwise, without the prior written consent of the Village, which
consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed, as expressed by
ordinance and then only on such reasonable conditions as may be prescribed
therein.
   A.   No grant shall be assigned or transferred in any manner within twelve
(12) months after the initial grant of the license or franchise, unless
otherwise provided in a license or franchise agreement.
   B.   Absent extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances, no grant, system
or integral part of a system shall be assigned or transferred before
construction of the system has been completed.
   C.   Each grantee and proposed assignee or transferee of the grant or system
shall provide and certify the following information to the Village Clerk not
less than one hundred fifty (150) days prior to the proposed date of transfer:
      1.   Complete information setting forth the nature, terms, and conditions
of the proposed transfer or assignment;
      2.   All information required of a telecommunications license or
franchise applicant pursuant to Article III or IV of this Chapter with respect
to the proposed transferee or assignee; and
      3.   Any other information reasonably required by the Village Clerk.
   D.   No transfer shall be approved unless the assignee or transferee has the
legal, technical, financial and other requisite qualifications to own, hold and
operate the telecommunications system pursuant to this Chapter.
   E.   The grantee shall reimburse the Village for all direct and indirect
fees, costs and expenses reasonably incurred by the Village in considering a
request to transfer or assign a telecommunications license or franchise.
   F.   Any transfer or assignment of a telecommunications grant, system or
integral part of a system without prior approval of the Village under this
Section or pursuant to a license or franchise agreement shall be void and is
cause for revocation of the grant.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.723. TRANSACTIONS AFFECTING CONTROL OF GRANT.
   Any transactions which singularly or collectively result in a change of ten
percent (10%) or more of the ownership or working control of the grantee, of
the ownership or working control of a telecommunications license or franchise,
of the ownership or working control of affiliated entities having ownership or
working control of the grantee or of a telecommunications system, or of control
of the capacity or bandwidth of grantee's telecommunication system, facilities
or substantial parts thereof, shall be considered an assignment or transfer
requiring Village approval pursuant to Section
17.721 hereof. Transactions between affiliated entities are not exempt from
Village approval.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.724. REVOCATION OR TERMINATION OF GRANT.
   A license or franchise granted by the Village to use or occupy public ways
of the Village may be revoked for any one or more of the following reasons:
   A.   Construction or operation in the Village or in the public ways of the
Village without a license or franchise grant of authorization;
   B.   Construction or operation at an unauthorized location;
   C.   Unauthorized substantial transfer of control of the grantee;
   D.   Unauthorized assignment of a license or franchise;
   E.   Unauthorized sale, assignment or transfer of grantee's franchise or
license assets, or a substantial interest therein;
   F.   Misrepresentation or lack of candor by or on behalf of grantee in an
application to the Village;
   G.   Abandonment of telecommunications facilities in the public ways;
   H.   Failure to relocate or remove facilities as required in this Chapter;
   J.   Failure to pay taxes, compensation, fees or costs when and as due the
Village;
   K.   Insolvency or bankruptcy of the grantee;
   L.   Violation of material provisions of this Chapter; and
   M.   Violation of the material terms of a license or franchise agreement.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.725. NOTICE AND DUTY TO CURE.
   In the event that the Village Clerk believes that grounds exist for
revocation of a license or franchise, he shall give the grantee written notice
of the apparent violation or noncompliance, providing a short and concise
statement of the nature and general facts of the violation or noncompliance,
and providing the grantee a reasonable period of time not exceeding thirty (30)
days to furnish evidence:
   A.   That corrective action has been, or is being actively and expeditiously
pursued, to remedy the violation or noncompliance;
   B.   That rebuts the alleged violation or noncompliance; or
   C.   That it would be in the public interest to impose some penalty or
sanction less than revocation.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.726. HEARING.
   In the event that a grantee fails to provide evidence reasonably
satisfactory to the Village Clerk as provided in Section
17.725 hereof, the Village Clerk shall refer the apparent violation or
noncompliance to the corporate authorities. The corporate authorities shall
provide the grantee with notice and a reasonable opportunity to be heard
concerning the matter.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.727. STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION OR LESSER SANCTIONS.
   If persuaded that the grantee has violated or failed to comply with material
provisions of this Chapter, or of a franchise or license agreement, the
corporate authorities shall determine whether to revoke the license or
franchise, or to establish some lesser sanction and cure, considering the
nature, circumstances, extent and gravity of the violation as reflected by one
or more of the following factors:
   A.   Whether the misconduct was egregious;
   B.   Whether substantial harm resulted;
   C.   Whether the violation was intentional;
   D.   Whether there is a history of prior violations of the same or other
requirements;
   E.   Whether there is a history of overall compliance; and
   F.   Whether the violation was voluntarily disclosed, admitted or cured.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
ARTICLE VIII. CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
SECTION 17.801. GENERAL.
   No person shall commence or continue work within the Village except as
provided in this Article.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.802. CONSTRUCTION CODES.
   Telecommunications facilities shall be constructed, installed, operated and
maintained in accordance with all applicable federal, state and local codes,
rules and regulations including the National Electrical Safety Code and the
National Electrical Code.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.803. CONSTRUCTION PERMITS.
   No person shall work within the Village without first obtaining a
construction permit therefore provided, however:
   A.   No permit shall be issued for work within the Village unless the
telecommunications carrier has filed a registration statement with the Village
pursuant to Article II of this Chapter.
   B.   No permit shall be issued for work in the public ways unless the
telecommunications carrier has applied for and received a license or franchise
pursuant to Articles III, IV or V of this Chapter.
   C.   No permit shall be issued for work without payment of the construction
permit fee established in Section
17.606 of this Chapter.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.804. APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for permits to work shall be submitted upon forms to be
provided by the Village and shall be accompanied by drawings, plans and
specifications in sufficient detail to demonstrate:
   A.   That the facilities will be constructed in accordance with all
applicable codes, rules and regulations;
   B.   The location and route of all facilities to be installed on existing
utility poles;
   C.   The location and route of all facilities to be located under the
surface of the ground, including the line and grade proposed for the burial at
all points along the route which are within the public ways;
   D.   The location of all existing underground utilities, conduits, ducts,
pipes, mains and installations which are within the public ways along the
underground route proposed by the applicant;
   E.   The location of all other facilities to be constructed within the
Village, but not within the public ways;
   F.   The construction methods to be employed for protection of existing
structures, fixtures, and facilities within or adjacent to the public ways;
   G.   The location, dimension and types of all trees within or adjacent to
the public ways along the route proposed by the applicant, together with a
landscape plan for protecting, trimming, removing, replacing and restoring any
trees or areas to be disturbed during construction; and
   H.   A written construction schedule.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.805. ENGINEER'S CERTIFICATION.
   All permit applications shall be accompanied by the certification of a
Registered Professional Engineer that the drawings, plans and specifications
submitted with the application comply with applicable technical codes, rules
and regulations.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.806. TRAFFIC CONTROL PLAN.
   All permit applications which involve work on, in, under, across or along
any public ways shall be accompanied by a traffic control plan demonstrating
the protective measures and devices that will be employed, consistent with
Uniform Manual of Traffic Control Devices, to prevent injury or damage to
persons or property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and
vehicular traffic.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.807. ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   Within forty-five (45) days after submission of all plans and documents
required of the applicant and payment of the permit fees required by this
Chapter, the Village Engineer, if satisfied that the applications, plans and
document comply with all requirements of this Chapter, shall issue a permit
authorizing construction of the facilities, subject to such further conditions,
restrictions or regulations affecting the time, place and manner of performing
the work as he may deem necessary or appropriate.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.808. CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE.
   The permittee shall submit a written construction schedule to the Village
Engineer ten (10) working days before commencing any work in or bout the public
ways. The permittee shall further notify the Village Engineer not less than two
(2) working days in advance of any excavation or work in the public ways.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.809. COMPLIANCE WITH PERMIT.
   All construction practices and activities shall be in accordance with the
permit and approved final plans and specifications for the facilities. The
Village Engineer and his representatives shall be provided access to the work
and such further information as he or she may require to ensure compliance with
such requirements.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.810. DISPLAY OF PERMIT.
   The permittee shall maintain a copy of the construction permit and approved
plans at the construction site, which shall be displayed and made available for
inspection by the Village Engineer or his representatives at all times when
construction work is occurring.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.811. SURVEY OF UNDERGROUND FACILITIES.
   If the construction permit specifies the location of facilities by depth,
line, grade, proximity to other facilities or other standard, the permittee
shall cause the location of such facilities to be verified by a registered
Illinois land surveyor. The permittee shall relocate any facilities which are
not located in compliance with permit requirements.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.812. NONCOMPLYING WORK.
   Upon order of the Village Engineer, all work which does not comply with the
permit, the approved plans and specifications for the work, or the requirements
of this Chapter, shall be removed.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.813. COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION.
   The permittee shall promptly complete all construction activities so as to
minimize disruption of the Village ways and other public and private property.
All construction work authorized by a permit within Village ways, including
restoration, must be completed within one hundred twenty (120) days of the date
of issuance.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.814. AS-BUILT DRAWINGS.
   Within sixty (60) days after completion of construction, the permittee shall
furnish the Village with two (2) complete sets of plans, drawn to scale and
certified to the Village as accurately depicting the location of all
telecommunications facilities constructed pursuant to the permit. The Village
may require that the information be provided in an electronic digitized format,
the specifications of which will be determined by the Village.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.815. RESTORATION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   Upon completion of any construction work, the permittee shall promptly
repair any and all public and provide property improvements, fixtures,
structures and facilities in the public ways or otherwise damaged during the
course of construction, restoring the same as nearly as practicable to its
condition before the start of construction.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.816. LANDSCAPE RESTORATION.
   A.   All trees, landscaping and grounds removed, damaged or disturbed as a
result of the construction installation maintenance, repair or replacement of
telecommunications facilities, whether such work is done pursuant to a
franchise, license, permit replaced or restored as nearly as may be
practicable, to the condition existing prior to performance of work.
   B.   All restoration work within the public ways shall be done in accordance
with landscape plans approved by the Village Engineer.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.817. CONSTRUCTION SURETY.
   Prior to issuance of a construction permit, the permittee shall provide a
performance bond, as provided in Section
17.720 of this Chapter.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.818. EXCEPTIONS.
   Unless otherwise provided in a license or franchise agreement, all
telecommunications carriers are subject to the requirements of this Article
VIII.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
SECTION 17.819. RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   The owner of the facilities to be constructed and the licensee and/or
franchisee and/or grantee, as the case may be, are responsible jointly and
severally for performance of and compliance with all provisions of this
Article.
(Ord. 348, passed 1-8-97)
ARTICLE IX. CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE AND PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE
SECTION 17.901. CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE IMPOSED.
   A fee in an amount set forth in Chapter 2, Village Government, Article X,
Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1002, Fees Schedule, is imposed hereby on any holder providing cable service
or video service within the corporate limits of the Village.
   A.   In accordance with and pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/21-401 (b)(6), each
holder shall forward an application notice to the Village Clerk at least ten
(10) days prior to the date on which the holder begins to offer cable service
or video service within the corporate limits of the Village.
   B.   Upon receipt of the notice required in Subsection A, the Village Clerk
shall mail to the address listed on the holder's application notice a certified
copy of the Ordinance adopting this Section.
   C.   The fee hereby imposed does not apply to existing cable service or
video service providers that have an existing franchise agreement with the
Village in which a fee is paid.
(Ord. 593, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 852, passed 10-20-2020)
SECTION 17.902. PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE IMPOSED.
   In addition to the fee imposed pursuant to Section
17.901, PEG access support fee in the amount set forth in Chapter 2, Village
Government, Article X, Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1002, Fee Schedule, is imposed hereby on any holder providing cable service
or video service within the corporate limits of the Village.
(Ord. 593, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord. 852, passed 10-20-2020)
SECTION 17.903. FEE PAYMENTS.
   A.   The holder shall be liable for and pay the service provider fee and the
PEG access support fee to the Village. The holder's liability for the fee shall
commence on the first day of the calendar month following thirty (30) days
after the date on which the holder begins to offer cable service or video
service within the corporate limits of the Village.
   B.   The payment of the service provider fee and the PEG access support fee
shall be paid to the Village or to the Village, care of the entity designated
by the Village, on a quarterly basis, forty-five (45) days after the close of
the calendar quarter. If mailed, the fee is considered paid on the date it is
postmarked. Each payment shall include a statement explaining the basis for the
calculation of the fee.
   C.   All determinations and calculations under this Article shall be made
pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles.
(Ord. 593, passed 11-19-2007)
SECTION 17.904. CREDIT FOR OTHER PAYMENTS.
   An incumbent cable operator that elects to terminate an existing agreement
pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/21-301(c) shall pay, at the time they would have been
due, all monetary payments for PEG access that would have been due during the
remaining term of the agreement had it not been terminated pursuant to that
section. All payments made by an incumbent cable operator as prepaid franchise
fees pursuant to the previous sentence may be credited against the fees that
that operator owes under Section
17.903.B.
(Ord. 593, passed 11-19-2007)
SECTION 17.905. NO IMPACT ON OTHER TAXES DUE FROM HOLDER.
   Nothing contained in this Article shall be construed to exempt a holder from
any tax that is or may later be imposed by the Village, including any tax that
is or may later be required to be paid by or through the holder with respect to
cable service or video service.
   A.   A State-issued authorization shall not affect any requirement of the
holder with respect to payment of the Village's simplified municipal
telecommunications tax or any other tax as it applies to any telephone service
provided by the holder.
   B.   A State-issued authorization shall not affect any requirement of the
holder with respect to payment of the local unit of government's 911 or E911
fees, taxes or charges.
(Ord. 593, passed 11-19-2007)
SECTION 17.906. AUDITS OF CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER.
   A.   Audit Requirement. The Village will notify the holder of the
requirements it imposes on other cable service or video service providers to
submit to an audit of its books and records. The holder shall comply with the
same requirements the Village imposes on other cable service or video service
providers in its jurisdiction to audit the holder's books and records and to
recompute any amounts determined to be payable under the requirements of the
Village. If all local franchises between the Village and cable operator
terminate, the audit requirements shall be those adopted by the Village
pursuant to the Local Government Taxpayers' Bill of Rights Act, 50 ILCS 45/1 et
seq. No acceptance of amounts remitted should be construed as an accord that
the amounts are correct.
   B.   Additional Payments. Any additional amount due after an audit shall be
paid within thirty (30) days after the Village's submission of an invoice for
the sum.
(Ord. 593, passed 11-19-2007)
SECTION 17.907. LATE FEES/PAYMENTS.
   All fees due and payments which are past due shall be governed by ordinances
adopted by this Village pursuant to the Local Government Taxpayers' Bill of
Rights Act, 50 ILCS 45/1 et seq.
(Ord. 593, passed 11-19-2007)
SECTION 17.910. SEVERABILITY.
   That, if any provision of this Article or the application of any provision
of this Article, is held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, such holding
shall not affect other provisions of this Article or their application that can
be given effect without the unconstitutional or invalid provision or its
application. Each unconstitutional or invalid provision, or application of such
provision, is severable, unless otherwise provided by this Article and the
President and Board of Trustees of the Village declare hereby that they would
have adopted this Article without the unconstitutional or invalid provision.
(Ord. 593, passed 11-19-2007)
ARTICLE X. CABLE AND VIDEO CUSTOMER PROTECTION LAW
SECTION 17.1001. CUSTOMER SERVICE AND PRIVACY PROTECTION.
   A.   This Article is adopted pursuant to the Cable and Video Customer
Protection Law (220 ILCS 5/70-501) and, accordingly, the regulations of 220
ILCS 5/70-501 are hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to the cable
or video providers offering services within the Village's boundaries; so that
the Village is authorized hereby to enforce all of the customer service and
privacy protection standards of the said Cable and Video Customer Protection
Law with respect to complaints received from residents as provided by the Cable
and Video Customer Protection Law; and
   B.   Any amendment to the Cable and Video Customer Protection Law that
becomes effective after the effective date of this Chapter shall be
incorporated into this Chapter by reference and shall be applicable to cable or
video providers offering services within the municipality's boundaries.
However, any amendment that makes its provisions optional for adoption by
municipalities shall not be incorporated into this Chapter by reference without
formal action by the corporate authorities of the Village.
(Ord. 593, passed 11-19-2007)
SECTION 17.1002. ENFORCEMENT.
   The Village does hereby pursuant to law declare its intent to enforce all of
the customer service and privacy protection standards of the Cable and Video
Protection Law with respect to complaints received from residents within the
Village.
(Ord. 593, passed 11-19-2007)
SECTION 17.1003. PENALTIES.
   The Village, pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/70-501(r)(1), hereby provides a schedule
of penalties in this Article for any material breach by cable or video
providers of the Cable and Video Protection Law in addition to the penalties
provided in the Cable and Video Protection Law. These monetary penalties shall
apply on a competitively neutral basis and shall not exceed Seven Hundred Fifty
Dollars ($750) for each day of the material breach, and shall not exceed
Twenty-five Thousand Dollars ($25,000) for each occurrence of a material breach
per customer.
   A.   Material breach means any substantial failure of a cable or video
provider to comply with service quality and other standards specified in any
provision of the law.
   B.   The Village shall give the cable or video provider written notice of
any alleged material breaches of the law and allow such provider at least
thirty (30) days from the receipt of the notice to remedy the specified
material breach.
   C.   A material breach, for the purposes of assuming penalties, shall be
deemed to occur for each day that a material breach has not been remedied by
the cable or video service provider after the notice in paragraph B of this
Section.
(Ord. 593, passed 11-19-2007)
SECTION 17.1004. CUSTOMER CREDITS.
   The Village hereby adopts the schedule of customer credits for violations.
Those credits shall be as provided for in the provisions of 220 ILCS 5/70-501
(s) and applied on the statement issued to the customer for the next billing
cycle following the violation or following the discovery of the violation. The
cable or video provider is responsible for providing the credits and the
customer is under no obligation to request the credit.
(Ord. 593, passed 11-19-2007)
SECTION 17.1005. SEVERABILITY.
   That, if any provision of this Article or the application of any provision
of this Article, is held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, such holding
shall not affect other provisions of this Article or their application that can
be given effect without the unconstitutional or invalid provision or its
application. Each unconstitutional or invalid provision, or application of such
provision, is severable, unless otherwise provided by this Article and the
President and Board of Trustees of the Village declare hereby that they would
have adopted this Article without the unconstitutional or invalid provision.
(Ord. 593, passed 11-19-2007)
CHAPTER 18 - ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION
Article I. Definitions
   
18.101   Rules and Definitions
Article II. Local Liquor Control Commission
   
18.201   Local Liquor Control Commissioner
   
18.202   Duties of Local Liquor Control Commissioner
   
18.203   Powers of Local Liquor Control Commissioner
   
18.204   Local Liquor Control Commission — Created
   
18.205   Local Liquor Control Commission — Duties
Article III. Licenses
   
18.301   License Required
   
18.302   Application for License
   
18.303   Ineligibility for Licensing
   
18.304   Classification of Licenses and Permits
   
18.305   Number of Licenses
   
18.306   License Fees
   
18.307   Term of License
   
18.308   Personal Privilege of License
   
18.309   Change of Location
   
18.310   Change of Personnel
   
18.311   Renewal of License
   
18.312   Dram Shop Insurance
Article IV. Regulation of Sales
   
18.401   Sale on Licensed Premises
   
18.402   Closing Hours; Sunday Closing
   
18.403   Conditions of Licensed Premises
   
18.404   Employees
   
18.405   Prohibited Conduct
   
18.406   Sales on Credit Forbidden
   
18.407   Individuals Under Age
Article V. Revocation and Suspension of Licenses
   
18.501   Revocation or Suspension of License
   
18.502   Immediate Closure of Premises
   
18.503   Complaints
   
18.504   Penalties Following Hearing Before the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner
   
18.505   Appeals From the Order of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner
Article VI. Violations and Penalties
   
18.601   Penalties for Misdemeanor
   
18.602   Disposition of Fines and Penalties
   
18.603   Notice to Secretary of State
ARTICLE I. DEFINITIONS
SECTION 18.101. RULES AND DEFINITIONS.
   A.   Rules of Word Construction: The language set forth in the text of this
Article shall be interpreted in accordance with the following rules of
construction:
      1.   The singular number includes the plural number and the plural the
singular.
      2.   The word "shall" is mandatory; the word "may" is permissive.
      3.   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
   B.   Definitions. Whenever in this Chapter the following words and phrases
have been used, they shall, for the purposes hereof, have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this subsection, except when the context
otherwise indicates:
   ACT. The Illinois Liquor Control Act of 1932, as amended. 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et
seq.
   ALCOHOL. The product of distillation of any fermented liquid whether
rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes
synthetic ethyl alcohol, but not including denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Includes alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and every liquid
or solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and
capable of being consumed as a beverage by a human being. The provisions of
this Chapter shall not apply to alcohol used in the manufacture of denatured
alcohol produced in accordance with Acts of Congress and regulations
promulgated thereunder, nor to any liquid or solid containing one-half of one
percent (.5%), or less, of alcohol by volume.
   APPLICANT. Any person who files an application for a liquor license.
   AUTOMATIC AMUSEMENT DEVICE or AMUSEMENT DEVICE. Any of the following
devices:
      1.   COIN-IN-SLOT-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICE. A machine or other device
designed for self-service use and designed upon the insertion of one or more
coins to deliver to the player/operator thereof no money or property or right
to receive money or property but only the right of operation or play; which
machine or other device shall include but not be limited to pinball machines,
and any photoelectric or electronic amusement device which in its operation
shoots or propels an electric  light, ray or impulse to a target, but which
machine or other device shall not include coin-operated phonograph or
merchandise vending machines.
      2.   TABLE GAME. Any device, whether controlled by skill or chance, for
the operation of a game, pastime or contest by the manipulation of a marble,
sphere or of objects or figures or by controlling the movement of same or by
setting same in motion by electrical, electronics and/or mechanical means,
which (for the purpose of construing the terms within this Article) device
shall include but not be limited to the following:
         a.   BAGATELLE TABLE. Any table having nine (9) holes for the playing
of a game somewhat like pocket billiards, played with cues but with nine (9)
balls.
         b.   BILLIARDS. A game played upon a billiard table having no holes,
played with cues and with three (3) balls.
         c.   BUMPER POOL. A game played upon a billiard table having one hole
at each end and bumpers in the center, played with cues, somewhat like pocket
billiards but with eleven (11) balls.
         d.   POOL OR POCKET BILLIARDS. Any number of variations of a game
played upon a billiard table having six (6) holes (1 in each corner and 1 hole
at the center of both of the longer sides of such table) or pockets, played
with cues and one through fifteen (15) balls.
   BAR. A barrier or counter at and over which alcoholic liquors and sometimes
food are passed or served.
   BEER. A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley or other grain, malt and hops in water and includes, among
other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
   BUSINESS or OCCUPATION. The activity concerned with the processing,
producing, manufacturing, supplying, transporting and/or distributing of
commodities including the purchase or sale of commodities or participating in
related financial transactions.
   BUILDING. Any structure with substantial walls and roof securely affixed to
the land and entirely separated on all sides from any other structure by space
and which is designed or intended for the shelter, enclosure or protection of
human beings, animals or chattels; and includes a factory manufactured
building, or a prefabricated building on a site for more than 180 days.
   CATERING ESTABLISHMENT or BANQUET FACILITY. Any building or part of a
building that caters exclusively to private parties, where banquets are held
and where the sale of alcoholic liquor is not the principal business.
   C LICENSE or CLASS C LICENSE or CLASS C. A local liquor license issued to a
concessionaire.
   CLUB. A corporation organized under the laws of this State of Illinois, not
for pecuniary profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than
the sale or consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept, used and maintained by its
members through the payment of annual dues, and owning, hiring or leasing a
building or space in a building, of such extent and character as may be
suitable and adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation
of its members and their guests and provided with suitable and adequate kitchen
and dining room space and equipment and maintaining a sufficient number of
servants and employees for cooking, preparing and serving food and meals for
its members and their guests; provided, that such club files with the local
liquor control commissioner at the time of its application for a license under
this Act two copies of a list of names and residences of its members, and
similarly files within ten (10) days of the election of any additional member
his or her name and address; and, provided further, that its affairs and
management are conducted by a board of directors, executive committee, or
similar body chosen by the members at their annual meeting and that no member
or any officer, agent, or employee of the club is paid, or directly or
indirectly receives, in the form of salary or other compensation any profits
from the distribution or sale of alcoholic liquor to the club or the members of
the club or its guests introduced by members beyond the amount of such salary
as may be fixed and voted at any annual meeting by the members or by its board
of directors or other governing body out of the general revenue of the club.
   CONCESSIONAIRE. A person who serves alcoholic liquors for consumption, as an
incidental part of food and beverage service that serves meals either on-site
or off-site of the licensed premises.
   CORPORATION. Includes a limited liability company.
   DINING ROOM. A room or rooms in an hotel set aside and used exclusively for
the service by the operator of the hotel of daily meals to guests and others.
   DISTRIBUTOR. Any person, other than a manufacturer of alcoholic liquor
licensed as such by the State of Illinois, who is engaged in the purchasing,
storing, possessing or warehousing of any alcoholic liquors for resale or
reselling at wholesale, whether within or without the Village.
   FILLING STATION. Any location where the principal business (as opposed to an
accessory use to another business at the same location) is selling or offering
for sale, and supplying and dispensing gasoline, oil and/or diesel fuel at
retail.
   GENERAL PUBLIC. The whole body politic including the people of the Village
of Mettawa, the State of Illinois, the United States of America and/or such
people at large whoever shall travel through the Village of Mettawa.
   GUEST. Any individual over the age of twenty-one (21) years to whom
hospitality is extended by an hotel, whether registered therein as an
individual who pays for the services of the establishment or not.
   H LICENSE or CLASS H LICENSE or CLASS H. A local liquor license issued to an
operator of an Hotel.
   HOTEL. Every building kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to the
public to be a place where food is actually served and consumed and sleeping
accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers and guests, whether
transient, permanent or residential, in which twenty-five (25) or more rooms
are used for sleeping accommodations and one (1) or more public dining rooms
where at least three (3) daily meals are served to such guests and others, such
sleeping accommodations and dining rooms being conducted in the same building
or buildings in connection therewith and such building or buildings being
provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and
capacity.
   HOTEL/MOTEL or MOTEL. Every building kept, used, maintained, advertised and
held out to the public to be a place where sleeping accommodations are offered
for adequate pay to travelers and guests, whether transient, permanent or
residential, in which twenty-five (25) or more rooms are used for sleeping
accommodations, such sleeping accommodations being conducted in one or more
buildings in connection therewith.
   INDIVIDUAL. Any one human being.
   LICENSE or LIQUOR LICENSE or LOCAL LIQUOR LICENSE or RETAIL LIQUOR LICENSE.
The specific grant of a specific privilege authorizing a licensee to sell or
offer for sale alcoholic liquor at retail only in the manner set forth in the
wording of the license classification and in the place described in the license
itself, as issued by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner in compliance with
the rules and regulations set forth in this Chapter.
   LICENSEE. Any person holding a license under the provisions of this Chapter.
   LOCAL LIQUOR COMMISSION or LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION. The Local Liquor
Commissioner, with the assistance of the Village Attorney and the Village
Clerk, as well as such other person or persons as the Village President may
appoint to aid him in the exercise of the powers and the performance of the
duties herein provided for the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
   LOCAL LIQUOR COMMISSIONER or LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER. Ex officio,
the Village President of the Village.
   LOCATION. Within the corporate limits of the Village, a vacant area of real
estate or an entire building or both, if both are under the same ownership or
control.
   LOUNGE or COCKTAIL LOUNGE. Any public place kept, used, maintained,
advertised and held out to the public as a place where alcoholic liquor is
offered for sale at retail for consumption only on the premises and may be
included within and be an accessory part of a restaurant or hotel primarily
engaged in a business or occupation other than that of the sale and consumption
of alcoholic liquor.
   MANAGER. An overseer or director of the alcoholic liquor business of a
licensee.
   MEMBERSHIP WAREHOUSE CLUB. A person, firm or corporation conducting retail
and/or wholesale sales of general merchandise that is limited to a select
number of stock keeping units in a large number of product categories whose
customer base is restricted to club members.
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE. Any bottle, flask, jug, can, cask, barrel, keg, hogshead
or other receptacle or container, whatsoever used, corked or capped, sealed and
labeled by the manufacturer of alcoholic liquor, to contain and to convey any
alcoholic liquor.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm or corporation.
   PLACE. A specific area within a location.
   PREMISES or LICENSED PREMISES. A place under the full control and possession
of a licensee that is either owned by the Licensee or leased by the Licensee as
the exclusive tenant thereof.
   PRIVATE FUNCTION. Within a given place, a prearranged private party or event
for a specific social or business occasion, either by invitation or reservation
and not open to the general public, where the guests in attendance are served
in a room or rooms designated and used exclusively for the private party or
event.
   R LICENSE or CLASS R LICENSE or CLASS R. A local liquor license issued to an
operator of a restaurant.
   RESTAURANT. Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out
to the public as a place where meals are served and where meals are actually
and regularly served at tables, without sleeping accommodations, such space
being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and
capacity; and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees
to prepare, cook and serve suitable food to its customers or guests, including
dinner or luncheon menus, at which the service of alcoholic beverages is
incidental and complementary to the service of meals. RESTAURANT does not
include: Any place that contains only a bar or counter at which patrons may be
served food, a limited food service establishment, including, without limiting
the generality of the foregoing, lounges, luncheonettes, diners, coffee shops,
drive-in restaurants or self-service and/or carry-out establishments.
   RETAILER or RETAIL LIQUOR ESTABLISHMENT. Any person who sells or offers for
sale or provides as part of its business alcoholic liquor for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form.
   ROOM SERVICE. The sale at retail of alcoholic liquor, whether or not in its
original package, and delivery thereof exclusively by agents of an H License
licensee to the guest room and/or guest suite sleeping accommodations located
in the same hotel building as the dining room, for consumption by such guests
in such guest room or guest suite accommodations.
   SALE. Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner, or by any means
whatsoever, including the transfer of alcoholic liquors by and through the
transfer or negotiation of warehouse receipts or certificates, and includes and
means all sales made by any person, whether a principal, proprietor, agent,
servant or employee.
   SALE AT RETAIL, SELL AT RETAIL or RETAIL SALE. Sales by a retailer for use
or consumption and not for resale in any form.
   SE LICENSE or CLASS SE LICENSE or CLASS SE. A local liquor license issued to
a special event retailer.
   SPECIAL EVENT. An event conducted by an educational, fraternal, political,
civic, religious or non-profit organization.
   SPECIAL EVENT RETAILER. An educational, fraternal, political, civic,
religious, or other non-profit organization which sells or offers for sale
alcoholic liquor only for consumption at the place and on the dates designated
by an SE License.
   SPIRITS. Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin or other spirituous liquors, and such liquors when rectified, blended or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
   STATE or STATE OF ILLINOIS. The State of Illinois, one of the states in the
United States of America.
   TAX. Any Village real estate, real estate transfer, hotel/motel, sales,
simplified telecommunications or any other tax required by a licensee or
applicant to be paid; whether directly to the Village, or indirectly to any
other governmental agency or other authorized collector.
   TAX RETURN. Any declaration or other form, whether provided by the Village
or any other governmental agency, upon which a required tax is shown and/or tax
payment transmitted, which declaration or other form is designed for filing
with the Village or any other specified governmental agency.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Mettawa, an Illinois municipal corporation and home
rule unit as described in the Illinois Constitution.
   VILLAGE ATTORNEY. Collectively, the Village Attorney of the Village and his
law firm, if a member of a law firm.
   VILLAGE BOARD or PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES. The President and Board of
Trustees of the Village.
   VILLAGE CLERK. The Village Clerk of the Village.
   W LICENSE or CLASS W LICENSE or CLASS W. A local liquor license issued to an
operator of a membership warehouse club.
   WINE. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits or vegetables, containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of alcohol or spirits.
(Ord. 390, passed 12-9-98; Am. Ord. 601, passed 2-19-2008; Am. Ord. 622, passed
4-14-2009)
ARTICLE II. LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION
SECTION 18.201. LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER.
   The Village President of the Village shall be the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner.
(Ord. 390, passed 12-9-98; Am. Ord. 601, passed 2-19-2008)
SECTION 18.202. DUTIES OF LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER.
   A.   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall be charged with the
administration within the corporate limits of the Village of the appropriate
provisions of the Act, this chapter or such ordinances and resolutions relating
to alcoholic liquor as may be enacted by the President and Board of Trustees
and of such other legislation as may become applicable within the corporate
limits of the Village with respect to the sale of alcoholic liquor.
   B.   The Village Clerk as a member of the Local Liquor Control Commission
shall keep or cause to be kept a complete record of all alcoholic liquor
licenses issued by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
   C.   All alcoholic liquor license fees shall be paid to the Village Clerk at
the time the license application is approved and shall be forthwith turned over
to the Village Treasurer. The fee shall be deposited by the Village Treasurer
in the General Corporate Fund or in such other fund as may be designated by the
President and Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 390, passed 12-9-98; Am. Ord. 601, passed 2-19-2008)
SECTION 18.203. POWERS OF LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER.
   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall have the following powers,
functions and duties with respect to licenses other than State licenses to
manufacture, import, distribution, railroads, airplanes and boats:
   A.   To issue all licenses issued for locations, places and premises
specifically described on each such license so issued.
   B.   Following a hearing conducted in accordance with the provisions of this
Chapter: To dismiss the charges involved with a notice of violation, or to levy
a fine for such violation (as set forth elsewhere herein) and/or to suspend
licenses for not more than thirty (30) days, or to revoke licenses for cause.
   C.   To appoint one or more individuals to assist him in the exercise of
such powers and the performance of such duties as the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner may deem necessary.
   D.   To adopt application forms, procedures, rules and regulations for the
licensing and operating of retail liquor establishments that are not
inconsistent with this Chapter:
      1.   To insure compliance with the laws relating to the sale of alcoholic
liquor;
      2.   To protect the health, safety and welfare of the people of the
Village; and
      3.   To foster and promote temperance in the consumption of alcoholic
liquors.
   E.   To receive complaints from any citizen that any of the provisions of
this Chapter, or any rules or regulations adopted pursuant hereto, or any other
applicable rules or regulations have been or are being violated.
   F.   To examine or cause to be examined under oath any applicant for a
license or for a renewal thereof, or any current licensee; and to examine or
cause to be examined the books and records of any such applicant or licensee.
   G.   With respect to any current licensee upon whom notice of hearing to
show cause why the license of the licensee should not be revoked or suspended,
to conduct such hearing and hear testimony and receive other evidence for his
information in the performance of his duties; and for such purpose to issue
subpoenas which shall be effective in any part of the State of Illinois.
   H.   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer or peace officer
or other person assisting the Local Liquor Commissioner or Local Liquor
Commission or to enter at any time upon any premises to determine whether any
of the provisions of this Chapter or any rules or regulations adopted by the
Local Liquor Control Commissioner (or by any other agency having the authority
to do so) have been or are being violated; and at the time of such entry, to
examine such premises in connection therewith.
   J.   To receive local liquor license fees and fines, and pay the same
forthwith to the Village Treasurer.
   K.   To require fingerprints of any applicant for a local license or for a
renewal thereof and collect a fee therefor and forward said fee and said
fingerprints to the Lake County Sheriff's.
   L.   To deny any application for the issuance or renewal of a license to an
applicant he has determined to be ineligible therefor.
(Ord. 390, passed 12-9-98; Am. Ord. 601, passed 2-19-2008)
SECTION 18.204. LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION — CREATED.
   There is established hereby a Local Liquor Control Commission of the Village
which shall consist of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner with the
assistance of the Village Attorney and the Village Clerk, as well as such other
person or persons as the Village President may appoint to aid him in the
exercise of the powers and the performance of the duties herein provided for
the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
(Ord. 601, passed 2-19-2008)
SECTION 18.205. LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION — DUTIES.
   A.   As the Local Liquor Control Commissioner deems necessary to carry out
the statutory powers of his office as well as the regulations in this Chapter,
to adopt rules and regulations for the licensing of local retail liquor
establishments and revocation or suspension of local liquor licenses and/or
fining of local licensees of retail liquor establishments in order to:
      1.   Insure compliance with the laws relating to the sale of alcoholic
liquor;
      2.   Protect the health, safety and welfare of the people of the Village
of Mettawa; and
      3.   Foster and promote temperance in the consumption of alcoholic
liquors.
   B.   To recommend policy and criteria for the operation of local retail
liquor establishments as the Local Liquor Control Commissioner deems necessary.
   C.   To conduct hearings upon complaints referred to it by the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner and to make recommendations thereon to the said
Commissioner.
(Ord. 601, passed 2-19-2008)
ARTICLE III. LICENSES
SECTION 18.301. LICENSE REQUIRED.
   A.   It shall be unlawful within the corporate limits of the Village to
offer for sale any alcoholic liquor without first having obtained a local
liquor license for each location, place or premises where the retailer is
located to sell the same.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to sell or offer for sale in the
Village, any alcoholic liquor except in the manner authorized by and in
compliance with this Chapter and the terms and restrictions of a license issued
in accordance with this Chapter.
   C.   Where two (2) or more places are at the same location but separated by
any area of the location open to the general public but not under the
retailer's control, a separate local liquor license must be held by the
retailer for each such place or premises; provided, that nothing herein
contained shall be so construed as to prevent any hotel operator holding an H
License under the provisions of this Chapter from providing room service or
from serving liquor in any other area of the hotel open to the general public,
including restaurants and lounges, or used for private functions.
   D.   The issuance to or possession by any person of a retail liquor dealer's
tax stamp issued for a then-existing tax period by the United States of America
government or any of its agencies shall be and constitute prima facie evidence
that such person is subject to the provisions of this Chapter.
(Ord. 390, passed 12-9-98; Am. Ord. 601, passed 2-19-2008)
SECTION 18.302. APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   A.   Application for a local retailer's liquor license shall be made to the
Local Liquor Control Commissioner, which application shall be in writing, upon
forms provided by the Local Liquor Control Commission, and signed by the
applicant if an individual or partnership, or by a duly authorized agent
thereof if a corporation, verified by oath or affidavit, and shall contain, but
shall not be limited to containing, the following information:
      1.   In the case of an individual, the name, sex, address, date of birth,
social security number and telephone number of the applicant; in the case of a
partnership, the names, sex, addresses, dates of birth, social security
numbers, telephone numbers of the persons entitled to share in the profits
thereof and the date of formation of the partnership; and in the case of a
corporation, the names, sex, addresses, dates of birth, social security numbers
and telephone numbers of the officers and directors, and (if an aggregate of
more than five percent (5%) of the stock of such corporation is owned by one
(1) individual or his nominee) the name, sex, address, date of birth, social
security number and telephone number of such stockholder or his nominee;
      2.   In the case of an individual, the citizenship of the applicant,
place of birth, age, marital status, length of time as a resident of the
Village and, if a naturalized citizen, the time and place of such
naturalization (information of the same nature must be given for any manager or
agent in charge where the applicant's sales will be under the supervision of
such manager or agent);
      3.   The character of business of the applicant, and in the case of a
corporation, the objects for which it was formed;
      4.   The length of time said applicant has been in business of that
character, the character or type of business of applicant heretofore; and in
the case of a corporation, the date and state of incorporation, and if
incorporated in a state other than Illinois, the date qualified under the
Business Corporation Act to do business in Illinois (the certificate of the
Secretary of State of Illinois shall be attached to such application);
      5.   The amount of goods, wares and merchandise on hand at the time
application was made;
      6.   The address and description of the premises proposed to be operated
under such license;
      7.   A statement by the applicant that he has not received or borrowed
money or anything else of value, and that he will not receive or borrow money
or anything of value (other than merchandising credit in the ordinary course of
business for a period not to exceed ninety (90) days as provided in the
Illinois Compiled Statutes) directly or indirectly from any manufacturer,
importing distributor or distributor representative of any such manufacturer or
importing distributor; and a statement that the applicant has not been a party
in any way, directly or indirectly, to any violation by a manufacturer,
distributor or importing distributor as defined in the Illinois Compiled
Statutes;
      8.   A statement whether the applicant is an elected public official and
whether any other individual, directly or indirectly, in applicant's place of
business is an elected public official;
      9.   A statement whether the applicant holds any law enforcement office
and, if so, what title;
      10.   A statement whether the applicant possesses a current Federal
wagering stamp and, if so, the reasons therefor;
      11.   A statement that the applicant has never been convicted of a felony
and is not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this Chapter, laws of this State of Illinois or the ordinances of
this Village;
      12.   A statement whether the applicant has made application for a
similar or other license on premises other than those described in this
application and the disposition of such application;
      13.   A statement whether a previous license by any state or subdivision
thereof or by the Federal government has been revoked and the reasons therefor;
      14.   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of
the State of Illinois or of the United States of America or any ordinance of
the Village in the conduct of applicant's place of business;
      15.   In the case of a partnership or corporation and other applicants
whose business is operated by a manager or agent, the name, address, date of
birth, telephone number and social security number of the manager or agent of
the applicant in charge of the place for which the license is being applied;
      16.   Evidence that dram shop insurance coverage exists on the applicant,
and if the applicant is not the owner of the premises, whether dram shop
insurance coverage exists on the owner of the premises (a copy of such
insurance policy shall be attached to said application);
      17.   Evidence that surety bond coverage exists by attaching such bond to
said application; and
      18.   A statement whether such location is leased or owned by the
applicant and attach to said application:
         a.   If leased, attach a copy of such lease with the name and address
of the lessor; or
         b.   If owned, attach a current affidavit of title and either a copy
of the land title insurance policy or the deed; and in addition, if the
titleholder is a land trust, attach a current certified copy of Land Trust
Agreement.
   B.   Such application may require the applicant to furnish other information
as may be determined from time to time by the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner.
   C.   Before any license shall be issued to the applicant:
      1.   The applicant shall furnish the Village a surety bond in the amount
of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000) acceptable to the Village Attorney. Such bond
shall provide against any violation by the principal, his agents or employees
of any of the terms of this Chapter, as amended, or any ordinance, rules and
regulations now in force or which may hereafter be in force in the Village
affecting the operation of his business; and shall be forfeited upon a finding
by the Local Liquor Commissioner following a hearing that the licensee violated
any provision of this Chapter, whether or not any other penalty is imposed by
the said Local Liquor Commissioner as a result of the same hearing.
      2.   The applicant shall see to it that the names of all bartenders,
managers, all principals, the applicant (in the case of an individual), all
partners and (in the case of a corporation) all officers and all stockholders
owning an aggregate of more than five percent (5%) of the stock of such
corporation are submitted to the Lake County Sheriffs Police Department and
that all of the aforesaid individuals submit themselves for fingerprinting by
the said Lake County Sheriffs Police Department along with a fee in the amount
set forth in Chapter 2, Village Government, Article X, Tax, Fee, Fine and
Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1002, Fee Schedule, for each set of fingerprints to be taken, in order that
the said Lake County Sheriffs Police Department may perform adequate
investigation of such individuals to enable the Local Liquor Control Commission
to ascertain that issuance of any such license will comply with the statutes of
the State of Illinois and all applicable ordinances of the Village.
   D.   Following the issuance of any license pursuant to the terms of this
Chapter, the licensee thereof shall report in writing any changes in the
licensee's residency, surety bond, management and in partnership, officers,
directors, persons holding directly or beneficially an aggregate of more than
five percent (5%) of the stock or ownership interest in the licensee or
managers of establishments so licensed. Said report shall be made to the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner ten (10) days prior to any such change, and all
such persons becoming partners, officers, directors or persons holding such
ownership interest (as the case may be) shall meet all of the applicable
standards and requirements of this Chapter.
(Ord. 390, passed 12-9-98; Am. Ord. 601, passed 2-19-2008; Am. Ord. 852, passed
10-20-2020)
SECTION 18.303. INELIGIBILITY FOR LICENSING.
   A.   No such liquor license shall be issued to:
      1.   An individual or partnership who is not a resident of the Village,
provided that the residency requirement is met for a partnership if one (1)
partner resides within the corporate limits of the Village;
      2.   An individual who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he resides;
      3.   An individual who is not a citizen of the United States of America;
      4.   An individual who has been convicted of a felony under any Federal
or State of Illinois law if the Local Liquor Control Commissioner determines
(after investigation) that such person has not been sufficiently rehabilitated
to warrant the public trust;
      5.   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper of or is keeping
a house of ill-fame;
      6.   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality;
      7.   A person whose license under this Chapter has been revoked for
cause;
      8.   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application;
      9.   A partnership if any general partner thereof or any limited partner
thereof owning more than five percent (5%) of the aggregate limited partner
interest in such partnership would not be eligible to receive a license
hereunder for any reason other than citizenship;
      10.   A corporation if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than five percent (5%)
of the stock of such corporation would not be eligible to receive a license
hereunder for any reason other than citizenship and residency within the
corporate limits of the Village;
      11.   A corporation unless it is incorporated in Illinois or unless it is
a foreign corporation which is qualified under the Illinois Business
Corporation Act to transact business in Illinois;
      12.   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless said manager or agent possesses the same qualifications, other
than residency within the corporate limits of the Village, required of an
individual as a licensee;
      13.   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any Federal or
State of Illinois law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of
alcoholic liquor, or who shall have forfeited his bond to appear in court in
answer to charges for any such violation;
      14.   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a
license is sought, or does not have a lease or other authority to be present
thereon for the full period for which the license is to be issued;
      15.   Any law-enforcing public official or member of the President and
Board of Trustees;
      16.   A person not eligible for a State retail liquor dealer's license;
      17.   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be
operated by the licensee;
      18.   An individual who has been convicted of a gambling offense as
prescribed by any subsections (a)(3) through (a)(10) of Section 5/28-1 of, or
as prescribed by Section 5/28-3 of the Criminal Code of 1961, approved July 28,
1961, as heretofore amended, or as prescribed by a statute replaced by any of
the aforesaid statutory provisions;
      19.   An individual to whom a Federal waging stamp has been issued by the
Federal government for the current tax period, unless the individual is
eligible to be issued a license under the Raffles Act or the Illinois Pull Tabs
and Jar Games Act;
      20.   A partnership to which a Federal wagering stamp has been issued by
the Federal government for the current tax period, or if any of the partners
have been issued a Federal wagering stamp by the Federal government for the
current tax period, unless the partnership is eligible to be issued a license
under the Raffles Act or the Illinois Pull Tabs and Jar Games Act;
      21.   A corporation if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder owning in the aggregate more than twenty percent (20%) of the stock
of such corporation has been issued a Federal wagering stamp for the current
tax period, unless the corporation is eligible to be issued a license under the
Raffles Act or the Illinois Pull Tabs and Jar Games Act;
      22.   Any place for which a Federal gaming device stamp or a Federal
wagering stamp has been issued by the Federal government for the current tax
period; and/or
      23.   An applicant who does not possess a valid policy for Dram Shop
insurance covering the period for which a liquor license is being applied.
      24.   An applicant who owes any tax or fee to the Village, or who has
failed to file a required tax return or who has filed a fraudulent tax return.
   B.   No liquor license shall be issued whenever any or all of the following
situations arise:
      1.   The place or premises contains any Automatic Amusement Device;
however, this prohibition does not apply to licensees to whom an H License has
been issued.
      2.   The sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor will occur within one
hundred feet (100') of any church, school (other than an institution of higher
learning), hospital, home for aged or indigent individuals, or for veterans,
their spouses or children or any military or naval station; provided, that the
prohibitions contained in this Paragraph 2 shall not apply to:
         a.   Hotels, regularly organized clubs, or to restaurants, food shops
or other places where the sale of alcoholic liquors is not the principal
business carried on, provided such place of business so excepted shall be
capable of receiving a liquor license issued by the State of Illinois; or
         b.   The renewal of a license for the sale at retail of alcoholic
liquor on premises within one hundred feet (100') of any church or school where
such church or school has been established since the issuance of the original
license. (In the case of a church, the distance of one hundred feet (100')
shall be measured to the nearest part of any building used for worship services
or educational programs and not to property boundaries; or
         c.   The issuance of an SE License to a church or private school to
sell at retail alcoholic liquor if any such sales are limited to periods when
groups are assembled on the premises solely for the promotion of some common
object other than the sale or consumption of alcoholic liquors.
      3.   Such applicant shall have failed to obtain and pay for such other
licenses and permits from the Village as may be necessary (under other
applicable ordinances and laws) for the operation of such business or
businesses of the applicant.
      4.   The majority of customers are minors of school age or where the
principal business transacted upon the place for which a license is sought
consists of school books, school supplies, food, lunches or drinks for such
minors.
      5.   Except in the case of hotels and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be
sold at retail upon any place which has any access which leads from such place
to any other portion of the same building or structure used for dwelling or
lodging purposes and which is permitted to be used or kept accessible for use
by the public.
      6.   The proposed premises is all or any part of an hotel/motel.
      7.   The proposed premises is a filling station.
         a.   No license for the sale of alcoholic liquor shall be issued to
any person for the sale or dispensing at retail of alcoholic liquor at any
place used as a filling station.
         b.   No person licensed under this Chapter shall engage in the
business of a filling station at the licensed premises.
      8.   The proposed premises is or will be in violation of the zoning
ordinance of this Village.
   C.   No license fee shall be prorated.
(Ord. 390, passed 12-9-98; Am. Ord. 601, passed 2-19-2008)
SECTION 18.304. CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES AND PERMITS.
   Except as may be provided for the issuance of certain permits under the
terms of subsection B herein, every person engaged in the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor in the Village must first have obtained a suitable liquor
license authorizing the specific type and character of such alcoholic liquor
sale as may be contemplated in such retail business:
   A.   Each such licensee shall pay an annual license fee for such license.
   B.   Such licenses shall be divided into the following classifications:
      1.   CLASS C: Shall authorize the retail sale and service of alcoholic
liquor by a concessionaire, for consumption only at the location where prepared
meals and/or the alcoholic liquor is served by the licensed concessionaire.
         a.   The holder of a C License must have a licensed premise within the
corporate limits of the Village over which such licensee has exclusive control.
All sales of alcoholic liquor and all sales of foodstuffs and other items
delivered by the holder of a C License shall be made at the licensed premises.
         b.   Any banquet facility or other place where alcoholic liquor is
served by a concessionaire holding a C License may be a licensed premises or
unlicensed; provided that, if prepared meals and/or alcoholic liquors are sold
pursuant to a contract requiring the concessionaire's services at the same
location for more than seven (7) days per year, a place within that location
where the alcoholic liquor is served must be a licensed premises.
         c.   The initial fee and annual license fee for such C License shall
be as established in Section
18.306 herein.
      2.   CLASS H: For issuance to the operator of an hotel, authorizing the
sale of alcoholic liquor at retail in one (1) or more dining rooms where at
least three (3) daily meals are served to guests and others by the hotel
operator in the hotel building specified in such license, in which case the H
License shall allow the licensee to provide room service and authorize the
licensee to sell alcoholic liquor at retail in any number of restaurants and
lounges operated by the licensee within the hotel building specified in such
license for consumption on the premises. The H License shall also allow the
licensee to sell package beer and wine from other locations within the hotel
building specified in such license, to registered guests of the licensee’s
hotel.
         a.   However that where there exists in the hotel in which a given
hotel operator holds an H License, one (1) or more additional dining rooms and/
or restaurants offering alcoholic liquor for sale that are not under the
exclusive control and supervision of such H License licensee, an additional
liquor license (R License) shall be required for each dining room or restaurant
that is not under the exclusive control and supervision of such H License
licensee.
         b.   Where the operator of an hotel/motel does not operate any public
dining room in the hotel/motel, no H License shall be issued for and no room
service shall be allowed in that hotel/motel. In such event, if a restaurant or
dining room is located within an hotel/motel building, such restaurant premises
must hold an R License, if alcoholic liquor is sold or offered for sale
therein.
         c.   Any person who rents an hotel room from a proprietor who is an H
License licensee for the purpose of or with the knowledge that such room shall
be used for the consumption of alcoholic liquor by persons under the age of
twenty-one (21) years shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
         d.   The initial fee and annual license fee for such H License shall
be as established in Section
18.306 herein.
      3.   CLASS R: Authorizing the licensee to sell or offer for sale at
retail alcoholic liquor not in the original package but for consumption on the
restaurant premises where sold.
         a.   It shall be unlawful for the holder of an R License to deliver or
cause to be delivered alcoholic liquor to any room in any hotel or motel.
         b.   The initial fee and annual license fee for such R License shall
be as established in Section
18.306 herein.
      4.   CLASS SE: Authorizing the licensee to sell or offer for sale at
retail alcoholic liquor on the premises specified for a specified temporary
period not exceeding seven (7) consecutive days not more than twenty-four (24)
days in any given calendar year. The fee for such SE License shall be as
established in Section 18.306 herein.
      5.   CLASS W LICENSE: Authorizing the licensee to sell and offer for sale
at retail, in the membership warehouse club premises specified in such license,
alcoholic liquor in its original package for consumption off of the premises
where sold. The initial fee and annual license fee for such W License shall be
as established in Section
18.306 herein.
(Ord. 390, passed 12-9-98; Am. Ord. 447, passed 3-14-2001; Am. Ord. 601, passed
2-19-2008; Am. Ord. 609, passed 5-20-2008; Am. Ord. 622, passed 4-14-2009; Am.
Ord. 718, passed 5-25-2012)
SECTION 18.305. NUMBER OF LICENSES.
   The maximum number of local liquor licenses issued shall be as follows:
      Class C   1
      Class H   1
      Class R   1
      Class SE   Unlimited
      Class W   1
(Ord. 390, passed 12-9-98; Am. Ord. 447, passed 3-14-2001; Am. Ord. 601, passed
2-19-2008; Am. Ord. 609, passed 5-20-2008; Am. Ord. 622, passed 4-14-2009; Am.
Ord. 632, passed 7-1-2009)
SECTION 18.306. LICENSE FEES.
   Each such licensee shall pay an annual license fee for such license as set
forth in Chapter 2, Village Government, Article X, Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty
Schedules, Section
2.1002, Fee Schedule.
(Ord. 390, passed 12-9-98; Am. Ord. 447, passed 3-14-2001; Am. Ord. 601, passed
2-19-2008; Am. Ord. 622, passed 4-14-2009; Am. Ord. 690, passed 6-21-2011; Am.
Ord. 852, passed 10-20-2020)
SECTION 18.307. TERM OF LICENSE.
   Unless sooner terminated, every license issued under the provisions of this
Chapter, other than Class SE Licenses, shall be in effect through June 30
following its issuance.
(Ord. 390, passed 12-9-98; Am. Ord. 601, passed 2-19-2008; Am. Ord. 660, passed
7-20-2010)
SECTION 18.308. PERSONAL PRIVILEGE OF LICENSE.
   A license shall be purely a personal privilege, good for not to exceed one
(1) year after issuance, unless sooner revoked as in this Chapter provided, and
shall not constitute property, nor shall it be subject to attachment,
garnishment or execution, nor shall it be alienable or transferable, whether
involuntarily or voluntarily, or subject to being encumbered or hypothecated.
Such license shall cease upon the death of an individual licensee and upon the
termination of a partnership licensee or corporate licensee and shall not
descend by the laws of testate or intestate devolution; provided, that
executors or administrators of the assets of the estate of any deceased
licensee and the trustee of any assets of an insolvent or bankrupt licensee,
when such assets consist in part of alcoholic liquor, may continue the business
of the sale of alcoholic liquor under the order of an appropriate court, and
may exercise the privileges of the deceased or insolvent or bankrupt licensee
after the death of decedent or such insolvency or bankruptcy until the
expiration of such license. Notwithstanding the foregoing, following initial
issuance of any given license, whenever the licensed premises comes under new
ownership, the Local Liquor Commissioner may only issue a license to a
subsequent owner of the same licensed premises upon payment of the required
initial fee.
(Ord. 390, passed 12-9-98; Am. Ord. 601, passed 2-19-2008)
SECTION 18.309. CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   A retail liquor license shall apply only to the place in the location
described in the application filed by the applicant, being the premises
described in the license upon its being issued, and only one (1) premises shall
be so described in each such license. After a license has been granted for a
particular premises, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, upon proper
showing, may endorse upon said license permission to abandon the premises
therein described and remove the business therefrom to other premises approved
by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner. In order to obtain such approval, the
licensee shall demonstrate under oath that the premises to which the business
is to be moved complies in all respects with the requirements of this Chapter.
(Ord. 390, passed 12-9-98; Am. Ord. 601, passed 2-19-2008)
SECTION 18.310. CHANGE OF PERSONNEL.
   A.   Any changes in partnerships, officers, directors, persons holding
directly or beneficially more than five percent (5%) of the stock or ownership
interest, on managers of establishments licensed under this Chapter, shall be
reported in writing to the Local Liquor Commissioner within ten (10) days of
the change. All new personnel shall meet the standards of this Chapter and must
otherwise qualify to hold a liquor license. All such changes in personnel shall
be subject to review by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
   B.   When a license has been issued to a partnership and a change of
ownership occurs resulting in a partnership interest by one who is not eligible
to hold a liquor license, said license shall terminate.
   C.   When a license has been issued to a corporation and a change takes
place in its office, directors, shareholders of more than five percent (5%) of
the stock, or managers resulting in the holding of office or such shares of
stock by one who is not eligible for a license, said license shall terminate.
   D.   When a license has been issued to an individual, who becomes or is no
longer eligible for a license, said license shall terminate.
(Ord. 601, passed 2-19-2008)
SECTION 18.311. RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   Upon application, any licensee may renew an existing license and the renewal
license shall not be effective until the expiration of the existing license;
provided, that such licensee is then qualified to receive a license and the
premises for which such renewal license is sought remains suitable for the
purpose; provided further, that the renewal privilege herein provided shall not
be construed as a vested right which shall in any case prevent the Village
Board from decreasing the number of licenses to be issued. In addition:
   A.   No license shall be renewed unless the applicant continues to meet all
of the conditions applicable to the initial issuance of licenses, is in
compliance with all of the applicable regulations contained in this Chapter,
and provides documentation that any tax owed to the Village has been paid in
full; and
   B.   A negotiable instrument received as payment for a license fee, transfer
fee, late fee, offer in compromise, pre-disciplinary conference settlement, or
fine imposed by order that is dishonored on presentation shall not be
considered payment and shall be cause for disciplinary action.
(Ord. 390, passed 12-9-98; Am. Ord. 601, passed 2-19-2008)
SECTION 18.312. DRAM SHOP INSURANCE.
   Any person owning, renting, leasing as lessor or as lessee, or permitting
the occupation of any building or other place with knowledge that alcoholic
liquors are to be sold therein, or who having leased the same for other
purposes and who shall knowingly permit therein the sale of any alcoholic
liquors, shall be required to carry dram shop insurance for such premises in
maximum insurance coverage limits so as to save harmless the premises and the
interests of any such person.
(Ord. 390, passed 12-9-98; Am. Ord. 601, passed 2-19-2008)
ARTICLE IV. REGULATION OF SALES
SECTION 18.401. SALE ON LICENSED PREMISES.
   A.   No liquor shall be sold, offered for sale, kept for sale, displayed or
advertised for sale at retail or delivered to any person purchasing same at
retail except at a location, place or premises described in a retail license.
      1.   It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in the Village of
Mettawa.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to sell or permit the sale of
alcoholic liquor in or from any place other than the premises described in the
application and licensee's license or to sell or permit the sale of alcoholic
liquor in any manner not authorized in such licensees license or not in
compliance with the terms thereof of this Chapter and the applicable provisions
of the Act. In addition, all sales of alcoholic liquor and all sales of
foodstuffs and other items delivered by a licensee shall be made at the
licensed premises.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for the holder of an R License or a W License
to deliver or cause to be delivered alcoholic liquor to any room in any hotel
or motel located within the corporate limits of the Village.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for anyone not having a license providing for
consumption of alcoholic beverages on the premises where sold, to offer for
sale, sell or donate any alcoholic beverage for consumption in any place or
location open to the general public or to permit alcoholic beverages to be
consumed where sold or donated.
      1.   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner, however, may grant a daily
permit to any Class W licensee under this Chapter, which permit may authorize
the donation of alcoholic beverages by such licensee on the membership
warehouse club premises of such licensee for sampling purposes only in
conjunction with sales promotional efforts authorized and sponsored by such
licensee. No more than twelve (12) such daily permits shall be issued to any
one such licensee during the period of one (1) year.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to consume or permit the consumption of
alcoholic beverages in restaurants and/or in catering establishments not having
a license for the sale thereof.
   C.   No person, except a manufacturer or distributor or importing
distributor, shall fill or refill, in whole or in part, any original package of
alcoholic liquor with the same or any other kind or quality of alcoholic
liquor, and it shall be unlawful for any person to have in his possession for
sale at retail any bottles, casks or other containers containing alcoholic
liquor, except in original packages.
(Ord. 390, passed 12-9-98; Am. Ord. 601, passed 2-19-2008; Am. Ord. 609, passed
5-20-2008; Am. Ord. 622, passed 4-14-2009)
SECTION 18.402. CLOSING HOURS; SUNDAY CLOSING.
   A.   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale any alcoholic liquor at
retail in the Village or to permit any individual to consume any alcoholic
liquor in or on any premises between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) a.m.
and ten o'clock (10:00) a.m. on Monday through Friday inclusive; and between
the hours of one o'clock (1:00) a.m. and nine-thirty o'clock (9:30) a.m. on
Saturday and Sunday, except that:
      1.   On the eve of all legal holidays and on January 1 of each year, it
shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale any alcoholic liquor at retail in
the Village or to permit any individual to consume any alcoholic liquor in or
on any premises for which a license providing for consumption on the premises
has been issued pursuant to this Chapter between the hours of two o'clock (2:
00) a.m. and nine-thirty o'clock (9:30) a.m.; and
      2.   On the day following the commencement of a banquet or other special
event conducted by the holder of a Class H License on the premises for which a
Class H License has been issued pursuant to this Chapter, it shall be unlawful
to sell or offer for sale any alcoholic liquor at retail or to permit any
individual to consume any alcoholic liquor in or on such premises between the
hours of two o'clock (2:00) a.m. and nine-thirty o'clock (9:30) a.m.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any premises to remain open for business or to
admit the public to any portion of any premises in or on which alcoholic liquor
is sold at retail during the hours within which the sale of such liquor is
prohibited; provided, that retail establishments, hotels and restaurants may be
kept open during the said hours, but no alcoholic liquor may be sold or
consumed by the public during such hours, but nothing contained in this Section
shall be deemed to authorize any such retail establishment to remain open for
business or to admit the public to such premises at or during any hour when
such premises are required to be closed by virtue of the regulations or
restrictions imposed by any other provisions of this Municipal Code of the
Village of Mettawa.
(Ord. 390, passed 12-9-98; Am. Ord. 601, passed 2-19-2008; Am. Ord. 622, passed
4-14-2009; Am. Ord. 632, passed 7-1-2009)
SECTION 18.403. CONDITIONS OF LICENSED PREMISES.
   A.   All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor or for the
storage of such liquor for sale shall be sanitary and shall be kept in full
compliance with the ordinances regulating the condition of premises used for
the storage or sale of food for human consumption.
   B.   Except in the case of an H License licensee, no alcoholic liquor shall
be sold at retail upon any premises which has any access which leads from such
premises to any other portion of the same building or structure used for
dwelling or lodging purposes and which is permitted to be used or kept
accessible for any use of the public.
   C.   Every licensee shall cause his license or licenses to be framed and
hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
(Ord. 390, passed 12-9-98; Am. Ord. 601, passed 2-19-2008)
SECTION 18.404. EMPLOYEES.
   A.   It shall be unlawful to employ in any premises used for the retail sale
of alcoholic liquor any individual who is afflicted with or who is a carrier of
any contagious, infectious or venereal disease, and it shall be unlawful for
any individual who is afflicted with or is a carrier of such disease to work in
or about any premises or to be engaged in any way in the handling, preparation
or distribution of such liquor.
   B.   No licensee licensed under the provisions of this Chapter shall deny or
permit his agents and employees to deny any individuals the full and equal
enjoyment of the accommodations, advantages, facilities and privileges of any
premises in which alcoholic liquors are authorized to be sold subject only to
the conditions and limitations established by law and applicable alike to all
citizens.
(Ord. 390, passed 12-9-98; Am. Ord. 601, passed 2-19-2008)
SECTION 18.405. PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   The following kinds of conduct on premises in the Village licensed to sell
alcoholic liquor are prohibited:
   A.   The performance of acts, or simulated acts, of sexual intercourse,
masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation or any sexual
acts which are prohibited by law.
   B.   The actual or simulated touching, caressing or fondling of the breasts,
buttocks, anus or genitals.
   C.   The actual or simulated displaying of the breasts, pubic hair, anus,
vulva or genitals.
   D.   The permitting by a licensee of any individual to remain in or upon the
licensed premises who exposes to public view any portion of his or her genitals
or anus.
   E.   The displaying of films or pictures depicting acts, a live performance
of which is prohibited by this Section.
   F.   Except for hotels, there shall be no automatic amusement device located
upon, maintained in and/or conducted by licensees of premises for which a
license has been issued.
   G.   Except for hotels, there shall be no dancing on and within the
premises.
(Ord. 390, passed 12-9-98; Am. Ord. 601, passed 2-19-2008)
SECTION 18.406. SALES ON CREDIT FORBIDDEN.
   No licensee shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any person
on credit or on a passbook, or order on a store, or in exchange for any goods,
wares or merchandise, or in payment for any services rendered, and if any
person shall extend credit for such purpose, the debt thereby attempted to be
created shall not be recoverable at law; provided, that nothing herein shall be
construed to prevent payment by credit card.
(Ord. 390, passed 12-9-98; Am. Ord. 601, passed 2-19-2008)
SECTION 18.407. INDIVIDUALS UNDER AGE.
   A.   No licensee nor any officer, associate, member, representative, agent
or employee of such licensee shall sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to
any individual under the age of twenty-one (21) years, or to any intoxicated
individual or to any individual known by him or her to be under legal
disability or in need of mental treatment. No person, after purchasing or
otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor, shall sell, give or deliver such
alcoholic liquor to an individual under the age of twenty-one (21) except as
provided in paragraph 3 of subsection C of this Section. Whoever violates the
provisions of this subsection is guilty of a misdemeanor.
      1.   For the purpose of preventing the violation of this Section, any
licensee, or his agent or employee, may refuse to sell or serve alcoholic
beverages to any individual who is unable to produce adequate written evidence
of identity and of the fact that he or she is over the age of twenty-one (21)
years.
      2.   Adequate written evidence of age and identity of the individual is a
document issued by a Federal, state, county or municipal government, or
subdivision or agency thereof, including, but not limited to, a motor vehicle
operator's license, a registration certificate issued under the Federal
Selective Service Act or an identification card issued to a member of the Armed
Forces. Proof that the defendant-licensee, or his employee or agent, demanded,
was shown and reasonably relied upon such written evidence in any transaction
forbidden by this Section is competent evidence and may be considered in any
proceedings for the suspension or revocation of any license based thereon.
      3.   Any person who sells, gives or furnishes to any individual under the
age of twenty-one (21) years any false or fraudulent written, printed or
photostatic evidence of the age and identity of such individual or who sells,
gives or furnishes to any individual under the age of twenty-one (21) years
evidence of age and identification of any other individual shall be deemed to
be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      4.   Any individual under the age of twenty-one (21) years who presents
or offers to any licensee, his agent or employee, any written, printed or
photostatic evidence of age and identity which is false, fraudulent or not
actually his own for the purpose of ordering, purchasing, attempting to
purchase or otherwise procuring or attempting to procure the serving of any
alcoholic beverage, or who has in his possession any false or fraudulent
written, printed or photostatic evidence of age and identity is guilty of a
Class B misdemeanor.
      5.   Any individual under the age of twenty-one (21) years who has any
alcoholic beverage in his possession on any street or highway or in any public
place or in any place open to the public is guilty of a Class B misdemeanor.
This subsection does not apply to possession by an individual under the age of
twenty-one (21) years making a delivery of an alcoholic beverage in pursuance
of the order of his or her parent or in pursuance of his or her employment.
However, it shall be unlawful for any such individual under twenty-one (21)
years of age to draw, pour and/or mix alcoholic liquor as an employee of any
licensee.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any holder of a retail liquor dealer's
license, or his agent or employee, to suffer or permit any individual under age
to be or remain in any room or compartment adjoining or adjacent to or situated
in the room or place where such licensed premises is located; provided, that
this subsection shall not apply to any individual under age who is accompanied
by his or her parent or guardian or to any licensed premises which derives its
principal business from the sale of service or other commodities than alcoholic
liquor in his possession.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any individual to whom the sale, gift or
delivery of any alcoholic liquor is prohibited because of age to purchase,
accept a gift or such alcoholic liquor or have such alcoholic liquor in his
possession.
      1.   If a licensee or his agents or employees believes or has reason to
believe that a sale or delivery of any alcoholic liquor is prohibited because
of the age of the prospective recipient, he shall, before making such sale or
delivery, demand presentation of some form of positive identification
referenced in subsection B above, containing proof of age, issued by a public
officer in the performance of his official duties.
      2.   No individual shall transfer, alter or deface such an identification
card, use the identification card of another; carry or use false information;
or otherwise misrepresent his age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining
alcoholic liquor or beverage in any tavern or other place in the Village where
such alcoholic liquor or beverage is sold. No individual shall purchase, accept
delivery, or have possession of alcoholic liquor in violation of this
subsection C. The consumption of alcoholic liquor by any individual under
twenty-one (21) years of age is forbidden.
      3.   The possession, dispensing or consumption by an individual under
twenty-one (21) years of age of alcoholic liquor in the performance of a
religious service or ceremony, or the consumption by an individual under
twenty-one (21) years of age under the direct supervision and approval of the
parents or parent or those individuals standing in loco parentis of such
individuals under twenty-one (21) years of age in the privacy of a home is not
prohibited by this Chapter.
   D.   In every premises in the Village where alcoholic liquor is sold, there
shall be displayed at all times in a prominent place a printed card which shall
be supplied by the Local Liquor Control Commission and which shall read
substantially as follows:
   "WARNING TO MINORS
   You are subject to a fine under the ordinances of the Village of Mettawa if
you purchase any alcoholic liquor or misrepresent your age for the purpose of
purchasing or obtaining any alcoholic liquor."
   E.   Exceptions. The consumption of alcoholic beverages by any individual
under twenty- one (21) years of age is forbidden, except that an individual at
least nineteen (19) years of age may consume beer and wine in the performance
of a religious ceremony under the direct supervision and approval of the
parents or parent of such minor in the privacy of a home, and shall not be
prohibited under this Section.
(Ord. 390, passed 12-9-98; Am. Ord. 601, passed 2-19-2008; Am. Ord. 852, passed
10-20-2020)
ARTICLE V. REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION OF LICENSES
SECTION 18.501. REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   A.   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner:
      1.   May revoke or suspend any license issued by him if he determines
that cause exists for such revocation or suspension by reason that such
licensee:
         a.   And/or an officer, director, manager or other employee of any
licensee, has violated this Chapter, any other local ordinance or State law
while engaged in the course of his employment or while on the premises
described in said license; or
         b.   Has violated any applicable rules or regulations established by
the Local Liquor Control Commission or the State of Illinois Commission; or
         c.   Has failed to pay any license fee or any tax payable to the
Village; or
         d.   Has been convicted on a felony charge under the laws of the State
of Illinois or the United State of Illinois; or
         e.   Has been convicted for being the keeper of a house of ill-fame;
and/or
         f.   Has been convicted for pandering or other crime or misdemeanor
opposed to decency and morality.
      2.   Shall require, upon revocation of a license, the forfeiture of the
amount of the bond given by the licensee of said license to secure said
licensee's faithful compliance with the terms of this Chapter as well as the
license and other fees paid the Village by said licensee.
   B.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, in addition to or in lieu of revocation
or suspension of a license, a licensee may be fined; however, no such license
shall be revoked or suspended and no licensee shall be fined except after a
public hearing before the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, on his own
initiative, with or without a citizen's complaint having been filed as set
forth in Section
18.503 of this Article. Such hearing shall not commence sooner than three (3)
days after written notice shall have been personally served upon the licensee
at the licensed premises, affording the licensee an opportunity to appear and
defend. All proceedings before the Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall be
transcribed by a certified official court reporter and placed in a certified
official record of such proceedings.
   C.   If Local Liquor Control Commissioner determines after such hearing that
the license should be revoked or suspended or that the licensee should be
fined, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall, within five (5) days after
such hearing, state the reason or reasons for such determination in a written
order of revocation or suspension or fine and shall serve a copy of such order
within the five (5) days upon the licensee.
   D.   Upon any revocation of any license, it shall thereafter be unlawful and
shall constitute a further violation of this Chapter for said license to be re-
issued for such premises within one (1) year of the date of such revocation or
to re-issued to such licensee.
(Ord. 390, passed 12-9-98; Am. Ord. 601, passed 2-19-2008)
SECTION 18.502. IMMEDIATE CLOSURE OF PREMISES.
   If the Local Liquor Control Commissioner has reason to believe that any
continued operation of a business at the location of a licensed premises will
threaten immediately the welfare of the community, without notice or hearing
the Local Liquor Control Commissioner may close the entire business operations
of a licensee at the location of the premises for not more than seven (7) days
by issuing a written initial closing order stating the reason for such
conclusion and giving the licensee an opportunity to be heard during that
period to show cause why the license should not be suspended or revoked.
   A.   Such order shall contain notice of the date, time and place of the
hearing thereon, which hearing shall commence not less than three (3) nor more
than seven (7) days from the date of service, personally or by certified United
State of Illinois mail, of said notice upon the licensee or any employee
thereof in charge of the licensed premises.
   B.   If such licensee shall also be engaged in the conduct of another
business at the same location that is isolated from the licensed premises, such
initial closing order shall be not applicable to such other business or
businesses.
   C.   All proceedings before the Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall be
transcribed by a certified official court reporter and placed in a certified
official record of such proceedings.
   D.   If Local Liquor Control Commissioner determines after such hearing that
the license should be revoked or suspended or that the licensee should be
fined, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall, within five (5) days after
such hearing, state the reason or reasons for such determination in a written
order of revocation or suspension or fine and shall serve a copy of such order
within the five (5) days upon the licensee.
(Ord. 601, passed 2-19-2008)
SECTION 18.503. COMPLAINTS.
   A.   Any five (5) residents of the Village may file a complaint with the
Local Liquor Control Commissioner alleging that any licensee has been or is
violating the provisions of this Chapter or the rules or regulations issued
pursuant hereto.
      1.   Such complaint shall be in writing, in the form prescribed by the
Local Liquor Control Commissioner and shall be signed and sworn to by the
parties complaining.
      2.   The complaint shall state the particular provisions, rule or
regulation believed to have been violated and the facts in detail upon which
such belief is based.
   B.   If the Local Liquor Control Commissioner is satisfied that the
complaint substantially charges a violation and finds probable cause to believe
the same, he shall set the matter for hearing and shall serve notice upon the
licensee of the time and place of such hearing and of the particular charges in
the complaint, such hearing to take place not sooner than three (3) days from
the date upon which such notice is personally served upon the licensee at the
address of the licensed premises.
(Ord. 390, passed 12-9-98; Am. Ord. 601, passed 2-19-2008)
SECTION 18.504. PENALTIES FOLLOWING HEARING BEFORE THE LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL
COMMISSIONER.
   A.   After a hearing on any alleged violation, if the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner finds that there was any violation of the ordinances of the
Village or statutes of the State of Illinois, the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner may suspend or revoke any retail liquor dealer's license and/or
fine such licensee for any violation of any provision of this Chapter or for
the violation of any State of Illinois law pertaining to the sale of alcoholic
liquor.
      1.   If the Local Liquor Control Commissioner elects to fine such
licensee in lieu of bond forfeiture, the amount of such fine shall be as set
forth in Chapter 2, Village Government, Article X, Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty
Schedules, Section
2.1003, Fine and Penalty Schedule.
      2.   If the Local Liquor Control Commissioner elects to fine such
licensee in lieu of bond forfeiture, the amount of such fine shall not be less
than One Hundred Dollars ($100) nor more than One Thousand Dollars ($1,000) for
each the first violation; Fifteen Hundred Dollars ($1,500) for the second
violation within twelve (12) months of the first violation; and Twenty-five
Hundred Dollars ($2,500) for the third and all subsequent violations within
twelve (12) months of the first violation.
   B.   A separate violation shall be deemed to have been committed on each day
during or on which a violation is found to have occurred or continued.
(Ord. 390, passed 12-9-98; Am. Ord. 601, passed 2-19-2008; Am. Ord. 852, passed
10-20-2020)
SECTION 18.505. APPEALS FROM THE ORDER OF THE LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL
COMMISSIONER.
   Except as provided in this Section, any order or action of the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner levying a fine or refusing to levy a fine on a licensee,
granting or refusing to grant a license, revoking or suspending or refusing to
revoke or suspend a license or refusing for more than thirty (30) days to grant
a hearing upon a complaint to revoke or suspend a license, may be appealed by
any resident of the Village, the licensee or any other interested person, to
the State of Illinois Commission within twenty (20) days after notice of such
order or action.
   A.   In any case where a licensee appeals to the State of Illinois
Commission from an order or action of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner
having the effect of suspending or revoking a license, denying a renewal
application, or refusing to grant a license, the licensee shall resume the
operation of the licensed business pending the decision of the State of
Illinois Commission and the expiration of the time allowed for an application
for rehearing. If an application for rehearing is filed, the licensee shall
continue the operation of the licensed business until the denial of the
application or, if the rehearing is granted, until the decision of rehearing.
   B.   In any case in which a licensee appeals to the State of Illinois
Commission a suspension or revocation by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner
that is the second or subsequent such suspension or revocation placed on that
licensee within the preceding twelve (12) month period, the licensee shall
consider the suspension or revocation to be in effect until a reversal of the
Local Liquor Control Commissioner's action has been issued by the State of
Illinois Commission and shall cease all activity otherwise authorized by the
license.
   C.   In light of the fact that the President and Board of Trustees have
heretofore adopted Resolution No. 89-9, in the event of any appeal from an
order or action of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, the appeal to the
State of Illinois Liquor Commission shall be limited to a review of the
official record of the proceedings before said Local Liquor Control
Commissioner. The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall file with the State
of Illinois Liquor Commission the certified official record of the proceedings
within five (5) days after notice of the filing of such an appeal. The State of
Illinois Liquor Commission shall review the propriety of the order or action of
the Local Liquor Control Commissioner on the certified official record, and the
State of Illinois Liquor Commission shall consider the following questions:
      1.   Whether the Local Liquor Control Commissioner has proceeded in the
manner provided by law;
      2.   Whether his order or action is supported by the findings; and
      3.   Whether the findings are supported by substantial evidence in light
of the whole record.
   D.   The only evidence which may be considered in the review shall be the
evidence found in the certified official record of the proceedings of the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner. No new or additional evidence shall be admitted or
considered. The State of Illinois Commission shall render a decision affirming,
reversing or modifying the order or action reviewed within thirty (30) days
after the appeal was heard.
(Ord. 601, passed 2-19-2008)
ARTICLE VI. VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES
SECTION 18.601. PENALTIES FOR MISDEMEANOR.
   A.   It is a misdemeanor for any person to violate any of the provisions of
this Chapter unless such violation is by this Chapter or other law of the State
of Illinois declared to be a felony.
   B.   It is a misdemeanor for any person to fail to heed or otherwise ignore
any suspension issued by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner or his agent.
   C.   Every person convicted of a misdemeanor for a violation of any of the
provisions of this Chapter shall be punished by a fine as set forth in Chapter
2, Village Government, Article X, Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1003, Fine and Penalty Schedule, for each offense, and a separate offense
shall be deemed to have been committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues. Every act or omission of whatsoever nature
constituting a violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter, by any
officer, director, manager or other agent or employee of any licensee, shall be
deemed and held to be the act of such employer or licensee, and said employer
or licensee shall be punishable in the same manner as if said act or omission
had been done by him personally.
   D.   Any individual under the age of twenty-one (21) who presents or offers
to any licensee, his agent or employee, any written, printed or photostatic
evidence of age and identity which is false, fraudulent, or not actually his
own for the purpose of ordering, purchasing, attempting to purchase, or
otherwise procuring or attempting to procure the serving of any alcoholic
beverage, or who has in his possession any false or fraudulent written,
printed, or photostatic evidence of age and identity, upon conviction thereof
by a court of law shall be fined as set forth in Chapter 2, Village Government,
Article X, Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1003, Fine and Penalty Schedule.
(Ord. 390, passed 12-9-98; Am. Ord. 601, passed 2-19-2008; Am. Ord. 852, passed
10-20-2020)
SECTION 18.602. DISPOSITION OF FINES AND PENALTIES.
   For offenses committed within the corporate limits of the Village or within
the limits and jurisdiction of the Village, fines and penalties recovered under
the provisions of this Chapter shall be paid over to the Village Treasurer.
(Ord. 390, passed 12-9-98; Am. Ord. 601, passed 2-19-2008)
SECTION 18.603. NOTICE TO SECRETARY OF STATE.
   The Local Liquor Commissioner also has the duty to notify the Secretary of
State of Illinois of any convictions or dispositions of court supervision for a
violation of Section 6-20 of the Act, Section
18.407 of this Chapter.
(Ord. 601, passed 2-19-2008)
CHAPTER 19 - TAXATION
SECTION
Article I. Hotel-Motel Tax
   
19.101   Definitions
   
19.102   Levied
   
19.103   Tax Return to Be Filed
   
19.104   Books and Records
   
19.105   Transmittal of Tax Revenue
   
19.106   Proceeds of Tax and Fines
   
19.107   Suspension of License
   
19.108   Use of Receipts
   
19.109   Penalty
Article II. Real Estate Transfer Tax
   
19.201   Transfer Tax Imposed
   
19.202   Collection of Tax; Declaration
   
19.203   Recordation
   
19.204   Lien Created; Enforcement
   
19.205   Deeds Exempted from Tax
   
19.206   Enforcement; Suit for Collection
   
19.207   Interest and Penalties
   
19.208   Proceeds of Tax
   
19.209   Penalty for Violation
   
19.210   Payment of Charges and Assessments
Article III. Revenue Bonds
   
19.301   Authority for Issuance
Article IV. Simplified Municipal Telecommunications Tax
   
19.401   Tax Imposed
   
19.402   Effective Date
Article V. Taxpayers' Bill of Rights
   
19.501   Title
   
19.502   Scope
   
19.503   Definitions
Article V. Taxpayers' Bill of Rights (Cont'd)
   
19.504   Notices
   
19.505   Late Payment
   
19.506   Payment
   
19.507   Certain Credits and Refunds
   
19.508   Audit Procedure
   
19.509   Appeal
   
19.510   Hearing
   
19.511   Interest and Penalties
   
19.512   Abatement
   
19.513   Installment Contracts
   
19.514   Statute of Limitations
   
19.515   Voluntary Disclosure
   
19.516   Publication of Tax Ordinances
   
19.517   Internal Review Procedure
   
19.518   Application
   
19.519   Severability
ARTICLE I. HOTEL-MOTEL TAX
SECTION 19.101. DEFINITIONS.
   A.   The language set forth in the text of this Article shall be interpreted
in accordance with the following rules of construction:
      1.   The singular number includes the plural number and the plural the
singular.
      2.   The word “shall” is mandatory; the word “may” is permissive.
      3.   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
   B.   Whenever in this Article the following words and phrases are used, they
shall, for the purposes of this Article, have the meanings ascribed to them
herein, except when the context otherwise indicates.
      1.   HOTEL or MOTEL. An establishment containing lodging accommodations
designed for use by transients or travelers or temporary guests which
establishment is kept, used or maintained as or advertised or held out to the
public to be an inn, motel, hotel, apartment, lodging house, dormitory or place
where sleeping, rooming, office, conference, or exhibition accommodations are
furnished for lease or rent, whether with or without meals.
      2.   HOTEL or MOTEL ACCOMMODATION. One (1) room offered for rental within
a hotel or motel with or without an adjoining bath. A suite of such rooms
having only one access to a corridor or the out-of-doors shall be considered a
single hotel or motel room.
      3.   PERSON. Any individual, copartnership, firm, association, joint
stock company, corporation, or any combination of individuals of whatever form
or character.
      4.   VILLAGE. The Village of Mettawa, Illinois.
(Ord. 391, passed 12-9-98)
SECTION 19.102. LEVIED.
   A.   There is imposed hereby and shall accrue immediately and be collected,
a tax upon the rental or leasing of any hotel or motel accommodation in the
Village at the rate set forth in Chapter 2, Village Government, Article X, Tax,
Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1001, Tax Schedule.
   B.   The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of the tax shall be
borne by the lessee or tenant of any such hotel or motel accommodation. The tax
herein levied shall be in addition to any and all other taxes. It shall be
unlawful and is declared hereby to be a misdemeanor for any owner, manager, or
operator of a hotel or motel to fail to cause the tax to be secured from the
lessee or tenant of the hotel or motel and cause to be paid over to the Village
Treasurer the tax under rules and regulations prescribed by the Village
Treasurer and as otherwise provided by this Article.
   C.   The tax herein levied shall be secured by the hotel or motel owner,
manager, or operator from the lessee or tenant when collecting the price,
charge or rent payable upon which the hotel-motel tax shall be stated, charged,
and shown separately.
   D.   The hotel-motel tax shall be paid to the Village Treasurer.
(Ord. 391, passed 12-9-98; Am. Ord. 852, passed 10-20-2020)
SECTION 19.103. TAX RETURN TO BE FILED.
   A.   On or before the last day of each month every person who is an owner,
manager or operator of a hotel or motel within the Village shall cause a sworn
tax return to be filed with the Village Treasurer of the Village showing tax
receipts received with respect to hotel-motel accommodations rented or leased
during the preceding calendar month, which return shall be made upon forms
prescribed by the Village Treasurer. At the time of the filing of said tax
return, the owner, manager or operator of a hotel or motel shall pay or cause
to be paid to the Village all taxes due for the period to which then tax return
applies. It is unlawful and it is declared hereby to be a misdemeanor for any
such owner, manager, or operator to fail to pay or cause to be paid said tax.
   B.   If for any reason any tax is not paid when due, a penalty at the rate
of 3% per month on the amount of tax which remains unpaid shall be added and
collected. Whenever any person shall fail to pay any tax as herein provided,
upon the request of the Village Treasurer, the Village Attorney of the Village
shall bring or cause to be brought an action to enforce the payment of said tax
on behalf of the Village in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 391, passed 12-9-98)
SECTION 19.104. BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   Every person who is an owner, manager, and/or operator of a hotel or motel
in the Village shall keep books and records reflecting the price, rents or
charges made or charged and occupancies assessed under this Article. The
Village President and/or the Village Treasurer or their designee shall, at all
reasonable times, have full access to the books and records.
(Ord. 391, passed 12-9-98)
SECTION 19.105. TRANSMITTAL OF TAX REVENUE.
   A.   The owner or owners of each hotel or motel within the Village shall
file tax returns showing tax receipts received with respect to each hotel and
motel room during each monthly period commencing on January 1, 1999, and
continuing on the first day of every month thereafter on forms prescribed by
the Village Clerk. The return shall be due on or before the last day of the
calendar month succeeding the end of the monthly filing period.
   B.   The first taxing period, for the purpose of this Article, shall
commence January 1, 1999, and the tax return and payment for that period shall
be due on or before February 28, 1999. Thereafter reporting periods and tax
payments shall be in accordance with the provisions of this Article. At the
time of filing those tax returns, the owner shall pay to the Village Treasurer
all taxes due for the period for which the tax return applies.
   C.   If, for any reason, any tax is not paid when due, a penalty at the rate
of 1 per 30-day period or portion thereof, from the day of delinquency shall be
added and collected.
(Ord. 391, passed 12-9-98)
SECTION 19.106. PROCEEDS OF TAX AND FINES.
   All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax under this Article,
including penalties, shall be paid into the treasury of the Village and shall
be credited to and deposited in the general corporate purpose fund of the
Village.
(Ord. 391, passed 12-9-98)
SECTION 19.107. SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   A.   In the event the Village President, after a hearing held before him,
shall find that any person has willfully avoided payment of the tax imposed by
this Article, he may suspend or revoke all Village licenses held by said tax
evader.
   B.   The owner, manager, or operator of the hotel or motel shall have an
opportunity to be heard at such hearing to be held not less than five (5) days
after notice of the time and place of the hearing has been sent by certified
mail, return receipt requested, to such owner, manager and/or operator of such
hotel or motel at its last known place of business.
   C.   The suspension or revocation of any license shall not release or
discharge the owner, manager or operator of a hotel or motel from his civil
liability for the payment of the tax nor from prosecution for such offense.
(Ord. 391, passed 12-9-98)
SECTION 19.108. USE OF RECEIPTS.
   All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the hotel-motel tax under this
Article, including penalties, shall be paid into the treasury of the Village
and shall be credited to and deposited in the general corporate purpose fund.
(Ord. 391, passed 12-9-98)
SECTION 19.109. PENALTY.
   A.   It is a misdemeanor for any person to violate any of the provisions of
this Article, unless such violation is by this Article or other law of the
State declared to be a felony.
   B.   Any person, firm, or corporation convicted of a misdemeanor for a
violation of any of the provisions of this Article shall be punished by a fine
as set forth in Chapter 2, Village Government, Article X, Tax, Fee, Fine and
Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1003, Fine and Penalty Schedule, and a separate offense shall be deemed to
have been committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues.
(Ord. 391, passed 12-9-98; Am. Ord. 852, passed 10-20-2020)
ARTICLE II. REAL ESTATE TRANSFER TAX
SECTION 19.201. TRANSFER TAX IMPOSED.
   Pursuant to the authority conferred upon home rule units under the
Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970, the President and Board of
Trustees of the Village of Mettawa have determined to impose a real estate
transfer tax, as follows:
   A.   A tax is imposed hereby on the transfer of legal or beneficial title to
real property located within the corporate limits of the Village as evidenced
by the Recordation of a Deed by any person or by the delivery of any Deed or
assignment of interest of said real property, made after the 30th day of April,
1996, and thereafter, whether investing the grantee with the beneficial
interest in or legal title to said property or merely the possession or use
thereof for any purpose or to secure future payment of money or the future
transfer of any such real property.
   B.   The tax imposed shall be as set forth in Chapter 2, Village Government,
Article X, Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1001, Tax Schedule.
(Ord. 328, passed 4-10-96; Am. Ord. 341, passed 5-8-96; Am. Ord. 852, passed
10-20-2020)
SECTION 19.202. COLLECTION OF TAX; DECLARATION.
   A.   The tax herein levied and imposed shall be collected for and on behalf
of the Village by the Village Clerk through the sale of revenue stamps, which
shall be caused to be prepared by the said Village Clerk in such quantities as
may from time to time be prescribed. Such revenue stamps shall be in the
denomination of Five Dollars ($5), Twenty-Five Dollars ($25), Seventy-Five
Dollars ($75), One Hundred Dollars ($100), Two Hundred Fifty Dollars ($250),
Five Hundred Dollars ($500), One Thousand Dollars ($1,000), and Two Thousand
Five Hundred Dollars ($2,500). Such revenue stamps shall be available for sale
at a location within the Village promulgated from time to time by the Village
Clerk during regular business hours of the Village and/or at other locations
designed from time to time by the President and Board of Trustees of the
Village.
   B.   At the time the tax imposed by Section
19.201 is paid or an application is made for exemption therefrom, there shall
also be presented to the Village Clerk, on a form prescribed by the Village
Clerk, a declaration signed by at least one of the seller or grantors and by at
least one (1) of the purchasers or grantees involved in the transaction, or
signed by their attorneys or agents, which declaration shall state the full
consideration to be paid for the real property so transferred.
      1.   In the instances when a declaration is signed by an attorney or
agent on behalf of sellers or buyers who have the power of direction to deal
with the title to the real estate under a land trust agreement (the trustees
being a mere repository of recorded legal title with a duty of conveying the
real estate only when and if directed in writing by the beneficiary or
beneficiaries having the power of direction), said attorney, agent, licensed
real estate sales person or broker need only identify the land trust which is
the repository of record legal title and need not declare the identity of such
beneficiary or beneficiaries of the land trust agreement.
      2.   Each declaration so presented shall be accompanied by a deed. In
addition to other requirements imposed by law each deed so presented shall
contain the date of the conveyance which it evidences, the legal description
and the permanent tax index number of the real property being conveyed, and the
names of the grantor and grantee; except that, with respect to the latter, in
the case of an assignment of beneficial interest, a facsimile thereof executed
by agents or attorneys as and for each of the grantor and grantee but otherwise
not containing the names or identities of the grantor and grantee shall be
acceptable.
   C.   The primary liability for payment of said tax shall be borne by the
grantee reflected on the deed involved in any such transaction unless otherwise
negotiated by contract; provided, however, that if the grantee is any
corporation, society, association, foundation or institution organized and
operated exclusively for charitable, religious or educational purposes, in
which instance the absolute liability for payment of said tax shall be borne by
the grantor reflected in said deed. Unless the deed is exempted from the tax
pursuant to and in accordance with Section
19.205, it shall be unlawful for any grantee to accept a conveyance if the
transfer tax has not been paid. If at the time of recordation the tax has not
been paid and the stamps affixed to the deed, then the grantee's title shall be
subject to the lien provided in Section
19.204 hereof and the grantee reflected on the deed shall be liable for payment
of the tax. The tax herein levied shall be in addition to any and all other
taxes.
(Ord. 328, passed 4-10-96; Am. Ord. 341, passed 5-8-96; Am. Ord. 549, passed
11-18-2005; Am. Ord. 701, passed 9-20-2011)
SECTION 19.203. RECORDATION.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any recorder of deeds or agent thereof and/or
any land trustee or agent thereof to accept a deed for recordation or
execution, as the case may be, unless the tax imposed by Section
19.202 has been paid and the revenue stamps sold in the collection of said tax
have been affixed to the deed to be recorded.
   B.   Following payment of the tax herein levied and imposed, the revenue
stamps so purchased shall be affixed to the deed or other instrument of
conveyance. Any person so affixing a revenue stamp shall cancel it and so
deface it as to render it unfit for use by marking it with his initials and the
day, month, and year when the affixing occurs. Such markings shall be made by
writing or stamping in indelible ink or by perforating with a machine or punch.
However, any revenue stamp shall not be so defaced as to prevent ready
determination of its denomination and genuineness.
(Ord. 328, passed 4-10-96; Am. Ord. 341, passed 5-8-96; Am. Ord. 701, passed 9-
20-2011)
SECTION 19.204. LIEN CREATED; ENFORCEMENT.
   In the event a deed is filed for Recordation or there is an assignment of
beneficial interest conveying any interest in real estate within the corporate
limits of the Village without payment of the tax imposed in Section
19.201, a lien is declared created against said real estate so conveyed in the
amount of the tax. The fact that the deed or assignment does not contain
Village revenue stamps in an amount equal to the tax imposed by this subchapter
shall constitute constructive notice of lien. The lien may be enforced by
proceedings for foreclosure, as in cases of mortgages or mechanics' liens. Suit
to foreclose this lien must be commenced within three (3) years after the date
of recording the deed. Nothing herein shall be construed as preventing the
Village from bringing a civil action to collect the tax imposed by this
subchapter from any person who has the liability for payment of the same,
including interest and penalties as hereinbelow provided.
(Ord. 328, passed 4-10-96; Am. Ord. 341, passed 5-8-96)
SECTION 19.205. DEEDS EXEMPTED FROM TAX.
   Provided that a declaration is filed pursuant to Section
19.202, the following deeds shall be exempt from the tax imposed by this
subchapter:
   A.   Deeds representing real estate conveyances pursuant to contracts duly
executed and in full force and effect on or before April 30, 1996;
   B.   Deeds relating to real property acquired by any governmental body or
from any governmental body or deeds to or documents relating to property or
interests transferred between governmental bodies; or deeds or trust documents,
in which the Administrators of Veterans' Affairs of the United States of
America is the grantee pursuant to a foreclosure proceeding [Note: Deeds to any
corporation, society, association, foundation or institution organized and
operated exclusively for charitable, religious or educational purposes and,
shall not be exempt from payment of this tax.];
   C.   Deeds which secure debt or other obligation;
   D.   Deeds which, without additional consideration, confirm, correct,
modify, or supplement a deed previously recorded;
   E.   Deeds where the actual consideration is less than One Hundred Dollars
($100);
   F.   Tax deeds;
   G.   Deeds of release of property which is security for a debt or other
obligation;
   H.   Deeds of partition;
   J.   Deeds made pursuant to mergers, consolidations, or transfers or sales
of substantially all of the assets of corporations pursuant to Federally
authorized plans of reorganization;
   K.   Deeds made by a subsidiary corporation to its parent for no
consideration other than the cancellation or surrender of the subsidiary's
stock;
   L.   Deeds wherein there is an actual exchange of real estate and trust
documents wherein there is an actual exchange of beneficial interests, except
that the money difference or money's worth paid from one or the other shall not
be exempt from the tax;
   M.   Deeds representing transfers subject to the imposition of a documentary
stamp imposed by the government of the United States; and/or
   N.   Deeds issued to a holder of a mortgage pursuant to a mortgage
foreclosure proceeding or pursuant to a transfer in lieu of foreclosure.
(Ord. 328, passed 4-10-96; Am. Ord. 341, passed 5-8-96; Am. Ord. 549, passed
11-18-2005)
SECTION 19.206. ENFORCEMENT; SUIT FOR COLLECTION.
   Whenever any person required under the terms of this subchapter to pay the
taxes or any portion thereof required to be paid as provided in this subchapter
shall fail to pay any such taxes, or whenever any purchaser or grantee shall
accept a deed of conveyance where the applicable tax imposed by this subchapter
has not been paid, the Village Attorney of the Village shall, upon request of
the Village Clerk, bring or cause to be brought an action to enforce the
payment of said tax, including interest and penalties as hereinbelow provided,
on behalf of the Village in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 328, passed 4-10-96; Am. Ord. 341, passed 5-8-96)
SECTION 19.207. INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   In the event of failure by any person to pay to the Village Clerk the tax
required hereunder when the same shall be due, interest shall accumulate and be
due upon said tax at the rate of one percent (1%) per month, commencing as of
the first day following the day when the tax becomes due. In addition, a
penalty of ten percent (10%) of the tax and interest due shall be assessed and
collected against any person failing to pay the tax imposed upon said person
under the terms of this subchapter.
(Ord. 328, passed 4-10-96; Am. Ord. 341, passed 5-8-96)
SECTION 19.208. PROCEEDS OF TAX.
   All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax, including interest
and penalties, shall be paid to the Village and shall be credited to and
deposited in the general fund of the Village.
(Ord. 328, passed 4-10-96; Am. Ord. 341, passed 5-8-96)
SECTION 19.209. PENALTY FOR VIOLATION.
   Pursuant to the authority conferred upon home rule units under the
Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970, the President and Board of
Trustees of the Village of Mettawa have determined to impose a penalty for
violation of the provisions of this subchapter, as follows:
   A.   In addition to the other provisions hereunder, any person found guilty
in a court of competent jurisdiction of violating, disobeying, neglecting, or
refusing to comply with or resisting or opposing the enforcement of any
provision hereof shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished by a fine as set forth in Chapter 2, Village Government,
Article X, Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1003, Fine and Penalty Schedule.
   B.   In addition to the above and foregoing, any person who willfully
falsifies the value of the transferred real estate on the declaration of value
required by Section
19.202 or who willfully falsifies or willfully omits any other information
required by this subchapter or who willfully and falsely claims a transaction
to be exempt under Section 19.205 thereof, shall be punished by a fine as set
forth in Chapter 2, Village Government, Article X, Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty
Schedules, Section
2.1003, Fine and Penalty Schedule.
(Ord. 328, passed 4-10-96; Am. Ord. 341, passed 5-8-96; Am. Ord. 852, passed
10-20-2020)
SECTION 19.210 PAYMENT OF CHARGES AND ASSESSMENTS.
   A.   No real estate transfer stamp shall be issued until the grantor and
grantee each shall have certified to the Village official or agent whose duty
it is to issue transfer stamps that, to the best of the knowledge and belief of
each, there are no other unpaid fees or charges for any Village provided
service and/or any fines, judgments, levies, debts or required reimbursements
to be paid to the Village by the grantor and/or the grantee or in any manner
arising out of or pertaining to the real property which is the subject of such
transfer.
   B.   Prior to the issuance by any Village official or agent of any real
estate transfer tax stamp, such official or agent shall withhold such issuance
until the applicant seeking such certificate, license and/or permit shall have
paid in full any and all overdue unpaid fees or charges for any Village
provided service and/or any unpaid fines, judgments, levies, debts and/or
required reimbursements to be made to the Village.
(Ord. 713, passed 12-13-2011)
ARTICLE III. REVENUE BONDS
SECTION 19.301. AUTHORITY FOR ISSUANCE.
   Pursuant to the authority given, home rule units under Article VII of the
1970 Constitution of Illinois, the President and Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes the Village of. Mettawa to issue revenue bonds for financing of the
construction, acquisition, reconstruction, improvement, betterment or extension
of any of the projects which may be financed with the issuance of municipal
bonds, the interest on which is exempt from Federal income tax under the
provisions of Section 103 of the United States Internal Revenue Code; which
projects may hereafter be declared and determined to be public purposes and for
the public safety, benefit and welfare of the residents of the Mettawa and its
environs. The Village of Mettawa hereby and herewith retains the right and the
power to expand the types and classes of projects which may be so financed to
the full extent allowed under the United States Internal Revenue Code, so that
the Village of Mettawa in making this adoption shall not be restricted to
financing those capital projects itemized in the Illinois Compiled Statutes.
(Ord. 493, passed 1-21-2003)
ARTICLE IV. SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
SECTION 19.401. TAX IMPOSED.
   A.   A simplified municipal telecommunications tax is hereby imposed upon
the act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving in the
municipality intrastate or interstate telecommunications by a person under the
provisions of the Simplified Municipal Telecommunications Tax Act, P.A. 92-
0526, at a rate set forth in Chapter 2, Village Government, Article X, Tax,
Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1001, Tax Schedule.
   B.   The tax hereby imposed shall be collected and enforced by the
Department of Revenue of the State of Illinois. The Illinois Department of
Revenue shall have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of this
Article.
(Ord. 489, passed 8-20-2002; Am. Ord. 852, passed 10-20-2020)
SECTION 19.402. EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This Article shall take effect for all gross charges billed by
telecommunications retailers on and after the first day of January, 2003.
(Ord. 489, passed 8-20-2002)
ARTICLE V. TAXPAYERS' BILL OF RIGHTS
SECTION 19.501. TITLE.
   This Chapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the "Locally Imposed
and Administered Tax Rights and Responsibility Ordinance."
(Ord. 524, passed 10-19-2004)
SECTION 19.502. SCOPE.
   The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to the Village's procedures in
connection with all of the Village's locally imposed and administered taxes.
(Ord. 524, passed 10-19-2004)
SECTION 19.503. DEFINITIONS.
   Certain words or terms herein shall have the meaning ascribed to them as
follows:
   ACT means the "Local Government Taxpayers' Bill of Rights Act."
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES means the Village Board of the Village of Mettawa.
   LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX or TAX means each tax imposed by the
Village that is collected or administered by the Village not an agency or
department of the State. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real
property under the Property Tax Code or fees collected by the Village other
than infrastructure maintenance fees.
   LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR, the Village's Finance Director, is charged with the
administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes,
including staff, employees or agents to the extent they are authorized by the
Local Tax Administrator to act in the Local Tax Administrator's stead. The
Local Tax Administrator shall have the authority to implement the terms of this
Ordinance to give full effect to this Article. The exercise of such authority
by the Local Tax Administrator shall not be inconsistent with this Article and
the Act.
   NOTICE means each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the Village's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   TAX ORDINANCE means each ordinance adopted by the Village that imposes any
locally imposed and administered tax.
   TAXPAYER means any person required to pay any locally imposed and
administered tax and generally includes the person upon whom the legal
incidence of such tax is placed and with respect to consumer taxes includes the
business or entity required to collect and pay the locally imposed and
administered tax to the Village.
   VILLAGE means the Village of Mettawa, Illinois.
(Ord. 524, passed 10-19-2004)
SECTION 19.504. NOTICES.
   Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, the
notice is to be in writing mailed not less than seven (7) calendar days prior
to the day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of
the Local Tax Administrator. The notice shall be sent by the Local Tax
Administrator as follows:
   A.   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the persons' last known address, or
   B.   Personal service or delivery.
(Ord. 524, passed 10-19-2004)
SECTION 19.505. LATE PAYMENT.
   Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the
Village pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is (a)
physically received by the Village on or before the due date, or (b) received
in an envelope or other container displaying a valid, readable U.S. Postmark
dated on or before the due date, properly addressed to the Village, with
adequate postage prepaid.
(Ord. 524, passed 10-19-2004)
SECTION 19.506. PAYMENT.
   Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order: (1) first to the tax due for the applicable period; (2) second
to the interest due for the applicable period; and (3) third to the penalty for
the applicable period.
(Ord. 524, passed 10-19-2004)
SECTION 19.507. CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS.
   A.   The Village shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid
without written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally
imposed and administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional
by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed
to have paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts
upon which to protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid
the taxes under duress.
   B.   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be one
(1) year after the end of the calendar year in which payment in error was made.
The Village shall not grant a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest, or penalties to a person who has not paid the
amounts directly to the Village.
   C.   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as follows:
      1.   The taxpayer shall submit to the Local Tax Administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         a.   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         b.   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         c.   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the
cancelled check or, receipt for the payment;
         d.   The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         e.   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid, and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the Village.
      2.   Within ten (10) days of the receipt by the Local Tax Administrator
of any claim for a refund or credit, the Local Tax Administrator shall either:
         a.   Grant the claim; or
         b.   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement as
to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      3.   In the event the Local Tax Administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of five percent (5%) per annum, based on
a year of three hundred sixty-five (365) days and the number of days elapsed,
from the date of the overpayment to the date of mailing of a refund check or
the grant of a credit.
(Ord. 524, passed 10-19-2004)
SECTION 19.508. AUDIT PROCEDURE.
   Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this Article.
   A.   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
      1.   The tax;
      2.   The time period of the audit; and
      3.   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   B.   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and if the
date and time selected by the Local Tax Administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within thirty
(30) days after the originally designated audit and during normal business
hours.
   C.   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven (7) days nor more
than thirty (30) days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer
and the Local Tax Administrator agree to some other convenient time. In the
event taxpayer is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question, the
taxpayer may request another date within the thirty (30) days, approved in
writing, that is convenient to the taxpayer and the Local Tax Administrator.
   D.   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the taxpayer's
business or activities, including original source documents and books of entry
denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given rise to any
tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in the English
language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by the Village.
   E.   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make available
its books and records for inspection by the Village. If the taxpayer fails to
provide the documents necessary for audit within the time provided, the Local
Tax Administrator may issue a tax determination and assessment based on the
Local Tax Administrator's determination of the best estimate of the taxpayer's
tax liability.
   F.   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within thirty (30) days of
the Village's determination of the amount of overpayment.
   G.   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the Local Tax Administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing such tax.
(Ord. 524, passed 10-19-2004)
SECTION 19.509. APPEAL.
   A.   The Local Tax Administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the Local Tax Administrator's issuance of a protectable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial, or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The
notice shall include the following information:
      1.   The reason for the assessment;
      2.   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      3.   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      4.   The obligations of the Village during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   B.   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the Local Tax Administrator
of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the Local Tax
Administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting forth the
basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written protest and petition
for hearing must be filed with the Local Tax Administrator within forty-five
(45) days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination and
assessment.
   C.   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the Local
Tax Administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the written protest and petition for
hearing, unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
   D.   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the
forty-five (45) day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment shall
become a final bill due and owing without further notice.
   E.   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the Local Tax Administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than ninety (90) days after the expiration of the forty-five
(45) day period.
(Ord. 524, passed 10-19-2004)
SECTION 19.510. HEARING.
   A.   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under Section 19.509, the Local Tax
Administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any appeal.
   B.   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance is
absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of preparation
shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted shall not
exceed fourteen (14) days.
   C.   At the hearing the Local Tax Administrator shall preside and shall hear
testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit or
assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
   D.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the Local Tax Administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision.
(Ord. 524, passed 10-19-2004)
SECTION 19.511. INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   In the event a determination has been made that a tax is due and owing,
through audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be paid within the
time frame otherwise indicated.
   A.   Interest. The Village hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be five
percent (5%) per annum, based on a year of three hundred sixty-five (365) days
and the number of days elapsed.
   B.   Late Filing and Payment Penalties. If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty, of five percent (5%) of the amount of tax required to be shown as due
on a return shall be imposed; and a late payment penalty of five percent (5%)
of the tax due shall be imposed. If no return is filed within the time or
manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance and prior to the Village
issuing a notice of tax delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure
to file penalty shall be assessed equal to twenty-five percent (25%) of the
total tax due for the applicable reporting period for which the return was
required to be filed. A late filing or payment penalty shall not apply if a
failure to file penalty is imposed by the controlling ordinance.
(Ord. 524, passed 10-19-2004)
SECTION 19.512. ABATEMENT.
   The Local Tax Administrator shall have the authority to waive or abate any
late filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file penalty if the
Local Tax Administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists for delay or
failure to make a filing.
(Ord. 524, passed 10-19-2004)
SECTION 19.513. INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS.
   The Village may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The Local Tax
Administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
Local Tax Administrator that the payment is thirty (30) days delinquent, the
taxpayer shall have fourteen (14) working days to cure any delinquency. If the
taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency within the fourteen (14) day period or
fails to demonstrate good faith in restructuring the installment contract with
the local administrator, the installment contract shall be canceled without
further notice to the taxpayer.
(Ord. 524, passed 10-19-2004)
SECTION 19.514. STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   The Village, through the Local Tax Administrator, shall review all tax
returns in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due
and owing. The taxpayer shall have forty-five (45) days after receiving notice
of the reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax
still due and owing.
   A.   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than fourteen
(14) years after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
   B.   If any tax return is not filed or if during any four (4) year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
Village, the tax paid was less than seventy-five percent (75%) of the tax due,
the statute of limitations shall be six (6) years maximum after the end of the
calendar year in which return for the applicable period was due or end of the
calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was filed.
   C.   No statute of limitations shall not apply if a fraudulent tax return
was filed by the taxpayer.
(Ord. 524, passed 10-19-2004)
SECTION 19.515. VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE.
   For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment from the
Local Tax Administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
Local Tax Administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of one percent (1%) per month, for all periods prior
to the filing of the application but not more than four (4) years before the
date of filing the application. A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure
application may not be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for
any period before the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer
incorrectly determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is
liable for the underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid
tax, unless the underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the
taxpayer, in which case the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The
payment of tax and interest must be made by no later than ninety (90) days
after the filing of the voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to
by the Local Tax Administrator. However, any additional amounts owed as a
result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this
Section must be paid within ninety (90) days after a final determination and
the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed
to by the Local Tax Administrator, whichever is longer.
(Ord. 524, passed 10-19-2004)
SECTION 19.516. PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES. 
   Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
Internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the Village
Clerk's office.
(Ord. 524, passed 10-19-2004)
SECTION 19.517. INTERNAL REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   The Local Tax Administrator shall establish an internal review procedure
regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes. Upon a
determination by the Local Tax Administrator that the lien is valid, the lien
shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is determined to be
improper, the Local Tax Administrator shall:
   A.   Timely remove the lien at the Village's expense;
   B.   Correct the taxpayer's credit record; and
   C.   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien.
(Ord. 524, passed 10-19-2004)
SECTION 19.518. APPLICATION.
   This Article shall be liberally construed and administered to supplement all
of the Village's tax ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in
conflict with or inconsistent with this Chapter, this Article shall be
controlling.
(Ord. 524, passed 10-19-2004)
SECTION 19.519. SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, paragraph or provision of this Article shall be held to be
invalid or unenforceable for any reason, the invalidity or unenforceability of
such section, paragraph or provision shall not affect any of the remaining
provisions of this Article.
(Ord. 524, passed 10-19-2004)
CHAPTER 20 - VILLAGE CODE
SECTION
Article I. Interpretation
   
20.101   Title of Code
   
20.102   Construction of Words
   
20.103   Officers and Employees
   
20.104   Intent
Article II. Amendments
   
20.201   Reference to Code
   
20.202   Penalties
   
20.203   Recording Amendments
Article III. Distribution and Promulgation of the Municipal Code
   
20.301   Distribution and Promulgation of the Municipal Code
   
20.302   Review of Documents; Fee for Copies and Certification of Documents
Article IV. Violations
   
20.401   General Penalty; Supervision
   
20.402   Notice of Violation; Recordation
Article V. Constitutionality
   
20.501   Severability
ARTICLE I. INTERPRETATION
SECTION 20.101. TITLE OF CODE.
   This Code shall be known as the “Municipal Code of the Village of Mettawa of
2001.” Any reference to the number of any section contained herein shall be
understood to refer to the position of the same under its appropriate chapter
heading, its article heading, if any, and to the penalty clause relating
thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to this Code
by title in any legal document or ordinance of the Village.
SECTION 20.102. CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS.
   Whenever any word in any section of this Code importing the plural number is
used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons, any single
matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although distributive
words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or person is
referred to in this Code by words importing the singular number only, or the
masculine gender, several matters, parties or persons and females as well as
males and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included. The words “person,
firm or corporation” shall be deemed to include any association or organization
of any kind. Words in the present shall include the future. The words “the
ordinance,” whenever used in this Code, shall be held and taken to mean the
entire Code, including each and every section thereof. The word “Village,”
whenever used in this Code, shall be held and taken to mean the Village of
Mettawa. The words “written” or “in writing” may include printing. Provided,
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
Code which contains any express provisions excluding such construction or where
the subject matter or consent of such section may be repugnant thereto.
SECTION 20.103. OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   A.   Whenever reference is made in this Code to a Village officer or
employee by title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words
of the Village of Mettawa and shall be taken to mean the officer or employee of
this Village having the title mentioned or performing the duties mentioned.
   B.   No provision of this Code designating the duties of any officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided in this Code for a failure to perform such duty,
unless the intention of the Village Board to impose such fine or penalty on
such officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section
creating the duty.
SECTION 20.104. INTENT.
   All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in this
Code shall be liberally construed in order that the true intent of the Board of
Trustees may be fully carried out.
ARTICLE II. AMENDMENTS
SECTION 20.201. REFERENCE TO CODE.
   Any additions or amendments to this Code, when passed in such form as to
indicate the intention of the President and Board of Trustees to make the same
part of this Code, shall be deemed to be incorporated in this Code so that a
reference to the Municipal Code shall be understood to include them.
SECTION 20.202. PENALTIES.
   In case of amendment to any section of this Code containing the provisions
for which a penalty is provided in another section, the penalty so provided in
such other section shall be held to relate to the section so amended, whether
reenacted in the ordinance or not, unless the penalty is specifically repealed.
SECTION 20.203. RECORDING AMENDMENTS.
   A.   It shall be the duty of the Village Clerk to keep at least one copy of
the Municipal Code which he shall mark in the following manner. Whenever an
ordinance which amends or makes an addition to the Code is passed and approved,
he shall note on the margin of the section or sections affected that such
amendment has been made, with reference to the place in the amendment book,
hereinafter described, where the amendment may be found, and in the case of an
addition, he shall mark in the appropriate place a notation that such addition
has been made, with a similar reference to the aforementioned amendment book.
   B.   The Village Clerk shall also keep a separate book containing every
amendment or addition passed to this Code, with a reference on each copy of
such amendment or addition as to the place in the record of ordinances where
the original ordinances may be found.
   C.   The abovementioned records shall be kept in addition to the record of
ordinances which the Clerk is required to keep by Statute.
ARTICLE III. DISTRIBUTION AND PROMULGATION OF THE MUNICIPAL CODE
SECTION 20.301. DISTRIBUTION AND PROMULGATION OF THE MUNICIPAL CODE.
   A.   Authorization. The Municipal Code shall be printed and published in
book form.
   B.   Distribution of Copies. All of the printed copies of this Village Code
belonging to the Village shall be deposited with the Village Clerk. The Village
Clerk shall deliver one (1) copy thereof to the President, each member of the
Board of Trustees, and such other persons as the President and Board of
Trustees may from time to time direct.
   C.   Presentation of Copies. At the expense of the Village, the Village
Clerk shall have the power to extend or reciprocate courtesies of other
municipalities by presenting them with a copy of this Code, and shall also have
the power to present two (2) copies of this Code to the Illinois Municipal
League.
   D.   Sale of Municipal Code.
      1.   The Village Clerk shall maintain in his office a copy of the
Municipal Code for examination by members of the public. The Village Clerk
shall maintain for sale to the public a supply of copies of the Municipal Code
and excerpts thereof, including but not limited to the Comprehensive Plan,
Building Code, Subdivision Code, Zoning Code, Traffic Code, Boundary and Street
Map and shall duplicate, upon request, copies of other public documents.
      2.   The sales prices for copies of the Municipal Code and various
excerpts thereof shall be as determined from time to time by resolution adopted
by of the President and Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 393, passed 2-10-99)
SECTION 20.302. REVIEW OF DOCUMENTS; FEE FOR COPIES AND CERTIFICATION OF
DOCUMENTS.
   A.   Upon the filing with the Village Clerk of a formal written request on a
Freedom of Information form supplied by the Village Clerk for such purpose and
providing such public record is available:
      1.   Documents may be viewed in the office of the Village Clerk without
charge.
      2.   The Village shall require the advance payment the costs of producing
copies and/or certification of same and such price shall be as determined from
time to time by resolution adopted by the President and Board of Trustees.
   B.   Documents may be viewed and/or purchased at the office of the Village
Clerk by appointment during regular business hours.
   C.   In the event a large number of documents is requested to be viewed and/
or duplicated, the Village Clerk will advise the person making such request
when the documents will be available for inspection and/or when copies thereof
will have been produced.
(Ord. 393, passed 2-10-99)
ARTICLE IV. VIOLATIONS
SECTION 20.401. GENERAL PENALTY; SUPERVISION.
   A.   Whenever in this Code, or in any ordinance of the Village, any act or
omission is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or a misdemeanor,
or whenever in such Code or ordinance the doing of any act or the omission of a
required act is declared to be unlawful or a misdemeanor, where no specific
penalty is provided therefor, and State law does not provide otherwise, the
violation of any such provision of this Code or such ordinance shall be a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine as set forth in Chapter 2, Village Government,
Article X, Tax, Fee, Fine and Penalty Schedules, Section
2.1003, Fine and Penalty Schedule. Unless specifically provided otherwise, each
day that any such violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsection A above, upon any
prosecution for any violation of any section of this Municipal Code, the court
may, in lieu of or in addition to any other penalty or finding, impose
“supervision,” being a disposition of conditional and revocable release without
probationary supervision, but under such conditions and reporting requirements
as may be imposed by the court.
      1.   In the event conditions and/or reporting requirements of supervision
shall be required by the court, such conditions and reporting requirements
shall be entered by the court by order deferring future proceedings in the case
and specifying any or all of the following:
      2.   The period of supervision (reasonable under all circumstances of the
case):
         a.   Up to two (2) years from the date of entry of the order; and/or
         b.   Requirement that the defendant:
            i.   Make a report to and appear in person before or participate
with the court or such courts, person or social service agency as directed by
the court in the order of supervision;
            ii.   Pay a fine and costs;
            iii.   Work or pursue a course of study or vocational training;
            iv.   Undergo medical or psychiatric treatment or treatment for
drug addiction or alcoholism;
            v.   Attend or reside in a facility established for the instruction
or residence of defendants on probation;
            vi.   Support his dependents;
            vii.   Refrain from possessing a firearm or other dangerous weapon;
            viii.   And in addition, if a minor;
               a)   Reside with his parents or in a foster home;
               b)   Attend school;
               c)   Attend a nonresidential program for youth; and
               d)   Contribute to his own support.
            ix.   Make restitution or reparation in an amount not to exceed
actual loss or damage to property and pecuniary loss. The court shall determine
the amount and conditions of payment; and/or
            x.   Perform some reasonable public service work such as, but not
limited to, the picking up of litter in public parks or along public highways
or the maintenance of public facilities.
         c.   In the event the court enters an order of supervision, if the
court thereafter determines that the defendant has successfully complied with
all of the conditions of supervision, the court shall discharge the defendant
and enter a judgment dismissing the charge. Discharge and dismissal upon a
successful conclusion of a disposition of supervision shall be deemed without
adjudication of guilt and shall not be termed a conviction for purposes of
disqualification or disabilities imposed by law upon conviction of a
misdemeanor.
      3.   No person assigned to a public service employment program shall be
considered an employee for any purpose, nor shall the President and Board of
Trustees be obliged to provide any compensation to such person.
      4.   A disposition of supervision is a final order for the purpose of
appeal.
(Ord. 402, passed 6-9-99; Am. Ord. 852, passed 10-20-2020)
SECTION 20.402. NOTICE OF VIOLATION; RECORDATION.
   Pursuant to the authority conferred upon home rule units by the Constitution
of the State of Illinois:
   A.   Whenever the President and Board of Trustees have found that any real
estate within the corporate limits of the Village of Mettawa is being used in
violation of any ordinance of the Village, including but not limited to this
Municipal Code, it shall direct the Village Clerk to send a “Notice of
Violation” on Village letterhead via regular first class and certified United
States mail, return receipt requested, to the owner of the said real estate as
shown by the Township or County records. The Notice of Violation shall contain
the permanent tax index number or numbers of the real property which is the
subject of the Notice of Violation and shall be in substantially the following
form:
Notice of Violation
Notice is given hereby that the President and Board of Trustees of the Village
of Mettawa, Illinois, have found the above-referenced real estate to be
maintained and/or used in violation of (insert the Code or ordinance Section
Number). Specifically, the real estate is (insert description of violation).
You have thirty (30) days from the date of this Notice within which to abate
the said violation. In the event you contest the finding of the President and
Board of Trustees, you must appear before the said President and Board of
Trustees during the next regular meeting thereof occurring on (insert date and
time and place) and demonstrate through the presentation of evidence that the
violation does not exist. In the event you wish to contest this finding, you
must contact the undersigned in writing at least five (5) days prior to the
next Board meeting. Do not ignore this Notice. Failure to abate the violation
or contest the finding of the President and Board of Trustees will result in
this Notice of Violation being recorded with the Lake County Recorder of Deeds
against title to the above-referenced real estate. Village Clerk.
   B.   Within the time provided in the Notice aforesaid, in the event the
violation has not been abated or the finding of the President and Board of
Trustees successfully contested, the Village Clerk shall file a copy of the
aforesaid Notice of Violation with the Lake County Recorder of Deeds for
recordation against the title to the said real estate.
   C.   The remedies afforded by this Section are in addition to any and all
other remedies afforded the Village of Mettawa and its residents by law and
shall not be deemed to preclude pursuit of such other remedies.
(Ord. 402, passed 6-9-99)
ARTICLE V. CONSTITUTIONALITY
SECTION 20.501. SEVERABILITY.
   If any part or parts of this Municipal Code of the Village of Mettawa of
2001, as amended, shall be held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a court of
competent jurisdiction, such invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect
the validity of the remaining parts of this Ordinance. The President and Board
of Trustees of the Village of Mettawa declare hereby that they would have
adopted the remaining parts of this Municipal Code of the Village of Mettawa of
2001, as amended, if they had known that such part or parts hereof would be
declared unconstitutional.
(Ord. 657, passed 7-20-2010)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to ILCS
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILCS CITES
ILCS Section 2000 Code Section
ILCS Section                       2000 Code Section
5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.               7.807
5 ILCS 120/2.06                    2.103
5 ILCS 140/3.5                     7.801
30 ILCS 580/2                      7.1203
50 ILCS 45/1 et seq.               17.906,
                                   17.907
65 ILCS 5/1-1-1 et seq.            Ch. 14
65 ILCS 5/1-2.1-1                  7.901
65 ILCS 5/11-1-6                   1.201
65 ILCS 5/11-12-6                  Ch. 14
65 ILCS 5, Section 11-95-1 et seq. 2.702
220 ILCS 21-201(v)                 5.901
220 ILCS 5/3-105                   5.603
220 ILCS 5/16-102                  5.621
220 ILCS 5/21-301(c)               17.904
220 ILCS 5/21-401                  5.901,
                                   17.101
220 ILCS 5/21-401(b)(6)            17.901
220 ILCS 5/21-801                  17.101
220 ILCS 5/21-801(b)               17.101
220 ILCS 5/21-801(c)(1)(vi)        17.101
220 ILCS 5/21-801(d)               17.101
220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.              5.214
220 ILCS 65/4                      5.203
220 ILCS 5/70-501                  17.1001
220 ILCS 5/70-501(r)(1)            17.1001
220 ILCS 5/70-501(s)               17.1001
225 ILCS 225/1 et seq.             Ch. 8 Appendix A
225 ILCS 325/1 et seq.             15.203
230 ILCS 40/27                     7.1101
235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.             18.101
425 ILCS 35/1 et seq.              7.1002
605 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.           5.621,
                                   5.901
625 ILCS 5/6-306.5                 7.903
625 ILCS 5/13-318                  6.1701
625 ILCS 5/15-101                  6.1701
625 ILCS 5/15-111                  6.1701
625 ILCS 5/15-113                  6.1701
625 ILCS 5/15-316                  6.1701
625 ILCS 5/15-316(e)               6.1701
625 ILCS 5/18c-7201                5.621
625 ILCS 5/100 et seq.             6.201
625 ILCS 25/1 et seq.              6.201
720 ILCS 5/33-E-3                  7.1203
720 ILCS 5/33-E-4                  7.1203
735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.           7.909
775 5/205(A)(4)                    7.1203
                                   
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed 2000 Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed 2000 Code Section
4-87     12-2-87     7.217,
                     7.305
196      1-22-91     2.408,
                     2.503
197      8-28-91     1.303
301      5-12-93     2.101,
                     2.102
306      1-8-94      Ch. 6, Art. XX, Sched. I
315      12-14-94    2.101
312      12-7-94     7.401 -
                     7.405
322      11-8-95     7.601,
                     7.602
320      6-14-95     7.505
328      4-10-96     19.201 -
                     19.209
341      5-8-96      19.201 -
                     19.209
345      8-14-96     2.202
346      9-26-96     6.142,
                     Ch. 6, Art. XX, Sched. I
                     17.101 -
                     17.110,
                     17.201 -
                     17.203,
                     17.301 -
                     17.316,
348      1-8-97      17.401 -
                     17.417,
                     17.601 -
                     17.609,
                     17.701 -
                     17.727,
                     17.801 -
                     17.819
                     12.101 -
                     12.103,
                     12.108 -
                     12.110,
355      10-8-97     12.112,
                     12.115 -
                     12.118,
                     12.120 -
                     12.124 
349      3-12-97     1.203,
                     1.303
                     5.307,
353      8-13-97     5.312 -
                     5.314
                     18.101,
                     18.201 -
                     18.203,
                     18.301 -
                     18.309,
                     18.311,
390      12-9-98     18.312,
                     18.401 -
                     18.407,
                     18.501,
                     18.503,
                     18.504,
                     18.601,
                     18.602
391      12-9-98     19.101 -
                     19.109
407      11-10-99    6.1703
413      12-8-99     Ch. 6, Art. XX, Sched. I
414      12-8-99     2.101,
                     4.104
393      2-10-99     20.301,
                     20.302
402      6-9-99      20.401,
                     20.402
                     8.101 -
                     8.105,
                     8.201,
                     8.202,
                     8.301,
                     8.302,
                     8.401,
                     8.501 -
                     8.507,
                     8.601 -
                     8.606,
                     8.701,
433      9-13-2000   8.702,
                     8.801,
                     8.802,
                     8.901 -
                     8.910,
                     8.1001 -
                     8.1009,
                     8.1101,
                     8.1102,
                     8.1201,
                     8.1202,
                     8.1301 -
                     8.1303,
                     8.1401
                     6.1701,
446      3-14-2001   6.1702,
                     Ch. 6, Art. XX, Sched. VIII
                     18.304,
447      3-14-2001   18.305,
                     18.306
478      1-16-2002   2.101
488      7-16-2002   16.201,
                     16.801
489      8-20-2002   19.401,
                     19.402
493      1-21-2003   19.301
                     9.101 -
                     9.119,
                     9.201,
                     9.301,
                     9.401 -
                     9.406,
                     9.501 -
                     9.511,
                     9.601 -
                     9.605,
                     9.701,
                     9.801 -
500      6-3-2003    9.804,
                     9.901 -
                     9.909,
                     9.1001 -
                     9.1008,
                     9.1101 -
                     9.1107,
                     9.1201,
                     9.1301,
                     9.1302,
                     9.1401 -
                     9.1403,
                     9.1501 -
                     9.1505
                     8.101 -
                     8.105,
                     8.201,
                     8.301,
                     8.302,
                     8.401,
                     8.501 -
                     8.507,
                     8.601 -
                     8.606,
                     8.701,
                     8.702,
                     8.801,
                     8.802,
                     8.901 -
                     8.910,
501      8-19-2003   8.1001 -
                     8.1009,
                     8.1101,
                     8.1102,
                     8.1201 -
                     8.1203,
                     8.1301 -
                     8.1303,
                     8.1401,
                     Art. XV, App. A,
                     App. B,
                     App. C,
                     App. D,
                     App. E,
                     9.201,
                     9.502,
                     9.503,
                     9.510
507      1-20-2004   2.601 -
                     2.609
                     8.503,
515      4-20-2004   8.802,
                     9.302
517      5-18-2004   1.102
                     9.201,
519      7-20-2004   9.303,
                     9.1601,
                     9.1602
523      10-19-2004  Ch. 6, Art. XX, Scheds. III, IV
524      10-19-2004  19.501 -
                     19.519
525      11-16-2004  9.111
                     10.101,
                     10.201 -
                     10.204,
                     10.301 -
526      11-16-04    10.305,
                     10.401,
                     10.402,
                     10.501,
                     10.601,
                     10.602
                     10.101,
                     10.302,
                     10.303,
529      12-21-04    10.304,
                     10.601 -
                     10.605,
                     10.701,
                     10.702
537      4-19-2005   9.201,
                     9.1004
541      6-21-2005   1.203
548      10-18-2005  8.507
549      11-18-2005  19.202,
                     19.205
562      7-18-2006   16.201
566      8-15-2006   9.302,
                     9.303
569      10-17-2006  1.301,
                     1.304
570      10-17-2006  2.601
579      2-20-2007   2.701,
                     2.702
588      5-15-2007   Ch. 6, Art. XX, Sched. VI
589      6-19-2007   10.304
590      6-19-2007   9.119,
                     9.120
                     16.102,
                     16.201,
                     16.301,
591      9-18-2007   16.401,
                     16.501 -
                     16.504,
                     16.601,
                     16.701
592      9-18-2007   9.702
                     17.101,
                     17.901 -
593      11-19-2007  17.907,
                     17.910,
                     17.1001 -
                     17.1005
                     5.101 -
                     5.105,
                     5.201 -
                     5.219,
                     5.301 -
594      11-19-2007  5.314,
                     5.701 -
                     5.705,
                     5.901,
                     5.1001 -
                     5.1006
597      1-15-2008   Ch. 6, Art. XX, Sched. I
598      2-19-2008   2.409
                     18.101,
                     18.201 -
                     18.205,
                     18.301 -
                     18.312,
601      2-19-2008   18.401 -
                     18.407,
                     18.501 -
                     18.505,
                     18.601 -
                     18.603
605      5-20-2008   5.401 -
                     5.403
607      5-20-2008   7.1001 -
                     7.1003
                     18.304,
609      5-20-2008   18.305,
                     18.401
                     16.505,
614      11-18-2008  16.506,
                     16.601
621      4-14-2009   10.101,
                     10.304
                     18.101,
                     18.304 -
622      4-14-2009   18.306,
                     18.401,
                     18.402
627      6-16-2009   Ch. 6, Art. XX, Sched. I
628      6-16-2009   2.101
629      6-16-2009   4.201 -
                     4.206
632      7-1-2009    18.305,
                     18.402
634      9-15-2009   7.1101,
                     7.1102
635      9-15-2009   Ch. 6, Art. XX, Sched. III
637      10-20-2009  2.101,
                     2.102
                     5.101 -
                     5.105,
                     5.201 -
                     5.219,
                     5.301 -
                     5.314,
                     5.401 -
638      11-17-2009  5.403,
                     5.501 -
                     5.506,
                     5.701 -
                     5.706,
                     5.901,
                     5.1001 -
                     5.1006
                     9.118,
639      11-17-2009  9.201,
                     9.1301,
                     9.1302
647      1-12-2010   7.801 -
                     7.808
                     11.101,
                     11.201 -
                     11.205,
                     11.302 -
657      7-20-2010   11.305,
                     11.307,
                     11.501,
                     11.601,
                     20.501
                     9.115,
                     9.117,
659      7-20-2010   9.201,
                     9.801,
                     9.1505
660      7-20-2010   18.307
661      8-17-2010   7.701 -
                     7.713
662      8-17-2010   1.601,
                     2.601
                     11.301 -
663      9-21-2010   11.308,
                     11.501
665      9-21-2010   2.801,
                     2.802
666      10-19-2010  10.301
667      10-19-2010  11.301 -
                     11.308
668      11-16-2010  Ch. 6, App. XX, Sched. III
672      11-16-2010  1.601
                     7.1201 -
677      12-21-2010  7.1212,
                     7.1301
682      4-19-2011   2.208
685      5-17-2011   1.402
689      5-17-2011   4.101 -
                     4.107
690      6-21-2011   18.306
                     1.302,
691      6-21-2011   1.303,
                     1.304,
                     1.601
700      9-20-2011   6.1701 -
                     6.1703
701      9-20-2011   19.202,
                     19.203
                     12.101,
705      10-18-2011  12.112 ,
                     12.118
706      10-18-2011  4.101 -
                     4.107
707      10-18-2011  2.601
                     7.1301 -
713      12-13-2011  7.1303,
                     19.210
714      12-13-2011  4.105
718      5-25-2012   18.304
                     9.102,
                     9.119,
                     9.301,
                     9.303,
                     9.401,
                     9.406,
                     9.501,
721      6-19-2012   9.510,
                     9.601,
                     9.701,
                     9.702,
                     9.1301,
                     9.1302,
                     9.1601,
                     9.1602,
                     9.1701
723      7-17-2012   2.103
724      7-17-2012   1.304
725      8-21-2012   2.203 -
                     2.205
727      9-21-2012   15.1801
732      2-19-2013   6.1701,
                     6.1702
740      5-21-2013   6.1701
746      12-17-2013  8.502 -
                     8.504
750      1-21-2014   2.901  -
                     2.909
758      8-19-2014   11.303
765      9-19-2014   10.304
766      9-19-2014   16.505
773      11-18-2014  16.201
774      2-17-2015   16.201
795      6-21-2016   Ch. 14
                     7.701,
                     7.702,
798      8-16-2016   7.704,
                     7.706,
                     7.707,
                     7.713
                     15.802,
818      2-20-2018   15.902,
                     15.1003,
                     15.1102
                     2.903,
                     15.402,
                     15.802,
                     15.901 -
                     15.903,
                     15.1003,
                     15.1102,
                     15.1204,
821      4-17-2018   15.1207,
                     15.1209,
                     15.1304,
                     15.1307,
                     15.1309,
                     15.1404,
                     15.1408,
                     15.1505,
                     15.1507,
                     15.1907
828      7-17-2018   5.601 -
                     5.621
840      7-16-2019   12.106 ,  
                     12.119
841      10-15-2019  7.1401 -
                     7.1404
847      3-24-2020   1.201
                     2.1001,
                     2.1002,
                     2.1003,
                     5.202,
                     5.307,
                     5.402,
                     5.403,
                     5.605,
                     5.613,
                     5.1004,
                     6.204,
                     6.303,
                     6.304,
                     6.401,
                     6.402,
                     6.403,
                     6.404,
                     6.409,
                     6.503,
                     6.504,
                     6.712,
                     6.1305,
                     6.1308,
                     6.1317,
                     6.1414,
                     6.1424,
                     6.1622,
                     6.1701,
                     6.1905,
                     7.218,
                     7.305,
                     7.708,
852      10-20-2020  7.711,
                     7.805,
                     7.1003,
                     7.1102,
                     7.1303,
                     8.606,
                     8.1401,
                     9.116,
                     9.1505,
                     10.702,
                     11.202,
                     11.303,
                     11.308,
                     11.601,
                     16.506,
                     16.801,
                     17.108,
                     17.202,
                     17.602,
                     17.606,
                     17.607,
                     17.901,
                     17.902,
                     18.302,
                     18.306,
                     18.407,
                     18.504,
                     18.601,
                     19.102,
                     19.109,
                     19.201,
                     19.209,
                     19.401,
                     20.401,
                     2.202,
856      1-19-2021   2.204,
                     2.208
860      6-10-2021   16.301
872      12-19-2022  9.1005
                     7.1201,
881      6-20-2023   7.1209,
                     7.1212
                     2.1003,
883      7-18-2023   6.201 -
                     6.205
                     15.101 -
                     15.105,
                     15.201 -
                     15.204,
                     15.301 -
                     15.303,
                     15.401 -
                     15.404,
                     15.501 -
                     15.504,
                     15.601,
                     15.602,
                     15.701 -
885      11-21-2023  15.704,
                     15.801 -
                     15.805,
                     15.901 -
                     15.906,
                     15.1001 -
                     15.1007,
                     15.1101 -
                     15.1111,
                     15.1201 -
                     15.1212,
                     15.1301 -
                     15.1306,
                     15.1401 -
                     15.1405
886      11-21-2023  12.101 -
                     12.125
891      2-20-2024   9.302
892      3-19-2024   7.901 -
                     7.910
                    
 
