CITY OF MONTICELLO, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-27 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2025-44, passed 6-23-2025
State legislation current through ILCS 2024, Pamphlet #6
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street Suite 310 Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter
   
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
   
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   (Reserved)
   
10.03   Section headings
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   (Reserved)
   
10.06   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.07   (Reserved)
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   Amendments to code
   
10.10   Severability
   
10.11   Reference to public office or officer
   
10.12   Errors and omissions
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances saved
   
10.16   Technical codes
   
10.17   Historical and statutory references
   
10.18   Officers and employees
   
10.19   Origin of provisions
   
10.20   Amendments; penalties; recording
   
10.21   Printing
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification by and for the City of Monticello shall be designated as
the code of Monticello or this code and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 (RESERVED).
§ 10.03 SECTION HEADINGS.
   Headings and captions used in this code are employed for reference purposes
only and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed according to
the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and phrases that have acquired a
technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative or judicial definition
or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
   (B)   As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following rules will be followed:
      (1)   The singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include
the singular.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.03)
      (2)   Words of one gender shall include the other genders.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.04)
      (3)   Words in the present tense shall include the future.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.02)
   (C)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last day
is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or fixed in any statute now or
hereafter in force in this state, and then it shall also be excluded. If the
day succeeding Saturday, Sunday, or a holiday is also a holiday or a Saturday
or Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be excluded.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.11)
   (D)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   All general provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the President
and Board of Trustees may be fully carried out.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.01)
   (F)   The provisions of any ordinance, in so far as they are the same as
those of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions, and not as a new enactment.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 2)
(Am. Ord. 2013-67, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 10.05 (RESERVED).
§ 10.06 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed, nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment, or repeal of an ordinance does not do any
of the following, except as provided in division (C) of this section:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation, or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded, or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding, or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment. The
investigation, proceeding, or remedy may be instituted, continued, or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment for any offense is reduced
by a reenactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture, or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
§ 10.07 (RESERVED).
§ 10.08 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of these
codified ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions
bearing the latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions
bear the same passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be
consistent with the meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject
matter taken as a whole.
§ 10.09 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal, or in any
way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of
this code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed
chapters, sections, and subsections, or any part thereof, by subsequent
ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by the omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as
numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie
evidence of subsequent ordinances until this code of ordinances and subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code of ordinances by the
City Council.
(Am. Ord. 2013-67, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 10.10 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of these codified ordinances or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the section or
related sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions are severable.
§ 10.11 REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICE OR OFFICER.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary. These references
shall also include the designee or agent of the officer or office, unless the
law or the context clearly requires otherwise.
§ 10.12 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including but not limited
to tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming, or vacating streets, alleys, or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the city; and all special ordinances) as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code of ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect unless herein
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the City
Council or a certain city officer or employee to make additional regulations
for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all regulations of
a similar nature serving that purpose effected prior to the codification and
not inconsistent thereto shall remain in effect and are saved.
(Ord. 2013-67, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 10.16 TECHNICAL CODES.
   Whenever any technical codes are incorporated herein by reference, any
subsequent amendments or revisions to the technical codes shall automatically
become a part of this code and shall be made available for public inspection by
the city. Further, to the extent of any conflict between the technical
provisions of this code and any technical codes adopted by reference, the most
restrictive provision shall prevail.
§ 10.17 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Am. Ord. 20, passed
1-1-1980; Am. Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   An “ILCS” cite included in the history indicates that the text of the
section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-2-1)
   (C)   An “ILCS” cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the text
of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
   § 38.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      The city shall make available to any person for inspection or copying all
public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of Information Act.
      Statutory reference:
         Freedom of Information Act, see ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, §§ 1 et seq.
§ 10.18 OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Whenever reference is made in this code to a city officer or employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words “of the
City of Monticello, Illinois” and shall be taken to mean the officer or
employee of this city having the title mentioned or performing the duties
indicated.
(Am. Ord. 2013-67, passed 12-9-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1.1 and ILCS Ch. 65, Act
5, § 1-2-9.1
§ 10.19 ORIGIN OF PROVISIONS.
   Unless otherwise noted, following each section or division is a reference to
the code, ordinance, or statute from which that section or division originated
or was thereby modified.
§ 10.20 AMENDMENTS; PENALTIES; RECORDING.
   (A)   Reference to code. Any additions or amendments to this code, when
passed in a form clearly expressing the title, chapter and section being
amended or added, will be updated in the current municipal code, kept on file
at the Municipal Building, 210 N. Hamilton, and all other codes will be updated
semi-annually.
   (B)   Penalties. In case of amendment of any division of this code
containing the provisions for which a penalty is provided in another division,
the penalty so provided in the other division shall be held to relate to the
amended division or the amending division, whether reenacted in the amendatory
ordinance or not, unless the penalty is specifically repealed therein.
   (C)   Recording amendments.
      (1)   (a)   It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to keep at least 1
copy of the code of the City of Monticello, Illinois up to date with all
amendments and additions thereto. Each ordinance adopted by the City Council
that amends or makes an addition to the code shall contain as exhibits thereto
those pages of the code affected by the amendment or addition. The pages shall
contain the amendment or addition adopted by the City Council as well as the
divisions that appear on the same page(s) as the change.
         (b)   The City Clerk shall remove from his or her copy of the code the
affected page(s) and insert the new page(s) that reflect the change.
      (2)   The above-mentioned records shall be kept in addition to the record
of ordinances, which the Clerk is required to keep by statute.
§ 10.21 PRINTING.
   (A)   Authorization. This code shall be printed and published in book form.
   (B)   Distribution of copies.  
      (1)   All of the printed copies of this code belonging to the city shall
be deposited with the Clerk.
      (2)   He or she shall deliver 1 copy thereof to the Mayor and each
Alderperson and copies to any other persons as the City Council may direct.
   (C)   Presentation of copies.  The City Council shall have the power to
extend or reciprocate courtesies of other municipalities by presenting them
with a copy of this code, bound at the expense of the city, as to them seems
suitable, and they shall also have the power to present 2 copies of this code
to the Illinois Municipal League.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Whenever in this code or in any ordinance of the city, any act is
prohibited, or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in
this code or any ordinance, the doing of any act is required or the failure to
do any act is declared to be unlawful where no specific penalty is provided
therefor, the minimum for the violation shall be $100 and the maximum fine
shall be $750.
      (2)   Each day any violation of any provision of this code or any
ordinance continues shall constitute a separate offense, and a separate fine
shall be assessed for each day, or part thereof, that the violation continues.
   (B)   (1)   Payment of minimum fines.  Any person who is issued a notice to
appear in court for a violation of this code, or any ordinance, may pay the
minimum fine specified in the code or ordinance for such violation, or if no
minimum fine is specified, the sum of $100, at the Police Department, provided
that person is cited for only a single violation and has not been fined, or
entered into a settlement agreement with the city, for the same violation
within the preceding 12 months.
      (2)   Repeat offenders. Any person who is issued a notice to appear for
more than 1 offense (including continuing violations) and any person who has
been fined or entered into a settlement agreement with the city as a result of
charges brought by the city for the violation of the same code or ordinance
provision within 12 months of being cited for current violation, and any person
who has not paid the minimum fine at the Police Department must appear in court
on the date stated in the notice to appear and cannot have the charges against
the offender dismissed by paying a fine at the Police Department, unless
otherwise agreed by the City Attorney.
      (3)   Multiple violations by 1 act. In all cases where the same offense
is made punishable or is created by different divisions of this code, the
prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not more than 1
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense; provided
that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery
or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
(Am. Ord. 2012-42, passed 12-10-2012; Am. Ord. 2014-41, passed 10-14-2014; Am.
Ord. 2024-17, passed 3-11-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to imprison for certain ordinance violations, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act
5, § 1-2-1.1
   Limitations on penalties, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   City seal
   
11.02   City datum
   
11.03   Elections
Cross-reference:
   Wards, see §
31.17(F)
§ 11.01 CITY SEAL.
   The seal of the city shall be a circle disc with the words “November 4,
1872” in the inner circle and the words “Corporate Seal of the City of
Monticello, Illinois” on the periphery thereof.
§ 11.02 CITY DATUM.
   There is hereby established a city datum to which the elevations of points
used in connection with public improvements in the city shall be referred as
follows:
The datum shall be a place 570.60 feet below the mark or cross (X) on the south
end of the stone doorstep at the foot of the stairway at the west entrance of
the building at the northeast intersection of State and Washington Streets, the
mark or cross being on the east line of State Street, and 24 feet north of the
north line of Washington Street.
§ 11.03 ELECTIONS.
   Elections for municipal offices shall be held in accordance with the
Illinois Election Code, ILCS Ch. 10, Act 5, §§ 1-1 et seq.
(Am. Ord. 2013-67, passed 12-9-2013)
Statutory references:
   Consolidated schedule for elections, see ILCS Ch. 10, Act 5, § 2A-1.1
   Conflict with Passover, see ILCS Ch. 10, Act 5, § 2A-1.1a
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
Chapter
   
30.   CITY COUNCIL
   
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
   
32.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS
   
33.   FINANCES
   
34.   TAXATION
   
35.   PUBLIC SAFETY
   
36.   CITY POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Composition
   
30.02   Regular meetings
   
30.03   Special meetings
   
30.04   Notice of meetings
   
30.05   Open meetings
   
30.06   Procedure for closed sessions
   
30.07   Presiding officer
   
30.08   Quorum
   
30.09   Standing committees
   
30.10   Special committees
   
30.11   Membership in standing committees
   
30.12   Committee report
   
30.13   Conduct at public meetings
Rules of Order
   
30.25   Order of business
   
30.26   Rescinded action
   
30.27   (Reserved)
   
30.28   Suspension of rules
   
30.29   Robert’s Rules of Order
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 COMPOSITION.
   (A)   The City Council shall consist of the Mayor and Alderpersons. City
Council is synonymous with corporate authorities.
   (B)   It shall meet in accordance with the Open Meetings Act.
   (C)   It shall keep a journal of its own proceedings.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-40-5; Ch. 24, Par. 3-11-9 – now repealed)
§ 30.02 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The regular meetings of the City Council shall be held on the second and
fourth Monday of each month at the hour of 7:00 p.m. Following upon the
conclusion of the regular meeting, the Council may, when it has matters for
discussion, convene as a Committee of the Whole. The purpose of the Committee
of the Whole is for discussion of matters, whether with staff, petitioners, the
Mayor or others as invited. There shall be no formal action taken at the
Committee of the Whole meeting. An agenda for the Committee of the Whole
meeting shall be prepared and posted with the agenda for the regular meeting.
Use of the consent (or omnibus) agenda at the regular meeting is hereby
authorized as permitted by law. With respect to the agenda for the Committee of
the Whole, that agenda will not include addresses from the public as an item of
business because an opportunity for the public to address the Council was
provided at the regular meeting. If the regular meeting/Committee of the Whole
meeting falls on a legal holiday, the meeting shall take place the next day at
the same hour. Recessed meetings may be held at such times as the Council may
determine in accordance with §
30.04.
(Am. Ord. 2013-28, passed 6-10-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Ch. 24, Par. 3-11-13 – now repealed
§ 30.03 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   The special meetings of the City Council may be called by the Mayor or any 3
Alderpersons. Notice of all special meetings shall be given by the City Clerk
in accordance with §
30.04. Special meetings may be called for any legal purpose. The notice of the
meeting must state the purpose for which the special meeting is called, and
only the business for which the special meeting is called may be transacted at
the special meeting.
(Ch. 24, Par. 3-11-13 – now repealed)
§ 30.04 NOTICE OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   The City Council shall give public notice of the schedule of regular
meetings, including Committees of the Whole meetings, at the beginning of each
calendar year and shall state the regular dates, times, and places of the
meetings. The notice as may be required by law shall be given for any amendment
to the schedule. Public notice of any special meeting, except meetings held in
event of bona fide emergency, or of any rescheduled regular meeting or of any
reconvened meeting shall be given at least 48 hours before the meeting, which
notice shall also include the agenda for the special, rescheduled, or
reconvened meeting.
   (B)   This requirement of public notice of reconvened meetings does not
apply to any case where the meeting was open to the public and:
      (1)   It is to be reconvened within 24 hours; or
      (2)   An announcement of the time and place of the reconvened meeting was
made at the original meeting and there is no change in the agenda.
   (C)   Notice of an emergency meeting shall be given as soon as practicable,
but in any event prior to the holding of that meeting to any news medium which
has filed an annual request for notice with the City Clerk’s office. Public
notice shall be given by posting a copy of the notice at the City Hall. The
City Council shall supply copies of the notice at its regular meetings and of
the notice of any special emergency, rescheduled, or reconvened meeting to any
news medium that has filed an annual request for such notice with the City
Clerk. The news media shall also be given the same notice of all special,
emergency, rescheduled, or reconvened meetings in the same manner as is given
to members of the City Council. Proof of notice of the special meeting shall be
entered in the minutes of the special meeting of the City Council.
(Am. Ord. 2013-28, passed 6-10-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 5, Act 120, § 2.02
§ 30.05 OPEN MEETINGS.
    All meetings of the City Council shall be conducted in accordance with the
Open Meetings Act. The Council may adjourn to a closed (or executive) session
as permitted by law.
(Am. Ord. 2013-28, passed 6-10-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 5, Act 120, § 2
§ 30.06 PROCEDURE FOR CLOSED SESSIONS.
   As permitted by law, the City Council may hold a meeting closed to the
public or close a portion of the meeting to the public upon a majority vote of
a quorum present taken at a meeting open to the public for which notice has
been given in accordance with §
30.04. The vote of each member on the question of holding a meeting closed to
the public and a citation to the specific exception contained in §
30.05 shall be recorded and entered into the minutes of the meeting. At any
open meeting of the City Council for which proper notice has been given the
City Council may, without additional notice, hold a closed session in
accordance with §§
30.04 and
30.05. The Council shall, in the motion to adjourn to a closed session,
identify the permitted purpose for a closed session. If additional lawfully
permitted items are discussed in the closed session that were not identified in
the motion, then the Mayor shall publicly announce those additional purposes in
the open meeting prior to adjournment.
(Am. Ord. 2013-28, passed 6-10-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 5, Act 120, § 2a
§ 30.07 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the City Council. In the absence
of the Mayor, Acting Mayor, or Mayor Pro Tem, the City Council may elect an
Alderperson to act as a temporary chairperson.
(Ch. 24, Par. 3-11-14 – now repealed; Ch. 24, Par. 3-11-15 – now repealed)
§ 30.08 QUORUM.
   A majority of the corporate authorities shall constitute a quorum to do
business.
(Ch. 24, Par. 3-11-12 – now repealed)
§ 30.09 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   The following shall be the standing committees of the City Council:
   (A)   Administration;
   (B)   Community Development;
   (C)   Fire;
   (D)   Streets, Storm Sewers, and Landfill;
   (E)   Sanitation;
   (F)   Water Works;
   (G)   Recreation, Parks, and Swimming Pool; and
   (H)   Police.
§ 30.10 SPECIAL COMMITTEES.
   The Mayor shall designate such special committees as he or she may deem
necessary or as may be directed by the Council, and the Mayor shall appoint the
members of such special committees and the Chairmen thereof.
§ 30.11 MEMBERSHIP IN STANDING COMMITTEES.
   Each member of the City Council, including the Mayor, shall be a member of
all standing committees of the Council, so that such committees shall exist as
“committees of the whole.” The Mayor shall designate the Chairperson thereof.
Each Alderman shall be a Chairperson or Co-Chairperson of at least 1 standing
committee.
§ 30.12 COMMITTEE REPORT.
   Upon the request of any 2 Alderpersons present, any report of a committee of
the Council shall be deferred for final action thereon to the next regular
meeting of the Council after the report is made.
(Ch. 24, Par. 3-11-16 – now repealed)
§ 30.13 CONDUCT AT PUBLIC MEETINGS.
   (A)   No person who is not a member of the public body shall be permitted to
speak at any public meeting of the City Council, any committee thereof, or any
other committee, board, commission, agency or other public body of the city
except in accordance with the following rules and procedures or such rules and
procedures as may be adopted by majority vote of such committee, board,
commission or agency. For purposes of this section, such non-members of the
public body shall be referred to as interested parties. Nothing herein shall be
construed to apply to an evidentiary hearing before an administrative officer
or body of the city.
      (1)   No interested party may speak at any public meeting except when
recognized and permitted to speak by the presiding officer.
      (2)   Any interested person wishing to speak at any public meeting shall
register, in writing, prior to the beginning of the meeting, on a form provided
by the City Clerk, giving his or her name and home or business address. The
registration form shall be submitted to the Clerk or his/her designee in
person. The presiding officer shall recognize speakers in the order in which
their notice was received. A person who has not so registered shall not be
permitted to address the public meeting, except upon motion approved by a
majority vote of the public body. An interested party may submit notice of
intent to speak only on behalf of himself or herself, and not on behalf of any
other person. A representative of a group of interested parties who intends to
speak on behalf of the group shall identify the individual members of the group
by name and address.
      (3)   Public comment shall be permitted by the presiding officer only
during the designated public participation portion of the meeting. An
interested party may speak for no longer than five minutes. All public comment
shall be directed to the presiding officer. No comments shall be directed to
individual members of the public body.
      (4)   (a)   Defamatory or obscene comments and derogatory remarks
directed at any person shall not be permitted. Other comments which are
prohibited include:
            1.   Personal attacks;
            2.   Racial, sexist, homophobic, religious, political, ethnic,
national, sexual or other epithets;
            3.   Profanity, insulting, rude, vulgar, obnoxious, or foul
language; and
            4.   Threats, including but not limited to, threats of violence and
threats of vandalism.
         (b)   These examples are not exhaustive. Insulting or disparaging an
individual person is a personal attack regardless of the manner in which it is
done, and is prohibited.
      (5)   When an interested party is recognized by the presiding officer for
the purpose of speaking publicly, the party shall speak only from the location
designated by the presiding officer and shall use the microphone if one is
provided. No comments shall be permitted from the floor of the chambers or
meeting room. The speaker shall first state his or her name and home or
business address.
   (B)   Shouting, clapping, or stamping by any individual or group of
individuals or making any other disruptive noise from the floor is prohibited
while a person is speaking. Standing, waving, holding any sign, making any
obscene gesture or other disruptive activity is prohibited. Disruptive noise or
activity is anything which interrupts or prevents the orderly conduct of the
business of the meeting. The audience shall remain silent throughout the
meeting.
   (C)   No person shall block any doorway. All persons in attendance at the
meeting shall be seated during the meeting, except in cases of medical
necessity, cases of practical necessity (e.g. while making a presentation),
cases where standing is appropriate to show respect (e.g. the Pledge of
Allegiance and the like), or cases of insufficient seating.
   (D)   All cell phones shall be silenced during a meeting. No person shall
conduct a cell phone conversation during a meeting. No person shall talk to
another person during a meeting in a manner which makes it difficult for nearby
persons to hear the proceedings of the meeting.
   (E)   A person may photograph or make an audio or video recording of a
meeting subject to the following limitations:
      (1)   A video camera mounted on a tripod may be located only in an area
designated therefore at the rear of the audience, and so as not to interfere
with the ability of anyone to observe the meeting. Due to limited space, only
one such camera shall be allowed per person. No person shall stand or move
around the meeting room for the purpose of taking photographs or video
recordings.
      (2)   No camera shall be directed at members of the public attending the
meeting. Cameras may be used only to photograph or record the proceedings of
the public body and those people who are speaking from the designated location.
      (3)   No camera lighting may be used except for periods lasting no more
than one minute in any 15-minute period, and shall not interfere with the
ability of any person to observe the proceedings. The presiding officer may
grant exceptions to this time limit in the case of video recording intended for
commercial use which must meet commercial broadcast quality standards.
      (4)   Under no circumstances shall an audio or video recording process by
permitted to interfere with the conduct of the meeting. The presiding officer
may issue such orders as may be appropriate to terminate any disruption of the
meeting caused by recording activity.
   (F)   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be warned
by the presiding officer to immediately discontinue the action and not repeat
the violation. Any continuation or repetition of the violation after one
warning shall constitute grounds for removal of the person from the meeting and
shall constitute the offense of disorderly conduct. Upon conviction of a
violation of this section, the penalty shall be a fine of not less than $250
for the first violation, not less than $500 for the second violation, and not
less than $750 for each subsequent violation. One or more police officers shall
be present at any public meeting if requested by the presiding officer and may
remove any person violating this section.
(Am. Ord. 2014-02, passed 1-27-2014)
RULES OF ORDER
§ 30.25 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   The order of business at meetings of the City Council shall be as follows:
   (A)   Call to order, pledge to the flag, roll call;
   (B)   Public participation;
   (C)   Consent agenda;
   (D)   Mayor’s report;
   (E)   Old business;
   (F)   New business;
   (G)   Reports by Aldermen;
   (H)   Report by Police Chief;
   (I)   Report by Superintendent;
   (J)   Adjournment.
(Am. Ord. passed 2014-12, passed 1-27-2014)
§ 30.26 RESCINDED ACTION.
   No vote or action of the City Council shall be rescinded at any special
meeting unless there be present at the special meeting as many members of the
Council as were present when the vote or action was taken.
(Ch. 24, Par. 3-11-20 – now repealed)
§ 30.27 (RESERVED).
§ 30.28 SUSPENSION OF RULES.
   The rules of order other than those prescribed by statute may be suspended
at any time by consent of a majority of the members present at any meeting.
§ 30.29 ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER.
   Except when in conflict with the foregoing provisions, Robert’s Rules of
Order shall govern the deliberations of the Council.
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
Elected Officials
   
31.15   Mayor
   
31.16   (Reserved)
   
31.17   Alderpersons
   
31.18   City Clerk
   
31.19   City Treasurer
   
31.20   City Attorney
City Officials
   
31.30   Director of Public Works
   
31.31   Superintendent of City Services
   
31.32   City Building Inspector
   
31.33   City Collector
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.15 MAYOR
   There is hereby created the Office of Mayor, who shall be the chief
executive officer of the city. The Mayor shall be qualified and elected and
shall have the powers and duties as prescribed by law.
(Am. Ord. 2013-67, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 31.16 (RESERVED).
§ 31.17 ALDERPERSONS.
   (A)   Office created. There is hereby created the Office of Alderman/
Alderperson. There shall be 8 Alderpersons on the City Council or such other
number as determined by law. Alderpersons shall be qualified and elected, and
shall have the powers and duties prescribed by law.
(Ch. 24, Par. 3-4-15 – now repealed; Ch. 24, Par. 3-14-1 – now repealed)
   (B)   Number. There shall be 8 Alderpersons on the City Council, until the
time that that number is modified by statute or election.
(Ch. 24, Par. 3-4-7 – now repealed; Ch. 24, Par. 3-4-8 – now repealed)
   (C)   Wards. The city shall have 1/2 as many wards as the total number of
Alderpersons to which the city is entitled. The City Council, from time to
time, shall divide the city into that number of wards. In the formation of
wards, the number of inhabitants of the city eligible to vote at the general
election for city officers immediately preceding the division of the city into
wards shall be as nearly equal in population and the wards shall be of as
compact and contiguous territory as practical. The City of Monticello is
divided into 4 wards. The boundaries of each ward are as follows:
      (1)   First Ward. All annexed properties within the corporate boundaries
of the City of Monticello within the following described boundary. Beginning at
the intersection of the City of Monticello westerly corporate limits and the
centerline of Bridge Street; thence proceeding easterly along said Bridge
Street centerline to the intersection of the centerline of Bridge Street and
the centerline of Foothill Road; thence proceed northerly along the centerline
of Foothill Road to the intersection of the centerline of Foothill Road and the
centerline of Bell Avenue; thence proceed easterly along the centerline of Bell
Avenue Road to the intersection of the centerline of Bell Avenue Road and the
centerline of Front street; thence proceed northerly along the centerline of
Front Street to the intersection of the centerline of Front Street and the
centerline of Wilson Street; thence proceed easterly along the centerline of
Wilson Street to the intersection of the centerline of Wilson Street and the
centerline of Union Drive; thence proceed northerly along the centerline of
Union Drive to the intersection of the centerline of Union Drive and the
centerline of North Street; thence proceed easterly along the centerline of
North Street to the easterly corporate limits of the City of Monticello; thence
beginning in a northerly direction proceed along the corporate boundary line,
in a generally counterclockwise manner, to the point of the beginning.
      (2)   Second Ward. All annexed properties within the corporate boundaries
of the City of Monticello within the following described boundary. Beginning at
the intersection of the City of Monticello easterly corporate limits and the
centerline of Robert Webb Street; thence proceeding westerly along the
centerline of Robert Webb Street to the intersection of the centerline of
Robert Webb Street and the centerline of Piatt Street; thence proceed northerly
along the centerline of Piatt Street to the intersection of the centerline of
Piatt Street and the centerline of Marion Street; thence proceed westerly along
the centerline of Marion Street to the intersection of the centerline of Marion
Street and the centerline of Buchanan Street; thence proceed northerly along
the centerline of Buchanan Street to the intersection of the centerline of
Buchanan Street and the centerline of Wilson Street; thence proceed easterly
along the centerline of Wilson Street to the intersection of the centerline of
Wilson and the centerline of Union Drive; thence proceed northerly along the
centerline of Union Drive to the intersection of the centerline of Union Drive
and the centerline of North Street; thence proceed easterly along the
centerline of North Street to the easterly corporate limits of the City of
Monticello; thence beginning in a southerly direction proceed along the
corporate boundary line, in a generally clockwise manner, to the point of
beginning.
      (3)   Third Ward. All annexed properties within the corporate boundaries
of the City of Monticello within the following described boundary. Beginning at
the intersection of the City of Monticello easterly corporate limits and the
centerline of Robert Webb Street; thence proceeding westerly along the
centerline of Robert Webb Street to the intersection of the centerline of
Robert Webb Street and the centerline of Piatt Street; thence proceed northerly
along the centerline of Piatt Street to the intersection of the centerline of
Piatt Street and the centerline of Marion Street; thence proceed westerly along
the centerline of Marion Street to the intersection of the centerline of Marion
Street and the corporate boundary line of the City of Monticello; thence
proceed southwesterly along the corporate boundary line of the City of
Monticello to the point at the southwest corner of the property commonly known
as 830 Allerton Road (PIN 05-00-54-001-869-00); thence south along the property
boundary line from the southwest corner of the property commonly known as 830
Allerton Road (PIN 05-00-54-001- 869-00) to the southwest corner of the
property commonly known as 830 Allerton Road (PIN 05-00-54-001-870-00); thence
east along the property boundary line from the southwest corner of the property
commonly known as 830 Allerton Road (PIN 05-00-54-001-870-00) to the northwest
corner of the property commonly known as 800 Allerton Road (PIN 05-00-54-001-
873-00); thence beginning in a southwesterly direction following the corporate
boundary line, in a generally counter-clockwise manner to the point of
beginning.
      (4)   Fourth Ward. All annexed properties within the corporate boundaries
of the City of Monticello within the following described boundary. Beginning at
the intersection of the City of Monticello westerly corporate limits and the
centerline of Bridge Street; thence proceeding easterly along said Bridge
Street centerline to the intersection of the centerline of Bridge Street and
the centerline of Foothill Road; thence proceed northerly along the centerline
of Foothill Road to the intersection of the centerline of Foothill Road and the
centerline of Bell Avenue; thence proceed easterly along the centerline of Bell
Avenue to the intersection of the centerline of Bell Avenue and the centerline
of Front Street; thence proceed northerly along the centerline of Front Street
to the intersection of the centerline of Front Street and the centerline of
Wilson Street; thence proceed easterly along the centerline of Wilson Street to
the intersection of the centerline of Wilson Street and the centerline of
Buchanan Street; thence proceed south along the centerline of Buchanan Street
to the intersection of the centerline of Buchanan Street and the centerline of
Marion Street; thence proceed westerly along the centerline of Marion Street to
the intersection of the centerline of Marion Street and the corporate boundary
line of the City of Monticello; thence proceed southwesterly along the
corporate boundary line of the City of Monticello to the point at the southwest
corner of the property commonly known as 830 Allerton Road (PIN 05-00-54-001-
869-00); thence south along the property boundary line from the southwest
corner of the property commonly known as 830 Allerton Road (PIN 05-00-54-001-
869-00) to the southwest corner of the property commonly known as 830 Allerton
Road (PIN 05-00-54-001-870-00); thence beginning in a westerly direction
proceed along the corporate boundary line, in a generally clockwise direction,
to the point of beginning.
   (D)   Resignation; vacancy. An Alderperson may resign from his or her
office. A vacancy occurs in the Office of Alderperson by reason of resignation,
failure to elect and qualify, death, permanent physical or mental disability,
conviction of a disqualifying crime, abandonment of office or of residence from
the ward. The vacancy shall be filled in accordance with state statute.
   (E)   Compensation.  
      (1)   The Alderpersons shall receive the salary, fees, or other
compensation that is fixed by ordinance. After they are once fixed, the salary,
fees, or other compensation shall not be increased or diminished so as to take
effect during the term of the Alderperson.
(Ch. 24, Par. 3-13-1 – now repealed)
      (2)   Each Alderperson of the city who is either elected or reelected
after the date of passage of this section shall be paid at a rate as determined
by City Council from time to time. Payments shall be made in 12 equal monthly
installments.
   (F)   Prohibition against pecuniary interests. Unless otherwise provided by
statute, the Alderpersons shall not be interested, directly or indirectly, in
his or her own name or in the name of any person, association, trust, or
corporation, in any contract, work, or business of the municipality, or in the
sale of any article whenever the expense, price or consideration of the
contract, work, business, or sale is paid either from the treasury or by any
assessment levied by any statute or ordinance. The Alderperson shall not be
interested, directly or indirectly, in the purchase of any property which:
      (1)   Belongs to the municipality;
      (2)   Is sold for taxes or assessments; or
      (3)   Is sold by virtue of legal process at the suit of the municipality,
unless specifically so provided by statute.
(Ch. 24, Par. 3-14-4 – now repealed) (Am. Ord. 2009-25, passed 5-11-2009; Am.
Ord. 2013-67, passed 12-9-2013; Am. Ord. 2022-18, passed 5-23-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Ch. 24, Par. 3-4-9 – now repealed
   Similar provisions regarding resignation/vacancy, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §
6-3-8
§ 31.18 CITY CLERK.
   There is hereby created the Office of City Clerk, who shall be qualified and
elected and shall have the powers and duties prescribed by law.
(Am. Ord. 2013-67, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 31.19 CITY TREASURER.
   There is hereby created the Office of City Treasurer, who shall be appointed
by the Mayor, subject to the advice and consent of the City Council. The City
Treasurer need not be a resident of the city. The City Treasurer shall have the
powers and duties as prescribed by law.
(Am. Ord. 2013-67, passed 12-9-2013; Am. Ord. 2017-09, passed 2-13-2017)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Ch. 24, Par. 3-10-2 – now repealed
§ 31.20 CITY ATTORNEY.
   There is hereby created the Office of City Attorney, who shall be appointed
by the Mayor, subject to the advice and consent of the City Council. The City
Attorney shall be licensed to practice in the State of Illinois but need not be
a resident of the city. The City Attorney shall have the powers and duties as
prescribed by law.
(Am. Ord. 2013-67, passed 12-9-2013)
CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.30 DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   (A)   Creation of office. There is hereby created the Office of Director of
Public Works, an executive office of the city.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Director of Public Works must be capable of
performing all duties as set forth herein. Due to his or her requirement of
technical training or knowledge, the Director of Public Works need not be a
qualified elector of the city nor a resident prior to his or her employment. No
person who is a defaulter to the city shall be eligible to the Office of
Director of Public Works.
   (C)   Bond. Before entering upon his or her duties of office, the Director
of Public Works shall execute a bond in the amount of $5,000 conditioned upon
the faithful performance of his or her duties. The bond shall be filed with the
City Clerk. The cost of the bond shall be paid for by the city.
   (D)   Duties.
      (1)   The Director of Public Works shall perform such duties in addition
to those which may be prescribed by statute and be subject to any other rules
and regulations as the corporate authorities may provide by ordinance;
      (2)   The Director of Public Works shall supervise the lighting of the
public streets and alleys and shall keep the lighting system in efficient
operation and good repair;
      (3)   The Director of Public Works shall see that all sewers in the city
are kept in good repair and free from obstructions and breaks and shall make
all inspections necessary to enforce the ordinance relating to the sewers;
      (4)   The Director of Public Works shall be charged with the duty of
keeping the streets and alleys clean and free from obstructions and in good
repair. He or she shall see that all street drains and sewers are free and
unobstructed and shall perform any other duties as may be required by the
corporate authorities;
      (5)   The Director of Public Works shall have charge of the construction
and maintenance of all water pipes in the city. He or she shall have charge of
the maintenance of the water works system;
      (6)   The Director of Public Works shall have charge of the maintenance
and operation of the sewage disposal plant;
      (7)   The Director of Public Works shall review annexations, plats, and
other development proposals for impact on Public Works services;
      (8)   The Director of Public Works shall develop and approve operating
procedures based upon established policies;
      (9)   The Director of Public Works shall monitor critical performance
elements of services provided by the Department to help assure effective and
efficient operation and to identify opportunities for improvement;
      (10)   The Director of Public Works shall review key operations and
activities in the field at regular intervals to see that performance standards
are met;
      (11)   The Director of Public Works shall plan, implement, and revise
goals, objectives, and standards established for Public Works activities;
      (12)   The Director of Public Works shall provide long-range planning to
establish future equipment and manpower needs, and update this annually;
      (13)   The Director of Public Works shall maintain a safety program
conducted pursuant to the safety program plan;
      (14)   The Director of Public Works shall maintain a safe work
environment in all areas under direct supervision;
      (15)   The Director of Public Works shall develop, recommend, and
administer the departmental budget in conjunction with the Superintendent of
City Services;
      (16)   The Director of Public Works shall participate in drafting
contracts for Public Works services;
      (17)   The Director of Public Works shall be responsible for the overall
management of all City Public Works operations and activities;
      (18)   The Director of Public Works shall plan, delegate, assign, and
evaluate the work of all leadsmen and Public Works personnel;
      (19)   The Director of Public Works shall direct and oversee the
administration of disciplinary action as necessary according to city personnel
policy;
      (20)   The Director of Public Works shall perform duties as covered by
the ESDA plan;
      (21)   The Director of Public Works shall provide technical services to
the Emergency Services and Disaster Agency (ESDA);
      (22)   The Director of Public Works shall have knowledge of municipal and
departmental budgeting procedures;
      (23)   The Director of Public Works shall have the ability to develop
long-term plans and programs and to make sound decisions on matters of
operating policy and administrative problems;
      (24)   The Director of Public Works shall have knowledge of employee
relations, including labor relations;
      (25)   The Director of Public Works shall have the ability to meet
tactfully and effectively with public officials, professionals, and the general
public and to present ideas clearly and concisely in oral and written form;
      (26)   The Director of Public Works shall perform other related duties
and tasks assigned by the Superintendent of City Services and City Council; and
      (27)   The Director of Public Works, in conjunction with the
Superintendent of City Services, shall act as the purchasing agent for the city
and will issue a purchase order for any/and all purchases over $50.
   (E)   Employees. All employees of the Department of City Services shall
perform their duties subject to the orders and under the supervision of the
Director of Public Works.
   (F)   Compensation. The City Council shall fix the salary of the Director of
Public Works in the annual appropriation ordinance. The salary shall neither be
increased nor diminished during the fiscal year in which the appropriation is
made.
   (G)   Prohibition against pecuniary interests. Unless otherwise provided by
statute, the Director of Public Works shall not be interested, directly or
indirectly, in his or her own name or in the name of any person, association,
trust, or corporation, in any contract, work, or business of the municipality,
or in the sale of any article whenever the expense, price, or consideration of
the contract, work, business, or sale is paid either from the treasury or by
any assessment levied by any statute or ordinance. The Director of Public Works
shall not be interested, directly or indirectly, in the purchase of any
property which:
      (1)   Belongs to the municipality;
      (2)   Is sold for taxes or assessments; or
      (3)   Is sold by virtue of legal process at the suit of the municipality,
unless specifically so provided by statute.
§ 31.31 SUPERINTENDENT OF CITY SERVICES.
   (A)   Creation of office. There is hereby created the Office of the City
Administrator, an executive office of the city. The City Administrator shall be
appointed by the Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City Council.
   (B)   Qualifications; residency. The City Administrator must be capable of
performing all duties as set forth herein. Within 6 months of appointment, or
such other time period as the Mayor may determine, the City Administrator shall
establish residency within the city.
   (C)   Bond. Before entering upon his or her duties of office, the City
Administrator shall execute a bond in the amount of $50,000 conditioned upon
the faithful performance of his or her duties. The bond shall be filed with the
City Clerk. The cost of the bond shall be paid for by the city.
   (D)   Compensation. The City Council shall fix the salary of the City
Administrator in the annual appropriation ordinance. The salary shall neither
be increased nor diminished during the fiscal year in which the appropriation
is made. In addition to the conditions set forth herein, the terms and
conditions of employment of the City Administrator may be further determined by
a contractual agreement.
   (E)   Duties. The City Administrator shall be the Chief Administrative
Officer of the city and shall be responsible to the Mayor and to the City
Council for the management and operation of all of the departments and
personnel of the city. The City Administrator shall perform the following
duties, in addition to such other duties as may be prescribed by the Mayor and
City Council:
      (1)   Supervision of the Director of Public Works, Building Inspector,
Director of Economic Development, Recreation Director, and administrative
office staff;
      (2)   Preparation of or the delegation of the preparation of meeting
agendas, correspondence, reference materials, and studies for City Council
meetings and Planning and Zoning Board meetings;
      (3)   Promotion of economic development in the city by working with the
Director of Economic Development and Economic Development Advisory Committee,
local service organizations, and citizens' groups;
      (4)   Supervision of insurance policies, insurance reports, and serving
as Risk/Claim Manager for IML Risk Management insurance or such other insurance
company as the City Council may determine;
      (5)   Serve as liaison with city residents, visitors, and media,
engineering firms, contractors, City Attorney, City Fire Chief, ESDA
Coordinator, county and other local municipal governments and cooperative
groups and others as assigned by the Mayor;
      (6)   Implement actions and policies as directed by the Mayor and City
Council;
      (7)   Maintain regular office hours as published in the personnel manual
or as assigned by the Mayor and City Council;
      (8)   Prepare all grant applications for the city collaborating with city
staff and City Attorney and supervise all grant funded programs;
      (9)   Negotiate agreements, contracts, and arrangements pertinent to the
operation of the city as authorized by the Mayor and City Council;
      (10)   Examine city ordinances, resolutions, and agreements and advise
various committees of necessary revisions and updates;
      (11)   Evaluate performance of all city personnel and committees and
provide guidance as needed;
      (12)   Attend all City Council, committee and board meetings or delegate
a responsible alternate, unless excused by the chairperson, and provide input
as necessary;
      (13)   Coordinate the annual budgeting process through the Council
committees and work with the City Treasurer to implement and control the
budget;
      (14)   Oversee franchises, leases, licenses, contracts, permits, and
privileges granted by the city;
      (15)   Act as the purchasing agent for the city and issue a purchase
order for any and all purchases over $50;
      (16)   Be responsible for the care, custody and maintenance of city
property; maintain an inventory of all real and personal property of the city;
      (17)   Oversee employment, hiring, promotion, demotion, discipline and
discharge decisions (except as to employees under the jurisdiction of the Board
of Fire and Police Commissioners), personnel evaluations, pay recommendations,
training, vacations, sick leave, and overtime;
      (18)   Act as Budget Director. As such, he or she shall review monthly
financial reports and capital expenditures for budgets. He or she shall consult
with the City Treasurer and department heads to examine and verify receipts,
bills, and expenditures;
      (19)   Employees; chain of command. The City Administrator shall hire
such assistants and other personnel as may be authorized by the City Council
necessary to cany out the work of the city. All employees of city shall perform
their duties subject to the orders and under the supervision of the city
Administrator, No elected official of the city shall dictate the appointment of
any person to, or the removal of any person from, employment with the city.
Elected officials shall not give any orders to any subordinates of the City
Administrator; and
      (20)   The City Administrator shall act as a public hearing officer under
the Public Safety Employee Benefits Act. The decision of the City Administrator
shall be a final administrative decision and may be appealed to the Circuit
Court under the Administrative Review Act.
(Am. Ord. 2014-36, passed 9-8-2014; Am. Ord. 2016-09, passed 2-22-2016)
§ 31.32 CITY BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Creation of office. There is hereby created the Office of City
Building Inspector, an executive office of the city.
   (B)   Qualifications. The City Building Inspector must be capable of
carrying out all duties as set forth in this section. Due to his or her
requirement of technical training or knowledge, the City Building Inspector
need not be a qualified elector of the city nor a resident prior to his or her
employment. No person who is a defaulter to the city shall be eligible to the
Office of City Building Inspector.
   (C)   Bond. Before entering upon his or her duties of office, the City
Building Inspector shall execute a bond in the amount of $5,000 conditioned
upon the faithful performance of his or her duties. This bond shall be filed
with the City Clerk. The cost of the bond shall be paid for by the city.
(Ch. 24, Par. 3-14-3 – now repealed; ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 5-3-9)
   (D)   Duties.
      (1)   He or she shall issue all building permits complying with the
ordinances and requirements of the city;
      (2)   He or she shall inspect and approve, or disapprove, all work
contracted to be done for the city and all materials or services provided by
the contractor;
      (3)   He or she shall inspect and supervise installations or repairs of
any and all private sewers and connections with city sewers by contractors or
property owners within the city;
      (4)   He or she shall require changes to be made in any work or
installations which he or she finds, in his or her judgment, to be
unsatisfactory; and
      (5)   He or she shall perform any other duties as may be assigned to him
or her by the City Council and the Mayor of the city.
   (E)   Compensation. The City Council shall fix the salary of the City
Building Inspector in the annual appropriation ordinance. The salary shall
neither be increased nor diminished during the fiscal year in which the
appropriation is made. The City Building Inspector shall make and return to the
Mayor a semiannual report verified by affidavit of all fees and other
compensation received by him or her.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-2-9; Ch. 24, Par. 3-13-2 – now repealed)
   (F)   Prohibition against pecuniary interests. Unless otherwise provided by
statute, the City Building Inspector shall not be interested, directly or
indirectly, in his or her own name or in the name of any person, association,
trust, or corporation, in any contract, work, or business of the municipality,
or in the sale of any article whenever the expense, price, or consideration of
the contract, work, business, or sale is paid either from the treasury or by
any assessment levied by any statute or ordinance. The City Building Inspector
shall not be interested, directly or indirectly, in the purchase of any
property which:
      (1)   Belongs to the municipality;
      (2)   Is sold for taxes or assessments; or
      (3)   Is sold by virtue of legal process at the suit of the municipality,
unless specifically so provided by statute.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Ch. 24, Par. 3-14-4 – now repealed; Ch. 24, Par. 3-
141 – now repealed
§ 31.33 CITY COLLECTOR.
   (A)   Creation of office. There is hereby created the Office of City
Collector, who shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to the advice and
consent of the City Council.
   (B)   Duties. The City Collector shall have the powers and duties as
prescribed by law, and shall serve as Administrative Assistant as described in
the official job description on file with the Finance and Human Resource
Director.
   (C)   Compensation. The City Collector, except as otherwise provided, shall
receive the salary or other compensation that is fixed by ordinance. The
salaries, fees, or other compensation of the City Collector may be increased
but not diminished so as to take effect during the term for which the City
Collector was appointed.
   (D)   Clerk as Collector. The City Clerk may hold the office of City
Collector, if appointed by the Mayor, and subject to the advice and consent of
the City Council.
(Ord. 2019-14, passed 2-25-2019)
CHAPTER 32: CITY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Boards and Commissions
   
32.01   Planning and Zoning Board
   
32.02   (Reserved)
   
32.03   Police Pension Fund and Board
   
32.04   Board of Fire and Police Commissioners
Historic Preservation Commission
   
32.20   Title
   
32.21   Purpose
   
32.22   Definitions
   
32.23   Composition of Historic Preservation Commission
   
32.24   Powers and duties
   
32.25   Surveys and research
   
32.26   Landmark designation
   
32.27   Historic District designation
   
32.28   Interim protection for nominations
   
32.29   Maintenance and repair of designated properties
   
32.30   Certificates of appropriateness and of hardship
   
32.31   Appeals
   
32.32   Fees
Committees
   
32.40   Economic Advisory Committee
   
32.41   Revolving Loan Fund Committee
Cross-reference:
   Emergency Services and Disaster Agency, see
Chapter 92 of this code of ordinances
   Fire Department, see
Chapter 92 of this code of ordinances
   Police Department, see
Chapter 35 of this code of ordinances
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
§ 32.01 PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD.
   (A)   Members. The Planning and Zoning Board shall serve as a board of
appeals on zoning matters as provided by statute and the city’s planning
commission. This Board shall consist of 7 members to be appointed by the Mayor
by and with the advice and consent of the City Council. A Chairperson and a
Secretary from the membership shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the advice
and consent of the City Council.
   (B)   Term. The members of the Board of Appeals shall serve for a term of 5
years, provided that the terms shall be staggered as provided by statute.
   (C)   Powers and duties. It shall be the duty of the Planning and Zoning
Board to hear and decide any appeal of any decision, order, or interpretation
by the officer whose duty it is to enforce the zoning regulations, and it shall
have such other powers and duties as may be delegated to it by statute or
ordinance, provided that it shall have the power to reverse any decision of
that officer on a concurring vote of 4 members. The Planning and Zoning Board
shall also have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   To prepare and recommend to the corporate authorities a
comprehensive plan for the present and future development or redevelopment of
the city. This plan may be adopted in whole or in separate geographical or
functional parts, each of which when adopted shall be the official
comprehensive plan, or part thereof, of the city. This plan may include
reasonable requirements with reference to streets, alleys, public grounds, and
other improvements herein specified. The plan, as recommended by the Planning
and Zoning Board, and as thereafter adopted by the City Council may be
applicable, by the terms thereof, to land situated within the corporate limits
and contiguous territory not more than 1-1/2 miles beyond the corporate limits
of and not included in any other municipality;
      (2)   To recommend changes, from time to time, in the official
comprehensive plan;
      (3)   To prepare and recommend to the corporate authorities, from time to
time, specific improvements in pursuance of the official comprehensive plan,
and to issue recommendations concerning such improvement plans as may be
proposed by officials of the city or by private groups or individuals and to
make recommendations to the City Council with regard to the feasibility and
propriety of such improvement plans, and the relationship of the projects to
the official plan within 60 days, or less, if so designated by the City
Council.
      (4)   To give aid to the municipal officials charged with the direction
of projects for improvements embraced within the official plan to further the
making of these improvements, and, generally, to promote the realization of the
plan;
      (5)   To prepare reports based upon research and study of planning
problems of the city;
      (6)   To submit to the City Council recommendations with respect to;
         (a)   Each proposed municipal project involving the dedication,
opening, widening, extending and vacating of streets;
         (b)   The design, location, placing, erection, and acceptance of
public monuments, memorials or statues placed or sought to be placed or erected
in any street, public place, or on other public property;
         (c)   The general location and layout of all redevelopment and renewal
projects in order to determine their conformance to the comprehensive plan of
the city;
         (d)   The acquisition of land for conservation, park and recreation
purposes, monuments and other public purposes;
         (e)   The designation of land suitable for annexation to the city and
the recommended zoning classification for the land upon annexation;
         (f)   To exercise all powers granted to the Planning and Zoning Board
by the city zoning ordinance;
         (g)   The acquisition of any space, public building, or structure; and
         (h)   The preliminary approval of plats for subdivision or
resubdivision of land, and to advise and assist the City Council in final
approval, pursuant to the ordinances of the city and statutes of the State of
Illinois.
      (7)   To arrange and conduct any form of publicity relative to its
activities for the general purpose of public information and understanding;
      (8)   To cooperate with city and regional planning commissions and other
agencies or groups to further the local planning program and to assure
harmonious and integrated planning for the area; and
      (9)   To exercise any other powers germane to the powers granted under
authority of an act of the General Assembly of the State of Illinois, entitled
“Illinois Municipal Code,” ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, as amended, as may be conferred
by the city.
   (D)   Contemplated action to be submitted to the Planning and Zoning Board
for recommendation before approval by the Council. The City Council shall take
no action authorizing or approving the acquisition of any park, other public
ground, space or public building or structure, or authorizing or approving any
map, plat, or replat of land lying within the corporate limits or in contiguous
territory not more than 1-1/2 miles distant from the limits, or change any
provisions of the zoning ordinance, accept the dedication of any public street
or grounds, or vacate any street until the contemplated action shall have first
been submitted to the Planning and Zoning Board for its recommendation. If the
Board shall fail to submit its recommendation within 30 days, the Council may
proceed without one.
   (E)   Procedure. The Planning and Zoning Board shall adopt rules and
regulations pertaining to its procedures, consistent with the ordinances of the
city and the statutes of the State of Illinois. The rules and regulations shall
be forwarded to the Administration Committee of the City Council and may be
reviewed by the City Council and repealed by the Council upon a 2/3 vote of the
members present. The rules and regulations shall be made available to the
public upon request.
(Am. Ord. 2013-67, passed 12-9-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-36, passed 9-8-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-13-3
§ 32.02 (RESERVED).
§ 32.03 POLICE PENSION FUND AND BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established a Police Pension Fund in and
for the City of Monticello, Piatt County, Illinois, in accordance with Article
3 of the Illinois Pension Code, ILCS Ch. 40, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq., and a
Board of Trustees for the Fund, to administer the same and designate the
beneficiaries thereof.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BOARD or BOARD OF TRUSTEES. The Board of Trustees of the Pension Fund.
      POLICE. Full-time police officers or full-time police officers entitled
to participate in the benefits of the Pension Fund, as provided by Article 3 of
the Illinois Pension Code.
   (C)   The rights, powers, duties, and functions of the Board of Trustees and
the members thereof, and the rights and benefits of various beneficiaries of
the Pension Fund, shall be and are hereby declared to be in accordance with the
law and particularly of Article 3 of the Illinois Pension Code, and all
amendments thereof.
   (D)   The Board of Trustees shall be appointed and elected as provided in
the Article 3 of the Illinois Pension Code, and shall exercise such powers and
perform such duties as shall be required of it by law. All monies and
securities belonging to the Police Pension Fund shall be held by the City
Treasurer, subject to the order of the Board of Trustees of the Pension Fund.
An annual list of beneficiaries and report of funds shall be made as required
by law. Members of the Board of Trustees of the Pension Fund shall serve
without compensation.
§ 32.04 BOARD OF FIRE AND POLICE COMMISSIONERS.
   There is established a Board of Fire and Police Commissioners, as approved
by referendum of the electors of the city at the general election in November
7, 1989, and approved by the City Council on November 27, 1989. The members of
the Board shall be appointed by the Mayor and shall have the power and duties
as provided in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 10-2.1 et seq.
(Am. Ord. 2013-67, passed 12-9-2013)
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
§ 32.20 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the Historic Preservation Ordinance of the
City of Monticello, Illinois or this subchapter.
§ 32.21 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to promote the protection, enhancement,
perpetuation, and use of improvements and areas within the city of special
character and/or historical interest or value, in the interest of promoting the
health, prosperity, safety, and welfare of the people of the city by:
   (A)   Identifying historically and/or architecturally significant
properties, structures, neighborhoods, or areas within the city;
   (B)   Designating areas or structures as historically and/or architecturally
significant;
   (C)   Educating the public and property and business owners, local
governmental units and civic organizations on the historical and architectural
heritage of the city, as well as the economic, social, and cultural benefits
and preservation; and advising and assisting property and business owners on
the physical and financial aspects of preservation, including holding seminars
and other educational programs with regard thereto and providing guidance and
assistance in obtaining financial aid, technical assistance and assistance in
locating materials and preservation-oriented contractors;
   (D)   Encouraging the preservation of historic areas and structures through
educational, financial, and administrative means; and
   (E)   Recognizing significant historic and/or architectural preservation
efforts, thereby encouraging further preservation activities.
§ 32.22 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words and phrases used throughout this
subchapter shall be given the meaning they have in ordinary English usage so as
to give this subchapter its most reasonable application.
   ADDITION. Any act or process which changes 1 or more of the exterior
architectural features of a structure by adding to, joining with, or otherwise
increasing the size or capacity of the structure.
   ALTERATION. Any act or process which changes 1 or more of the exterior
architectural features of structure, including but not limited to the erection,
construction, reconstruction, or removal of any structure.
   BUILDING. Any structure created for the support, shelter, or enclosure of
persons, animals, or property of any kind and which is permanently affixed to
the ground.
   CONSTRUCTION.  The act or process of erecting a new principal or accessory
structure on a lot or property, or the act of adding an addition to an existing
structure.
   DEMOLITION. Any act or process that destroys in part or in whole a building
or structure.
   EXTERIOR ARCHITECTURAL APPEARANCE. The architectural and general composition
of the exterior of a structure, including but not limited to the kind, color,
and texture of the building materials and the type, design, and character of
all windows, doors, light fixtures, signs, and appurtenant elements of the
exterior portions of the structure.
   OWNER OF RECORD.  The person, corporation, or other entity listed as the
owner in the records of the office of the Recorder of Piatt County, Illinois.
   REHABILITATION. The act or process of returning a building or structure to a
state of utility through repair or alteration, which makes possible an
efficient, contemporary use while at the same time preserving those portions
and features of the building or structure that are significant to its historic,
social, or architectural heritage.
   REMOVAL. Any relocation of a building or structure to another site.
   REPAIR. Any change that does not require a building permit and which is not
construction, relocation, or alteration.
   STRUCTURAL CHANGE. Any change in the supporting members of a building,
structure, roof, or exterior walls which expands or alters the building in
height, width, bulk, or strength.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
attachment to, on, or in the ground, including without limitation buildings,
homes, fences, gazebos, advertising or other signs, billboards, backstops for
tennis courts, radio and television antennae, satellite dishes, and solar
panels.
§ 32.23 COMPOSITION OF HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION.
   The Monticello Historic Preservation Commission shall consist of 7 persons,
who are residents of the city, and who shall be appointed by the Mayor, with
the advice and consent of the City Council, subject to the following:
   (A)   Qualifications.  The members of the Commission shall be appointed on
the basis of expertise, experience or interest in the areas of architectural
history or history in general, building construction or engineering, historical
or architectural preservation, neighborhood organizations, real estate, and/or
any other disciplines and professions as the City Council may deem appropriate;
   (B)   Terms.  Members of the Commission, who shall serve without
compensation, shall be appointed for terms of 3 years. Of those members first
taking office, 2 shall be appointed for 1 year, 3 for 2 years, and 2 for 3
years. Members of the Commission may be removed by the Mayor, with the advice
and consent of the City Council, with or without cause. Vacancies shall be
filled by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council;
   (C)   Officers.  Officers of the Commission shall be elected by the members
of the Commission and shall consist of a Chairperson, a Vice-Chairperson, a
Secretary/Assistant Secretary and Treasurer. Officers shall serve a term of 1
year and shall be eligible for reelection.
      (1)   The Chairperson shall preside at meetings. In the absence of the
Chairperson, the Vice- Chairperson shall perform the duties of the Chairperson.
If both are absent, a temporary Chairperson shall be elected by those present.
      (2)   The Secretary of the Commission shall have the following duties:
         (a)   To take and preserve minutes of all Commission meetings;
         (b)   To disseminate and distribute copies of the minutes of meetings,
reports, and decisions of the Commission to the members of the Commission;
         (c)   To give legal notices as provided herein or by law for all
meetings and hearings conducted by the Commission;
         (d)   To advise the Mayor of vacancies on the Commission and expiring
terms of members; and
         (e)   To prepare and submit to the City Council a complete record of
proceedings before the Commission on any matter requiring the approval or
consideration of the Council.
      (3)   The Treasurer of the Commission shall have the following duties:
         (a)   To keep and maintain accurate books and records of the
Commission’s funds, receipts and expenditures; and
         (b)   To provide reports, when requested, of the Commission’s
financial condition.
   (D)   Meetings. A quorum shall consist of 5 members of the Commission. All
decisions and actions of the Commission shall be by a majority vote of those
members present and voting at the meeting, if a quorum is present except as
provided hereafter. Meetings shall be held at regularly scheduled times and
places established by resolution of the Commission at the beginning of each
calendar year, which resolution shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the City of Monticello, Illinois. The Commission shall hold at
least 4 regular meetings in each calendar year. Special meetings may be called
by the Chairperson or by 3 members of the Commission. Members of the Commission
shall be given at least 48 hours’ advance, written notice of the time, place,
and purpose of that meeting.
   (E)   Conflict of interest. No member of the Commission may vote on any
matter that may or does materially or apparently affect, either directly or
indirectly, the property, business, income, or other interest of that member.
The Commission shall keep minutes of all of its proceedings, showing the vote
on all matters which come before it, and shall keep records of its examinations
and other official actions, all of which shall be filed in the office of the
Commission and shall be public records.
§ 32.24 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Commission shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To adopt its own procedural regulations;
   (B)   To conduct an ongoing survey to identify historically and/or
architecturally significant properties, structures, and areas;
   (C)   To recommend to the City Council the designation of properties or
structures having special historic, community, or architectural value as
landmarks;
   (D)   To designate by ordinance areas and neighborhoods having special
historic, community, or architectural value as historic districts;
   (E)   To keep a register of all properties and structures that have been
designated as landmarks or historic districts, including all information
required for each designation;
   (F)   To determine and promulgate an appropriate system of signs and markers
for all landmarks and historic districts, and to determine and promulgate the
design and implementation of specific signs and markers of streets and routes
leading to designated landmarks and historic districts;
   (G)   To advise owners of landmarks and property or structures within
historic districts on physical and financial aspects of preservation,
renovation, rehabilitation, and reuse, and on procedures for including it on
the National Register of Historic Places;
   (H)   To inform and educate the citizens of the city concerning the historic
and architectural heritage of the city by publishing and holding programs and
seminars;
   (I)   To hold public hearings and to review applications for construction,
alteration, removal, or demolition effecting proposed or designated landmarks
or structures of historic districts and issue or deny certificates of
appropriateness or certificates of hardship for those actions. Applicants shall
be required to submit plans, drawings, elevations, and specifications with
their applications;
   (J)   To develop specific guidelines for the alteration, demolition,
construction, or removal of landmarks or property and structures within
historic districts;
   (K)   To review proposed zoning amendments, applications for special use
permits or variances that affect proposed or designated landmarks and historic
districts. This review shall be made prior to the date of the hearing by the
Planning and Zoning Board;
   (L)   To administer on behalf of the city any property of full or partial
interest in real property, including a conservation right as that term is used
in the Illinois Compiled Statutes, which the city may have or accept as a gift
or otherwise, upon designation or authorization by the City Council;
   (M)   To accept and administer on behalf of the city, upon designation and
authorization of the City Council, any gifts, grants, and money as may be
appropriate for the purposes of this subchapter;
   (N)   To call upon available city employees, as well as other experts, for
technical or other advice;
   (O)   To testify before all boards and commissions, including the Planning
and Zoning Board, on any matter affecting historically and architecturally
significant properties and landmarks; and
   (P)   To review periodically the city zoning ordinance and to recommend to
the City Council any amendments appropriate for the protection and continued
use of landmarks or property and structures within Historic Districts.
(Am. Ord. 2013-67, passed 12-9-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-36, passed 9-8-2014)
§ 32.25 SURVEYS AND RESEARCH.
   (A)   The Historic Preservation Commission shall undertake an ongoing survey
and research effort in the city to identify neighborhoods, areas, sites,
structures, and objects that have historic, community, architectural, or
aesthetic importance, interest, or value. As part of the survey, the Historic
Preservation Commission shall review and evaluate any prior surveys and studies
by any unit of government or private organization and compel appropriate
descriptions, facts, and photographs.
   (B)   The Historic Preservation Commission shall identify potential
landmarks and adopt procedures to nominate them in groups based on the
following criteria:
      (1)   The potential landmarks in 1 identifiable neighborhood, district,
or geographical area of the city;
      (2)   The potential landmarks associated with a particular person, event,
or historical period;
      (3)   The potential landmarks of a particular architectural style or
school, or of a particular architect; and
      (4)   Any other criteria as may be adopted by the Historic Preservation
Commission to assure a systematic survey and nomination of all potential
landmarks within the city.
  § 32.26 LANDMARK DESIGNATION.
   (A)   Preliminary determination.  
      (1)   The Commission shall, after such investigation as it deems
necessary, make a preliminary determination as to whether a property or
structure possesses the integrity of design, workmanship materials, location,
setting, and feeling, and meets 1 or more of the following criteria:
         (a)   Significant value as part of the historic, heritage, or cultural
characteristics of the community, county, state, or nation;
         (b)   Its identification with a person or persons who significantly
contributed to the development of the community, county, state, or nation;
         (c)   Representative of the distinguishing characteristics of
architecture inherently valuable for study of a period, type, method of
construction, or use of indigenous materials;
         (d)   Notable work of a master builder, designer, architect, or artist
whose individual work has influenced the development of the community, county,
state, or nation;
         (e)   Its unique location or physical characteristics that make it an
established or familiar visual feature;
         (f)   Its character as a particularly fine or unique example of a
utilitarian structure, including but not limited to farmhouses, historic
commercial buildings, gas stations, or other commercial structures with a high
level of integrity or architectural significance; and
         (g)   An area that has yielded or may be likely to yield information
important to history, archeology, architecture, or prehistory.
      (2)   A preliminary determination as to whether a property, structure or
area meets 1 or more of the above criteria shall be made within 15 days of the
filing of a nomination with the Commission.
   (B)   Landmark designation procedure.
      (1)   Any person, group of persons or association, including but not
limited to the Historic Preservation Commission, may request a historic
Landmark designation for any structure or building within the city which may
have historic, architectural, cultural, or other significance. An application
for Landmark designation shall be submitted to the Secretary of the Commission
on a form as the Commission may from time to time designate and approve. The
application, at a minimum, shall contain the following:
         (a)   The name and address of the property owner;
         (b)   The legal description and the common street address of the
property;
         (c)   A written statement describing the property and setting forth
reasons in support of the proposed designation;
         (d)   Documentation or verification that the property owner has been
notified of the application for designation or that he or she consents thereto;
         (e)   A list of significant exterior architectural features that
should be protected;
         (f)   An overall site plan and photographs of the Landmark. The plan
shall also include a front, side, and rear elevation drawing; and
         (g)   The names and addresses of all adjacent property owners and
occupants.
      (2)   Upon the Secretary’s receipt of an application for Landmark
designation, a public hearing shall be scheduled before the Commission on that
application within 60 days of the receipt thereof. Notice of the date, time,
place, and purpose of the public hearing shall be sent by United States mail to
the owner(s) of record and occupants of the property and to the nominator(s) as
well as to all adjacent property owners listed on the nominator’s application.
This written notice shall be sent by the Secretary of the Commission and must
be sent not less than 15 days but not more than 30 days before the date of the
public hearing. A public notice shall also be published in a secular newspaper
of general circulation in the city at least 15 days before the public hearing.
All these notices shall state the location of the property or area and a
statement summarizing how the proposed landmark meets the criteria set forth in
this subchapter.
      (3)   At the public hearing, the Commission shall hear the testimony and
comments of all persons in favor of and opposed to the Landmark designation.
The Chairperson is directed and authorized to administer oaths to all such
persons. The members of the Commission may examine all persons speaking either
in favor of or in opposition to the Landmark designation. The Commission may
also consider any other information, facts or reports, as long as it makes its
consideration of that information, facts or reports known at the public
hearing. A detailed summary of the testimony, comments and statements of all
persons addressing the Commission shall be kept and maintained as part of the
minutes of that meeting. The Commission may, in its discretion, tape record the
testimony, comments and statements of all persons addressing the Commission.
The Commission shall review and evaluate the application in accordance with the
criteria established in this subchapter. If the Commission determines that an
application merits further consideration or additional or other testimony, it
may defer its decision thereon until its next regularly scheduled meeting.
   (4)   The Commission shall make a decision to recommend that the City
Council approve or disallow the application for Landmark designation not later
than 30 days after the conclusion of the public hearing. A vote of 5 members of
the Commission is necessary for recommendation of Landmark designation. This
approval shall be in the form of an ordinance adopted by a majority of the
members of the Council. The Secretary of the Commission shall notify the owner
(s) of record of the property subject to the Landmark designation of the
Commission’s decision. In addition, the Secretary shall also send notice of the
recommendation for Landmark designation to the City Planning Commission, the
City Building Inspector, and the City Clerk.
(Am. Ord. 2013-67, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 32.27 HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGNATION.
   (A)   Preliminary determination.
      (1)   The Commission shall, after such investigation as it deems
necessary, make a preliminary determination as to whether an area,
neighborhood, or district within the city possesses the design, workmanship,
materials, location, setting and feeling, and meets 1 or more of the following
criteria:
         (a)   The Historic District contains 1 or more landmarks along with
other such buildings and structures, places or areas within its definable
geographic boundaries, which, while not of such historic significance to be
designated as landmarks, nevertheless contribute to the overall visual
characteristics of the landmark or landmarks located in the district;
         (b)   The Historic District contains a significant number of
structures meeting any of the standards of §
32.26(A) above;
         (c)   The Historic District establishes a sense of time and place
unique to the city; and/or
         (d)   The Historic District exemplifies or reflects the cultural,
social, economic, political, or architectural history of the city, the county,
the state and/or the nation.
      (2)   A preliminary determination by the Commission as to whether a
district or area meets 1 or more of the above criteria shall be made within 60
days of the filing of a nomination therefor with the Commission.
   (B)   Historic District designation procedures.
      (1)   Any person, group of persons or association, including but not
limited to the Historic Preservation Commission, may request a Historic
District designation for any area or district within the city which may have
met the above criteria. An application for Historic District designation shall
be submitted to the Secretary of the Commission on a form as the Commission may
from time to time designate and approve. The application, at a minimum, shall
contain the following:
         (a)   The name(s) and address(es) of the property owner(s) of each
tract or parcel of real estate within the proposed Historic District;
         (b)   A map delineating the boundaries of the area or district to be
designated;
         (c)   A written statement describing the area and properties within
the proposed Historic District and setting forth reasons in support of the
proposed designation;
         (d)   A list and photographs of significant exterior architectural
features of all properties in the district which should be protected; and
         (e)   The names and addresses of all adjacent property owners and
occupants.
      (2)   Upon the Secretary’s receipt of an application for Historic
District designation, a public hearing shall be scheduled before the Commission
on that application within 60 days of the receipt thereof. Notice of the date,
time, place and purpose of the public hearing shall be sent by U.S. mail to the
owners of record and occupants of the properties proposed and to the nominator
(s), as well as to all adjacent property owners listed on the nominator’s
application. This written notice shall be sent by the Secretary of the
Commission not less than 15 days but not more than 30 days before the date of
the public hearing. A public notice shall also be published in a secular
newspaper of general circulation within the city at least 15 days before the
public hearing. All the notices shall state the location of the properties or
areas and a statement summarizing how the proposed Historic District meets the
criteria set forth in this subchapter.
      (3)   At the public hearing, the Commission shall hear the testimony and
comments of all persons in favor of and opposed to the Historic District
designation. The Chairperson is directed and authorized to administer oaths to
all such persons. The members of the Commission may examine all persons
speaking either in favor of or in opposition to the Historic District
designation. A detailed summary of the testimony, comments, and statements of
all persons addressing the Commission shall be kept and maintained as part of
the minutes of that meeting. The Commission may, in its discretion, tape record
the testimony, statements and comments of all persons addressing the
Commission. The Commission shall review and evaluate the applications in
accordance with the criteria established in this subchapter. If the Commission
determines that an application merits further consideration or additional
testimony, it may defer its decision thereon until its next regularly scheduled
meeting.
      (4)   The Commission shall make a decision to recommend approval or
disallowance of the application for Historic District designation, or to partly
approve and partly disapprove the application, within 30 days after the
conclusion of the public hearing. A vote of 5 members of the Commission is
necessary for approval of any district or area as a Historic District. This
approval shall be in the form of a motion adopted by a majority of the members
of the Commission. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no area shall be recommended
for approval for Historic District designation unless 51 % of the owners of
record thereof concur and agree thereto. The Secretary of the Commission shall
notify the owners of record of the property within the Historic District of the
Commission’s recommendation.
(Am. Ord. 2013-67, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 32.28 INTERIM PROTECTION FOR NOMINATIONS.
   Any building or structure nominated but not yet designated as a historic
Landmark or as part of a Historic District shall be subject to all the
protections provided by this subchapter from and after its nomination to the
Historic Preservation Commission, and the owner(s) or occupant(s) thereof shall
be subject to all the rights and obligations hereinabove and hereinafter
specified for buildings or structures designated as historic Landmarks or
within designated Historic Districts.
§ 32.29 MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR OF DESIGNATED PROPERTIES.
   (A)   All buildings or structures which have been designated historic
Landmarks or which are within a designated Historic District, whether owned or
controlled privately or by any public entity, shall receive reasonable care,
maintenance, and upkeep appropriate for the preservation, protection,
perpetuation, or use thereof in conformity with the purposes and requirements
of this subchapter. Neither the owner nor the occupant of a building or
structure which has been designated a historic Landmark or which lies within a
designated Historic District shall permit the building or structure to fall
into a state of disrepair which may result in the deterioration of any exterior
appurtenance or architectural feature so as to produce, or tend to produce in
the reasonable judgment of the Historic Preservation Commission, a detrimental
effect upon the character or life of the structure or building in question, or
in the character of the Historic District, as the case may be, including but
not necessarily limited to the following:
      (1)   The deterioration of exterior walls or other vertical supports;
      (2)   The deterioration of the roofs or other horizontal members;
      (3)   The deterioration of external chimneys;
      (4)   The deterioration or crumbling of exterior plaster, mortar,
brickwork, or stone;
      (5)   The ineffective waterproofing of exterior walls, roofs, and
foundations, including broken windows or doors, and ineffective or insufficient
paint or other waterproofing to any exterior features; and/or
      (6)   The deterioration of any feature so as to create or permit the
creation of any hazardous or unsafe condition or conditions.
   (B)   Any violation of this section shall subject the property owner to the
penalties set forth hereinafter.
§ 32.30 CERTIFICATES OF APPROPRIATENESS AND OF HARDSHIP.
   (A)   Required.  A certificate of appropriateness or a certificate of
hardship issued by the Historic Preservation Commission shall be required
before a building permit or demolition permit is issued for any designated
historic Landmark or for any building, structure, site or part thereof in a
designated Historic District. A certificate of appropriateness or a certificate
of hardship is also required if any designated historic Landmark or any
building, structure, site, or part thereof in a designated Historic District is
to be altered, extended, or repaired in such a manner as to produce a major
change in the exterior appearance of the building, structure, or site. Such
major changes include but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Major changes by addition, alteration, maintenance, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, renovation, repair, deterioration, or lack of repair of, in, or
to the exterior features of the building, structure, site, or part thereof,
      (2)   Moving a building;
      (3)   Any construction, alteration, demolition, or removal affecting a
significant exterior architectural feature of any designated historic Landmark
or any building, structure, site, or part thereof in a designated Historic
District; and/or
      (4)   (a)   In the case of partial or complete destruction of a building
or structure within a Historic District, the owner will be required to obtain a
certificate of appropriateness or certificate of hardship from the Commission
prior to reconstruction. Although exact duplication of the previous building or
structure may not be required, the exterior design thereof shall be in harmony
with the exterior design of the building or structure prior to its destruction,
and with the character of the Historic District.
         (b)   In the case of partial destruction of a building or structure
which has been designated a historic Landmark, the owner will be required to
obtain a certificate of appropriateness or certificate of hardship from the
Commission prior to reconstruction. Although exact duplication of the previous
building or structure may not be required, the exterior design thereof shall be
in harmony with the exterior design of the building or structure prior to its
partial destruction. In the case of complete destruction of a building or
structures which have been designated a historic Landmark, the owner may
reconstruct the building or structure in conformity with its design and
architecture before its destruction, in which case a certificate of
appropriateness or certificate of hardship is required, or the owner may, in
his or her discretion, reconstruct the building or structure in a completely
different way, in which event it will forfeit its historic Landmark
designation.
   (B)   Application requirements.  Every application for a building or
demolition permit, including plans or specifications submitted therewith, shall
be forwarded to the Historic Preservation Commission no more than 15 days after
the same is filed with the city.
      (1)   An application for a certificate of appropriateness shall include:
         (a)   The street address of the property involved;
         (b)   The legal description of the property involved;
         (c)   A brief description of the construction, alteration, demolition,
or use proposed, together with any architectural drawings, plans, or sketches,
if available, and if not available, a detailed description of the construction,
alteration, demolition and/or use sufficient to enable a reasonable person to
determine what the final appearance and use of the structure or building will
be;
         (d)   The names of all owners and occupants/tenants of the real estate
involved;
         (e)   The developer’s name and address, if any;
         (f)   The architect’s name and address, if any; and
         (g)   The names and addresses of all adjacent property owners and
occupants/tenants.
      (2)   An application for a certificate of hardship shall include all of
the information necessary for a certificate of appropriateness, as well as a
detailed statement explaining how a failure to grant the same will cause
serious threat to life, health, or property or will cause a serious economic
hardship to the owner(s) of the property involved not foreseen or intended by
this subchapter.
   (C)   Criteria for certificates of appropriateness. The criteria to be
considered by the Commission in approving or disapproving a certificate of
appropriateness shall include the following, as well as any other criteria
deemed relevant by the Commission:
      (1)   A reasonable effort should be made to provide a compatible use for
buildings which will require minimum alteration to the building structure or
site and its environment, or to use a property for its originally intended
purpose;
      (2)   The compatibility of the proposed additions or new construction to
the original architecture of the historic Landmark or styles and appearance of
buildings, structures, or sites within a Historic District shall be evaluated
against the following guidelines:
         (a)   The height of the proposed structure, addition, or alteration in
relation to surrounding structures;
         (b)   The relationship between the width of the building to the height
of the front elevation with surrounding structures;
         (c)   The relationship of the building mass to the open spaces between
it and adjoining buildings or structures;
         (d)   The directional expression of a building or structure, i.e., the
vertical or horizontal positioning of it;
         (e)   The shape of the roof;
         (f)   Architectural details, general design, materials, textures, and
colors;
         (g)   Landscaping and appurtenances including, without limitation,
signs, fences, accessory structures, and pavings; and
         (h)   The scale of the structure after alteration, construction, or
partial demolition in relation to the scale of other structures in a Historic
District.
      (3)   The historic character of a building or structure should be
retained and preserved. The removal of historic materials or the alteration of
features and spaces that characterize the building or structure should be
avoided;
      (4)   Deteriorated historic features should be repaired rather than
replaced. Where the severity of the deterioration requires replacement of a
distinctive feature, the new feature shall be substantiated by documentary,
physical, or pictorial evidence;
      (5)   All buildings are products of the time in which they were built.
Alterations intended to create an appearance inconsistent with the actual
character of the building are discouraged;
      (6)   Changes to buildings and environments which have taken place in the
course of time may distinguish the history of the building and/or the
neighborhood. These changes should be recognized and respected;
      (7)   New additions or alterations to buildings should be done, whenever
reasonably possible, in such a manner that if they were subsequently removed,
the essential form and integrity of the building would be preserved;
      (8)   Designs and architectural styles in a Historic District not
necessarily consistent with other buildings or structures in the District
should not be discouraged if the designs or styles are compatible with the
size, scale, color, materials, or its environs;
      (9)   Distinctive stylistic features or examples of skilled craftsmanship
that characterize a building, structure, or site should be treated with
sensitivity;
      (10)   The surface cleaning of structures should be undertaken with the
gentlest means possible. Sandblasting and other similar cleaning methods that
will damage or deface the building materials are discouraged; and
      (11)   Every reasonable effort should be made to protect and preserve
archeological resources affected by or adjacent to any project.
   (D)   Hearings on applications for certificates of appropriateness and
certificates of hardship.
       (1)   Applications for certificates of appropriateness and certificates
of hardship shall be filed with the Secretary of the Commission, who shall
promptly schedule them for a public hearing before the Commission within 60
days thereof. Notice of the date, time, place, and purpose of the public
hearing shall be sent by United States mail to the owner(s) and occupants/
tenants of the property involved, as well as to all adjacent property owners
listed in the application. This written notice shall be sent by the Secretary
of the Commission not less than 15 days but not more than 30 days before the
date of the public hearing. A public notice shall also be published in a
secular newspaper of general circulation within the city at least 15 days
before the public hearing. All the notices shall state the location of the
property involved and a statement summarizing the relief requested. At the
public hearing, the Commission shall hear the testimony and comments of all
persons in favor of and opposed to the application. The Chairperson is directed
and authorized to administer oaths to all such persons. The members of the
Commission may examine all persons speaking in favor of or against the
application. A detailed summary of the testimony, comments, and statements of
all persons addressing the Commission shall be kept and maintained as part of
the minutes of that meeting. The Commission may, in its discretion, tape record
the testimony, statements and comments of all persons addressing the
Commission. The Commission shall review and evaluate the application in
accordance with the criteria established in this subchapter. If the Commission
determines that an application merits further consideration or additional
testimony, it may defer its decision until its next regularly scheduled
meeting.
      (2)   The Commission shall make a decision to approve or disallow the
application for a certificate of appropriateness or for a certificate of
hardship within 45 days after the conclusion of the public hearing. A simple
majority of the Commission is necessary for approval of the application for
certificate of appropriateness or for a certificate of hardship. This approval
shall be in the form of a resolution adopted by a majority of the members of
the Commission. The Secretary of the Commission shall notify the applicant(s)
of the Commission’s decision. In addition, the Secretary shall also send notice
of the decision to the City Planning Commission, the City Building Inspector,
and the City Clerk. The Chairperson of the Commission is authorized to sign, on
behalf of the Commission, all certificates of appropriateness and certificates
of hardship.
      (3)   A certificate of appropriateness shall be deemed to be invalid if
changes in the plans submitted to the Commission are made by the owner,
developer or architect or if the building or demolition permit issued for that
project becomes invalid. The certificate of appropriateness and certificate of
hardship shall remain valid for the same period of time as the building or
demolition permit.
§ 32.31 APPEALS.
   (A)   In the event of a denial of an application for a certificate of
appropriateness or for a certificate of hardship, the applicant may, within 15
days of the denial, make an amended application with the Commission, taking
into consideration the Commission’s reasons for the denial. Such amended
applications shall be subject to the procedures specified in §
32.30.
   (B)   In addition, or in the alternative, an aggrieved party with standing
may appeal the Commission's granting or denial of a certificate of
appropriateness or of a certificate of hardship or any other decision of the
Commission to the City Council, upon filing a request for appeal with the City
Clerk within 21 days of the date of the decision from which the appeal is
taken. Any appeal not taken within that time is barred. The City Council shall
then review all facts and matters relevant to the application and the
Commission’s decision. A decision by the City Council to reverse or overturn
the decision of the Commission, whether in whole or in part, must be approved
by a vote of at least a majority of the City Council. The decision of the City
Council shall be final as to all parties involved, except as to judicial review
as provided by law.
§ 32.32 FEES.
   This Historic Preservation Commission is authorized to establish reasonable
filing or processing fees for nominations for Landmark and Historic District
designations and for application for certificates of appropriateness and
certificates of hardship.
COMMITTEES
§ 32.40 ECONOMIC ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Mission/authority.
      (1)   There is hereby created an Economic Advisory Committee of the city,
the mission and purpose of which shall be to serve as partners, working
together to enhance the economic prosperity and quality of life in the
community.
      (2)   The Committee shall be purely investigatory and advisory to the
City Council. The Committee shall not have the authority to contract on behalf
of or bind the city, or the City Council, or to create any liability on the
part of the city.
   (B)   Appointment/composition.
      (1)   The Committee shall consist of 15 members, appointed by the Mayor
of the city, with the advice and consent of the City Council, and shall be
composed of at least 1 member, unless otherwise provided below, from each of
the following interest groups or organizations, to wit:
         (a)   Monticello Community Unit School District No. 25;
         (b)   The John & Mary E. Kirby Hospital;
         (c)   Real estate brokers, agents or developers;
         (d)   The Monticello Chamber of Commerce;
         (e)   Monticello Main Street;
         (f)   Banks within the corporate limits of the city;
         (g)   Automotive dealerships;
         (h)   The industrial/commercial community;
         (i)   The farming community;
         (j)   Two residents at large; and
         (k)   A member of the City Council.
      (2)   Members of the Committee need not be residents of the city.
   (C)   Term. Members of the Economic Advisory Committee shall be appointed
annually.
   (D)   Chairperson. The Committee shall select 1 of its own as Chairperson,
who shall serve in that position for a period of 1 year, and may be reappointed
to that position any number of times.
   (E)   Vacancies/resignation.
      (1)   Committee members may resign on notice to the Chairperson of the
Committee. It shall not be necessary for the Committee to vote to accept a
resignation in order for it to be effective.
      (2)   Committee members may be removed from the Committee by the Mayor of
the city, without cause, with the advice and consent of the City Council.
      (3)   Vacancies on the Committee shall be filled by the Mayor of the
city, with the advice and consent of the City Council, and shall be filled with
a person from the same organization or interest group as the Committee member
whose position is vacant.
   (F)   Procedure. The Committee may establish its own rules of conduct and
procedure; provided, however, that meetings of the Committee shall be subject
to and follow the provisions of the Illinois Open Meetings Act, ILCS Ch. 5, Act
120, §§ 1 et seq.
   (G)   Meetings.
      (1)    The Committee shall have regular meetings, at least once every 2
months, and shall establish and publish its regular meeting dates at its first
meeting of each year. Special meetings may be called by the Chairperson, or any
4 Committee members on written notice to the Chairperson, which notice of
special meeting shall state the date of the meeting and an agenda for the
meeting, and shall be given to the Chairperson at least 3 days prior to the
proposed meeting date. No meeting shall be conducted in the absence of a
quorum.
      (2)   All regular meetings shall be at the City Council Chambers of the
city.
(Ord. 2007-52, passed 9-10-2007; Am. Ord. 2007-67, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 32.41 REVOLVING LOAN FUND COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Mission/authority. The Revolving Loan Fund Committee is hereby
established to assist city staff and the City Council with administering the
city's revolving loan fund program. The Committee is authorized to:
      (1)   Review the revolving loan fund program rules and guidelines,
solicit public feedback, and offer recommendations to the City Council
concerning any such rules and guidelines;
      (2)   Review all applications to receive funds through the revolving loan
fund program, solicit public input, and offer a recommendation to the City
Council concerning any such application;
      (3)   Conduct investigations and offer recommendations to the City
Council concerning matters related to the revolving loan fund program and any
applicant or application seeking funds from the same; and
      (4)   Perform such other acts or duties as directed by the City Council
or the City Administrator, including, without limitation, providing reports and
analyses concerning the revolving loan fund program.
   (B)   Appointment/composition.
      (1)   The Committee shall consist of 5 members appointed by the Mayor
with the advice and consent of the City Council. The members shall include:
         (a)   The City Treasurer;
         (b)   A representative from Central Illinois Bank;
         (c)   A representative from First Mid-Illinois Bank and Trust;
         (d)   A representative from First State Bank; and
         (e)   A representative from State Bank of Bement.
      (2)   Members need not reside in the city to serve on the Committee.
   (C)   Term. The length of each member's term shall be 1 year, however, a
member may continue to serve on the Committee until a replacement member is
named and appointed in accordance with division (B)(1) of this section.
   (D)   Chairperson. By a majority vote, the Committee shall select a member
to serve as Chairperson during that member's term.
   (E)   Resignation. Removal and vacancies.
      (1)   Committee members may resign from the Committee by providing
written notice to the Mayor.
      (2)   Committee members may be removed from the Committee by a majority
vote of the City Council.
      (3)   Vacancies on the Committee shall be filled in the accordance with
division (B)(1) of this section.
   (F)   Procedure. By a majority vote, the Committee may adopt its own rules
of conduct and procedure consistent with the Illinois law, including, without
limitation, the Open Meetings Act (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 120, §§ 1 et seq.).
   (G)   Meetings. The Committee shall meet as needed, with the meeting date,
time, and place to be established by the Committee. All Committee meetings are
subject to the Open Meetings Act.
   (H)   Staff support. The Director of Community Development or his or her
designee shall provide necessary support to the Committee and its activities.
(Ord. 2018-34, passed 8-13-2018)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Fiscal year
Investing
   
33.20   Investment policy
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 FISCAL YEAR.
    The fiscal year for the city shall begin on January 1 of each year and end
on December 31 of the following year.
(Am. Ord. 2013-46, passed 8-12-2013)
INVESTING
§ 33.20 INVESTMENT POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   This policy is adopted by the City Council of the city pursuant to
§ 2.5 of the Illinois Public Funds Investment Act, ILCS Ch. 30, Act 235, § 2.5,
which requires the city to adopt an investment policy to safeguard the city’s
principal and manage the city’s investment portfolio so that it maintains
sufficient liquidity to pay the city’s obligations when they come due while
maximizing the city’s income from its investment portfolio. The purpose of this
investment policy of the city is to establish cash management and investment
guidelines for the stewardship of public funds under the jurisdiction of the
City Council.
      (2)   This investment policy applies to the investment activities of all
funds under the jurisdiction of the city. This investment policy shall also
apply to any new funds or temporary funds placed under the jurisdiction of the
city.
   (B)   Objectives. The specific objectives of this investment policy will be
as follows:
      (1)   Safety of principal;
      (2)   Diversity of investments to avoid unreasonable risks;
      (3)   The portfolio shall remain sufficiently liquid to meet all
operation costs which may be reasonably anticipated;
      (4)   The highest interest rate available will always be the objective of
this policy combined with safety of principal, which is left to the discretion
of the Treasurer of the city, which includes whether or not the city will
require collateralization of any deposits;
      (5)   In maintaining its investment portfolio, the Treasurer of the city
shall avoid any transaction that might impair public confidence in the
Treasurer of the city;
      (6)   The Treasurer of the city will give consideration to a financial
institution’s positive community involvement when the Treasurer is considering
using the financial institution as a depository;
      (7)   All funds will be invested for a period of 1 day or longer,
depending on the requirement for the disbursement of funds; and
      (8)   All funds shall be deposited within 2 working days at prevailing
rates or better in accordance with Illinois Compiled Statutes.
   (C)   Responsibility. All investment of funds under the control of the city
is the direct responsibility of the Treasurer of the city. The Treasurer of the
city shall be responsible for all transactions and shall establish a system of
controls of the activities of all subordinates who are directly involved in the
assistance of such investment activities.
   (D)   Prudence. The standard of prudence to be used by investment officials
shall be the “prudent person rule,” and it shall be applied in the context of
managing an overall portfolio. Investment officers acting in accordance with
written procedures and exercising due diligence shall be relieved of personal
responsibility for any individual securities credit risk or market price
changes, provided that deviations from expectation are reported in a timely
fashion, and appropriate action is taken to control adverse developments.
   (E)   Accounting. All investment transactions shall be recorded by the
Treasurer of the city or his or her designee. A report will be generated at
least monthly, listing all active investments, listing information regarding
securities in portfolio by class or type, book value, interest earned, and
market value as of report date. This report will be made available to the City
of Monticello City Council.
   (F)   Financial institutions.  
      (1)   The Treasurer of the city will have the sole responsibility to
select which financial institutions will be depositories for city funds.
      (2)   The Treasurer of the city will take into consideration security,
size, location, condition, service, fees and the community relations’
involvement of the financial institution when choosing a financial institution.
      (3)   At no time will the city investments exceed 65% of the financial
institution’s capital and surplus.
      (4)   All financial institutions having any type of financial
relationship with the city, such as deposits, investments, loans and the like
are required to provide a complete and current “Call Report” required by their
appropriate regulatory authority each calendar quarter within 30 days of the
“Call” request date.
   (G)   Investment vehicles. The city may use any such investments approved
for governmental units as set forth in the Illinois Public Funds Investment
Act, or the Illinois Compiled Statutes.
   (H)   Collateral. It shall be the discretion of the Treasurer of the city to
determine whether or not collateral will be required for financial institutions
receiving funds from the city. At all times the Treasurer of the city will
require that deposits in excess of 35% of the capital and surplus of a
financial institution will be collateralized. The Treasurer of the city may
request collateral for any part of deposits in financial institutions when the
Treasurer of the city determines it to be necessary to safeguard the funds on
deposit.
      (1)   When collateral is required, 110% of the deposit will be required.
Only the following collateral will be accepted:
         (a)   U.S. Government direct securities;
         (b)   Obligations of federal agencies;
         (c)   Obligations of federal instrumentalities;
         (d)   Obligations of the State of Illinois;
         (e)   Obligations of the County of Piatt;
         (f)   Obligations of municipalities located within the County of
Piatt, subject to acceptance by the city;
         (g)   Acceptable collateral as identified in the Illinois Compiled
Statutes for use by the Treasurer of the State of Illinois;
         (h)   Securities or mortgages in an amount equal to at least market
value of that amount of funds deposited exceeding the insurance limitation
provided by the FDIC or the National Credit Union; or
         (i)   Administration or other approved share insurer.
      (2)   Investments shall be made with judgment and care, under
circumstances then prevailing, which persons of prudence, discretion and
intelligence exercise in the management of their own affairs, not for
speculation, but for investment, considering the probable safety of their
capital as well as the possible income to be derived.
      (3)   The above standard is established as the standard for professional
responsibility and shall be applied in the contest of managing the city’s
portfolio, and shall be construed consistent with the Illinois Public Funds
Investment Act, ILCS Ch. 30, Act 235, §§ 1 et seq. and all other Illinois
statutes and Constitutional provisions regarding conflicts of interest and
ethical considerations.
   (I)   Security controls. Only the Treasurer of the city is authorized to
establish financial investment accounts for the city. At all times either the
Treasurer of the city or other signatory as designated by the Treasurer of the
city shall be the only person(s) authorized to sign on investment accounts of
the City of Monticello.
CHAPTER 34: TAXATION
Section
   
34.01   Foreign Fire Insurance Companies Tax
   
34.02   (Reserved)
   
34.03   (Reserved)
   
34.04   (Reserved)
   
34.05   Municipal Automobile Renting Occupation Tax
   
34.06   Municipal Automobile Renting Use Tax
   
34.07   Locally Imposed and Administered Tax Rights and Responsibility
   
34.08   Hotel/Motel Tax
Cross-reference:
   Telecommunications Infrastructure Maintenance Fee, see
Chapter 117 of this code of ordinances
§ 34.01 FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES TAX.
   (A)   Compliance required. It shall be unlawful for any corporation or
association not incorporated under the laws of the State of Illinois to engage
in effecting fire insurance in the city without fully complying with the
provisions of this section.
   (B)   Tax. Any such corporation or association shall pay to the Treasurer,
for the maintenance, use and benefit of the Fire Department, a sum of money
equal to 2% of the gross receipts each year received for premiums by any and
all agents of the corporation or association or received as premiums in any way
for fire insurance policies on any property in the city. The payments shall be
made for the year ending July 1 of each year.
   (C)   Time of payment. All payment under the provisions of this section
shall be made on or before July 15 following the termination of the year for
which the payments are due.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-10-1)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.02 (RESERVED).
§ 34.03 (RESERVED).
§ 34.04 (RESERVED).
§ 34.05 MUNICIPAL AUTOMOBILE RENTING OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   Tax. A tax is hereby imposed on all persons engaged in the business of
renting automobiles in this city at the rate of 1% of the gross receipts of the
rentals made in the course of the business.
    (B)   Report. Every person engaged in such business in the city shall file
on or before the last day of each calendar month the report to the Illinois
Department of Revenue required by §§ 2 and 3 of the Retailer’s Occupation Tax
Act, being ILCS Ch. 35, Act 120.
   (C)   Payment. At the time the report is filed, there shall be paid to the
Illinois Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of
renting of automobiles during the preceding month.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-7; ILCS Ch. 35;
    ILCS Ch. 35, Act 120, §§ 1 et seq.
§ 34.06 MUNICIPAL AUTOMOBILE RENTING USE TAX.
   (A)   Tax. A tax is hereby imposed upon the privilege of using in this city
an automobile which is rented from a renter outside of Illinois and which is
titled or registered with an agency of this state’s government in this city, at
the rate of 1% of the rental price of the automobile.
   (B)   Collection. The tax provided for in this section shall be collected by
the Illinois Department of Revenue from persons whose Illinois address for
titling or registration purposes is given as being within the city.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-8; ILCS Ch. 35, Act 105, §§ et seq.; ILCS Ch. 35,
Act 155, § 4)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Ch. 24, Par. 8-11-8
§ 34.07 LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACT.  The Local Government Taxpayers’ Bill of Rights Act, being ILCS Ch.
50, Act 45.
      CITY.  The City of Monticello, Illinois.
      CORPORATE AUTHORITIES. The City’s Mayor and City Council.
      LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The City’s Treasurer who is charged with the
administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes,
including staff, employees, or agents to the extent they are authorized by the
Local Tax Administrator to act in the Local Tax Administrator’s stead. The
Local Tax Administrator shall have the authority to implement the terms of this
section to give full effect to this section. The exercise of such authority by
the Local Tax Administrator shall not be inconsistent with this section and the
Act.
      LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX or TAX. Each tax imposed by the city
that is collected or administered by the city, not an agency or department of
the state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
Property Tax Code or fees collected by the city other than infrastructure
maintenance fees.
      NOTICE. The audit notice, collection notice, or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the city’s locally imposed and
administered taxes.
      TAX ORDINANCE. Each ordinance adopted by the city that imposes any
locally imposed and administered tax.
      TAXPAYER. Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered
tax and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of the tax
is placed, and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
city.
   (B)   Notices.  Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be
given, the notice is to be in writing mailed not less than 7 calendar days
prior to the day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit, or other scheduled
act of the Local Tax Administrator. The notice shall be sent by the Local Tax
Administrator as follows:
      (1)   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the persons’ last known address; or
      (2)   Personal service or delivery.
   (C)   Late payment. Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required
to be made to the city pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late
unless it is either physically received by the city on or before the due date,
or received in an envelope or other container displaying a valid, readable U.S.
postmark dated on or before the due date, properly addressed to the city, with
adequate postage prepaid.
   (D)   Payment.  Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be
applied in the following order: first to the tax due for the applicable period;
second to the interest due for the applicable period; and third to the penalty
for the applicable period.
   (E)   Certain credits and refunds.
      (1) The city shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid
without written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally
imposed and administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional
by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed
to have paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts
upon which to protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid
the taxes under duress.
      (2)   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be
2 years after the end of the calendar year in which payment in error was made.
The city shall not grant a credit or refund of locally imposed and administered
taxes, interest, or penalties to a person who has not paid the amounts directly
to the city.
      (3)   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed
and administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as
follows:
         (a)    The taxpayer shall submit to the Local Tax Administrator in
writing a claim for credit or refund, together with a statement specifying:
            1.   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject
to the claim;
            2.   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
            3.   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the
canceled check or receipt for the payment;
            4.   The taxpayer’s recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
            5.   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with
the claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest, and penalties overpaid,
and, as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however,
that there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer
owes any monies to the city.
         (b)   Within 30 calendar days of the receipt by the Local Tax
Administrator of any claim for a refund or credit, the Local Tax Administrator
shall either:
            1.   Grant the claim; or
            2.    Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a
statement as to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      (4)   In the event the Local Tax Administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of the current local passbook interest
rate per annum, based on a year of 365 days and the number of days elapsed,
from the date of the overpayment to the date of mailing of a refund check or
the grant of a credit.
   (F)   Audit procedure. Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local
administered tax shall comply with the notice requirements of this section.
      (1) Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
         (a)   The tax;
         (b)   The time period of the audit; and
         (c)   A brief description of the books and records to be made
available for the auditor.
      (2)   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours, and if
the date and time selected by the Local Tax Administrator is not agreeable to
the taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within 30
calendar days after the originally designated audit and during normal business
hours.
      (3)   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than 7 days nor more than 30
calendar days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer and the
Local Tax Administrator agreed to some other convenient time. In the event
taxpayer is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question, the
taxpayer may request another date within the 30 calendar days, approved in
writing, that is convenient to the taxpayer and the Local Tax Administrator.
      (4)   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the
taxpayer’s business or activities, including original source documents and
books of entry denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given
rise to any tax liability, exemption, or deduction. All books shall be kept in
the English language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by
the city.
      (5)   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make
available its books and records for inspection by the city. If the taxpayer
fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the time provided,
the Local Tax Administrator may issue a tax determination and assessment based
on the Tax Administrator’s determination of the best estimate of the taxpayer’s
tax liability.
      (6)   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within 30 calendar days of
the city’s determination of the amount of overpayment.
      (7)   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the Local Tax Administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing the tax.
   (G)   Appeal.
      (1)   The Local Tax Administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the Local Tax Administrator’s issuance of a protestable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial, or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The
notice shall include the following information:
         (a)   The reason for the assessment;
         (b)   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
         (c)   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
         (d)   The obligations of the city during the audit, appeal, refund,
and collection process.
      (2)   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the Local Tax
Administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the
Local Tax Administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting
forth the basis of the taxpayer’s request for a hearing. The written protest
and petition for hearing must be filed with the Local Tax Administrator within
45 days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination and
assessment.
      (3)   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the
Local Tax Administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within 30 calendar days of receipt of the written protest and petition for
hearing, unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
      (4)   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within
the 45-day period, the tax determination, audit, or assessment shall become a
final bill due owing without further notice.
      (5)   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the Local Tax Administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than 90 days after the expiration of the 45-day period.
   (H)   Hearing.
      (1)   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under division (G) above, the Local Tax
Administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any appeal.
      (2)   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a
continuance is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack
of preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed 14 days.
      (3)   At the hearing the Local Tax Administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination,
audit, or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial
proceedings shall not apply.
      (4)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the Local Tax Administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision.
   (I)   Interest and penalties. In the event a determination has been made
that a tax is due and owing, through audit, assessment, or other bill sent, the
tax must be paid within the timeframe otherwise indicated.
      (1)   Interest. The city hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax to be the
current local passbook rate per annum, based on a year of 365 days and the
number of days elapsed.
      (2)   Late filing and payment penalties.  If a tax return is not filed
within the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late
filing penalty of 5% of the amount of tax required to be shown as due on a
return shall be imposed; and a late payment penalty of 5% of the tax due shall
be imposed. If no return is filed within the time or manner provided by the
controlling tax ordinance and prior to the city issuing a notice of tax
delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure to file penalty shall be
assessed equal to 15% of the total tax due for the applicable reporting period
for which the return was required to be filed. A late filing or payment penalty
shall not apply if a failure to file penalty is imposed by the controlling
ordinance.
   (J)   Abatement. The Local Tax Administrator shall have the authority to
waive or abate any late filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file
penalty if the Local Tax Administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists
for delay or failure to make a filing.
   (K)   Installment contracts. The city may enter into an installment contract
with the taxpayer for the payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance.
The Local Tax Administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered
unless the taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice
by the Local Tax Administrator that the payment is 30 calendar days delinquent,
the taxpayer shall have 14 calendar days to cure any delinquency. If the
taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency within the 14 calendar-day period or
fails to demonstrate good faith in restructuring the installment contract with
the Local Tax Administrator, the installment contract shall be canceled without
further notice to the taxpayer.
   (L)   Statute of limitations. The city, through the Local Tax Administrator,
shall review all tax returns in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers
of any amounts due and owing. The taxpayer shall have 45 days after receiving
notice of the reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide
any tax still due and owing.
      (1)   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than 2
years after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
      (2)   If any tax return is not filed or, if during any 4-year period for
which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the city,
the tax paid was less than 75% of the tax due, the statute of limitations shall
be 6 years maximum after the end of the calendar year in which return for the
applicable period was due or end of the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was filed.
      (3)   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return
was filed by the taxpayer.
   (M)   Voluntary disclosure. For any locally imposed and administered tax for
which a taxpayer has not received a written notice of an audit, investigation,
or assessment from the Local Tax Administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file
an application with the Local Tax Administrator for a voluntary disclosure of
the tax due. A taxpayer filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to
pay the amount of tax due, along with interest of 1% per month, for all periods
prior to the filing of the application but not more than 4 years before the
date of filing the application. A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure
application may not be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for
any period before the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer
incorrectly determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is
liable for the underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid
tax, unless the underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the
taxpayer, in which case the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The
payment of tax and interest must be made by no later than 90 days after the
filing of the voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to by the
Local Tax Administrator. However, any additional amounts owed as a result of an
underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this section must be
paid within 90 days after a final determination and the exhaustion of all
appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed to by the Local Tax
Administrator, whichever is longer.
   (N)   Publication of tax ordinances. Any locally administered tax ordinance
shall be published via normal or standard publishing requirements. Copies of
all tax ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the
City Clerk’s office.
   (O)    Lien review procedures. The Local Tax Administrator shall establish
an internal review procedure regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers
for unpaid taxes. Upon a determination by the Local Tax Administrator that the
lien is valid, the lien shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is
determined to be improper, the Local Tax Administrator shall:
      (1)   Timely remove the lien at the city’s expense;
      (2)   Correct the taxpayer’s credit record; and
      (3)   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien.
   (P)   Application. This section shall be liberally construed and
administered to supplement all of the city’s tax ordinances. To the extent that
any tax ordinance is in conflict with or inconsistent with this section, this
section shall be controlling.
§ 34.08 HOTEL/MOTEL TAX.
   (A)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CITY.  The City of Monticello, Illinois.
      CITY TREASURER.  The City Treasurer of the City of Monticello.
      HOTEL ACCOMMODATIONS; MOTEL ACCOMMODATIONS. A room or rooms, within a
structure, offered for rental on a daily basis and containing facilities for
sleeping.
      PERMANENT RESIDENT. Any person who occupies or has the right to occupy
any room or rooms in a hotel or motel for at least 60 consecutive days.
      PERSON. Any natural person, receiver, administrator, executor,
conservator, assignee, trust, estate, firm, copartnership, joint venture, club,
company, business trust, domestic or foreign corporation, association,
syndicate, society, or any group of individuals acting as a unit, whether
mutual, cooperative, fraternal, nonprofit, or otherwise. Whenever the term
PERSON is used in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the term as
applied to associations shall mean the owners or part owners thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers thereof.
   (B)   Tax imposed. There is hereby and shall immediately accrue and be
collected a tax upon the rental or leasing of any hotel or motel accommodation
in the city, at the rate of 5% of the gross rental or leasing charge.
   (C)    Liability for tax.  The ultimate incidence of and liability for
payment of the tax shall be borne by the lessee or tenant of the hotel or motel
accommodations. The tax herein levied shall be in addition to any and all other
taxes. It shall be the duty of every owner, manager, or operator of hotel or
motel accommodations to secure the tax from the lessee or tenant of the hotel
or motel accommodations and remit to the city that tax under rules and
regulations prescribed by the City Treasurer and as otherwise provided in this
section.
   (D)   Collection of tax.  The tax herein levied shall be secured by the
hotel owner, manager, or operator from the lessee or tenant when collecting the
price, charge, or rent to which it applies. Every lessee or tenant shall be
given a bill invoice, receipt, or other statement or memorandum of the price,
charge or rent payable upon which the hotel or motel accommodations tax shall
be stated, charged, and shown separately.
   (E)   Filing of return. Every owner, manager, or operator of hotel or motel
accommodations within the city shall file a tax return on a monthly basis with
the City Treasurer on forms prescribed by the Treasurer, showing tax receipts
received with respect to hotel or motel accommodations rented or leased during
the preceding monthly period. At the time of filing of the tax return, the
owner, manager, or operator of hotel or motel accommodations shall remit the
city all taxes collected for a period to which the tax return applies. The
dates upon which the monthly returns are to be filed shall be provided by rules
and regulations promulgated by the City Treasurer.
   (F)   Failure to pay, collect, or remit tax. If for any reason any tax is
not collected or remitted when due, a penalty at the rate of 2% per month on
the amount of tax which remains unremitted shall be added and collected.
Whenever any person shall fail to pay, collect, or remit any tax as herein
provided, upon the request of the City Treasurer, the City Attorney shall bring
or cause to be brought an action to enforce compliance in any court of
competent jurisdiction.
   (G)   Record-keeping. Every owner, manager, or operator of hotel
accommodations in the city shall keep books and records showing the prices,
rents, or charges made or charged, and occupancies taxable under this section.
The City Treasurer, or his or her designate, shall at all reasonable times have
full access to the books and records.
   (H)   Exemption. The tax imposed under this section shall not apply to the
renting or leasing of any hotel or motel accommodations to permanent residents.
If hotel or motel accommodations are provided for both permanent residents and
other guests, the rental obtained from the permanent residents shall not be
included in the computation of the tax due.
   (I)   Disposition of proceeds of tax. All proceeds resulting from the
imposition of the tax under this section, including penalties, shall be paid
into the treasury of the city, to be used solely for the purpose of promoting
tourism and conventions within the city or otherwise to attract nonresident
overnight visitors to the city. No funds received from this tax shall be used
to advertise for or otherwise promote new competition in the hotel business.
   (J)   Violation; fine.  Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying,
omitting, neglecting, or refusing to comply with or resisting or opposing the
enforcement of any of the provisions of this section, except when otherwise
specifically provided, upon judgment therefor, shall be punished by a fine of
not less than $100 nor more than $750. Each day of violation shall constitute a
separate and distinct offense.
   (K)   Application. This section shall be liberally construed and
administered to supplement all of the city’s tax ordinances. To the extent that
any tax ordinance is in conflict with or inconsistent with this section, this
section shall be controlling.
CHAPTER 35: PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
Emergency Services and Disaster Agency
   
35.01   Purpose and composition
   
35.02   Coordinator
Police Department
   
35.30   Creation of Department
   
35.31   Office of Chief created
   
35.32   Appointments
   
35.33   Duties of the Chief
   
35.34   Duties of Department
   
35.35   Serving processes
   
35.36   Conduct of members
   
35.37   Witness fees
   
35.38   Police and procedures
   
35.39   Auxiliary police
   
35.40   Custody of stolen property
   
35.41   Appointment/removal
   
35.42   Hiring standards for part-time officers
   
35.43   Position of Deputy Chief created
   
35.44   Position of Lieutenant created
Cross-reference:
   Fire Department, see
Chapter 92 of this code of ordinances
   Police Pension Fund, see §
32.03
EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY
§ 35.01 PURPOSE AND COMPOSITION.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Monticello ESDA to prevent, minimize,
repair, and alleviate injury or damage resulting from disaster caused by enemy
attack, sabotage, or other hostile action, or from natural or manmade disaster,
in accordance with the Illinois Emergency Services and Disaster Act of 1975,
ILCS Ch. 20, Act 3305.
        (B)   This ESDA shall consist of the Coordinator and any additional
members as may be selected by the Coordinator.
§ 35.02 COORDINATOR.
   (A)   The Coordinator of the City ESDA shall be appointed by the Mayor and
shall serve until removed by same.
   (B)   The Coordinator shall have direct responsibility for the organization,
administration, training, and operation of the ESDA, subject to the direction
and control of the Mayor as provided by statute.
   (C)   In the event of absence, resignation, death, or inability to serve as
the Coordinator, the Mayor or any person designated by him or her shall be and
act as Coordinator until a new appointment is made as provided in this
subchapter.
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 35.30 CREATION OF DEPARTMENT.
   There is hereby created a Police Department, an executive department of the
city. The Police Department shall consist of the Chief of Police and of any
other members as may be provided from time to time by the Mayor and City
Council.
§ 35.31 OFFICE OF CHIEF CREATED.
   There is hereby created the Office of Chief of Police. He or she shall be ex
officio City Marshal and Superintendent of Police.
§ 35.32 APPOINTMENTS.
    All appointments and promotions of full-time police officers within the
Police Department of the city, except that of the Chief of Police, shall be
made by the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners, as provided by statute. The
appointment, discipline and discharge of part-time police officers within the
Police Department of the city shall be by the Chief of Police.
(Am. Ord. 2008-48, passed 8-25-2008)
§ 35.33 DUTIES OF THE CHIEF.
   The Chief of Police shall keep such records and make reports concerning the
activities of his or her Department as may be required by statute or by the
corporate authorities. The Chief shall be responsible for the performance of
the Police Department, in all of its functions, and all persons who are members
of the Department shall serve subject to the orders of the Chief of Police.
§ 35.34 DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the members of the Police Department to see to the
enforcement of all of the ordinances of the city including the Municipal Code
and all statutes applicable herein; and to preserve order and prevent
infractions of the law and arrest violators thereof.
§ 35.35 SERVING PROCESSES.
   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to serve summons and other
processes, but no other police officer shall serve any such summons or process
except on the order of the Chief of Police or the Mayor.
§ 35.36 CONDUCT OF MEMBERS.
   It shall be the duty of every member of the Police Department to conduct
himself or herself in a proper and law abiding manner at all times, and to
avoid the use of unnecessary force. Each member of the Department shall obey
the orders and directions of his or her superior.
§ 35.37 WITNESS FEES.
   Any member of the Police Department shall appear as witness whenever this is
necessary in a prosecution for a violation of this code or of any state or
federal law. No such member shall retain any witness fee for service as witness
in any action or suit to which the city is a party; and fees paid for those
services shall be turned over to the Chief of Police, who shall deposit the
same with the City Treasurer.
§ 35.38 POLICE AND PROCEDURES.
   The Chief of Police of the City of Monticello has the authority by virtue of
his or her office and position to adopt any Police Department policies and
procedures that he or she deems appropriate. The personnel policies and
procedures adopted by the Chief of Police, including grievance procedures,
shall only be affected by specific action taken by the Mayor and City Council
of the city to either augment or contravene the policies and procedures.
  § 35.39 AUXILIARY POLICE.
   (A)   Appointment of auxiliary police officers. Pursuant to ILCS Ch. 65, Act
5, § 3.1-30-20, the Chief of Police may appoint, with the advice and consent of
the City Council, such numbers of auxiliary police officers as may be necessary
to carry out the duties set forth in this section.
   (B)   “Auxiliary police officer” defined. Auxiliary police officers shall
not be members of the regular Police Department of the city established in §
35.03 of this chapter, and shall not supplement members of the regular Police
Department, in the performance of their assigned and normal duties except as
provided in division (C) of this section.
   (C)   Duties. Auxiliary police officers shall only be assigned to perform
the following duties:
      (1)   To aid or direct traffic within the city;
      (2)   To aid in control of natural or manmade disasters; and
      (3)   To aid in case of civil disorder as directed by the Chief of
Police.
   (D)   Direction and control. Auxiliary police officers shall at all times be
subject to the direction and control of the Chief of Police and the existing
rank structure of the City of Monticello Police Department.
   (E)   Eligibility. Prior to appointment as an auxiliary police officer, the
person’s fingerprints shall be taken, and no person shall be appointed as an
auxiliary police officer if that person has been convicted of a felony or other
crime involving moral turpitude. A person must be a resident of the City of
Monticello to be eligible for appointment.
   (F)   Training. All auxiliary police officers shall complete a training
program directed or approved by the Chief of Police and in accordance with
statutory and Illinois Law Enforcement Training and Standards Board
requirements prior to appointment.
   (G)   Firearms. Auxiliary police officers shall not carry firearms, except
with the permission of the Chief of Police, and while in uniform and in the
performance of their duties. No auxiliary police officer may be granted
permission, by the Chief of Police, to carry a firearm while in uniform and in
the performance of their duties unless the officer has successfully completed
the Mandatory Firearms Training Course for auxiliary officers without
“conservator of the peace” powers as required by Illinois Law Enforcement
Training and Standards Board policy.
   (H)   Identification. Identification symbols worn by auxiliary police
officers shall be different and distinct from those used by members of the
regular Police Department.
   (I)   Compensation. Auxiliary police officers shall be volunteers and shall
not be entitled to compensation of any form.
   (J)   Termination. Auxiliary police officers may be terminated at any time,
without cause or notice, by the Chief of Police.
(Am. Ord. 2010-18, passed 4-26-2010; Am. Ord. 2011-23, passed 5-9-2011; Am.
Ord. 2013-67, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 35.40 CUSTODY OF STOLEN PROPERTY.
   The Chief of Police shall be the custodian of all lost and abandoned or
stolen property in the city.
§ 35.41 APPOINTMENT/REMOVAL.
   Pursuant to ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 10-2.1-4 et seq., the City Council of the
city hereby declares and directs that the power to appoint, remove and/or
discharge persons to or from the office of Chief of Police of the city is
hereby vested in the Mayor of the city, with the advice and consent of the City
Council, which together is hereby declared to be the appointing authority for
the Chief of Police of the city.
§ 35.42 HIRING STANDARDS FOR PART-TIME OFFICERS.
   (A)   Employment. The City of Monticello may employ part-time police
officers from time to time as it deems necessary.
   (B)   Duties. A part-time police officer shall have all the responsibilities
of a full-time police officer and such specific duties as delineated in the
General Orders of the Monticello Police Department, but the number of hours a
part-time officer may work within a calendar year is restricted. Part-time
police officers shall not be assigned to supervise of direct full-time police
officers. Part-time police officers shall be trained in accordance with the
Illinois Police Training Act (ILCS Ch. 50, Act 705, §§ 1 et seq.) and the rules
and requirements of the Illinois Law Enforcement Training and Standards Board
(ILETSB).
   (C)   Hiring standards. The following are hereby established as the hiring
standards for part-time police officers employed by the city, to wit:
      (1)   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health,
and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties;
      (2)   Be at least 24 years of age;
      (3)   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate;
      (4)   Pass a medical examination;
      (5)   Must have at least 1 year of police work experience or currently
employed in police work;
      (6)   Must be certified part-time or full-time police officer prior to
being hired;
      (7)   Must pass a background check and have a current and valid Illinois
driver’s license;
      (8)   Must not have been convicted of a felony offense, or other crime
involving moral turpitude;
      (9)   Any individual who has served in the U.S. military must have been
honorably discharged;
      (10)   Part-time officers must be trained in accordance to Illinois Law
Enforcement Training and Standards Board (ILETSB) requirements; and
      (11)   Part-time officers are allowed to work a maximum of 1,560 hours
per year or 160 hours every 28 days, unless exemption is provided by ILETSB.
   (D)   Discipline. Part-time officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the Chief of Police. Part-time police officers serve at the
discretion of the city authorities, shall not have any property rights in said
employment, and may be removed by the city authorities at any time. Part-time
police officers shall comply with all applicable rules and General Orders
issued by the Police Department.
(Am. Ord. 2012-38, passed 11-26-2012; Am. Ord. 2022-17, passed 5-9-2022)
§ 35.43 POSITION OF DEPUTY CHIEF CREATED.
   There is hereby created the position of Deputy Chief of Police, which
position shall be subject to the following limitations or authorizations:
   (A)   No more than 1 Deputy Chief position shall exist and the position
shall be an exempt rank, immediately below that of the Chief of Police;
   (B)   The Deputy Chief of Police shall be appointed by the Chief of Police;
   (C)   The Deputy Chief may be appointed from any rank of sworn, full-time
officers of the Police Department; but must have at least 5 years of full-time
service as a police officer in the city;
   (D)   The Deputy Chief shall serve at the discretion of the Chief of Police
and may be removed from that position by the Chief of Police, without cause, at
the discretion of the Chief of Police;
   (E)   Upon removal from the position of Deputy Chief, the officer shall
revert to the rank currently held, without regard to whether a vacancy exists
in that rank; and
   (F)   A Deputy Chief of Police, having been appointed from any rank of
sworn, full-time officers of the Police Department, shall be permitted,
regardless of rank, to take promotional exams and be promoted to a higher
classified rank than he or she currently holds, without having to resign as
Deputy Chief of Police.
§ 35.44 POSITION OF LIEUTENANT CREATED.
   There is hereby created the position of Police Lieutenant.
(Ord. 2015-10, passed 3-9-2015)
CHAPTER 36: CITY POLICIES
Section
   
36.01   State Officials and Employees Ethics Act
   
36.02   Employees
Cross-reference:
   Investment policy, see § 33.10
§ 36.01 STATE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT.
   (A)   The regulations of ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 5-15 and Ch. 5, Act 430, §§
10-10 through 10-40 of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act, ILCS Ch.
5, Act 430, §§ 1-1 et seq., (hereinafter referred to as the “Act” in this
section) are hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to the officers
and employees of the city to the extent required by ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-
5.
   (B)   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or
accepted under the Act, by any officer or any employee of the city, is hereby
prohibited.
   (C)   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to an
officer or employee for the city, under the Act, is hereby prohibited.
   (D)   The participation in political activities prohibited under the Act, by
any officer or employee of the city, is hereby prohibited.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, the terms officer and employee shall be
defined as set forth in ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5(c).
   (F)    The penalties for violations of this section shall be the same as
those penalties set forth in ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 50-5 for similar violations
of the Act.
   (G)   This section does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of city officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this section, however, the provisions of this section shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 10-40.
   (H)   Any amendment to the Act that becomes effective after the effective
date of this section shall be incorporated into this section by reference and
shall be applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of
gifts, and to prohibited political activities. However, any amendment that
makes its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be
incorporated into this section by reference without formal action by the
corporate authorities of the city.
Statutory reference:
   State Officials and Employees Ethics Act, see ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, §§ 1-1 et
seq.
§ 36.02 EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Interference with performance of duties. No person shall interfere
with or hinder any officer or employee of the city while that officer or
employee is engaged in the duties of his or her office or employment.
   (B)   Inspections. Any officer or employee of the city who is authorized to
enforce this code may make such inspections as may be necessary to see to the
enforcement of the Municipal Code.
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
Chapter
   
50.   RESIDENTIAL WASTE
   
51.   WATER REGULATIONS
   
52.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
   
53.   SEWER REGULATIONS
   
54.   GAS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 50: RESIDENTIAL WASTE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Intent
   
50.02   Definitions
Licensed Haulers
   
50.15   License required
   
50.16   License
   
50.17   Competitive procurement process
   
50.18   Fee
   
50.19   Vehicles transporting waste
   
50.20   Revocation of license
Waste Preparation and Collection
   
50.30   Approved containers
   
50.31   (Reserved)
   
50.32   Additional services
   
50.33   Hours
   
50.34   Placement for collection
   
50.35   Hazardous waste
Disposal
   
50.45   Title to waste
   
50.46   Disposal
   
50.47   Depositing residential waste on another’s property
Rates and Charges
   
50.60   Rates
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 INTENT.
   (A)   The intent of these regulations is to provide a structure for the
collection of residential waste that:
      (1)   Encourages the separation and recycling of waste which is
recyclable, so as to relieve the burden of the storage of the waste on the
environment.
   (B)   This chapter does not apply to the hauling of construction waste or
landscape waste, or to waste generated by commercial establishments.
   (C)   This chapter contains the exclusive methods for the disposition of
residential waste allowed in the city.
(Am. Ord. 2015-02, passed 1-26-2015; Am. Ord. 2019-13, passed 2-25-2019)
§ 50.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED CONTAINERS. Those bags, totes, and recycling containers specified
in §
50.30(A) and (B) in which customers may place residential waste and recyclable
materials for collection.
   CONSTRUCTION WASTE. Leftover, excess or damaged materials, or the containers
therefor, or coverings thereof, resulting from the demolition, remodeling and/
or construction of improvements to property.
   GARBAGE.  Waste resulting from the handling, processing, preparation,
cooking, and consumption of food, and wastes from the handling, processing,
storage, and sale of produce.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. A waste, or combination of wastes, which because of its
quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical, or infectious characteristics
may cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an
increase in serious, irreversible, or incapacitating reversible illness; pose a
substantial present or potential hazard to human health or the environment when
improperly treated, stored, transported, or disposed of, or otherwise managed,
and which has been identified, by characteristics or listing, as hazardous
pursuant to § 3001 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, Pub.
L. No. 94-580, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq., or pursuant to Council
regulations.
   LANDSCAPE WASTE. All accumulations of grass or shrubbery cuttings, leaves,
tree limbs and other materials accumulated as the result of the care of lawns,
shrubbery, vines, and trees.
   LICENSED HAULER. Any person, firm, corporation, or company in the business
of collecting and/or hauling residential waste or recyclable material over and
upon the streets of the city, and licensed according to the requirements of
this chapter.
   RECYCLABLE MATERIAL.  Material that is separated from residential waste
according to guidelines established by a licensed hauler for the purpose of
recycling, including but not limited to, ferrous metal cans, aluminum
containers, glass, plastic, which shall include HDPE, PET containers and
plastics #3 through #7, newsprint, corrugated paper, junk mail, magazines,
office paper and boxboard.
   RESIDENTIAL WASTE. Garbage and general household waste, trash and refuse,
and it includes recyclable materials. It does not include landscape waste,
construction waste, or waste generated by commercial establishments.
(Am. Ord. 2015-02, passed 1-26-2015; Am. Ord. 2019-13, passed 2-25-2019)
LICENSED HAULERS
§ 50.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation, or company shall engage in the business
of collecting and/or hauling residential waste or recyclable material over and
upon the streets of the city unless the person, firm, corporation, or company
shall be licensed therefor by the City of Monticello.
   (B)   The licensee, by receiving a license and residential waste hauling
contract from the city, shall be deemed to have entered into an indemnity
agreement with the city whereby the licensee agrees to indemnify, defend, and
hold the city harmless from all costs, expenses and liabilities, including
attorneys’ fees and court costs, resulting from or arising out of any claim,
demand, or cause of action for damage to persons or property caused, or
allegedly caused, by licensee or licensee’s employees in the city.
   (C)   As a condition to each license, the licensed hauler must maintain
current, effective, and binding certificates of insurance on file with the City
Clerk throughout the term of the license, naming the city as an additional
insured, for the following types of insurance, unless other insurance is agreed
to between the parties in the residential waste hauling contract:
      (1)   Worker’s compensation. The licensed hauler must carry with a
company authorized under the laws of the State of Illinois a policy to protect
itself against liability under the Worker’s Compensation and Occupational
Diseases statutes of the State of Illinois;
      (2)   Motor vehicle liability insurance. The licensed hauler shall carry
in its own name a policy under a comprehensive form to insure the entire motor
vehicle liability for its operations with limits not less than:
         (a)   One million dollars ($1,000,000) for each person and $1,000,000
for each accident for bodily injury and death liability; and
         (b)   One million dollars ($1,000,000) for each accident for property
damage liability;
      (3)   General liability. The licensed hauler shall carry in its own name
a commercial general liability insurance policy with the following limits of
liability:
         (a)   One million dollars ($1,000,000) combined single limit per
occurrence for bodily injury, and property damage;
         (b)   One million dollars ($1,000,000) per occurrence for personal
injury; and
         (c)   A general aggregate limit of liability shall be twice the
required occurrence limit, and no less than $3,000,000;
      (4)   Employer’s liability. The licensed hauler shall carry in its own
name an employer’s liability policy with limits of $1,000,000 per accident.
(Am. Ord. 2015-02, passed 1-26-2015; Am. Ord. 2019-13, passed 2-25-2019; Am.
Ord. 2022-50, passed 11-28-2022)
§ 50.16 LICENSE.
   The number of licensed haulers shall not exceed 1 under the terms of a
residential waste hauling franchise contract between the city and the hauler.
No applicant shall be granted a license unless the applicant shall have the
proper and necessary vehicles, machinery and other equipment for properly
taking care of and disposing of residential waste in conformity with this
chapter and the health regulations of the state, the County of Piatt, and the
city. No license shall be granted to any applicant who has been guilty of any
willful violation of this chapter or any other health or sanitary regulations
of the city, or is in default on any contract with the city.
(Am. Ord. 2015-02, passed 1-26-2015; Am. Ord. 2019-13, passed 2-25-2019; Am.
Ord. 2022-50, passed 11-28-2022)
§ 50.17  COMPETITIVE PROCUREMENT PROCESS.  
   The licensed hauler shall be selected through a competitive procurement
process. The residential waste hauling franchise contract awarded may be for
multiple years as decided by the City Council to be in the best interests of
the city.
(Am. Ord. 2015-02, passed 1-26-2015; Am. Ord. 2019-13, passed 2-25-2019; Am.
Ord. 2022-50, passed 11-28-2022)
§ 50.18 FEE.
   The licensed hauler shall pay fees, if any, to the city as set forth in the
residential waste hauling franchise contract between the hauler and the city.
(Am. Ord. 2010-01, passed 1-11-2010; Am. Ord. 2015-02, passed 1-26-2015; Am.
Ord. 2019-13, passed 2-25-2019; Am. Ord. 2022-50, passed 11-28-2022)
§ 50.19 VEHICLES TRANSPORTING WASTE.
   All vehicles used in the collection and/or transportation of residential
waste shall conform to the following requirements:
   (A)   They shall at all times be kept in a neat, clean and sanitary
condition;
   (B)   They shall be kept thoroughly cleaned so that when empty they will
give off no offensive or obnoxious odors;
   (C)   They shall not be overloaded;
   (D)   They shall not allow any fluids being hauled to leak from the bed onto
a public street or right- of-way;
   (E)   They shall not be parked on the streets of the city in any 1 place for
a period longer than is necessary to load the waste of the customer being
immediately served;
   (F)   They shall at all times be kept neatly painted and easily identifiable
with the licensed hauler’s name and the website required under §
50.32 of this chapter; and
   (G)   They shall not be driven or operated by anyone not of good moral
character.
(Am. Ord. 2015-02, passed 1-26-2015; Am. Ord. 2019-13, passed 2-25-2019)
§ 50.20 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   If, during the period covered by the license granted, the licensee shall
fail to keep his, her, or its equipment in good repair, or fail to keep the
same in a sanitary condition when not in use, or fail to keep the same up to
standards required by this chapter, or fail to obey any of the provisions of
this chapter, or fail to give adequate service to customers, the license may be
revoked in accordance with the terms of the residential waste hauling franchise
contract with the licensed hauler and after a hearing, on reasonable advance
notice, before the City Council.
(Am. Ord. 2015-02, passed 1-26-2015; Am. Ord. 2019-13, passed 2-25-2019; Am.
Ord. 2022-50, passed 11-28-2022)
WASTE PREPARATION AND COLLECTION
§ 50.30 APPROVED CONTAINERS.
   All residential waste shall be placed for collection in containers as
required by the residential waste hauling franchise contract.
(Am. Ord. 2015-02, passed 1-26-2015; Am. Ord. 2019-13, passed 2-25-2019; Am.
Ord. 2022-50, passed 11-28-2022)
§ 50.31 (RESERVED).  
§ 50.32 ADDITIONAL SERVICES.
   (A)   Each licensed hauler must maintain a website specifically dedicated to
the waste hauling service it provides in the City of Monticello, including
waste and recycling collection schedules, information regarding the purchase of
waste stickers or the rental of waste totes, and such other information the
city reasonably deems necessary from time to time. The licensed hauler’s email
address and telephone number must be listed on the required website.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this chapter is intended to restrict customers
and licensed haulers from increasing the level of services provided by the
hauler, including but not limited to more frequent collections, back door
collections, special collections of bulky items or landscape waste and the
like.
(Am. Ord. 2015-02, passed 1-26-2015; Am. Ord. 2019-13, passed 2-25-2019)
§ 50.33 HOURS.
   All collections of residential waste shall be made between the hours of 6:00
a.m. and 7:00 p.m. All collections shall be made as quietly as possible.
(Am. Ord. 2019-13, passed 2-25-2019)
§ 50.34 PLACEMENT FOR COLLECTION.
   Unless other arrangements for the location of waste pickup are made between
the customer and the hauler, all residential waste, placed in approved
containers shall be placed at the curb by the customer for collection. Approved
containers may be stored at the curb until collected, but no longer than 48
hours at a time. Approved containers may not be placed on top of water meters
and may not interfere with mail delivery, snow removal and vehicular traffic.
(Am. Ord. 2015-02, passed 1-26-2015; Am. Ord. 2019-13, passed 2-25-2019)
§ 50.35 HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   No hazardous waste shall be placed for collection with residential waste. No
hazardous waste shall be collected within the city without the hauler thereof
being licensed to perform the hauling by the Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency.
(Am. Ord. 2019-13, passed 2-25-2019) Penalty, see §
50.99
DISPOSAL
§ 50.45 TITLE TO WASTE.
   (A)   All residential waste collected by a licensed hauler from the
licensee’s customers shall be the property of that licensed hauler. Until the
time that the residential waste is collected, it shall remain the property of
the customer, and the customer shall be responsible for any waste that escapes
from or is left at the collection site, and shall reclaim and properly dispose
of the same.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for anyone other than the licensee or the
licensee’s customer to remove any waste or recycling from containers located at
or near the street curb.
(Am. Ord. 2015-02, passed 1-26-2015; Am. Ord. 2019-13, passed 2-25-2019)
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.46 DISPOSAL.
   All residential waste shall be collected, removed, and disposed of in
accordance with all applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules, and
regulations. All recyclable material collected by any hauler shall be processed
and marketed as recyclable material. Only that portion of the recyclable
material that is not processable or marketable due to the quality of the
recyclable material, for example, wet newspaper, may be landfilled. Upon
request of the city, proof of recycling must be provided to the city by the
waste hauler.
(Am. Ord. 2019-13, passed 2-25-2019)
§ 50.47 DEPOSITING RESIDENTIAL WASTE ON ANOTHER’S PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit residential waste upon the
property of another, without the consent of the owner, or on public rights-of-
way or public property, without the consent of the city, in an approved
container or otherwise. Residential waste may be left at the street curb, on
the city boulevard, by customers, and that shall not constitute a violation
hereof, provided the waste is in approved containers as described in §
50.30. In addition to the general penalties provided in this chapter for each
violation, any residential waste left on private or public property in
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a potential
public health and safety hazard, and the city may remove or cause the same to
be removed and recover the reasonable cost of removal from the owner of the
property or other responsible party.
(Am. Ord. 2015-02, passed 1-26-2015; Am. Ord. 2019-13, passed 2-25-2019)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 50.60 RATES.
   Residential waste and recycled materials. Rates shall be determined through
the competitive procurement process.
(Am. Ord. 2015-02, passed 1-26-2015; Am. Ord. 2019-13, passed 2-25-2019; Am.
Ord. 2022-50, passed 11-28-2022)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, associate, corporation or company who shall violate any of
the provisions of this chapter shall be fined up to $750 for each offense. The
fine may be assessed by a city police officer issuing a citation to such
offender. Each day that a violation is allowed to exist shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Am. Ord. 2015-02, passed 1-26-2015; Am. Ord. 2019-13, passed 2-25-2019)
CHAPTER 51: WATER REGULATIONS
Section
General Service Provisions
   
51.01   Turning on and off
   
51.02   Application
   
51.03   Deposit
   
51.04   Resale
   
51.05   Tampering
   
51.06   Annexation
Service Lines; Connections
   
51.15   Installation
   
51.16   Repairs
   
51.17   Excavations
   
51.18   Service connection
   
51.19   Connection fees
Meters
   
51.30   Meters required
   
51.31   Installation
   
51.32   Readings
   
51.33   Testing meters
Rates and Charges
   
51.45   Rates
   
51.46   Bills
   
51.47   Disconnection for non-payment
   
51.48   Leak adjustments
Backflow Prevention
   
51.60   Backflow prevention
   
51.61   Cross-connection
   
51.62   Surveys
   
51.63   Right to enter
   
51.64   Disconnection
   
51.65   Damages
   
51.66   Cross-connection regulations; adopted
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL SERVICE PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 TURNING ON AND OFF.
   No water from the city water supply shall be turned on or off for service
into any premises by any person except city administration, city personnel, or
having prior authorization from city personnel. In order to get water turned on
for any reason other than lack of payment by the customer, there may be a $10
turn-on charge. In order to get water turned off for any reason other than lack
of payment by the customer, there may be a $10 turn-off charge.
(Am. Ord. 2023-07, passed 1-23-2023)
§ 51.02 APPLICATION.
   Applications for new or transferred water service shall be made online or in
person at the Municipal Building. The application for utility service shall
contain an agreement by the applicant to abide by and accept all of the
provisions of this chapter governing the use of city water supply.
(Am. Ord. 2018-21, passed 5-14-2018; Am. Ord. 2023-07, passed 1-23-2023)
§ 51.03 DEPOSIT.
   A deposit of $100 shall be made with each application where the property is
not owned by the applicant, this sum to be retained by the city to ensure
payment of all bills. When service to the applicant is discontinued
permanently, this deposit, less any amount still owed to the city for water
service, shall be refunded without interest. No deposit shall be required for
any applicant who is the owner of the lot to be served.
(Am. Ord. 2008-59, passed 10-14-2008; Am. Ord. 2018-21, passed 5-14-2018; Am.
Ord. 2023-07, passed 1-23-2023)
§ 51.04 RESALE.
   No water shall be resold or distributed by the recipient thereof from the
city water supply to any premises other than that for which application has
been made and the meter installed, except in case of emergency, or by special
agreement with the City Council after presentation of written application.
§ 51.05 TAMPERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by city personnel to
tamper with, alter, or damage any part of the city water works, supply system
or any meter.
Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 ANNEXATION.
    No applicant outside the City of Monticello corporate boundaries shall
receive approval for water service, unless applicant has filed a petition for
annexation, or in the case of applicants who are not contiguous, the applicant
has entered into an annexation agreement with the city. Those water customers
legally served outside the corporate limits at the time of enactment of this
amendment (October 14, 2008) shall be considered to be legally nonconforming
users and shall be permitted to remain in use, to be modified, and to be
reconstructed following total or partial damage or destruction, as long as all
other provisions of these regulations are met.
(Am. Ord. 2008-57, passed 10-14-2008)
SERVICE LINES; CONNECTIONS
§ 51.15 INSTALLATION.
   All service lines from the water main to the premises served shall be
installed by and at the cost of the owner of the property to be served or the
applicant for the service. No installation shall be accepted until inspected by
city personnel. Any service installation under a roadway or sidewalk shall be
bored at the owner’s expense. No open cutting of a roadway or sidewalk shall be
allowed. No service shall be installed unless it conforms to the specifications
of the current State of Illinois Plumbing Code, which is hereby adopted, and
kept on file in the Municipal Building.
§ 51.16 REPAIRS.
   (A)   All repairs for service lines and plumbing systems of buildings shall
be made by and at the expense of the owner of the premises served. The city
shall be responsible for repairs from the city water main up to and including
outside water meters, not to include the customer service water line and
service water line connection (fitting) to the meter. The owner shall be
responsible for all repairs beyond the outside water meter, to include the
customer service water line connection (fitting) at the meter.
   (B)   For customers with inside water meters, the city shall be responsible
for repairs from the city water main up to and including the curb stop, not to
include the customer service water line and service water line connection
(fitting) to the curb stop. The owner shall be responsible for all repairs
beyond the curb stop, to include the customer service water line connection
(fitting) at the curb stop.
(Am. Ord. 2023-07, passed 1-23-2023)
§ 51.17 EXCAVATIONS.
   Excavations for installing service lines or repairing the same, which affect
or include city property, shall be made in compliance with the provisions of
the city ordinances relating to excavations in streets and regulations set by
Illinois Department of Labor (OSHA).
(Am. Ord. 2023-07, passed 1-23-2023)
§ 51.18 SERVICE CONNECTION.
   (A)   No connection to a water main shall be made without a tap-in permit
being issued by city administration. A 48-hour notice must be given to city
administration at the Municipal Building before a tap is made.
   (B)   All such connections shall be made by a State of Illinois licensed
plumber and under the supervision of city personnel.
   (C)   Before connection is made with the water distribution system, the
premises to be served must be equipped with a meter properly installed, as
referred to in §
51.31. Henceforth, water meters that serve more than 1 dwelling unit shall be
prohibited in the city water system. No installation shall be covered or
backfilled until it has been inspected by city personnel and found to be
satisfactory.
   (D)   Anyone seeking water service shall be required to hook onto the
nearest water main, as approved by city personnel and at the applicant’s own
expense.
(Am. Ord. 2023-07, passed 1-23-2023)
§ 51.19 CONNECTION FEES.
   (A)   There is a tap-in fee of $1,000 for the connection of a 1-inch water
service and meter to the city’s water distribution system. With the exception
of new subdivisions approved after August 28, 2000, this fee will include all
necessary parts and materials to complete the tap, excluding copper. For
subdivisions approved after August 28, 2000, the tap-in procedure will be
covered in the final plat. The user for whom this service is provided shall pay
the water connection fee to the city at the Municipal Building, prior to the
tap being made by a State of Illinois licensed plumber.
   (B)   The tap-in fee for any service in excess of 1 inch diameter shall be
$250, which does not include the cost of materials, parts, or installation. The
user for whom this service is provided shall pay this fee to the city at the
Municipal Building prior to the installation of parts and materials by a State
of Illinois licensed plumber. However, the city shall perform all water taps.
The water user (customer) shall pay for any additional parts required to
complete the tapping operation. Plans and specifications must be approved by
city personnel prior to installation. This installation shall meet standards
specified by city administration.
(Am. Ord. 2023-07, passed 1-23-2023)
METERS
§ 51.30 METERS REQUIRED.
   All premises using the city water supply must be equipped with an adequate
water meter sized and furnished by the city, but paid for by the property
owner. No meter smaller than 1-inch diameter shall be permitted.
(Am. Ord. 2023-07, passed 1-23-2023)
§ 51.31 INSTALLATION.
   All premises using the city water supply must be equipped with an adequate
water meter sized and furnished by the city, but paid for by the property
owner. No meter smaller than 1-inch diameter shall be permitted.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a48609afc6d43a74fff5c3e4253c60a675818ce5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1851.png]
(Am. Ord. 2023-07, passed 1-23-2023)
§ 51.32 READINGS.
   Meter reads will be obtained by city personnel at a frequency requir ed to
perfor m month ly utility billing . If weath er or other natura l causes
prohibit the reading of meters, an estimated reading will be made based upon
the previous 2 months. In cases of meters needing repair or replacement, city
personnel shall estimate water usage based on the sewer average or the previous
2 months’ water usage if sewer average is not available.
(Am. Ord. 2023-07, passed 1-23-2023)
§ 51.33 TESTING METERS.
   (A)   All municipal water meters shall be tested upon the complaint of the
consumer and payment of a fee of $30. The test shall be performed by city
personnel or a city-approved agency. If the meter test results indicate the
meter is registering an amount of water in excess of the actual amount of water
being used by the water consumer, the meter will be replaced and the $30 fee
shall be refunded to the consumer. If the test indicates the meter is accurate,
the fee shall not be refunded and the subject meter shall be re-installed.
   (B)   All meters 2 inches and larger shall be tested, and if necessary,
repaired or replaced, by city personnel or city approved agency at the
consumer’s expense every 5 years. The consumer’s expense shall consist of an
amount equal to the amount charged to the City of Monticello, by the company
designated by the city to perform the test and/or meter replacement.
(Am. Ord. 2023-07, passed 1-23-2023)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.45 RATES.
   All property which has a connection with the city water system shall pay the
following charges:
   (A)   For all property within the corporate limits of the City of
Monticello, Illinois, the water rates shall be as follows:
No. of Units Charge
No. of Units     Charge
0 units          $7.28
1 unit           $8.32
2 units          $10.40
3 units          $13.52
4 thru 20 units  $13.52 for first 3 units, plus $2.08 per additional unit
21 or more units $48.88 for first 20 units, plus $1.82 per additional unit
NOTE: 
One unit equals 748 gallons
 
   (B)   The water rates set forth in division (A) hereof shall be increased by
4% for all bills rendered after January 1, 2014, and by an additional 4% each
January 1 thereafter.
   (C)   For all water users outside the limits of the City of Monticello,
Illinois, the rate shall be 2 times the city rate.
(Ord. 2007-57, passed 10-22-2007; Am. Ord. 2013-66, passed 12-9-2013; Am. Ord.
2023-07, passed 1-23-2023)
§ 51.46 BILLS.
   Water and sewer users shall be billed every month for their usage. Bills are
due and payable 15 days after the billing date. A penalty of 10% shall be added
to all bills not paid within this 15-day period. The return of any check or
electronic debit due to insufficient funds or changes in account will result in
a penalty of $30.
(Am. Ord. 2018-21, passed 5-14-2018; Am. Ord. 2023-07, passed 1-23-2023)
§ 51.47 DISCONNECTION FOR NON-PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after written notice and a
meaningful opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The city’s application
for utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the address and
telephone number of the utility billing office, clearly visible and easily
readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill;
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cut-off notice stating that if the bill is not paid
within 10 days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued
for nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the City
Administrator. Any dispute must be made at least 48 hours prior to the
disconnection date. If necessary, this official shall be authorized to order
that the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to
make a final determination of the customer’s complaint. The customer will be
notified as to the determination via a door hanger placed on the front door
prior to the disconnection date or where necessary, will be given a new
disconnection date of 10:00 a.m. on the date after the hanger is placed on the
front door.
   (B)   Upon written request, at the discretion of the city official in charge
of utility billing, an additional 10 days can be allowed for payment of all
delinquent charges and penalties. In the absence of payment of the bill
rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided herein, service will be
discontinued at the time specified, but in no event until the charges have been
due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a shut off charge in
the sum of $50.
   (D)   The charges or rates as fixed by this section are liens upon the real
estate to or for which the water is supplied, and whenever the charges become
delinquent, as provided herein, they may be collected either by foreclosure of
the lien or by suit against the owner and/or user of the real estate, in
accordance with the statutes of the State of Illinois. Notice of delinquencies
shall be given to each owner prior to the filing of any such lien.
(Am. Ord. 2008-59, passed 10-14-2008; Am. Ord. 2023-07, passed 1-23-2023)
§ 51.48 LEAK ADJUSTMENTS.
   The City of Monticello will not adjust for any leak, unless the leak is on
an underground service line, and the customer repairs the leak within 7
calendar days of notification. The customer must provide verification of the
repair of an underground leak. Once the city verifies the underground leak has
been repaired, the city will make a billing adjustment. The leak adjustment
will credit the customer for half of the billed water amount and the difference
between the billed sewer amount and the customer’s sewer average. No leak
adjustments will be given for any leak above ground. Only 1 leak adjustment
will be allowed per account per year, unless special circumstances warrant an
exception which may only be granted at the discretion of the City Administrator
whose determination shall be final. The year consists of the 12-month period
from the date of the leak adjustment.
(Am. Ord. 2018-21, passed 5-14-2018; Am. Ord. 2023-07, passed 1-23-2023)
BACKFLOW PREVENTION
§ 51.60 BACKFLOW PREVENTION.
   All plumbing installed within the City of Monticello shall be installed in
accordance with Illinois Plumbing Code, 77 I.A.C. § 890. If, in accordance with
the Illinois Plumbing Code or in the judgment of the City Administrator or his
or her authorized agent, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary
for the safety of the public water supply system, the City Administrator or his
or her authorized agent will give notice to the water customer to install such
an approved device immediately. The water customer shall, at his or her own
expense, install an approved device at a location and in a manner in accordance
with Illinois Plumbing Code and all applicable local regulations, and shall
have inspections and tests made of the approved devices upon installation as
required by Illinois Plumbing Code and local regulations.
(Am. Ord. 2023-07, passed 1-23-2023)
§ 51.61 CROSS-CONNECTION.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall establish or maintain, or permit to be
established or maintained any connection whereby a private, auxiliary, or
emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply of the City
of Monticello can enter the supply or distribution system of said municipality,
unless the private, auxiliary, or emergency water supply and the method of
connection and use of that supply shall have been approved by the City
Administrator or his or her authorized agent and the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency.
(Am. Ord. 2023-07, passed 1-23-2023) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.62 SURVEYS.
   It shall be the duty of the City Administrator or his or her authorized
agent to cause surveys and investigations to be made of industrial and other
properties served by the public water supply to determine whether actual or
potential hazards to the public water supply may exist. These surveys and
investigations shall be made a matter of public record and shall be repeated at
least every 2 years, or as often as the City Administrator or his or her
authorized agent shall deem necessary. Records of the surveys shall be
maintained and available for review for a period of at least 5 years.
(Am. Ord. 2023-07, passed 1-23-2023)
§ 51.63 RIGHT TO ENTER.
   The approved cross-connection control device inspector shall have the right
to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the
public water supply or distribution system of the city for the purpose of
verifying the presence or absence of cross-connections, and the City
Administrator or his or her authorized agent shall have the right to enter at
any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public water
supply or distribution system of the city for the purpose of verifying
information submitted by the customer regarding the required cross-connection
control inspection. On demand, the owner, lessees, or occupants of any property
so served shall furnish to the City Administrator or his or her authorized
agent any information which he or she may request regarding the piping system
or systems or water use on the property. The refusal of this information when
demanded shall, within the discretion of the City Administrator or his or her
authorized agent, be deemed evidence of the presence of improper connections as
provided in this chapter.
(Am. Ord. 2023-07, passed 1-23-2023)
§ 51.64 DISCONNECTION.
   The City Administrator is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue,
after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the water service to any
property wherein any connection in violation of the provisions of this chapter
is known to exist, and to take any other precautionary measures as he or she
may deem necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water
supply distribution system. Water service to the property shall not be restored
until the conditions have been eliminated or corrected in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter and until a reconnection fee of $100 is paid to the
City of Monticello. Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be effected
when the City Administrator or his or her authorized agent is assured that
imminent danger of harmful contamination of the public water supply system
exists. This action shall be followed by written notification of the cause of
disconnection. Immediate disconnection without notice to any party can be
effected to prevent actual or anticipated contamination or pollution of the
public water supply, provided that, in the reasonable opinion of the City
Administrator, his or her authorized agent, or the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency, that action is required to prevent actual or potential
contamination or pollution of the public water supply. Neither the City of
Monticello, the City Administrator, or its agents or assigns shall be liable to
any customer for any injury, damages, or lost revenues which may result from
termination of the customer’s water supply in accordance with the terms of this
chapter, whether or not the termination was with or without notice.
(Am. Ord. 2023-07, passed 1-23-2023)
§ 51.65 DAMAGES.
   The consumer responsible for back-siphoned material or contamination through
backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs through an
illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed, maintained, or repaired
device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of cleanup of
the potable water supply system.
§ 51.66 CROSS-CONNECTION REGULATIONS; ADOPTED.
   The Municipal Water Regulations on Cross-Connection Control promulgated by
the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency are hereby adopted in their
entirety. One copy of these Regulations is attached to the ordinance
establishing this chapter as Exhibit A; an additional 3 copies of the
regulations are on file with the Monticello City Clerk.
(Am. Ord. 2023-07, passed 1-23-2023)
  § 51.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or entity who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be fined no less than $25 and no more than $750 for each offense. Each
day that a violation is allowed to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(Am. Ord. 2023-07, passed 1-23-2023)
CHAPTER 52: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Title
   
52.02   Purpose
   
52.03   Intent
   
52.04   Policy; runoff
   
52.05   Applicability
   
52.06   Storage and controlled release
   
52.07   Review
   
52.08   Exemptions
   
52.09   Definitions
Detention System
   
52.20   Drainage system components
   
52.21   Application fee
   
52.22   Drainage plan submittal requirements
   
52.23   Design requirements
   
52.24   Joint construction
   
52.25   Early completion of detention facilities
   
52.26   Maintenance responsibility
   
52.27   Inspections
   
52.28   Dry weather water outlets
Administration and Enforcement
   
52.40   Variances; standards, procedures
   
52.41   Enforcement
   
52.43   Appeals
   
52.44   Disclaimer of liability
   
52.45   Retroactivity
   
52.46   Effective date
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, cited and referred to as the Stormwater
Management Regulations of the City of Monticello, Piatt County, Illinois or
this chapter.
§ 52.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of these regulations is to control the transportation or
movement of stormwater so as to reduce the damage to property; prevent injury
to persons; protect the public health, safety, and general welfare of the
community; and to promote the orderly development of land and water resources.
§ 52.03 INTENT.
   The intent of these regulations is to require temporary storage of
stormwater runoff, to control the rate of release of stormwater runoff, to
provide for adequate drainage of development sites and surrounding areas, and
to protect existing agricultural drainage systems. Further, it is intended that
these regulations are in conformance with and complement the city subdivision
regulations (Chapter
152 of this code of ordinances) and the City of Monticello Zoning Regulations
(Chapter
153).
§ 52.04 POLICY; RUNOFF.
   (A)   These regulations establish a stormwater management policy for the
future control of stormwater runoff within the jurisdictional limits of the
city. Accordingly, a combination of temporary storage and the controlled
release of stormwater runoff shall generally be required for all new commercial
and industrial developments, residential subdivisions, planned unit
developments, and any redevelopment or other new construction on existing
sites, further defined in §§
52.05 through
52.08 of this chapter.
   (B)   It is anticipated in these regulations that a landowner shall be
allowed to pass through existing excess stormwater runoff from tributary areas
upstream from that owner’s land without storage or controlled release of the
runoff. It is further anticipated that these regulations will require the
controlled release of excess stormwater runoff resulting from development on an
owner’s land. The controlled release rate of excess stormwater runoff from an
owner’s land shall not exceed the rate of runoff which would have occurred from
that owner’s land prior to the development or redevelopment of that owner’s
land. It is presumed that prior to development the owner’s land had a
traditional agricultural use.
§ 52.05 APPLICABILITY.
   These regulations shall apply to the following developments:
   (A)   All new or expanded subdivisions which require the approval of the
city pursuant to the provisions of Chapter
152 of this code;
   (B)   Generally, any new construction, within the city’s area of zoning
jurisdiction pursuant to the provisions of Chapter
153, Zoning Regulations, of this code, that increases the amount of impervious
area of the lot or parcel of land upon which it is constructed; and
   (C)   Except as may otherwise be provided herein, all structures erected
hereafter, all uses of land or structures established hereafter, all
improvements to watercourses, all structural alterations or relocation of
existing structures occurring hereafter, and all enlargements of, or additions
to, existing uses which increase the amount of impervious area, occurring
hereafter, shall be subject to the provisions of these regulations. Therefore,
except as provided in §
52.08, no building permit may be issued; no subdivision or plat of land may be
approved or recorded; no mobile home, independent travel trailer, or
recreational travel trailer park permit may be issued; no planned unit
development may be approved; no watercourse, stormwater drainage system, storm
sewer, or stormwater control structure may be constructed; and no paved or
compacted area designed to be used for loading, open storage, or the parking or
movement of vehicles may be constructed without first having complied with the
applicable provisions of these regulations.
§ 52.06 STORAGE AND CONTROLLED RELEASE.
   (A)   Whenever storage and controlled release of stormwater is required for
existing developed parcels, and where improvements upon these parcels were
constructed prior to 1976, that storage and the required controlled release
rate shall apply to the net increase in the amount of runoff since January 1,
1976.
   (B)   (1)   Any area proposed for development, consisting of a tract of land
of 3 or more acres in common ownership or interest and upon which phased
development is proposed, shall be required to provide a combination of storage
and controlled release of stormwater runoff for future development of the
entire tract in accordance with the city subdivision regulations.
      (2)   Where a subdivision plat or a planned industrial/commercial
development involves new lots more than 2 acres in size for commercial or
industrial purposes, the developer/owner shall provide for storage and
controlled release of stormwater runoff in accordance with the city subdivision
regulations.
      (3)   Construction shall include implementation of sufficient and
enforceable covenants upon the land. The form of covenant shall be approved by
the City Attorney, and the substance of the covenant shall reflect the approved
overall stormwater detention plan for the site.
§ 52.07 REVIEW.
   Any property or development falling within the scope of the provisions of
these regulations and/or the city subdivision regulations shall be subject to
review by the Superintendent of City Services in order to establish and
determine, in the opinion of the Superintendent of City Services, that no
adverse consequences will arise downstream as a result of construction or
improvements under the sought-after permit. Any property located within flood
areas, as defined in the Flood Hazard Area Development ordinance of the city,
shall be governed by that chapter in the event of and to the extent of conflict
with the provisions of these stormwater management regulations.
Cross-reference:
   Flood Hazard Control, see
Chapter 151 of this code of ordinances
§ 52.08 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of these regulations shall not apply to the following
developments:
   (A)   Any development constructed totally upon a lot or parcel of land,
recorded prior to the effective date of these regulations, that contains less
than 18,500 square feet of land area, provided the development has less than
33% impervious surface area;
   (B)   Any single-family residential or 2-family residential development on
any lot or parcel of land, which was recorded prior to the effective date of
these regulations;
   (C)   Modification of single-family residential or 2-family residential
structures which will continue to be used as single-family or 2-family
dwellings;
   (D)   Modification of existing structures, other than a single-family
dwelling or 2-family dwelling, which do not increase the amount of impervious
area of the lot or parcel upon which it is constructed;
   (E)   Traditional agricultural land uses;
   (F)   Improvement of existing roadways which do not increase the number of
traffic lanes in the typical cross-section of the roadway; or
   (G)   New development in which the total impervious area, including the area
of the existing, adjacent public or private streets, is less than 20% of the
total or 10,000 square feet, whichever is less.
§ 52.09 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHANNEL. A natural or artificial watercourse of perceptible extent which
periodically or continuously contains moving water, or which forms a connecting
line between 2 bodies of water. It has a definite bed and banks which serve to
confine the water.
   CITY. The City of Monticello, Piatt County, Illinois.
   DETENTION STORAGE. Temporary detention or storage of stormwater in storage
basins, on rooftops, in parking lots, school yards, parks, open space, or other
areas under predetermined and controlled conditions, with the rate of drainage
therefrom regulated by appropriately installed devices.
   DISCHARGE. The rate of outflow of water from a stormwater drainage or
detention facility.
   DRAINAGE AREA. The area from which water is carried off by a drainage
system; a watershed or catchment area above a given point.
   DRAINAGE EASEMENT. Authorization by a property owner allowing use of a
designated portion of his or her property by others for drainage purposes.
   EXCESS STORMWATER RUNOFF. That portion of stormwater runoff which exceeds
the transportation capacity of storm sewers or natural drainage channels
serving a specific watershed.
   FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation of all locations delineating the maximum
level of high waters for a flood of a given return period.
   FLOODPLAIN.  The special flood hazard lands adjoining a watercourse, the
surface elevation of which is lower than the flood elevation and which are
subject to periodic inundation during floods.
   GRADE. The inclination or slope of a channel, canal, conduit and the like,
or natural ground surface, usually expressed in terms of percentage the
vertical rise (or fall) bears to the corresponding horizontal distance.
   IMPERVIOUS. A term applied to material through which water cannot pass, or
through which water passes with great difficulty or at a very slow rate.
   IMPERMEABLE.  A term applied to material through which water cannot pass.
   INLET. An opening into a storm sewer system for the entrance of surface
storm runoff, more completely described as a STORM SEWER INLET.
   NATURAL DRAINAGE. Water flow by gravity in channels formed by the true
surface topography of the earth prior to change made by the efforts of humans.
   NATURAL DRAINAGE CONDITION. The situation whereby water flows by gravity in
channels formed by the true surface topography of the earth prior to changes
made by the efforts of humans.
   OWNER. The record title holder or a beneficiary of a land trust which is the
record title holder, and includes singular or plural; if the owner is other
than an individual, the term includes beneficiaries, agents, shareholders,
officers and directors, partnerships, associations, firms, trusts, clubs,
companies, or corporations.
   RECORD DRAWINGS (DOCUMENTS). A compiled set of documents which can consist
of specifications and/or drawings (furnished by city contractor(s), other
sources and the like) showing reported location(s) of work for the completed
project.
   PERSON. An individual, public or private or private corporation, government,
partnership, or unincorporated association.
   RECOGNIZED AGENCY. A governmental unit or agency which has statistically and
consistently examined local, climatic, and geologic conditions and maintained
records as they apply to stormwater runoff, e.g. U.S. Weather Bureau,
University of Illinois Engineering Experiment Station, and the Illinois State
Water Survey.
   RETENTION BASIN.  A structure or feature designed to retain stormwater over
a period of time, with its release being positively controlled over a longer
period of time than a typical detention storage facility.
   SUPERINTENDENT OF CITY SERVICES. The individual occupying that position on
the staff of the city or his or her designated representative.
   STORM SEWER. A closed conduit for conveying collected stormwater.
   STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM. All means, natural or manmade, used for
conducting stormwater to, through, or from a drainage area to the point of
final outlet, including but not limited to any of the following: conduits,
storm sewers, canals, channels, ditches, streams, culverts, streets, and
pumping stations.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF.  The water that results from precipitation which is not
absorbed by soil or plant material, which does not evaporate and which flows
over the surface of the ground or is collected in channels, conduits, or ponds.
   STORMWATER STORAGE AREA. An area designated to temporarily accumulate excess
stormwater.
   STRUCTURE.  Anything which is constructed or erected with a fixed location
on the ground or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground.
Among other things, STRUCTURES include buildings, fences, signs, mobile homes,
swimming pools, and walls.
   TRADITIONAL AGRICULTURAL USES.  Uses commonly classed as agricultural or
horticultural, including forestry, crop farming, truck gardening, wholesale
nursery operations, animal husbandry, the operation of any machinery or
vehicles incidental to those uses, and the construction of a single-family
dwelling and other farm structures incidental to or typically associated with
those uses.
   WATERCOURSE.  Any stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or artificial
depression, slough, gulch, reservoir, lake, pond, or natural or manmade
drainageway in or into which stormwater runoff and floodwaters flow either
regularly or intermittently.
   WET BOTTOM STORMWATER STORAGE AREA. A facility that contains a body of water
and which accumulates excess stormwater during periods when the restricted
stormwater runoff release rate is less than the stormwater inflow rate.
DETENTION SYSTEM
§ 52.20 DRAINAGE SYSTEM COMPONENTS.
   (A)   Minor. The minor drainage system components shall consist of storm
sewers, street gutters, small open channels, and swales designed to store and
convey the peak rate of runoff and shall conform to
Chapter 152 of this code.
   (B)   Major. The major drainage components shall be designed to store and
convey stormwater flows beyond the capacity of the minor drainage components.
   (C)   Excess stormwater passageways. An excess stormwater passageway shall
be provided for the floodplains of all natural watercourses and any manmade
watercourses and storm drainage systems as the Superintendent of City Services
may direct, which shall have adequate capacity to convey the excess stormwater
runoff from the tributary watershed, in conformance with the city subdivision
regulations. No structures shall be constructed within this passageway;
however, streets, parking lots, playgrounds, park areas, pedestrian walkways,
open green space, and utility and sewer easements shall be considered
compatible uses.
§ 52.21 APPLICATION FEE.
   An application for the construction of a stormwater detention facility shall
be made on forms provided by the Superintendent of City Services, and submitted
along with a detention plan at the same Time approval of a final plat of
subdivision, conditional use permit, or building permit of any kind is
requested, and be accompanied by an application fee in the amount of $500. No
application shall be considered, or construction permit request approved,
without prior payment of the application fee.
§ 52.22 DRAINAGE PLAN SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Once it is determined that a development is subject to the provisions of
these regulations, the owner shall submit a drainage plan containing the
following information, to ensure that the provisions of the city subdivision
regulations are met. The submittal shall include sufficient information to
evaluate the environmental characteristics of the property, the potential
adverse impacts of the development on water resources both on-site and
downstream, and the effectiveness of the proposed drainage plan in managing
stormwater runoff. The applicant shall certify on the drawings that all
clearing, grading, drainage, and construction shall be accomplished in strict
conformance with the approved drainage plan.
§ 52.23 DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   General design methods and standards shall be in conformance with the city
subdivision regulations.
§ 52.24 JOINT CONSTRUCTION.
   Stormwater storage areas may be planned and constructed jointly by 2 or more
landowners, provided the provisions of the city subdivision regulations are
met. Adequate easements and provisions for future maintenance by the landowners
must be provided.
§ 52.25 EARLY COMPLETION OF DETENTION FACILITIES.
   Where detention, retention, or depressional storage areas are to be used as
part of the drainage system for a property, they shall be constructed as the
first element of the initial earthwork for the development. Any eroded sediment
captured in these facilities shall be removed by the applicant before project
completion in order to maintain the design volume of the facilities.
§ 52.26 MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Maintenance of stormwater drainage facilities located on private
property shall be the responsibility of the owner of that property. Before a
permit is obtained from the city, the applicant shall ensure that covenants are
placed upon the property, guaranteeing that the applicant and all future owners
of the property will maintain its stormwater drainage system. The covenants
shall specifically authorize representatives of the city to enter onto the
property, at all reasonable times, for the purpose of inspections and
maintenance of the drainage system. The covenants shall also include a schedule
for regular maintenance of each aspect of the property’s stormwater drainage
system and shall provide for access to the system for inspection by authorized
personnel of the city. In the event that an inspection by the city reveals that
the private stormwater drainage facilities are not properly maintained, the
city may require that proper maintenance be performed. The Superintendent of
City Services shall notify the property owner to make any necessary corrections
within 30 calendar days of this notification. If the corrections are not made
within this time period, the city may have the necessary work completed and
assess the cost to the property owner, in a manner approved by the City
Attorney.
   (B)   The private property owner may, after approval by the Superintendent
of City Services, assign the owner’s maintenance responsibilities and duties
under the terms of the covenants to a third party, such as a property owners’
association, or other competent agency. When such an assignment is made, the
entity undertaking the maintenance responsibility shall show evidence of
financial ability to provide any maintenance required.
§ 52.27 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Drawings. Record drawings shall be prepared and submitted by the
developer’s registered professional engineer in accordance with the city
subdivision regulations.
   (B)   Final inspection. Final inspection shall be in accordance with the
city subdivision regulations.
   (C)   Routine inspections. All privately owned drainage systems may be
inspected by representatives of the Superintendent of City Services at any
reasonable time.
§ 52.28 DRY WEATHER WATER OUTLETS.
   (A)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   Dry weather outlets are prohibited from discharging directly onto
any public property, public right-of-way, public street, or public sidewalk if
the discharge creates or contributes to a public hazard or public nuisance. No
person shall hereafter construct, build, establish, replace, or maintain any
dry weather water outlet which discharges onto a public right-of-way, public
street, public sidewalk, roadside ditch, or other public property maintained by
the city without first obtaining a permit to do so from the Superintendent of
City Services.
      (2)   Failure to obtain a permit from the Superintendent of City Services
for a dry weather water outlet discharge onto a public street, public sidewalk,
or other public property shall be deemed a violation of these regulations.
   (B)   Sump pumps. Sump pumps installed to receive or discharge groundwater
or stormwater runoff shall be connected to the storm sewer where possible or
discharged into a designated stormwater runoff drainage facility. No sump pump
shall discharge directly onto a street surface or public sidewalk. Sump pumps
are prohibited from discharging in any way that would cause water to flow onto
any public sidewalks, streets, or driveways within the public right-of-way.
   (C)   Footing drains. Footing drains and drainage tile shall discharge into
a storm sewer or other storm drainage facility. No footing drains or drainage
tile shall be connected to a sanitary sewer or be discharged directly onto a
street surface or public sidewalk.
   (D)   Downspouts. Downspouts and roof drains shall discharge onto the ground
or be connected to a storm drain. No downspouts or roof drains shall be
connected to a sanitary sewer or be discharged directly onto a street surface
or public sidewalk.
Penalty, see §
52.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 52.40 VARIANCES; STANDARDS, PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Standards. In order to promote the best possible development and use
of land, the Superintendent of City Services shall interpret the standards,
provisions, and specifications contained in these regulations liberally and in
favor of the public interest. Variations from these standards, provisions, and
specifications may be granted when it is demonstrated to the satisfaction of
the City Council that, owing to special conditions, a strict adherence to the
provisions of these regulations will result in unnecessary hardship and that
the spirit and intent of the regulations will be observed.
   (B)   Procedure. A request for variation shall be filed by the owner or his
or her agent with the Superintendent of City Services, who shall refer it,
together with his or her recommendation, to the City Council for decision. The
request for variation shall be written and shall state specifically what
variation is sought and the public’s interest in granting the variation.
§ 52.41 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The administration and enforcement of these regulations shall be the
responsibility of the Superintendent of City Services, as designated by the
Mayor of the city, or his or her assigns.
   (B)   In carrying out the responsibilities of administering these
regulations, the Superintendent of City Services may establish rules and
procedures to assist in his or her efforts, provided the rules and procedures
conform to the intent and purpose of these regulations.
   (C)   If, as part of his or her responsibilities of administering these
regulations, the Superintendent of City Services identifies ambiguities
relative to the provisions of these regulations, the Superintendent of City
Services may independently, or after consultation with others, issue a written
interpretation clarifying the meaning of any ambiguous provision. This written
interpretation shall guide future administrative activities by the
Superintendent of City Services.
§ 52.43 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person wishing to appeal a determination made by the Administrator
under the provisions of these regulations may do so to the Planning and Zoning
Board by following the procedures set forth in
Chapter 153, Zoning Regulations. Failure to file the appeal within the required
time shall preclude further review.
   (B)   The appeal must state specifically:
      (1)   The determination made by the Administrator that is being appealed;
      (2)   The basis for the appeal;
      (3)   The position of the party appealing;
      (4)   Any supportive information for the position of the party appealing;
and
      (5)   Any additional information as the party may wish to submit.
(Am. Ord. 2014-36, passed 9-8-2014)
§ 52.44 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The drainage design standards required by these regulations are
considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and are based upon engineering
and scientific methods of study. Larger rainfalls may occur on rare occasions,
and greater runoff rates or decreased hydraulic capacities of the structure may
occur due to uncontrollable circumstances.
   (B)   These regulations do not imply that an area within or outside of the
sites to which the standards of these regulations have been applied will be
totally free from potential flooding or runoff damages. These regulations shall
not create liability on the part of the city or any officer or employees or
agent thereof for any damages that result from reliance on these regulations or
any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
§ 52.45 RETROACTIVITY.
   (A)   The adoption of these regulations, as herein provided, shall not
operate to amend, modify, or otherwise alter any current development or
previously approved permits for development, absent resubmittal of applications
or the submittal of proposed amendments to permits or applications, and the
full and complete review, as herein provided, for determination of the
application of the provisions within these regulations.
   (B)   All work being performed under previously issued permits must be
performed in conformance with the terms and provisions of each permit; and
failure to so perform shall continue to give cause for the initiation of
enforcement, prosecution, or other pursuit of remedy against persons
responsible for the violation of the provisions of the permit; notwithstanding
the adoption of these provisions and enforcement and any other actions as may
be necessary in order to compel compliance with the permit provisions are
hereby directed and authorized, and the regulations upon which these actions
are based are continued in full force and effect as applied upon the provisions
of any heretofore issued permit.
§ 52.46 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   These regulations shall be in full force and effect 10 days from and after
its passage and approval, as provided by law.
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person or owner determined by the Superintendent of City Services,
or by a court having jurisdiction, to be in violation of any of the provisions
of these regulations shall be fined not less than $100 and not more than $500
for each violation. Each day the violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense.
   (B)   The city reserves the right to seek any and all additional legal
remedies allowed by the state statutes and other city codes against an owner
deemed to be in violation of these regulations, including but not limited to
personal judgment, and the recovery of all administrative costs incurred as
part of the enforcement proceedings.
CHAPTER 53: SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
53.001   Definitions
   
53.002   Other regulations; references, conflicts
   
53.003   Office of City Administrator
   
53.004   General prohibition
Connections, Sewer Restrictions, and Prohibitions
   
53.015   Use of public sewers required
   
53.016   Private sewage disposal
   
53.017   Building sewers and connections
   
53.018   Sump pump and stormwater drainage
   
53.019   Prohibited discharges
Dangerous Discharges
   
53.030   Action of City Administrator
   
53.031   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors
   
53.032   Preliminary treatment facilities
   
53.033   Manholes
   
53.034   Laboratory tests
   
53.035   Special arrangements
   
53.036   Pretreatment
   
53.037   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
53.038   Representative samples
   
53.039   Use of Standard Methods
User Charge System
   
53.050   Imposition
   
53.051   Wastewater user fee
   
53.052   Billing fee
   
53.053   Wastewater User Fee Fund
   
53.054   Reserved
   
53.055   Reserved
   
53.056   User charge
   
53.057   Measurement of flow
   
53.058   Normal domestic sewage
   
53.059   Billable flow
   
53.060   Reserved
   
53.061   Waste strength adjustment procedure
   
53.062   Nonmetered users
   
53.063   Additional treatment charges
Administration; Finances
   
53.075   Revenues
   
53.076   Accounts
   
53.077   Annual audit
   
53.078   Notice of rates
   
53.079   New accounts
   
53.080   Billing clarifications
   
53.081   Disagreements
   
53.082   Access to records
Rates and Charges
   
53.095   Annual billable flow summary
   
53.096   Annual cost summaries
   
53.097   Operation, maintenance, repair, and replacement costs
   
53.098   Calculation of charges
   
53.099   Annual review of rates
   
53.100   Adoption of rates
   
53.101   Bills
   
53.102   Delinquent bills
   
53.103   Lien; notice of delinquency
   
53.104   Foreclosure of lien
   
53.105   Notice of charges
   
53.106   User charge rates
   
53.107   Waste strength classification schedule
 
   
53.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT.  The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.),
as amended by the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of Amendments of 1972,
Pub. L. No. 92-500 and Pub. L. No. 93-243.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Regional Administrator of Region V of the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency.
   BILLABLE FLOW. Either of the following:
      (1)   A user’s water usage from all sources; or
      (2)   The amount of wastewater discharged to the city facilities, as
determined by the city after appropriate adjustments are made.
   BILLING CHARGE. A charge on users of the wastewater facilities levied per
bill to recover the costs of meter reading, processing bills, mailing costs,
and costs of collection.
   B.O.D. or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND.  The calculated pounds of oxygen
required to satisfy the 5-day oxygen demand of 1,000,000 pounds of waste when
treated under standard laboratory procedure, and shall be equivalent to
B.O.D.I. (denoting BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND INDEX).
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. The City of Monticello Building Inspector, authorized
agent of the City Administrator of the City of Monticello.
   BUILDING SEWER. That part of the horizontal piping of a building drainage
system extending from the outside of the building or end of the inside plumbing
system, to and including the connection with the public sewer; and, same as
SERVICE SEWER.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT CHARGE. A charge levied on users of the wastewater
facilities for the costs of improvement, extension, construction or
reconstruction of the wastewater treatment works and collection system.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT RATE.  The rate of charge levied on users of the
wastewater facilities for the costs of improvement, extension, construction, or
reconstruction of the wastewater treatment works and collection system,
expressed in units of cost per 100 cubic feet of billable flow so that when
multiplied by a user’s monthly billable flow yields a user’s monthly capital
improvement charge.
   CITY. The City of Monticello, Illinois or any designated representative
thereof.
   CITY ADMINISTRATOR. The City Administrator of the City of Monticello or his
or her authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
   COMMERCIAL USER. For the purposes of the user charge system, a user whose
principal activity is the purchase, sale, barter, or exchange of goods, wares,
merchandise, or providing a social, charitable, recreational, utilitarian, or
professional service, whether for profit or not for profit, transit lodging,
retail and wholesale establishments, and including governmental agencies not
defined elsewhere in this section or §
153.002.
   COUNCIL. The duly appointed and acting City Council of the City of
Monticello.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. A charge on users of the wastewater facilities levied
for the payment of principal, interest, and other finance costs related to all
outstanding bonds, loans, and other means of financing construction.
   DEBT SERVICE RATE. The rate of charge levied on users of the wastewater
facilities for the payment of all costs of bonds, loans, and other means of
financing construction expressed in units of cost per 100 cubic feet of
billable flow, so that when multiplied by a user’s monthly billable flow yields
a user’s monthly debt service charge.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   DOMESTIC USER. A user who discharges normal domestic sewage only as defined
below.
   EASEMENT. Includes an implied EASEMENT, an EASEMENT acquired by express
grant, an EASEMENT acquired by prescriptive right, and an EASEMENT acquired as
a result of strict necessity.
   FACILITY.  All present and future wastewater transport and treatment sites,
structures, and appurtenances of the city.
   FEDERAL.  The United States of America, and each and every present and
future department, agency, regulatory body, or subdivision thereof.
   FEDERAL GRANT.  The U.S. Government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by Title II Grants for
Construction of Treatment Works of the Act and implementing regulations.
   FLOW. The amount of hydraulic fluid entering the city’s facilities measured
in gallons, cubic feet, or cubic meters.
   GARBAGE.  Solid wastes from the preparation of food, the cooking and
disposing thereof, and from handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   GOVERNMENTAL USER. For the purpose of the user charge system, penal
institutions and users involved in legislative judicial, administrative, or
regulating activities of federal, state, and local governments.
   IEPA (ILLINOIS ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY). That agency or agencies of
the state, any divisions thereof or successors thereto, authorized by present
and subsequent acts of the legislature thereof to regulate and control matters
in respect to the environment and particularly in respect to the management,
maintenance, and operations of the city’s facilities.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. For the purpose of the user charge system, a user involved
in manufacturing activities involving the mechanical or chemical transformation
of materials or substances into products where these activities usually occur
in establishments commonly described as plants, factories, or mills and
characteristically use power-driven machines and material handling equipment.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. All wastes from industrial processes as distinct from
sanitary sewer.
   INSTITUTIONAL USER. For the purposes of the user charge system, a user
involved in social, religious, or educational activities such as tax-supported
schools, libraries or park districts, private or parochial schools and
churches.
   MAY.  The action referred to is permissive.
   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER (mg/l). A unit of concentration of water or wastewater
constituent. It is 0.001 gram of the constituent in 1,000 milliliters of water.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, ditch, lake, or other body of
surface or ground water.
   NONDOMESTIC USER. A user whose wastewater contains B.O.D. and/or suspended
solids at greater than the strengths established herein for domestic sewage.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE.  Wastewater having a normal strength of 200 mg/l of
B.O.D., and 250 mg/l of suspended solids or less. DOMESTIC SEWAGE shall be
synonymous with SANITARY SEWAGE. 
   NPDES PERMIT. Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by
the Administrator or where appropriate by the Director, after enactment of the
Federal Clean Water Act to regulate the discharge of pollutants pursuant to §
402 of the Federal Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1342.
   O.D.I. or OXYGEN DEMAND INDEX. The calculated pounds of oxygen required to
satisfy the 5-day oxygen demand of 1,000,000 pounds of waste when treated under
standard laboratory procedure, and shall be equivalent to B.O.D. 
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COST.  All costs, direct and indirect, not
including debt service, necessary to ensure adequate wastewater collection and
treatment on a continuing basis, conforming to applicable regulations, and
providing optimal long-term facility management as determined by the city.
   ORDINANCE. This chapter establishing a user charge system.
   PARCEL.  Any acreage, tract, or subdivided portion of real estate, whether
improved or unimproved, and whether within or without the corporate limits of
the city.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Any equipment and appurtenances, whether fixed or
portable, utilized by the city’s treatment or collection system, that has a
service life of 20 years or less, and is owned by the city.
   REAL PROPERTY. All real estate and sewers, interceptors, buildings,
structures, housings and pump stations resting on or contained in or under any
easements or rights-of-way owned by the city.
   PE or POPULATION EQUIVALENT. Equal to 0.17 pounds O.D.I or B.O.D.
   pH. The measure of acidity or alkalinity and has a range of zero to 14.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. Garbage which has been ground to the degree that
all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally
prevailing in sewers, with no particle greater than 1/16 of an inch in any
dimension.
   PROPERTY.  All real and personal property of any or every kind owned by the
city and included in the definitions of person or personal property.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting property have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   RENEWAL. The capital expenditure of city funds for the physical and/or
functional consumption of consumable assets relating to the capacity of the
city’s facilities.
   REPLACEMENT.  Obtaining and installing equipment, accessories, or
appurtenances to maintain the capacity and performance of the city’s facilities
and payment therefor from city funds.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. For the purpose of the user charge system, a user whose
principal activity is providing dwelling units available for human habitation,
such as detached, semi-detached and row houses, mobile homes, apartments, and
permanent multi-family dwellings.
   SANITARY SEWER.  A pipe or conduit intended to receive domestic sewage and
industrial wastes and to which storm surface, ground, and unpolluted process
water are not admitted.
   SERVICE SEWER. That part of the horizontal piping of a building drainage
system extending from the outside of the building or end of the inside plumbing
system, to and including the connection with the public sewer; and, same as
BUILDING SEWER.
   SEWAGE.  The water-carried wastes from residences, business buildings,
institutions, and industrial establishments, and is used interchangeably with
WASTEWATER.
   SEWAGE OPERATING AND MAINTENANCE ACCOUNT.  The principal accounting
designation for all revenues received in the operation of the wastewater
system.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SHALL. The action referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRY. Any industry that contributes greater than 10% of the
design flow and/or design pollutant loading of the city’s treatment works.
   SLUG. Any discharge or water, sewage, or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than 5 times the average 24-hour
concentration of flows during normal operation.
   STATE.  The State of Illinois, and each and every present and future
department, agency, regulatory body, or subdivision thereof.
   STATE ACT. The Illinois Anti-Pollution Bond Act of 1970, being ILCS Ch. 30,
Act 405, §§ 1 et seq.
   STATE GRANT.  The State of Illinois participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by the Illinois Anti-Pollution
Bond Act and for making such grants as filed with the Secretary of State of the
State of Illinois.
   SURCHARGE. The assessment in addition to the basic user charge, debt service
charge, capital improvement charge, special charge and billing charge which is
levied on those users whose wastes are greater in strength than normal domestic
sewage as defined above.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS).  Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or industrial waste, and which are removable by a
laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of suspended solids
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in the IEPA Division of
Laboratories Manual of Laboratory Methods.
   USEPA (UNITED STATES ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY). That agency or
agencies of the federal government, and divisions thereof or successors
thereto, authorized by present and subsequent acts of Congress thereof to
regulate and control matters in respect to the management, maintenance, and
operations of the city’s facilities.
   USEFUL LIFE. The anticipated term in years of physical and/or functional
productivity as reasonably determined by the city for the wastewater treatment
facility, equipment, and appurtenances thereto.
   USER. For the purpose of the user charge system, any parcel which is
connected to the city’s facilities.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of the wastewater facilities for the
costs of operation, maintenance, repair, and replacement.
   USER CHARGE SYSTEM. The system of charges levied on users to recover the
costs of operation, maintenance, and replacement on new and existing wastewater
collection/treatment facilities, pursuant to § 204(b) of Pub. L. No. 95-217;
and 40 C.F.R. § 35.935-13 (September 27, 1978 Federal Register), being 33
U.S.C. § 1284.
   USER CLASS. The type of user, residential, institutional/governmental,
commercial, or industrial, as defined herein.
   USER RATE. The rate of charge levied on users of the wastewater facilities
for the costs of operation, maintenance, repair, and replacement, expressed in
units of cost per 100 cubic feet of billable flow, so that when multiplied by a
user’s monthly billable flow yields a user’s monthly user charge.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. It may be a combination of the
liquid and water-carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings,
industrial plants, and institutions together with any groundwater, surface
water, and stormwater that may be present.
   WASTEWATER CHARGE. The charge per month levied on all users of the
wastewater facilities. The WASTEWATER CHARGE shall be computed as outlined in
this chapter and shall consist of the combination of a billing charge, a
special charge, a capital improvement charge, a debt service charge, and a user
charge.
   WATERCOURSE.  A channel in which the flow of water occurs either
continuously or intermittently.
(Am. Ord. 2023-08, passed 2-13-2023)
§ 53.002 OTHER REGULATIONS; REFERENCES, CONFLICTS.
   (A)   Where reference is made herein to any federal or state statute, rules
or regulations, either specifically or generally, the reference shall be to
that statute, rule or regulation and to all amendments thereto now in force or
which may be hereafter enacted, adopted and/or promulgated.
   (B)   No portion or provision hereof shall be taken to establish lesser or
different requirements than those imposed upon persons by the state and federal
governments for purposes of protecting and improving the environment, and to
the extent the statutes and regulations are different from or in conflict with
the provisions of this chapter, the state and federal statute rules and
regulations shall govern.
§ 53.003 OFFICE OF CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Superintendent of City Services shall have general supervision of all
public and private sanitary sewers and sewage treatment plant of the city. He
or she shall ascertain the conditions and needs thereof and shall, from time to
time, report the same to the City Council. The Superintendent shall keep proper
records of the location of all sanitary sewers, branches, and service sewer
connections, and the condition of private sewage disposal systems and service
sewers. He or she shall also have the duties specifically set forth in this
chapter and may have authority to supervise the construction of private sewage
disposal systems and the construction and installation of service sewers and to
issue permits thereof. The Superintendent shall be responsible for the
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter and he or she is hereby
authorized to make inspections, observations, measurements, samplings, and
tests as may be necessary in that regard, and is authorized to enter upon any
property, at all reasonable times, for that purpose.
§ 53.004 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which
is a part of the sewage works.
Penalty, see §
53.999
CONNECTIONS, SEWER RESTRICTIONS, AND PROHIBITIONS
§ 53.015 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any persons to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in an unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sanitary sewage,
industrial wastes, or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault,
septic tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of
sewage.
   (D)   The owner of any house, building, or property used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, industrial use, or other purposes, situated
within the city, on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now
located a public sanitary sewer, is hereby required at his or her expense to
install suitable facilities for the disposal of sanitary sewage or industrial
wastes emanating therefrom, and to connect the facilities directly with the
public sewer, through a service sewer, in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter, within 90 days after date of official notice to do so, provided
that the public sewer is within 300 feet of the property line.
Penalty, see §
53.999
  § 53.016 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
§
53.015, the service sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the City
Administrator. The application for this permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the city, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications, and other information as deemed necessary by the City
Administrator. A permit and inspection fee of $150 shall be paid to the city at
the time the application is filed.
   (C)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the City
Administrator. He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
City Administrator when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 72 hours
of the receipt of written notice by the City Administrator.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the State of Illinois
Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act, being ILCS Ch. 225, Act 225, and Code
and with the State of Illinois Environmental Protection Agency. No permit shall
be issued for any private sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil
absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than 20,000 square feet
(1,860 square meters). No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to
discharge to any natural outlet.
   (E)   At the time that a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in this chapter, a direct
connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this chapter,
and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private sewage disposal facilities
shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, and at no expense to the city.
   (G)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Department of
Public Health of the State of Illinois.
   (H)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to the sewer within 60 days and the private sewage disposal system
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt.
(Am. Ord. 2023-08, passed 2-13-2023)
  § 53.017 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with, or
opening into; use; alter; or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining written permit from the City Administrator.
   (B)   All disposal by any person into the sewer system is unlawful except
those discharges in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to
the Federal Clean Water Act and more stringent state and local standards.
   (C)   There shall be 2 classes of building sewer permits: for residential
wastewater service; and for commercial, institutional/governmental, or
industrial wastewater service. In either case, the owner or his or her agent
shall make application on a special form furnished by the city. The permit
application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the City Administrator. A
permit and inspection fee of $1,000 for a residential or commercial building
sewer permit shall be paid to the city at the time the application is filed.
The industry, as a condition of permit authorization, must provide information
describing its wastewater constituents, characteristics, and type of activity.
   (D)   A building sewer permit will only be issued and a sewer connection
shall only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the downstream sewerage
facilities, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater treatment
facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and efficiently
handle the additional anticipated waste load.
   (E)   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
   (F)   A separate and independent service sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where 1 building stands at the rear of another on an interior
lot and no private sewer is available or can be connected to the rear of the
building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the service from
the front building may be extended to the rear building and considered as 1
service sewer.
   (G)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the City Administrator, to meet
all requirements of this chapter.
   (H)   (1)   (a)   The building sewer used to connect single-family dwellings
shall have a minimum diameter of 4 inches, and the building sewer used to
connect multiple-family dwellings and commercial buildings with the public
sanitary sewer shall conform to the Illinois State Plumbing Code, and shall be
laid on a uniform grade of not less than 1/8 inch per foot. All joints shall be
made gastight and watertight, and joining material and the methods for sealing
joints shall meet the approval of the Building Inspector. All service sewer
pipe shall be laid in a straight line whenever possible and where deflection
from a straight line of more than 3 inches per foot is necessary, curved pipe
shall be used.
         (b)   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any service line
of any material other than the following:
            1.   Extra-strength clay pipe in accordance with ASTM Designation
C200-65T;
            2.   Extra heavy cast iron soil pipe or ductile iron pipe;
            3.   Plastic pipe:
               a.   Polyvinyl chloride pipe: shall conform to ASTM D1785,
Schedule 40 or CS272, Type II, with wall thickness not less than 0.25 inch in
the 6-inch diameter.
               b.   Acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene (ABS) pipe: conform to
CS270 or PS18 with wall thickness not less than 0.25 inch in the 6-inch
diameter. ASTM C-2751, 4" SDR 23.5, 611 SDR .35.
               c.   Fittings: fittings shall be the same plastic material as
the pipe.
            4.   Building plumbing drains shall be connected with a sealed
connection to the building sewer. No open jointed field tile shall be used for
a connection to the public sanitary sewer.
      (2)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, place of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Codes or other applicable rules and regulations of
the city.
      (3)   In the absence of code provision or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
American Society of Testing Materials, Water Pollution Control Federation
Manual of Practice No. 9, and Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main
Construction in Illinois shall apply.
   (I)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an evaluation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by the building drain shall be lifted by a means which is
approved in accordance with division (B) of this section and discharged to the
building sewer. Effective January 26, 2009, gravity drain of basement plumbing
fixtures and drains shall be prohibited in new construction. Basement fixtures
and drains shall be installed to drain by a sewage ejector system that is in
compliance with city plumbing and sewer standards in effect at the time of
installation.
   (J)   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (K)   (1)   The connection of the service into the public sewer shall be
made at the “Y” branch, if one is available at a suitable location. If no
properly located “Y” branch is available, the owner shall at his or her expense
install a “Y” saddle in the public sewer at these locations specified by the
Building Inspector. Public sewers shall not be tapped below the centerline
thereof.
      (2)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Codes, or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the American Society of Testing Materials, Water
Pollution Control Federation Manual of Practice No. 9, and Standard
Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois.  All these
connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the City Administrator
before installation.
   (L)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the City
Administrator when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to
the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
City Administrator or his or her representative. No backfill shall be placed
until the work has been inspected.
   (M)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
   (N)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the service shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city
from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the service sewer.
   (O)   (1)   Following the original installation of the service sewer at the
property owner’s expense, the city shall accept responsibility for maintenance
of that exterior portion of the service sewer located within public right-of-
way. Said exterior maintenance to include but not limited to repair/replacement
of cracked/broken pipe and pavement removal and replacement incidental to said
maintenance.
      (2)   Following the original installation of the service sewer at the
property owner’s expense, the property owner shall accept responsibility for
maintenance of the interior portion of the service sewer from the building to
the public sewer main. Said interior maintenance to include but not limited to
cleaning and root removal. The property owner shall also accept responsibility
for maintenance of the exterior portion of the service sewer from the building
to the property line.
      (3)   When the city receives a complaint from a person or corporation
that his, her, or their sewer is clogged, that person or corporation shall be
required to have a licensed plumber make a determination as to where the
stoppage is located. The city shall not be responsible for the cost of making
such a determination. If it is determined that the trouble is on the exterior
of the pipe (such as a broken joint, cracked pipe) on the property of the
person or corporation, then it is the obligation of the person or corporation
to have the sewer repaired at his, her, or its expense. If it is determined
that the trouble is on the interior of the pipe (such as blockage, roots)
anywhere between the building of the person or corporation being served and the
city sewer main, then it is the obligation of the person or corporation to have
the sewer repaired at his, her, or its expense. If it is determined that the
stoppage is located at a point between the property line and the public sewer
on the exterior of the pipe (such as a broken joint, cracked pipe), then the
city shall make the necessary repairs at no cost to the property owner. If any
excavation of the service sewer is required, the owner shall install cleanouts
at his or her expense. One cleanout shall be installed within 5 feet of the
structure being serviced, and a second cleanout shall be installed at the
property or right-of-way line. The second cleanout shall not be required if the
service line discharges directly into a manhole.
      (4)   If the city excavates the sewer within the public right-of-way and
finds that the trouble is on the property of the person or corporation, the
property owner shall reimburse the city for the work and materials expended. If
the city excavates the sewer within the public right-of-way and determines that
the trouble within the public right-of-way was caused by the negligent use of
the sewer, the city shall make the necessary repairs and the property owner
shall reimburse the city for the work and materials. The property owner and
city shall agree upon this procedure and corresponding liability before the
city begins the work of excavating the sewer.
(Am. Ord. 2009-03, passed 1-12-2009; Am. Ord. 2009-06, passed 1-26-2009; Am.
Ord. 2023-08, passed 2-13-2023)
§ 53.018 SUMP PUMP AND STORMWATER DRAINAGE.
   (A)    No person shall directly or indirectly cause the drainage of any sump
pump discharge, stormwater drainage, or other liquid drainage to run into or on
any municipal right-of-way, gutter, street, sidewalk, boulevard, or easement,
when there is within 70 feet of the perimeter of the property from which the
discharge occurs a stormwater tile line or storm sewer in operative condition
maintained by the city. Any rainwater from the roof of any building in the city
shall be considered stormwater drainage and shall not be drained or discharged
directly or indirectly into any sanitary sewer in the city. Sump pump discharge
shall not be drained or discharged directly or indirectly into any sanitary
sewer in the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to permit any sanitary sewage to flow into any
storm sewer or any storm sewer to flow into any sanitary sewer.
   (C)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage, unpolluted industrial
process water and cooling water shall be discharged only to those sewers as are
specifically designated as storm sewers.
(Am. Ord. 2008-58, passed 10-14-2008) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.019 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works; or
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of a size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow of sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works, such as but not limited to ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, underground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the City Administrator that the wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process, or equipment; have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream; or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the City Administrator will give consideration to such factors as the
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and maximum limits established by
regulatory agencies. The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150ºF (65ºC);
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials; or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances
which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32º and 150ºF (0º
and 65ºC);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of 3/4 horsepower
(0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the
City Administrator;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solution, whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, or
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to the degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the City Administrator for those materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the City Administrator as necessary after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal, or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for the discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of a half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the City Administrator in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any wastes or waters having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 mg/l as Hg
at any time except as permitted by the City Administrator in compliance with
applicable state and federal regulations;
      (10)   Any cyanide in excess of 0.025 mg/l at any time except as
permitted by the City Administrator in compliance with applicable state and
federal regulations;
      (11)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as but
not limited to Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as but not limited to sodium chloride and sodium sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as but not limited to dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual B.O.D., chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements
in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting
slugs, as defined herein.
      (12)   Waters and wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to the degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
(Am. Ord. 2023-08, passed 2-13-2023)
DANGEROUS DISCHARGES
§ 53.030 ACTION OF CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
    (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in § 53.019(B), and/or which are in violation of
the standards for pretreatment provided in 40 C.F.R. § 403, June 26, 1978 and
any amendments thereto, and which in the judgment of the City Administrator may
have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or
receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a
public nuisance, the City Administrator may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the provisions
of §§ 53.035 and 53.036.
   (B)   If the City Administrator permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the City Administrator, and subject to
the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
(Am. Ord. 2023-08, passed 2-13-2023)
§ 53.031 GREASE, OIL, AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the City Administrator, they are necessary for the proper handling
of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable
wastes, sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that these interceptors
shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All
interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the City
Administrator, and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection.
   (B)   Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious
materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperatures.
They shall be of substantial construction, watertight, and equipped with easily
removable covers which, when bolted in place, shall be gastight and watertight.
   (C)   Where installed, all grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient
operation at all times.
(Am. Ord. 2023-08, passed 2-13-2023)
§ 53.032 PRELIMINARY TREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided, they
shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the
owner at his or her expense.
§ 53.033 MANHOLES.
   Each industry shall be required to install a control manhole and, when
required by the City Administrator, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with the necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. This manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the City
Administrator. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense, and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
(Am. Ord. 2023-08, passed 2-13-2023)
§ 53.034 LABORATORY TESTS.
   (A)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests, and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this chapter and any special
conditions for discharge established by the city or regulatory agencies having
jurisdiction over the discharge. The number, type, and frequency of laboratory
analyses to be performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the city, but
no less than once per year the industry must supply a complete analysis of the
constituents of the wastewater discharge to assure that compliance with the
federal, state, and local standards is being met. The owner shall report the
results of measurements and laboratory analyses to the city at times and in
such a manner as prescribed by the city. The owner shall bear the expense of
all measurements, analyses, and reports required by the city. At such times as
deemed necessary, the city reserves the right to take measurements and samples
for analysis by an outside laboratory service.
   (B)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of IEPA Division of Laboratories Manual of
Laboratory Methods, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or
upon suitable samples taken at the control manhole. In the event that no
special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to
be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily
accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works
and to determine the existence of hazards of life, limb, and property. The
particular analyses involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all
outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples
should be taken. Normally, but not always, B.O.D. and suspended solids analyses
are obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pHs are
determined from periodic grab samples.
§ 53.035 SPECIAL ARRANGEMENTS.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor, in accordance with §
53.015, by the industrial concern, provided the payments are in accordance with
federal and state guidelines for user charge system.
§ 53.036 PRETREATMENT.
   Whenever industrial wastes from any property do not meet the requirements of
this chapter, the owner shall provide at his or her expense any treatment as
may be necessary to reduce the biochemical oxygen demand or to bring the wastes
within the requirements of this chapter.
§ 53.037 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Administrator and other duly authorized employees of
the City Environmental Protection Agency, the Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency, and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, bearing proper
credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all properties, at
all reasonable times, for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, and testing as may be required in pursuance of the implementation and
enforcement of the terms and provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   The City Administrator or his or her representative shall have no
authority to inquire into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil
refining, ceramic, paper, or other industries beyond that point having a direct
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterway or
facilities for waste treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the City Administrator or duly authorized employees of
the city, the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, and the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency shall observe all safety rules applicable to
the premises established by the company, and the company shall be held harmless
for injury or death to the city employees and the city shall indemnify the
company against liability claims and demands for personal injury or property
damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and sampling
operations, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the
company to maintain conditions as required by this chapter.
   (C)   The City Administrator and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of but not limited to inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Am. Ord. 2023-08, passed 2-13-2023)
§ 53.038 REPRESENTATIVE SAMPLES.
   In order to determine the content of wastewater discharged from a user into
the wastewater facilities of the city for the purpose of determining the waste
strength multiplier, representative samples shall be secured by the city.
REPRESENTATIVE SAMPLES shall be defined as those taken on a 24-hour composite
basis or those taken as a composite of 3 grab samples taken at intervals of not
less than 2 hours between samples. Representative samples shall be taken by or
under the supervision of the city. The user shall be required to provide
adequate sampling manholes and/or other required facilities for collecting
composite samples or grab samples and shall be responsible for all costs
related to providing those facilities.
§ 53.039 USE OF STANDARD METHODS.
   All measurements, tests, and analysis of the characteristics of water and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Sewage or a method approved by the Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency.
USER CHARGE SYSTEM
§ 53.050 IMPOSITION.
   Pursuant to the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251
et seq., as amended; federal rules, regulations, and guidelines promulgated
pursuant to that; and pursuant to § 104b of the Illinois Environmental
Protection Act, there is hereby imposed and levied upon all users of the city
wastewater facilities such charges and fees as are hereinafter fixed by
ordinance to be utilized by the city as hereinafter provided to pay for
operation, maintenance, and replacement costs for the city wastewater
facilities; as well as related and appropriate costs, including but not limited
to financing costs, administrative costs, and capital improvement costs.
Statutory reference:
   Illinois Environmental Protection Act, see ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, § 46
§ 53.051 WASTEWATER USER FEE.
   A wastewater user fee is hereby imposed on all metered potable water
supplied by the city in accordance with the following schedule:
Effective Date  Rate Per Unit
January 1, 2016 $3.50
January 1, 2017 $4.50
January 1, 2018 $5.50
January 1, 2019 $6.50
January 1, 2020 $7.50
January 1, 2021 $8.50
January 1, 2022 $9.50
January 1, 2023 $10.00
January 1, 2024 $10.50
January 1, 2025 $11.00
(Ord. 2015-39, passed 8-24-2015; Am. Ord. 2023-08, passed 2-13-2023)
§ 53.052 BILLING FEE.
   In addition to the wastewater user fee, each metered water customer shall
pay a monthly billing fee of $3.50 to cover the costs of processing bills and
administering the Wastewater User Fee Fund.
(Ord. 2015-39, passed 8-24-2015)
§ 53.053 WASTEWATER USER FEE FUND.
   All revenue received from wastewater user fees specified in §
53.051 shall be deposited into the existing sanitation fund. Such revenues
shall be allocated, dedicated and set aside to pay construction, operation,
maintenance, debt service and establish reserves related to the city wastewater
treatment system as determined by the City Council.
(Ord. 2015-39, passed 8-24-2015)
§ 53.054 RESERVED.
§ 53.055 RESERVED.
§ 53.056 USER CHARGE.
   All users shall be assessed a separate charge for the operation,
maintenance, repair, and replacement of the wastewater facilities. For the
usage of January, February, March, April, May, October, November and December,
the city shall bill the user for wastewater services based on actual usage of
the facilities measured by the actual amount of water used from the city water
supply (proportionate share of flow to the facilities) and the relative
strength of the wastewater discharged to the facilities. The user charge shall
be computed by multiplying the user rate by a user's monthly billable flow. The
user rate shall be in units of cost per 100 cubic feet of billable flow. For
the usage of June, July, August and September, the city shall bill the user for
wastewater services using the amount equal to the average monthly wastewater
bill for that user for the preceding 8 months (i.e., total wastewater usage for
October, November, December, January, February, March, April and May (said
charges being actually billed, respectively, in November, December, January,
February, March, April, May and June) divided by 8).
(Ord. 2023-08, passed 2-13-2023)
§ 53.057 MEASUREMENT OF FLOW.
   The volume of flow used for computing wastewater charges shall be based on
metered water consumption read to the lowest even increment of 100 cubic feet.
   (A)   Users of the wastewater facilities of the city whose source of potable
water is the city water system are required to install a water meter of a
suitable type and size that is acceptable to the city. Users of the wastewater
facilities of the city whose source of potable water is in total or in part
from a source other than the city water system shall also be required to
install a water meter of a suitable type and size that is acceptable to the
city. Water meters are required for the purpose of determining the volume of
water consumption as obtained from all sources.
   (B)   The water meter shall be owned by the city, but shall be installed and
maintained in proper working order by the user. The city shall designate the
location of the water meter and shall inspect its installation. Following city
approval of the water meter installation, the meter shall not be removed or
altered without the consent of the city.
   (C)   Devices for measuring the volume of wastewater discharged to the
wastewater facilities of the city may be required by the city if the volume of
water consumption cannot otherwise be determined from water meters or metered
water records.
§ 53.058 NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Wastewater discharged to the wastewater facilities
of the city where the concentration of 5-day, 20ºCentigrade biochemical oxygen
demand (B.O.D.) does not exceed 200 milligrams per liter (mg/l) and the
concentration of suspended solids (SS) does not exceed 250 mg/l.
§ 53.059 BILLABLE FLOW.
   Billable flow shall be utilized to determine various charges for the use of
the wastewater facilities of the city. The basis for billable flow shall be
metered water consumption as read from water meters as modified by a waste
strength adjustment procedure.
(Am. Ord. 2009-56, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 53.060 RESERVED.  
§ 53.061 WASTE STRENGTH ADJUSTMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   In order to apportion more accurately the costs of the wastewater
facilities of the city among its users, the relative strength of wastewater
discharged to the facilities must be considered. The base waste strength
against which all users shall be compared shall be normal domestic sewage. All
users shall be assigned a waste strength multiplier which, when multiplied by
the adjusted actual flow, will produce the user’s billable flow. For
nonindustrial users, the waste strength multiplier shall be based on the
biochemical oxygen demand (B.O.D.) and suspended solids (SS) characteristics of
the waste stream only. The waste strength multiplier of industrial users may be
based on other considerations and waste constituents and shall be determined by
the city on an individual basis.
   (B)   A user’s waste strength multiplier shall not be less than 1.0 and
shall be determined by 1 of the following methods:
      (1)   Standard classification system. The city shall assign all
nonindustrial users a waste strength multiplier in accordance with an
officially adopted classification schedule.
      (2)   Sampling and testing method. Any user disagreeing with the city’s
assignment of a waste strength factor from the standard classification system
may request an individual determination of actual waste strength based on
sampling and testing. The user requesting the individual determination shall
pay all costs associated with sampling and testing of the wastewater strength,
including but not limited to: access to waste piping, including installation of
a manhole; acquisition of appropriate grab samples or composite samples;
testing for constituent concentrations; staff, City Engineer, or other
designated representative’s time; and all related expenses. The city shall
establish appropriate policies and procedures in advance of sampling and
testing. The waste strength multiplier to be assigned to a user based on
sampling and testing shall be determined in accordance with the following
relations:
Waste Strength Multiplier = B.O.D. Ratio + SS Ratio    ≥    1.0
      2
Where:
B.O.D. Ratio =   Concentration of B.O.D. in ma/I    ≥    1.0
      200 mg/l
SS Ratio =   Concentration of SS in mg/l       ≥    1.0
      250 mg/l
§ 53.062 NONMETERED USERS.
   The city shall establish rates for nonmetered users of the wastewater
facilities of the city. All users not having a water meter for determining
water consumption or other acceptable device for determining wastewater
contributions shall be subject to an established, fixed quantity of billable
flow representative of that user’s classification. The assigned billable flow
of nonmetered users shall be reviewed annually by the city.
§ 53.063 ADDITIONAL TREATMENT CHARGES.
   No provision contained in this subchapter shall be construed to prevent or
prohibit the city from charging a user with additional costs incurred in
treating a substance not fully measured by the characteristics of biochemical
oxygen demand or suspended solids. The amount of additional costs to be charged
shall be determined by the city.
ADMINISTRATION; FINANCES
§ 53.075 REVENUES.
   All revenues and monies derived from the operation of the wastewater
facilities of the city shall be deposited in the Sewage Operating and
Maintenance Account. All the revenues and monies shall be held by the City
Treasurer separate and apart from his or her private funds and separate and
apart from all other funds of the city. The City Treasurer shall administer
this fund in every respect in the manner provided by statute of the Revised
Cities and Villages Act, being ILCS Ch. 65, Act 20, effective January 1942.
§ 53.076 ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   The City Treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounts and
shall keep proper books, records, and accounts in which complete and correct
entries shall be made of all transactions relative of the wastewater
facilities, and at regular annual intervals shall cause to be made an audit by
an independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the wastewater facilities.
   (B)   The funds and monies deposited in the Sewer Operating and Maintenance
Account of the city shall be paid out by the City Treasurer upon due
authorization of the City Council for the following purposes only:
      (1)   Operation, maintenance, repair, and replacement of the existing
wastewater facilities;
      (2)   Debt service;
      (3)   Bond Reserve Accounts;
      (4)   Depreciation Account;
      (5)   Equipment Replacement Fund; or
      (6)   Capital Improvement Fund to provide for future initial construction
or rehabilitations to the wastewater treatment plant or collection system,
generally considered as public benefit.
§ 53.077 ANNUAL AUDIT.
   (A)   The adequacy of the wastewater service charge shall be reviewed not
less often than annually by certified public accountants for the city in their
annual audit report. The wastewater service charge shall be revised
periodically to reflect a change in local capital or debt service costs or a
change in operation and maintenance costs, including replacement costs.
   (B)   In addition to the customary operating statements, the annual audit
reports shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of the
wastewater facilities, including a replacement cost, to indicate that sewer
service charges under the waste cost recovery system do, in fact, meet these
regulations. In this regard, the financial information to be shown in the audit
report shall include the following:
      (1)   Flow data showing total gallons received at the wastewater plant
for the current fiscal year;
      (2)   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed per fiscal
year;
      (3)   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year;
      (4)   Number of users connected to the system;
      (5)   Number of nonmetered users; and
      (6)   A list of users discharging nondomestic and industrial wastes and
volume of waste discharged.
§ 53.078 NOTICE OF RATES.
   Each user shall be notified by the city in conjunction with a regular bill,
of the rate and that portion of the user charges which are attributable to
wastewater treatment services, including operation, maintenance, and
replacement.
§ 53.079 NEW ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   Upon notification of a new user to the wastewater facilities of the
city, the city shall establish a new account and shall cause an initial meter
reading for user charge purposes to be accomplished within 5 days of
notification. The city shall establish rates for the establishment of new
accounts sufficient to cover the costs of initiating a new account and reading
of the meter, payment of which shall be the sole responsibility of the user.
The new account charge may be included on the first bill to the user.
   (B)   For the purpose of the city charging residential users a wastewater
fee during the 4 months of usage for June, July, August and September, new
residential users who do not have an 8- month billable flow average established
from the previous 8 months as set forth in §
53.056, and who are connected to the wastewater facilities of the city, shall
be assigned a fixed quantity of 6 units (600 cubic feet).
(Am. Ord. 2009-56, passed 12-14-2009; Am. Ord. 2013-52, passed 9-23-2013; Am.
Ord. 2023-08, passed 2-13-2023)
§ 53.080 BILLING CLARIFICATIONS.
   Any user of the wastewater facilities of the city with a question concerning
a bill received for services may seek additional information for clarification
from the Utility Billing Clerk. The method for computation of rates and service
charges established by this chapter shall be made available to a user within 10
days of receipt of a written request for such.
(Am. Ord. 2023-08, passed 2-13-2023)
§ 53.081 DISAGREEMENTS.
   After clarification from the Utility Billing Clerk, any user that is in
disagreement with a bill or any item or information on a bill has the same
recourse as described in §
51.47(A)(3).
(Am. Ord. 2023-08, passed 2-13-2023)
§ 53.082 ACCESS TO RECORDS.
   The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency or its authorized
representative shall have access to any books, documents, papers, and records
of the city which are applicable to the city system of user charges for the
purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts, and transcriptions thereof to
ensure compliance with the terms of the special and general conditions to any
state grant and federal regulations and conditions of any federal grant.
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 53.095 ANNUAL BILLABLE FLOW SUMMARY.
   The Utility Billing Clerk shall annually cause to be prepared a summary of
annual billable flow of all users of the wastewater facilities of the city
according to the following 4 user groups: residential; commercial;
institutional/governmental; and industrial.
(Am. Ord. 2023-08, passed 2-13-2023)
§ 53.096 ANNUAL COST SUMMARIES.
   The City Treasurer shall annually cause to be prepared estimates of annual
costs attributed to the wastewater facilities of the city for the purpose of
establishing various rates and charges. The following separate estimates of
annual cost shall be prepared:
   (A)   Billing and collections;
   (B)   Capital improvements;
   (C)   Debt service; and
   (D)   Wastewater facility operation, maintenance, repair and replacement.
§ 53.097 OPERATION, MAINTENANCE, REPAIR, AND REPLACEMENT COSTS.
   All costs relating to operation, maintenance, repair, and replacement of the
wastewater facilities of the city shall be identified and summarized annually.
Items of cost to be summarized shall include but not be limited to the
following: salary and other employee costs; insurance; utilities; equipment
replacement and repair; sludge disposal; chemicals; engineering and legal
assistance; office and lab supplies; building and plant maintenance; and
collection system maintenance and repair.
§ 53.098 CALCULATION OF CHARGES
   Charges based on billable flow of users shall be determined by dividing
annual costs by the annual billable flow of all wastewater users. Charges based
on users shall be determined by dividing annual costs by the total number of
users connected to the wastewater facilities of the city.
§ 53.099 ANNUAL REVIEW OF RATES.
   At least annually, the City Treasurer shall review costs and expenses of the
wastewater facilities of the city, levels of income generated by the current
fees and charges to users of the wastewater facilities, and make projections of
the expenses and income for the ensuing year to determine if the existing rates
are adequate or appropriate. Fees and charges shall be revised as necessary to
reflect changes in costs and income.
§ 53.100 ADOPTION OF RATES.
   Rates and charges to users of the wastewater facilities of the city shall be
adopted under separate ordinance. The separate ordinance shall be revised and
published as necessary to assure that adequate and appropriate revenues are
generated to meet the financial needs of the wastewater facilities of the city.
§ 53.101 BILLS.
   (A)   Charges and fees for all users of the wastewater facilities of the
city shall be computed and billed monthly. The owner of the premises, the
occupant thereof and the user of the service or his or her tenants, agents,
heirs and/or assigns shall be jointly and severally liable to pay for the
service to the premises, and the service is furnished to the premises by the
city only upon the condition that the owner of the premises, occupant and user
or his or her tenants, agents, heirs and/or assigns of the services are jointly
and severally liable to the city.
   (B)   Bills rendered by the city for use of the wastewater facilities of the
city shall show thereon the name of the user, the address or parcel number
sufficient to describe the property for which charges are rendered, the basis
upon which the charges are made, the amount due, when and where payable, the
period for which the charge is made, a brief description of any special charges
incurred, and any additional information deemed necessary by the Utility
Billing Clerk for the city’s purposes. If a delinquency exists, the amount of
penalty charged shall also be shown.
   (C)   Bills for sewer service shall be sent out by the Utility Billing Clerk
within 7 days of the end of the period which the service is billed. All sewer
bills are due and payable within 15 days of the date of billing.
(Am. Ord. 2023-08, passed 2-13-2023)
§ 53.102 DELINQUENT BILLS.
   If the charges to a user of the wastewater facilities of the city are not
paid by the due date, the process, as set forth within §
51.47 of this code, will be imposed.
§ 53.103 LIEN; NOTICE OF DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   Whenever a bill for sewer service remains unpaid more than 60 days
beyond the due date, the Utility Billing Clerk shall file with the County
Recorder of Deeds a statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain the
legal description of the premises served, the amount of unpaid bill and a
notice that the city claims a lien for this amount as well as for all charges
and costs incurred by the city subsequent to the period covered by the bill,
including all costs associated with filing the lien. If the user whose bill is
unpaid is not the owner of the premises and the Utility Billing Clerk has
notice of this, notice shall be mailed to the owner of the premises if his or
her address is known to the Utility Billing Clerk whenever the bill remains
unpaid more than 60 days beyond the due date. The failure of the Utility
Billing Clerk to record the lien or to mail the notice, or the failure of the
owner to receive the notice, shall not affect the right to foreclose the lien
for unpaid bills.
   (B)   If the Utility Billing Clerk shall have filed a statement of lien
claim with the County Recorder of Deeds, then before the city will execute and
file a release of the lien claim with the County Recorder of Deeds, there shall
be paid to the Utility Billing Clerk all outstanding amounts due to the city,
including the late charge, interest, costs of discontinuance and reinstatement
of service, and all other charges to cover the city’s expenses in filing notice
and in recording and releasing the lien claim.
(Am. Ord. 2023-08, passed 2-13-2023)
§ 53.104 FORECLOSURE OF LIEN.
   Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges shall be sold for nonpayment
of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be applied to pay the charges,
after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of statutory liens.
This foreclosure shall be by billing equity in the name of the city. The City
Attorney is hereby authorized and directed to institute such proceedings in the
name of the city in any court having jurisdiction over these matters against
any property for which the bill has remained unpaid 30 days after a lien has
been rendered.
§ 53.105 NOTICE OF CHARGES.
   The failure of any user of the wastewater facilities of the city to receive
a bill or statement for charges shall not be grounds for nonpayment or reason
to extend or defer the date upon which payment is due or avoid the inclusion of
penalties and interest. The owner of a property against which a notice of lien
has been recorded pursuant to the terms of this chapter shall be deemed to have
notice of the existence of the charge and shall be responsible for ascertaining
from the city all amounts, if any, due as provided in this chapter and the
payment thereof.
§ 53.106 USER CHARGE RATES.
   The following rates and fees, per 100 cubic feet of billable flow, shall be
charged to each and every user connected to the wastewater facilities of the
City of Monticello. These rates and fees shall be applied in conjunction with
the wastewater user charge system as set forth in this chapter.
   (A)   The minimum wastewater usage rate is $3.50 (for the first 100 cubic
feet of billable flow).
   (B)   Additional cubic feet of billable flow greater than 100 cubic feet
shall be billed at the rate of $2.50/100 cubic feet of billable flow.
(Am. Ord. 2013-52, passed 9-23-2013)
§ 53.107 WASTE STRENGTH CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE.
Classifications Waste Strength Multiplier
Classifications Waste Strength Multiplier
Auto/Implement Dealer      1.1
Bar & Grills               1.5
Bowling Alley              1.4
Business Office            1.0
Coin Laundries             1.0
Car Washes                 1.1
Doctor/Veterinarian office 1.0
Fast Food Restaurant       1.4
Full Service Restaurant    2.0
Grocery Stores             1.0
Hair Salon/Barbers         1.0
Pharmacy                   1.0
Pizzerias                  1.7
Residential                1.0
Schools                    1.0
Service Stations           1.2
 
§ 53.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter of this
code shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and provided a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction
thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in the notice,
permanently cease all violations. The city may revoke any permit for sewage
disposal or terminate waste disposal service as a result of any violation of
any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (A) above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and on
conviction thereof shall be fined between $100 and $750 for each violation.
Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate
offense.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city by reason of the violation.
(Am. Ord. 2014-41, passed 10-14-2014)
CHAPTER 54: GAS REGULATIONS
Section
   
54.01   Definitions
   
54.02   Use of public gas required
§ 54.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GAS MAIN. That portion of the gas distribution system which distributes gas
from the main supply source to the city and all areas within.
   GAS SERVICE. That portion of the gas distribution system which connects from
the gas main to any house, building or property to be served.
   OWNER. The owner of record of the house, building or property to be served.
   PUBLIC. Available to the general public whether provided by a public or
private agency or corporation.
§ 54.02 USE OF PUBLIC GAS REQUIRED.
   The owner of any house, building or property used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation, industrial use or other purposes, situated within the
city, on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now a public gas
main, is hereby required at their expense to install suitable facilities for
the supply of gas thereto, and to connect such facilities directly to the
public gas main if the use of gas is desired by the owner, provided the public
gas main is within 300 feet of boundary of the property.
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
Chapter
   
70.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
   
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
   
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
   
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
   
74.   EQUIPMENT; LOADS
   
75.   ABANDONED, LOST, OR STOLEN VEHICLES
   
76.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
   
77.   PARKING SCHEDULES
   
78.   NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND LOW-SPEED VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Safe school zone
   
70.02   School crossing
Obedience To and Effect of Traffic Laws
   
70.15   Scene of fire
   
70.16   Applicability
   
70.17   Exceptions to obedience
Traffic Signs, Signals, and Markings
   
70.30   One-way streets
   
70.31   Stop intersections
   
70.32   Yield intersections
   
70.33   Traffic-control devices
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 SAFE SCHOOL ZONE.
   The area within 1,000 feet of all buildings and grounds of Monticello
Community Unit School District 25 and all private schools located within the
City of Monticello, Illinois are hereby recognized to comprise safe school
zones.
§ 70.02 SCHOOL CROSSING.
   The school crossing on South Hamilton Street, adjacent to the east gate at
the school’s athletic field, shall continue to be so designated as the school
crossing.
OBEDIENCE TO AND EFFECT OF TRAFFIC LAWS
§ 70.15 SCENE OF FIRE.
   The Fire Department officer in command or any firefighter designated by him
or her may exercise the powers and authority of a police officer in directing
traffic at the scene of any fire or where the Fire Department equipment has
responded to an emergency call, for so long as Fire Department equipment is on
the scene, in the absence of or in assisting the police.
§ 70.16 APPLICABILITY.
   Every person riding a bicycle or an animal or driving any animal drawing a
vehicle upon any street shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter
applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except those provisions which can have
no application to one riding a bicycle or driving or riding an animal, provided
that, except in business districts, bicycles may be ridden on sidewalks.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-206 and 11-1502
§ 70.17 EXCEPTIONS TO OBEDIENCE.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter applicable to the drivers of vehicles
upon the highways shall apply to the drivers of all vehicles owned or operated
by the United States, this state or any county, city, town, district or any
other political subdivision of the state, except as provided in this section
and subject to specific exceptions as set forth in this chapter with reference
to authorized emergency vehicles.
   (B)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violation of
the law, or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the
conditions herein stated.
   (C)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      (1)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be required and necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life or property; and
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions.
   (D)   The exceptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle,
other than a police vehicle, shall apply only when the vehicle is making use of
either an audible signal when in motion or visual signals meeting the
requirements of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-215.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-205
TRAFFIC SIGNS, SIGNALS, AND MARKINGS
§ 70.30 ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   The City Council may designate by ordinance any street or alley under
its jurisdiction as 1-way and authorize the erection of signs indicating the
proper direction of vehicular movement. It shall be unlawful to operate any
vehicle on any street or alley so designated in a direction opposite to the
direction designated.
   (B)   One-way streets and alleys are designated in
Chapter 76, Schedule III.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-708
§ 70.31 STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The City Council may, by ordinance, designate any intersection under
its jurisdiction as a stop intersection and authorize the erection of stop
signs at 1 or more entrances to the intersection.
   (B)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicated by
a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop line but, if none, before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then
at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection. After having stopped, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to
any vehicle which has entered the intersection from another roadway or which is
approaching so closely on the roadway as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when the driver is moving across or within the intersection,
but the driver having so yielded may proceed at such time as a safe interval
occurs.
   (C)   Stop intersections are set forth in
Chapter 76, Schedule I.
   (D)   Definitions.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section and
Chapter 76, Schedule I , the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
         INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection
of the lateral curb lines, or if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right
angles or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different roadways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
         STOP. The complete cessation from movement.
         VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is
or may be transported or drawn upon a highway.
      (2)   Any other term, word or phrase herein which is not defined herein
and which may require a definition shall be defined as provided in ILCS Ch.
625, Act 5, §§ 1-101 et seq., if a definition is provided for therein, and if
not, as provided in the Municipal Code of the City of Monticello.
   (E)   Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of this section or
Chapter 76, Schedule I shall be punished as provided by the Illinois Vehicle
Code, ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-100, and/or the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Monticello.
(Am. Ord. 2009-17, passed 4-27-2009; Am. Ord. 2009-41, passed 8-24-2009)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-302 and 11-904
§ 70.32 YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The City Council may, by ordinance, designate any intersection under
its jurisdiction as a yield intersection and authorize the erection of yield
signs at 1 or more entrances to the intersection.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle approaching the yield sign shall, in obedience
to the sign, slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions and,
if required for safety to stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line but,
if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or,
if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver
has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering
the intersection. After slowing or stopping, the driver shall yield the right-
of-way to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so
closely as to then constitute an immediate hazard during the time the driver
was moving across or within the intersection.
   (C)   If a driver is involved in a collision at an intersection or
interferes with the movement of other vehicles after driving past a yield
right-of-way sign, the collision or interference shall be deemed prima facie
evidence of the driver’s failure to yield a right-of-way.
   (D)   Yield intersections are set forth in
Chapter 76, Schedule II.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-302 and 11-904
§ 70.33 TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The city shall place and maintain such traffic-control devices upon highways
under the city’s maintenance jurisdiction as are required to indicate and carry
out the provisions of this chapter or to regulate, warn, or guide traffic. All
the traffic-control devices shall conform to the State Manual and
Specifications and shall be justified by traffic warrants stated in the Manual.
It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of City Services to post and
maintain the devices.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-304
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
Right-of-Way
   
71.01   Vehicles approaching or entering a “T” intersection
Miscellaneous
   
71.15   Traffic not to be obstructed
   
71.16   Toy vehicles
   
71.17   Riding on running boards
Cross-reference:
   Parades, see
Chapter 116 of this code of ordinances
RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 71.01 VEHICLES APPROACHING OR ENTERING A “T” INTERSECTION.
   The driver of a vehicle approaching the intersection of a highway from a
highway which terminates at the intersection, not otherwise regulated by this
chapter or controlled by traffic-control signs or signals, shall stop, yield,
and grant the privilege of immediate use of the intersection to another vehicle
which has entered the intersection from the nonterminating highway or is
approaching the intersection on the nonterminating highway in such proximity as
to constitute a hazard, and after stopping may proceed when the driver may
safely enter the intersection without interference or collision with the
traffic using the nonterminating highway.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-901.01
MISCELLANEOUS
§ 71.15 TRAFFIC NOT TO BE OBSTRUCTED.
   No vehicle shall be operated or allowed to remain upon the street in such a
manner as to form an unreasonable obstruction to the traffic thereon.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.16 TOY VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person upon skates, a coaster, sled, or other
toy vehicle, to go upon any roadway other than at a crosswalk, except where no
paved sidewalks are provided.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.17 RIDING ON RUNNING BOARDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride upon the fenders, running board,
or outside step of any vehicle.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Parking prohibited
   
72.02   Night parking restrictions
   
72.03   Street cleaning
   
72.04   Municipal parking lots
   
72.05   Parking at curb
   
72.06   Parking on private property
   
72.07   Parking for sale or repair
   
72.08   Parking for advertising or selling
   
72.09   Additional restrictions
   
72.10   Moving vehicle to prohibited area
   
72.11   Violations
   
72.12   (Reserved)
   
72.13   Snow routes
   
72.14   Loading and unloading zones
   
72.15   Disabled parking
   
72.16   Parking of vehicle with expired registration
   
72.17   Parking of vehicle with no registration
   
72.18   Parking of equipment in 2-hour limitation parking spaces and lots
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand, or park any vehicle upon any street,
other than an alley, in a manner or under such conditions as to leave available
less than 10 feet of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular
traffic, except that a driver may stop temporarily during the actual loading or
unloading of passengers or when necessary in obedience to traffic regulations,
traffic signs, or signals of a police officer.
   (B)   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in a manner or under
such conditions as to leave available less than 10 feet of the width of the
roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic.
Penalty, see §
72.99
   (C)   Definitions.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section and
Chapter 77, Schedule II, the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         CODE. The Illinois Vehicle Code, ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-100, as
amended.
         PARK. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, even though
the standing is only temporary or for the purpose of loading or unloading
passengers or merchandise.
         PERSON. Every natural person, firm, co-partnership, association,
corporation or entity.
      (2)   Any other term, word or phrase herein which is not defined herein
and which may require a definition shall be defined as provided in ILCS Ch.
625, Act 5, §§ 1-101 et seq., if a definition is provided for therein, and if
not, as provided in the Municipal Code of the City of Monticello.
(Am. Ord. 2009-44, passed 9-14-2009; Am. Ord. 2009-55, passed 12-14-2009; Am.
Ord. 2011-38, passed 9-12-2011; Am. Ord. 2014-40, passed 9-22-2014; Am. Ord.
2019-38, passed 7-22-2019)
§ 72.02 NIGHT PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The parking of trucks, truck tractors, semi-trailers or any part of
those vehicles is hereby prohibited on any street or alley of the city between
the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   (B)   The parking of detached trailers or semi-trailers is hereby prohibited
on the streets and alleys at any time.
(Am. Ord. 2019-38, passed 7-22-2019) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 STREET CLEANING.
   No person shall park any vehicle on any public street at times when the
street has been posted for cleaning. Signs indicating that a street is being
cleaned shall be posted prior to the cleaning of the street and shall be
removed after the cleaning of the street is finished.
(Am. Ord. 2019-38, passed 7-22-2019) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 MUNICIPAL PARKING LOTS.
   (A)   Municipal parking lots within the city are located as set forth in the
appendix to this chapter and
Chapter 77, Schedule I.
   (B)   (1)   The parking of motor vehicles in each municipal parking lot
shall be restricted as set forth in
Chapter 77, Schedule I, unless otherwise posted.
      (2)   No vehicle shall be parked in any municipal parking lot for
purposes of displaying the vehicle for sale.
       (3)   Parking spaces in all municipal parking lots except Lot G shall be
designated with painted lines upon the surface of the parking lots. All
vehicles parked in a municipal parking lot shall be parked in accordance with
the painted lines. All vehicles shall be parked head-in; no vehicles shall be
backed into a parking space.
      (3)   Parking spaces in all municipal parking lots except Lots C and G
shall be designated with painted lines upon the surface of the parking lots.
All vehicles parked in a municipal parking lot shall be parked in accordance
with the painted lines.
   (C)   Each municipal parking lot except Lots C and G shall be painted to
indicate the parking spaces in each parking lot. The parking spaces shall
conform with the diagrams of each parking lot. One or more signs shall be
posted at each municipal parking lot clearly identifying the parking
restrictions that apply to that lot. Each sign shall be clearly legible and
placed in a position as to be noticed by the driving public. The number of
signs needed for each parking lot and the placement of each sign shall be
determined by the City Administrator.
   (D)   Definitions.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section and Chapter 77, Schedule I, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
         CODE. The Illinois Vehicle Code, ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-100, as
amended.
         PARK. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, even though
the standing is only temporary or for the purpose of loading or unloading
passengers or merchandise.
         PERSON. Every natural person, firm, co-partnership, association,
corporation or entity.
      (2)   Any other term, word or phrase herein which is not defined herein
and which may require a definition shall be defined as provided in ILCS Ch.
625, Act 5, §§ 1-101 et seq., if a definition is provided for therein, and if
not, as provided in the Municipal Code of the City of Monticello.
(Am. Ord. 2011-11, passed 4-11-2011; Am. Ord. 2019-38, passed 7-22-2019)
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 PARKING AT CURB.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be parked with the left side of the vehicle next to
the curb, except on 1-way streets.
   (B)   No person shall stand or park any vehicle in any street other than
parallel with the curb and with the 2 wheels of the vehicle closest to the curb
within 12 inches of the regularly established curb line.
   (C)   Upon those streets that have been marked for angle parking, vehicles
shall be parked at the angle to the curb indicated by the marks.
(Am. Ord. 2019-38, passed 7-22-2019) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall park any motor vehicle on private property without the
consent of the owner of the private property.
   (B)    Any person who is not disabled, and who parks a motor vehicle in a
parking space on private property designated as disabled parking, shall be
deemed to have parked without the permission of the owner of the private
property. However, that permission shall be presumed to a vehicle bearing any
of the decals provided for in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 where the vehicle is driven
by, or carries as a passenger, a disabled person as defined in ILCS Ch. 625,
Act 5, § 1-159.1. .
   (C)   No person shall park any vehicle on private property except on a weed-
free surface made of gravel, crushed stone, asphalt, or portland cement
concrete. The registered owner of any vehicle parked in violation of this
section shall be irrefutably presumed to have committed this offense and be
prima facie accountable therefor.
   (D)   No owner, occupant, or person in control of private property shall
allow or permit any vehicle to be parked on private property except on a weed-
free surface made of gravel, crushed stone, asphalt, or portland cement.
(Am. Ord. 2019-38, passed 7-22-2019) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07 PARKING FOR SALE OR REPAIR.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle upon any street or highway or within
any public right-of-way for the purpose of displaying it for sale, or for
washing, greasing, or repairing the vehicle except repairs necessitated by an
emergency.
(Am. Ord. 2019-38, passed 7-22-2019) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.08 PARKING FOR ADVERTISING OR SELLING.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon any business street from which vehicle
merchandise is sold or peddled.
(Am. Ord. 2019-38, passed 7-22-2019) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.09 ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS.
   In addition to the other parking restrictions and prohibitions set forth in
this chapter, the City Council may, by ordinance, further restrict or prohibit
parking on any street or alley under the city’s jurisdiction or on any city
property and authorize the erection of signs where parking is so restricted or
prohibited informing the public of such restrictions or prohibitions. Specific
locations of restricted or prohibited parking are set forth in
Chapter 77.
(Am. Ord. 2019-38, passed 7-22-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208
§ 72.10 MOVING VEHICLE TO PROHIBITED AREA.
   No person other than a police officer shall move or direct a vehicle to be
moved to any such restricted parking area or away from a curb a distance that
is unlawful; or start or cause to be started the motor of the motor vehicle; or
shift, change, or move the levers, brake, starting device, gears, or other
mechanism of a parked motor vehicle to a position other than that in which it
was left by the owner or driver thereof, or attempt to do so.
(Am. Ord. 2019-38, passed 7-22-2019) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   For parking offenses in violation of this chapter, a notice consisting
of a printed or hand written citation may be attached to any vehicle parked in
violation of this chapter. The notice shall state that the vehicle has been
illegally parked. The notice shall indicate the fines for the offenses
designated thereon, and that the fines may be paid by delivering it to the
Monticello Police Department or by mail within 10 days from the day the notice
is attached to the vehicle. Minimum fines are set forth in §
72.99.
   (B)   The registered owner or owners of a vehicle that is illegally parked
shall be presumed to be in control of the vehicle at the time of the violation.
   (C)   The penalty provisions contained in this chapter shall supersede the
penalty provisions contained within any ordinance regulating parking within the
city adopted prior to August 27, 2001.
(Am. Ord. 2019-38, passed 7-22-2019; Am. Ord. 2024-18, passed 3-11-2024)
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 (RESERVED).
§ 72.13 SNOW ROUTES.
   (A)   Snow routes declared. Certain streets within the City of Monticello,
Illinois, are hereby declared to be snow routes, as set forth in
Chapter 77, Schedule VI.
   (B)   Signs.  Appropriate signs shall be procured, erected, and maintained,
giving notice of the aforesaid snow routes, and that no citation for a
violation of this section shall be issued until the signs are erected.
   (C)   Offense defined.  It shall be unlawful, and it is hereby prohibited,
for any person to park or leave any vehicle within the aforesaid snow routes
(on either side of or in the street), except temporarily for the purpose of and
while actually engaged in loading or unloading property or passengers, for a
period of 6 hours after a 2-inch snowfall has accumulated on the snow routes.
   (D)   Towing.  Authorization is hereby given to any law enforcement officer
to cause the towing and moving of any vehicle parked or left in violation of
this section to a location within the city designated by the officer. The owner
of any vehicle towed or moved under the authority herein granted shall be
responsible for paying all charges and expenses of storing and towing or moving
the vehicle, which charges shall be paid prior to the vehicle being released to
the owner.
   (E)   Definitions.  
      (1)   As used in this section, the following terms shall have the meaning
ascribed to them in this section:
         PARK. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, even though
the standing is only temporary.
         PERSON. Every natural person, firm, co-partnership, association,
corporation, or entity.
         VEHICLE.  Every device, in, upon, or by which any person or property
is or may be transported or drawn upon a roadway.
      (2)   Any other term, word, or phrase used in this section, which is not
defined in this division (E) and which may require a definition, shall be
defined in the Illinois Vehicle Code, ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 1-100 et seq.
(Am. Ord. 2011-10, passed 4-11-2011; Am. Ord. 2019-38, passed 7-22-2019)
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.14 LOADING AND UNLOADING ZONES.
   (A)   Designation. Certain parking spaces within the City of Monticello,
Illinois are hereby declared to be loading and unloading zones, as set forth in
Chapter 77, Schedule V.
   (B)   Definitions.
      (1)   As used in this section, the following terms shall have the meaning
ascribed to them in this section:
         CODE. The Illinois Vehicle Code, being ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 1-100
et seq.
         PARK. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, even though
the standing is only temporary or for the purpose of loading or unloading
passengers or merchandise.
         PERSON. Every natural person, firm, co-partnership, association,
corporation or entity.
      (2)   Any other term, word or phrase herein which is not defined herein
and which may require a definition shall be defined as provided in ILCS Ch.
625, Act 5, §§ 1-101 et seq., if a definition is provided for therein, and if
not, as provided in this code.
(Ord. 2008-34, passed 8-11-2008; Am. Ord. 2019-38, passed 7-22-2019)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.15 DISABLED PARKING.
   (A)   Prohibitions. It shall be unlawful, and it is hereby prohibited, for
any person to park any vehicle which is not bearing registration plates, decals
or devices issued to a disabled person pursuant to ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-616
or 11-1301.2, or to a disabled veteran pursuant to ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-
609, in any parking area or place identified in Chapter 77,
Schedule IV. The privilege to park in such area or place herein granted is
limited to the person to whom the special registration plates, decals or
devices were issued and to qualified operators operating under such person’s
express direction while such disabled or disabled veteran is present;
accordingly, it shall be unlawful, and it is hereby prohibited, for any person
who is not a disabled person or disabled veteran to park a vehicle bearing the
special plates, decals or devices hereinabove described in a parking area of
place identified in Chapter 77,
Schedule IV, unless such person is in the presence of a disabled person or
disabled veteran, or is wanting to pick up a disabled person or disabled
veteran.
   (B)   Definitions.
      (1)   For the purposes of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         CODE. The Illinois Vehicle Code, ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-100, as
amended.
         DISABLED PERSONS. Those persons described in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-
159.1.
         PARK. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, even though
the standing is only temporary or for the purpose of loading or unloading
passengers or merchandise.
         PERSON. Every natural person, firm, co partnership, association,
corporation or entity.
      (2)   Any other term, word or phrase herein which is not defined herein
and which may require a definition shall be defined as provided in ILCS Ch.
625, Act 5, §§ 1-101 et seq., if a definition is provided for therein, and if
not, as provided in the Municipal Code of the City of Monticello.
(Ord. 2013-59, passed 10-28-2013; Am. Ord. 2019-38, passed 7-22-2019) Penalty,
see §
72.99
§ 72.16 PARKING OF VEHICLE WITH EXPIRED REGISTRATION.
   No person may stop, park or leave standing upon a city lot, public street,
highway, or roadway a vehicle upon which is displayed an Illinois registration
plate or plates or registration sticker after the termination of the
registration period for which the registration plate or plates or registration
sticker was issued or after the expiration date set under §§ 3-414 or 3-414.1
of the Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/3-414 or 625 ILCS 5/3-414.1).
(Ord. 2019-38, passed 7-22-2019) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.17 PARKING OF VEHICLE WITH NO REGISTRATION.
   No person may stop, park or leave standing upon a city lot, public street,
highway, or roadway a vehicle upon which no registration is displayed under §
3-401 of the Illinois Vehicle Code (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-401).
(Ord. 2024-18, passed 3-11-2024) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.18 PARKING OF EQUIPMENT IN 2-HOUR LIMITATION PARKING SPACES AND LOTS.
   No person may stop, park or leave standing upon a city lot, public street,
highway, or roadway any piece of equipment. Equipment includes, but is not
limited to: lifts, dumpsters, and non-motorized vehicles (registered or non-
registered). Anyone wanting to place equipment in a 2-hour limitation parking
space must apply for a right-of-way use permit with the City of Monticello.
Equipment left in violation of the above is authorized to be impounded
immediately at the owner or operator's expense.
(Ord. 2024-18, passed 3-11-2024)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99. Where a specific penalty is provided (e.g., parking offenses), the
penalty for that offense shall be the specified penalty.
   (B)   (1)   The minimum fine for parking in a no-parking zone or a
restricted zone shall be $50. The minimum fine for parking over the time limit
shall be $10. The minimum fine for parking so as to obstruct traffic or leaving
an unattended vehicle contrary to the provision of this chapter shall be $50.
The minimum fine for parking in a private space or for parking on private
property without the consent of the owner contrary to the provisions of this
chapter shall be $50. The minimum fine for parking in a fire lane shall be $50.
The minimum fine for parking in a space designated for the disabled without
handicap registration, plates, certificates, devices, or decals shall be $350.
      (2)   The minimum amount of the fine for each of the aforestated offenses
shall double if payment is not received by the city within 10 days of the
issuance of the ticket.
      (3)   If payment is not received by the city within 30 days of issuance
of the ticket, the city may file a complaint in the Circuit Court and seek a
fine for each violation in an amount not to exceed $200 per violation, plus
court costs and reasonable attorney’s fees.
   (C)    Any person found guilty of violating provisions of §§
72.13 and
72.14 shall be punished as provided in the Illinois Vehicle Code, ILCS Ch. 625,
Act 5, §§ 1-100 et seq.
   (D)   Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of §
72.04 or
Chapter 77, Schedule I, shall be punished as provided in the Illinois Vehicle
Code, ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-100, and/or the Municipal Code of the City of
Monticello.
   (E)   Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of §
72.15 or
Chapter 77, Schedule IV, shall be punished as provided in the Illinois Vehicle
Code, ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 1-100 et seq., and/or the Municipal Code of the
City of Monticello.
   (F)   Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of §§
72.16 or
72.17 shall be punished with a fine of $50. If the owner can prove the vehicle
had valid registration at the time the ticket was issued but the registration
sticker was not on the registration plate, the fine will be reduced to $10.
   (G)   All tickets written under
Chapter 72 will double if not paid within 10 calendar days.
(Am. Ord. 2008-34, passed 8-11-2008; Am. Ord. 2011-11, passed 4-11-2011; Am.
Ord. 2013-59, passed 10-28-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-41, passed 10-14-2014; Am. Ord.
2017-11, passed 2-13-2017; Am. Ord. 2019-38, passed 7-22-2019; Am. Ord. 2024-
18, passed 3-11-2024)
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles
   
73.01   Application of rules
   
73.02   Inspecting bicycles
   
73.03   Left turns
   
73.04   Turn and stop signals
   
73.05   Operating on sidewalk
   
73.06   Bicycle parking
   
73.07   Speed
   
73.08   Trick riding
   
73.09   Skateboard
BICYCLES
§ 73.01 APPLICATION OF RULES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required in this subchapter.
   (B)   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit the child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   The parent of any child and guardian of any ward who violates the
provisions of this subchapter shall himself or herself be deemed to be in
violation of this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS, Ch. 625, Act. 5, § 11-1501
§ 73.02 INSPECTING BICYCLES.
   A uniformed police officer may at any time upon reasonable cause to believe
that a bicycle is unsafe or not equipped as required by law, or that its
equipment is not in proper adjustment or repair, require the person riding the
bicycle to stop and submit the bicycle to an inspection and any test with
reference thereto as may be appropriate.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1509
§ 73.03 LEFT TURNS.
   (A)   A person riding a bicycle or moped intending to turn left shall follow
a course described in division (B) of this section.
   (B)   A person riding a bicycle or moped intending to turn left shall
approach the turn as close as practicable to the right curb or edge of the
roadway. After proceeding across the intersecting roadway to the far corner of
the curb or intersection of the roadway edges, the bicyclist or moped driver
shall stop, as much as practicable out of the way of traffic. After stopping,
the person shall yield to any traffic proceeding in either direction along the
roadway that person had been using. After yielding, the bicycle or moped driver
shall comply with any official traffic-control device or police officer
regulating traffic on the highway along which he or she intends to proceed, and
the bicyclist or moped driver may proceed in the new direction.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1510
§ 73.04 TURN AND STOP SIGNALS.
   (A)   Except as provided in this section, a person riding a bicycle shall
comply with provisions regarding when signals are required.
   (B)   A signal of intention to turn right or left when required shall be
given during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the bicycle before
turning, and shall be given while the bicycle is stopped waiting to turn. A
signal by hand and arm need not be given continuously if the hand is needed in
the control or operation of the bicycle.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1511
§ 73.05 OPERATING ON SIDEWALK.
   (A)   Bicycles may be operated on sidewalks in public parks and in residence
districts, but in single file only. Under all circumstances, the rider shall
yield the right-of-way to pedestrians using the sidewalk, and due and proper
care shall be at all times exercised by the rider for the pedestrians. When
approaching a pedestrian on the sidewalk, the speed of a bicycle shall be
reduced to a speed which is no greater than necessary to continue the operation
of the bicycle without the rider dismounting, and shall not be increased until
the pedestrian has been passed.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be operated upon any sidewalk in the business portion
of the city.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.06 BICYCLE PARKING.
   (A)   A person may park a bicycle on a sidewalk unless prohibited or
restricted by an official traffic- control device.
   (B)   A bicycle parked on a sidewalk shall not impede the normal and
reasonable movement of pedestrians or other traffic.
   (C)   A bicycle may be parked on the roadway at any angle to the curb or
edge of the roadway at any location where parking is allowed.
   (D)   A bicycle may be parked on the roadway abreast of another bicycle or
bicycles near the side of the roadway at any location where parking is allowed.
   (E)   A person shall not park a bicycle on a roadway in such a manner as to
obstruct the movement of a legally parked motor vehicle.
   (F)   In all other respects, bicycles parked anywhere on a highway shall
conform with the provisions of this section regulating the parking of vehicles.
   (G)   Bicycles parked on sidewalks must be on kick-stands or leaning against
building, never laid down.
   (H)   No person other than the owner or operator shall move or in any manner
interfere with any bicycle properly parked. No person shall interfere or in any
manner hinder any person from properly parking a bicycle, except that members
of the Police Department and Fire Department may move or, in proper cases,
prevent the parking of the bicycle when, in the judgment of the police officer
or firefighter, his or her action is necessary in order to properly safeguard
persons or property.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1513
§ 73.07 SPEED.
   No bicycle shall be operated at any time faster than is reasonable and
proper, and every bicycle shall be operated with reasonable regard to the
safety of the rider and of other persons and property.
§ 73.08 TRICK RIDING.
   No person shall, while operating a bicycle, indulge, or engage in any kind
of trick or unsafe riding.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.09 SKATEBOARD.
   (A)   No skateboard shall be ridden upon any roadway other than at a
crosswalk, except where no paved sidewalks are provided.
   (B)   No skateboard shall be ridden on the sidewalks along the following
described streets; skateboards within this area must be carried, not ridden:
      (1)   Charter Street from Livingston Street to Lafayette Street;
      (2)   Main Street from Market Street to Independence Street;
      (3)   State Street from Livingston Street to Lafayette Street; and
      (4)   Washington Street from Market Street to Independence Street.
CHAPTER 74: EQUIPMENT; LOADS
Section
Vehicle Equipment
   
74.01   Unsafe vehicle
   
74.02   Brakes
   
74.03   Tires
   
74.04   Horns and audible devices
   
74.05   Mufflers
VEHICLE EQUIPMENT
§ 74.01 UNSAFE VEHICLE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to drive or move or for the owner to
cause or knowingly permit to be driven or moved on any highway any vehicle or
combination of vehicles which is in such unsafe condition as to endanger any
person or property, or which does not contain those parts or is not at all
times equipped as specified in this subchapter.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter with respect to equipment on
vehicles shall not apply to implements of husbandry, road machinery, road
rollers, or farm tractors or to farm-wagon type trailers having a fertilizer
spreader attachment permanently mounted thereon, having a gross weight of not
to exceed 36,000 pounds and used only for the transportation of bulk
fertilizer, or to farm-wagon type tank trailers of not to exceed 2,000 gallons
capacity, used during the liquid fertilizer season as field storage “nurse
tanks” supplying the fertilizer to a field applicator and moved on highways
only for bringing the fertilizer from a local source of supply to farm or
field, or from 1 farm or field to another.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-101
§ 74.02 BRAKES.
   (A)   Brake equipment required.
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motor-driven cycle and an antique
vehicle displaying an antique plate, when operated upon a highway shall be
equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold
the vehicle, including 2 separate means of applying the brakes, each of which
means shall be effective to apply the brakes to at least 1 wheel on a
motorcycle and at least 2 wheels on all other first division and second
division vehicles. If these 2 separate means of applying the brakes are
connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that failure of any 1 part
of the operating mechanism shall not leave the motor vehicle without brakes.
      (2)   Every motor-driven cycle when operated upon a highway shall be
equipped with at least 1 brake which may be operated by hand or foot.
      (3)   Every antique vehicle shall be equipped with the brakes of the same
type originally installed by the manufacturer as original equipment and in
working order.
      (4)   Every trailer or semi-trailer of a gross weight of 3,000 pounds or
more, when operated upon a highway, must be equipped with brakes adequate to
control the movement of, to stop and to hold the vehicle, and designed so as to
be operable by the driver of the towing vehicle from its cab. The brakes must
be so designed and connected that in case of an accidental break-away of a
towed vehicle 5,000 pounds or more, the brakes are automatically applied.
      (5)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, pole trailer, or semi-trailer sold in
this state or operated upon the highways shall be equipped with service brakes
upon all wheels of every such vehicle, except any motor-driven cycle, and
except that any trailer, pole trailer, or semi-trailer of less than 3,000
pounds gross weight need not be equipped with brakes on only 1 wheel on each
side of the vehicle. Any motor vehicle and truck tractor having 3 or more axles
need not have brakes on the front wheels, except when the vehicles are equipped
with at least 2 steerable axles, the wheels of 1 such axle need not be equipped
with brakes. However, a vehicle that is more than 30 years of age and which is
driven on the highways only in going to and returning from an antique auto show
or for servicing or for a demonstration need be equipped with 2 wheel brakes
only.
   (B)   Performance ability of brakes.
      (1)   The service brakes upon any motor vehicle or combination of
vehicles operating on a level surface shall be adequate to stop the vehicle or
vehicles when traveling 20 miles per hour within a distance of 30 feet when
upon dry asphalt or concrete pavement surface free from loose material.
      (2)   Under the above conditions, the hand brake shall be adequate to
stop the vehicle or vehicles, except any motorcycle, within a distance of 55
feet and the hand brake shall be adequate to hold the vehicle or vehicles
stationary on any grade upon which operated.
      (3)   Under the above conditions, the service brakes upon an antique
vehicle shall be adequate to stop the vehicle within a distance of 40 feet and
the hand brake adequate to stop the vehicle within a distance of 55 feet.
      (4)   All braking distances specified in this section apply to all
vehicles mentioned, whether the vehicles are unloaded or are loaded to the
maximum capacity permitted under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5.
      (5)   All brakes shall be maintained in good working order and shall be
so adjusted as to operate as equally sides of the vehicle as practicable with
respect to the wheels on opposite sides of the vehicle.
      (6)   Brake assembly requirements for mobile homes shall be the standards
required by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development
adopted under Title VI of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974,
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq., as now.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-301
§ 74.03 TIRES.
   (A)   No metal tired vehicle, including tractors, motor vehicles of the
second division, traction engines and other similar vehicles, shall be operated
over any improved highway of this city if the vehicle has on the periphery of
any of the road wheels any block, stud, flange, cleat, ridge, lug or any
projection of metal or wood which projects radially beyond the tread or traffic
surface of the tire. This prohibition does not apply to pneumatic tires, with
metal studs used on vehicles operated by rural letter carriers who are employed
or enjoy a contract with the United States Postal Service for the purpose of
delivering mail if the vehicle is actually used for that purpose during
operations between November 15 of any year and April 1 of the following year;
nor to motor vehicles displaying a disabled or disabled veteran license plate
whose owner resides in an unincorporated area located upon a county or township
highway or road and possesses a valid driver’s license and operates the vehicle
with such tires only during the period heretofore described; nor to tracked
type motor vehicles, when that part of the vehicle coming in contact with the
road surface does not contain any projections of any kind likely to injure the
surface of the road; however, tractors, traction engines, and similar vehicles
may be operated which have upon their road wheels V-shaped, diagonal, or other
cleats arranged in such a manner as to be continuously in contact with the road
surface, provided that the gross weight upon the wheels per inch of width of
the cleats in contact with the road surface, when measured in the direction of
the axle of the vehicle, does not exceed 800 pounds.
   (B)   All motor vehicles and all other vehicles in tow thereof, or thereunto
attached, operating upon any roadway, shall have tires of rubber or some
material of equal resiliency. Solid tires shall be considered defective and
shall not be permitted to be used if the rubber or other material has been worn
or otherwise reduced to a thickness of less than 3/4 of an undue vibration when
the vehicle is in motion or to cause undue concentration of the wheel load on
the surface of the road. The requirements of this section do not apply to
agricultural tractors or traction engines or to agricultural machinery,
including wagons being used for agricultural purposes in tow thereof, or to
road rollers or road building machinery operated at a speed not in excess of 10
miles per hour. All motor vehicles of the second division, operating upon any
roadway shall have pneumatic tires, unless exempted herein.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit the use of the
tire chains of reasonable proportion upon any vehicle when required for safety
because of snow, ice, or other conditions tending to cause a vehicle to skid.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-401
§ 74.04 HORNS AND AUDIBLE DEVICES.
   Every motor vehicle when operated upon a highway shall be equipped with a
horn in good working order and capable of emitting sound audible under normal
conditions from a distance of not less than 200 feet, but no horn or other
audible device shall emit an unreasonably loud or harsh sound or a whistle or
unnecessary noise. The driver of a motor vehicle shall when reasonably
necessary to ensure safe operation give audible warning with his or her horn
but shall not otherwise use the horn when upon a highway.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-601
§ 74.05 MUFFLERS.
   Every motor vehicle driven or operated upon the highways of this city shall
at all times be equipped with an adequate muffler or exhaust system in constant
operation and properly maintained to prevent any excessive or unusual noise. No
muffler or exhaust system shall be equipped with a cutout, bypass, or similar
device. No person shall modify the exhaust system of a motor vehicle in a
manner which will amplify or increase the noise of the vehicle above that
emitted by the muffler originally installed on the vehicle, and the original
muffler shall comply with all the requirements of this section.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-602
CHAPTER 75: ABANDONED, LOST, OR STOLEN VEHICLES
Section
   
75.01   Definitions
   
75.02   Abandonment prohibited
   
75.03   Notification to law enforcement agencies of lost vehicle
   
75.04   Removal of vehicles
   
75.05   Notice of abandoned vehicle
   
75.06   Hearing on abandoned vehicle
   
75.07   Reports on towed vehicles
   
75.08   Record searches
   
75.09   Identifying and tracing of vehicle ownership
   
75.10   Reclaimed vehicles; expenses
   
75.11   Disposal of unclaimed vehicles
   
75.12   Disposal of unclaimed vehicles without notice
   
75.13   Reports after vehicle is disposed of or reclaimed
   
75.14   Proceeds of sale
   
75.15   Liability
   
75.16   Inoperable vehicle a nuisance; exceptions
   
75.17   Duty to dispose of inoperable vehicles
 
   
75.99   Penalty
§ 75.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.  All vehicles in a state of disrepair rendering the
vehicle incapable of being driven in its condition; or any vehicle that has not
been moved or used for 7 consecutive days or more and is apparently deserted.
   HIGHWAY.  The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is for the use of the public for purposes of
vehicular travel.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-126
§ 75.02 ABANDONMENT PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The abandonment of a vehicle or any part thereof on any highway in
this city is unlawful.
   (B)   The abandonment of a vehicle or any part thereof on private or public
property, other than a highway, in view of the general public, anywhere in the
city is unlawful except on property of the owner or bailee of the abandoned
vehicle. A vehicle or any part thereof so abandoned on private property shall
be authorized for removal by the City Police Department, after a waiting period
of 7 days or more and the giving of notice as contained in §
75.05.
Penalty, see §
75.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-201
§ 75.03 NOTIFICATION TO LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES OF LOST VEHICLE.
   When an abandoned, lost, stolen, or unclaimed vehicle comes into the
temporary possession or custody of a person in this city, not the owner of the
vehicle, the person shall immediately notify the Monticello Police Department.
Upon receipt of this notification, the City Police Department will authorize a
towing service to remove and take possession of the abandoned, lost, stolen, or
unclaimed vehicle after a waiting period of 7 days or more and the giving of
notice as contained in §
75.05. The towing service or the Monticello Police Department will safely keep
the towed vehicle and its contents and maintain a record of the tow as set
forth in §
75.05 for law enforcement agencies until the vehicle is claimed by the owner or
any other person legally entitled to possession thereof, or until it is
disposed of as provided in this chapter.
(Am. Ord. 2014-49, passed 11-10-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-202
§ 75.04 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   When a vehicle is abandoned on a highway in the city 10 hours or more,
its removal by a towing service may be authorized by the City Police
Department.
   (B)   When an abandoned unattended wrecked, burned or partially dismantled
vehicle is creating a traffic hazard because of its position in relation to the
highway, or its physical appearance is causing the impeding of traffic, its
immediate removal from the highway or private property adjacent to the highway
by a towing service may be authorized by the City Police Department.
   (C)   The owner or lessor of privately owned real property within this city
or any person authorized by the owner or lessor, or the City Police Department
in the case of publicly owned real property, may cause any motor vehicle
abandoned or left unattended upon the property without permission to be removed
by a towing service without liability for the costs of removal, transportation
or storage or damage caused by the removal, transportation or storage. The
towing or removal of any vehicle from private property without the consent of
the registered owner or other legally authorized person in control of the
vehicle is subject to compliance with the following conditions and
restrictions:
      (1)   Any towed or removed vehicle must be stored at the site of the
towing service’s place of business or the Monticello Police Department impound
lot. The site or the Monticello Police Department building must be open during
business hours and, for the purpose of redemption of vehicles, during the time
that the person or firm towing the vehicle is open for towing purposes;
      (2)   The towing service shall, within 30 minutes of completion of the
towing or removal, notify the City Police Department of the towing or removal
and the make, model, color, license plate number, and vehicle identification
number of the vehicle and shall obtain and record the name of the person at the
City Police Department to whom this information was reported;
      (3)   If the registered owner or legally authorized person entitled to
possession of the vehicle shall arrive at the scene prior to actual removal or
towing of the vehicle, the vehicle shall be disconnected from the tow truck and
that person shall be allowed to remove the vehicle without interference, upon
the payment of a reasonable service fee of not more than 1/2 the posted rate of
the towing service as provided in division (C)(6) of this section, for which a
receipt shall be given;
      (4)   The rebate or payment of money or any other valuable consideration
from the towing service or its owners, managers, or employees to the owners or
operators of the premises from which the vehicles are towed or removed, for the
privilege of removing or towing those vehicles, is prohibited;
      (5)   Except for property appurtenant to and obviously a part of a
single-family residence, prior to towing or removing any vehicle from private
property without the consent of the owner or other legally authorized person in
control of that vehicle, must post a notice meeting the following requirements:
         (a)   The notice must be prominently placed at each driveway access or
curb cut allowing vehicular access to the property within 5 feet from the
public right-of-way line. If there are no curbs or access barriers, the sign
must be posted not less than 1 sign each 100 feet of lot frontage;
         (b)   The notice must indicate clearly, in not less than 2-inch high
light reflective letters on a contrasting background, that unauthorized
vehicles will be towed away at the owner’s expense;
         (c)   The notice must also provide the name and current telephone
number of the towing service towing or removing the vehicle; and
         (d)   The sign structure containing the required notices must be
permanently installed with the bottom of the sign not less than 4 feet above
ground level, and must be continuously maintained on the property for not less
than 24 hours prior to the towing or removing of any vehicle.
      (6)   Any towing service that tows or removes vehicles and proposes to
require the owner, operator, or person in control of the vehicle to pay the
costs of towing and storage prior to redemption of the vehicle, must file and
keep on record with the Monticello Police Department a complete copy of the
current rates to be charged for such services and post at the storage site an
identical rate schedule and any written contracts with property owners,
lessors, or persons in control of property which authorize them to remove
vehicles as provided in this section;
         (a)   The impound fee for a vehicle held at the Monticello Police
Department impound lot is $200 plus a daily impound storage fee of $25 per day.
The daily impound storage fee will begin being assessed the day after the
vehicle has been impounded.
         (b)   Impounded vehicles held at the Monticello Police Department
impound lot may be claimed at the Monticello Police Department Monday through
Friday between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., excluding federal, state, and local
holidays.
      (7)   No person shall engage in the removal of vehicles from private
property as described in this section without filing a notice of intent with
the city, and the notice shall be filed at least 7 days before commencing the
towing;
      (8)   No removal of a vehicle from private property shall be done except
upon express written instructions of the owners or persons in charge of the
private property upon which the vehicle is said to be trespassing;
      (9)   Vehicle entry for the purpose of removal shall be allowed with
reasonable care on the part of the person or firm towing the vehicle. The
person or firm shall be liable for any damages occasioned to the vehicle if the
entry is not in accordance with the standards of reasonable care;
      (10)   When a vehicle has been towed or removed pursuant to this section,
it must be released to its owner or custodian within 1/2 hour after requested,
if the request is made during business hours. Any vehicle owner or custodian or
agent shall have the right to inspect the vehicle before accepting its return,
and no release or waiver of any kind which would release the towing service
from liability for damages incurred during the towing and storage may be
required from any vehicle owner or other legally authorized person as a
condition of release of the vehicle. A detailed, signed receipt showing the
legal name of the towing service must be given to the person paying towing or
storage charges at the time of payment, whether requested or not; and
      (11)   Towing companies shall also provide insurance coverage for areas
where vehicles towed under the provisions of this chapter will be impounded or
otherwise stored, and shall adequately cover loss by fire, theft, or other
risks.
(Am. Ord. 2014-49, passed 11-10-2014; Am. Ord. 2024-19, passed 3-11-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-203
§ 75.05 NOTICE OF ABANDONED VEHICLE.
   (A)   Before an abandoned vehicle that is not a traffic hazard or is not
impeding traffic may be towed, notice must be given to the owner of the
vehicle. When the City Police Department does not know the identity of the
registered owner of a licensed vehicle, the City Police Department shall cause
the vehicle registration records of the State of Illinois to be searched by the
Secretary of State for the purpose of determining the owner of the vehicle.
Once the identity of the owner has been determined, the City Police Department
shall, within 24 hours, notify the owner by certified mail that the vehicle is
subject to being towed as an abandoned vehicle and notify the owner of the
legal and factual basis for the presumption of abandonment. The notice to the
owner shall also advise the owner that the vehicle will be towed 7 days after
the date of the notice, unless the vehicle is moved by the owner within that
time or the owner requests a hearing as set forth in §
75.06.
   (B)   The notice required by this paragraph shall not apply to vehicles that
do not carry current license plates. As to those vehicles, a notice of
abandonment and the earliest tow date shall be affixed to the windshield of the
vehicle.
   (C)   Abandoned, unattended, wrecked, burned, or partially dismantled
vehicles that create a traffic hazard because of their position in relation to
the highway or cause the impediment of traffic may be towed without notice.
§ 75.06 HEARING ON ABANDONED VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   Upon receipt of notice of abandoned vehicle, the owner of the
vehicle may contest the presumption of abandonment and request a hearing before
the Chief of the City Police Department or his or her designee. The owner’s
written request for such a hearing must be transmitted to the City Police
Department within 7 days of the date of the written notice to the owner or, in
the event of a notice being placed on the vehicle, prior to the date of the
tow. Any vehicle not towed as of the date on which the owner requests a hearing
shall not be towed until a determination is made by the hearing officer.
      (2)   Owners of vehicles that were towed without notice pursuant to §
75.04(B) may request in writing a hearing before the Chief of the Monticello
Police Department or his or her designee before the owner is required to pay
any charges relative to the tow. No vehicle shall, however, be released without
the payment by the owner of towing and storage charges unless the hearing
officer finds that the owner should not be required to pay those charges.
      (3)   The hearing officer shall convene a hearing within 7 days of
receipt of an owner’s written request for a hearing. The hearing officer shall
take testimony from the owner, the police officer(s) who determined the vehicle
was to be towed, and the testimony of relevant witnesses.
   (B)   (1)   Towing authorized. In addition to the penalties provided in this
code and in addition to other sections in this chapter authorizing towing, any
police officer or person designated by the Police Chief may remove or cause to
be removed and to be impounded any vehicle parked contrary to the provisions of
this code, and:
         (a)   Where an official sign is posted designating the area as a tow-
away zone;
         (b)   Where the vehicle is parked so as to constitute or cause:
            1.   An obstruction to the delivery of municipal or emergency
services;
            2.   An obstruction to vehicular or pedestrian traffic; or
            3.   A clear and present danger to health, safety, or welfare.
         (c)   Where the vehicle is parked in a disabled designated parking
space and which does not bear the registration plates, certificate, device, or
decal required by ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5.
      (2)   Notice. As soon as possible after a vehicle has been towed, but in
no event later than 96 hours after the tow, notice shall be sent to the
registered owner of the vehicle informing the owner of at least the following:
         (a)   The location to which the vehicle has been towed;
         (b)   The factual basis of the parking violation;
         (c)   The procedure for the recovery of the vehicle; and
         (d)   The right to a hearing as set forth in division (B)(3) below.
      (3)   Hearing.
         (a)   The registered owner of the towed vehicle or person authorized
to process the vehicle may request a hearing with regard to the removal and
impoundment in writing within 5 days of the receipt of the notice. Notice shall
be presumed to be received on the fourth day after the date of mailing unless
returned. A hearing will be provided by the Police Chief or the Police Chief’s
designee within 5 days of the receipt of the written request. Failure to
request such a hearing within the proscribed time limits shall be deemed a
waiver of the right.
         (b)   At the hearing, the hearing officer shall consider the
following:
            1.   Whether or not there was a probable cause to believe the
vehicle was parked in violation of this code;
            2.   Whether or not there was a probable cause to believe that the
vehicle comes within the applicable towing provisions of this code; and
            3.   Whether or not the vehicle owner received prompt notice in
accordance with this section.
         (c)   The Police Chief or the Police Chief’s designee shall be the
hearing officer empowered to conduct the hearing after receipt of the written
notice. The hearing officer is empowered to authorize the payment of all or
part of the removal and storage fees by the city and the release of the towed
vehicle if he or she finds that:
            1.   There was not probable cause to believe that the towed vehicle
was parked in violation of this code;
            2.   There was not probable cause to believe that the towed vehicle
was towed pursuant to applicable towing provisions of this code; or
            3.   The vehicle owner failed to received prompt notice in
accordance with this section, provided that the hearing officer shall only
authorize payment of excess storage fees incurred by such late notice if the
tow was otherwise authorized.
      (4)   Payment of towing costs.
         (a)   Any owner of a motor vehicle parked within the corporate limits
of the city on public property, public right-of-way, private property, or in a
private parking space at a time when or in such a manner where towing is
authorized by this chapter, thereby consents to the removal or towing of the
vehicle and to the payment of towing and storage fees to the relocator
performing those services prior to the release of the vehicle.
         (b)   Every person who tows or stores any vehicle for which towing is
authorized by this chapter, with the express or implied consent of the owner,
shall have a possessory lien upon the vehicle in the maximum amount of $500 for
the towing and storage services. This lien shall commence at the time and date
of the commencement of the services and shall continue until release of the
vehicle so towed or stored.
      (5)   Reports. The Police Department shall make such reports regarding
towed vehicles as may be required by the State Vehicle Code (ILCS Ch. 625, Act
5), as amended from time to time.
      (6)   Record searches.  The Police Department shall make such record
searches regarding towed vehicles as may be required by the State Vehicle Code,
as amended from time to time.
      (7)   Disposal.  Vehicles which have not been claimed shall be disposed
of pursuant to provisions of the State Vehicle Code which presently exist or
are hereafter amended regarding the disposal of unclaimed vehicles.
   (C)   If the hearing officer finds that a vehicle should be towed, the owner
of that vehicle shall have 24 hours to remove the vehicle. After that time, the
City Police Department shall authorize the tow of the vehicle.
(Am. Ord. 2014-41, passed 10-14-2014; Am. Ord. 2014-49, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 75.07 REPORTS ON TOWED VEHICLES.
   When a vehicle is authorized to be towed away as provided in this chapter,
the City Police Department shall keep and maintain a record of the vehicle
towed, listing the color, year of manufacture, manufacturer’s trade name,
manufacturer’s series name, body style, vehicle identification number, license
plate year and number and registration sticker year and number displayed on the
vehicle. The record shall also include the date and hour of tow, location towed
from, location towed to, reason for towing and the name of the officer
authorizing the tow.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-204
§ 75.08 RECORD SEARCHES.
   (A)   When the Monticello City Police Department does not know the identity
of the registered owner, lien holder, or other legally entitled person of a
vehicle being impounded, the City Police Department will cause the vehicle
registration records of the State of Illinois to be searched by the Secretary
of State for the purpose of obtaining the required ownership information.
   (B)   The City Police Department will cause the stolen motor vehicle files
of the State Police to be searched by a directed communication to the State
Police for stolen or wanted information on the vehicle. When the State Police
files are searched with negative results, the information contained in the
National Crime Information Center (NCIC) files will be searched by the State
Police. The information determined from these record searches will be returned
to the City Police Department for that agency’s use in sending a notification
by certified mail to the registered owner, lien holder, and other legally
entitled persons advising where the vehicle is held, requesting a disposition
be made and setting forth public sale information. Notification shall be sent
no later than 10 days after the date the City Police Department impounds or
authorizes the impounding of a vehicle; provided that if the City Police
Department is unable to determine the identity of the registered owner, lien
holder, or other person legally entitled to ownership of the impounded vehicle
within a 10-day period after impoundment then notification shall be sent no
later than 2 days after the date the identity of the registered owner, lien
holder, or other person legally entitled to ownership of the impounded vehicle
is determined. Exceptions to a notification by certified mail to the registered
owner, lien holder, and other legally entitled persons are set forth in §
75.10.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-205
§ 75.09 IDENTIFYING AND TRACING OF VEHICLE OWNERSHIP.
   When the registered owner, lien holder, or other person legally entitled to
the possession of a vehicle cannot be identified from the registration files of
this state or from the registration files of a foreign state, if applicable,
the City Police Department shall notify the State Police, for the purpose of
identifying the vehicle owner or other person legally entitled to the
possession of the vehicle. The information obtained by the State Police will be
immediately forwarded to the City Police Department for notification purposes
as set forth in §
75.08 of this chapter.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-206
§ 75.10 RECLAIMED VEHICLES; EXPENSES.
   Any time before a vehicle is sold at public sale or disposed of as provided
in §
75.11, the owner, lien holder, or other person legally entitled to its
possession may reclaim the vehicle by presenting to the City Police Department
proof of ownership or proof of the right to possession of the vehicle. No
vehicle shall be released to the owner, lien holder, or other person under this
section until all towing and storage charges have been paid.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-207
§ 75.11 DISPOSAL OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLES.
   (A)   When an abandoned, lost, stolen, or unclaimed vehicle 7 years of age
or newer remains unclaimed by the registered owner, lien holder, or other
person legally entitled to its possession, for a period of 30 days after notice
has been given as provided in §§
75.06 and
75.09, the City Police Department shall cause it to be sold at public auction
to a person licensed as an automotive parts recycler, rebuilder or scrap
processor under Chapter 5 of the Illinois Motor Vehicle Code, ILCS Ch. 625, Act
5, §§ 5-100 et seq. Notice of the time and place of the sale shall be posted in
a conspicuous place for at least 10 days prior to the sale on the premises
where the vehicle has been impounded. At least 10 days prior to the sale, the
City Police Department shall cause a notice of the time and place of the sale
to be sent by certified mail to the registered owner, lien holder and other
persons known by the City Police Department to be legally entitled to the
possession of the vehicle. This notice shall contain a complete description of
the vehicle to be sold and what steps must be taken by any legally entitled
person to reclaim the vehicle.
   (B)   In those instances where the certified notification specified in §§
75.08 and
75.09 has been returned by the postal authorities to the City Police Department
due to the addressee having moved, or being unknown at the address obtained
from the registration records of this state, the sending of a second certified
notice will not be required.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-208
§ 75.12 DISPOSAL OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLES WITHOUT NOTICE.
   (A)   When the identity of the registered owner, lien holder, and other
person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned, lost, or unclaimed
vehicle of 7 years of age or newer cannot be determined by any means provided
for in this chapter, the vehicle may be sold as provided in §
75.11, without notice to any person whose identity cannot be determined.
   (B)   When an abandoned vehicle of more than 7 years of age is impounded as
specified by this chapter, it will be kept in custody for a minimum of 10 days
for the purpose of determining the identity of the registered owner and lien
holder and contacting the registered owner and lien holder by the U. S. mail,
public service or in person for a determination of disposition; and, an
examination of the State Police stolen vehicle files for theft and wanted
information. At the expiration of the 10-day period, without the benefit of
disposition information being received from the registered owner or the lien
holder, the City Police Department will authorize the disposal of the vehicle
as junk.
   (C)   A vehicle classified as an antique vehicle may, however, be sold to a
person desiring to restore it.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-209
§ 75.13 REPORTS AFTER VEHICLE IS DISPOSED OF OR RECLAIMED.
   When a vehicle in the custody of the City Police Department is reclaimed by
the registered owner, lien holder, or other legally entitled person, or when
the vehicle is sold at public sale or otherwise disposed of as provided in this
chapter, a report of the transaction will be maintained by the City Police
Department for a period of 1 year from the date of the sale or disposal.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-210
§ 75.14 PROCEEDS OF SALE.
   (A)   When a vehicle located within the city is authorized to be towed away
by the City Police Department and disposed of as set forth in this chapter, the
proceeds of the public sale or disposition after the deduction of towing,
storage, and processing charges shall be deposited in the treasury of the city.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to vehicles disposed of
or sold at public sale under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-107(k).
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-211
§ 75.15 LIABILITY.
   A law enforcement officer or agency, towing service owner, operator, or
employee shall not be held to answer or be liable for damages in any action
brought by the registered owner, former registered owner, or his or her legal
representative, lien holder, or any other person legally entitled to the
possession of a vehicle when the vehicle was processed and sold or disposed of
as provided by ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-213
§ 75.16 INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE DECLARED NUISANCE; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Inoperable motor vehicles, whether on public or private property or on
the private property of the owner, are hereby declared to be a nuisance.
   (B)   INOPERABLE VEHICLE is defined as any vehicle not in working order or
any vehicle that lacks current legal registration.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to any motor vehicle:
      (1)   That is kept within a building when not in use;
      (2)   To historical vehicles over 25 years of age that are being actively
restored; and
      (3)   To a motor vehicle on the premises of a place of a business engaged
in the wrecking or junking of motor vehicles.
§ 75.17 DUTY TO DISPOSE OF INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   (A)   Any person not exempted under §
75.16 shall dispose of any inoperable motor vehicles under his or her control
upon written notice received from the corporate authority or from the Chief of
Police or any member of the Police Department designated by him or her
commanding the disposition of the inoperable motor vehicle.
   (B)   The provisions for the impounding, towing, or removal of abandoned
motor vehicles shall apply equally to inoperable motor vehicles.
§ 75.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (B)   Any person who abandons a vehicle or any part thereof on any highway
in the city shall be fined not less than $25 or more than $100 and shall be
required to pay all towing and storage charges in the event the vehicle is
towed.
CHAPTER 76: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Stop signs and intersections
   
II.   Yield intersections
   
III.   One-way streets
   
IV.   Speed limits other than 30 mph
SCHEDULE I. STOP SIGNS AND INTERSECTIONS.
Entering Street From Street No. of Stops
Entering Street         From Street                             No. of Stops
Allerton Road           Blaine Street                           1
Allerton Road           Bond Street                             1
Allerton Road           Bristow Street                          1
Allerton Road           Grandview Drive                         1
Allerton Road           Marion Street                           3
Allerton Road           William Street                          1
Applewood Drive         Orchard Lane                            4
Bond                    Charter Street                          2
Bond                    Independence                            2
Bridge                  County Farm Road                        1
Bridge                  East Gate Drive                         1
Bridge                  Fisler Road                             1
Bridge                  Foothill Road                           1
Bridge                  Front Street                            1
Bridge                  Oak Street                              1
Bridge                  Old Route 47                            2
Bridge                  Railroad Street                         1
Bridge Street           Oakview Drive                           1
Buchanan                Center Street                           2
Buchanan                High Street                             2
Buchanan                Lafayette Street                        2
Buchanan                Lincoln Street                          2
Buchanan                Livingston Street                       2
Buchanan                Main Street                             2
Buchanan                McClelland Street                       2
Buchanan                Sherman Street                          1
Burnside Drive          Bear Lane                               1
Burnside Drive          Raymond Road                            1
Center                  Bridge Street                           1
Center                  Charter Street                          2
Center                  Chase Street                            2
Center                  Greely Street                           2
Center                  Hamilton Street                         2
Center                  Independence Street                     1
Center Street           Monticello Street                       1
Center Street           Union Drive                             2
Charter                 Lafayette Street                        1
Charter Street          Main Street                             2
Charter Street          Washington Street                       2
Church Street           Constitution Boulevard                  1
Constitution Boulevard  Colonnade Court                         1
Constitution Boulevard  North State Street                      1
County Farm Road        Appletree Drive (Appletree Subdivision) 1
County Farm Road        Evergreens Subdivision                  1
County Farm Road        Turtle Creek Subdivision                1
County Farm Road        Turtle Pointe                           1
E. Livingston Street    N. Hamilton                             4
E. North Street         Greely Street                           1
E. North Street         Poplar Street                           1
Edwards Street          Crestview Drive                         4
Foothill Road           Bell Avenue                             1
Front Street            Bell Avenue                             1
Front Street            Wilson Street                           1
Grant                   Buchanan Street                         4
Grant                   Charter Street                          2
Grant                   Chase Street                            2
Grant                   Colfax Street                           2
Grant                   Greely Street                           2
Grant                   Hamilton Street                         2
Grant                   Independence Street                     2
Grant                   Monticello Street                       2
Grant                   Union Street                            1
Green Apple Lane        Applewood Drive                         1
Hamilton                Bond Street                             4
Hamilton                McClelland Street                       1
Independence            Lafayette Street                        2
Jefferson               Charter Street                          1
Jefferson Crossing      Constitution Boulevard                  1
Kirby Circle            Medical Center Drive                    1
Kirby Circle            Prairie Trail                           1
Kratz                   Crestview Lane                          1
Kratz                   Hamilton Street                         1
Kratz                   Hillside Drive                          1
Kratz                   Longview Road                           1
Kratz                   Madison Street                          1
Kratz                   Piatt Street                            1
Kratz                   South Buchanan Drive                    1
Kratz                   Van Buren Street                        1
Liberty Street          Constitution Boulevard                  1
Livingston              Charter Street                          1
Livingston              Independence Street                     1
Livingston              State Street                            4
Lone Beech Road         North Union Drive                       1
Longview Road           South Buchanan                          4
Main                    Independence Street                     4
Main Street             Charter Street                          2
Main Street             State Street                            2
Marion                  Buchanan Street                         2
Marion                  Centennial Street                       2
Marion                  Charter Street                          2
Marion                  Emerson Street                          2
Marion                  Hamilton Street                         2
Marion                  Independence Street                     2
Marion                  Park Street                             2
Marion                  South West Union Street                 1
Marion                  State Street                            1
Market                  Bond Street                             2
Market                  Center Street                           4
Market                  East Circle Drive                       1
Market                  Grant Street                            2
Market                  Hettinger Court                         1
Market                  High Street                             2
Market                  Innovation Parkway                      1
Market                  Kratz Road                              1
Market                  Lafayette Street                        1
Market                  Livingston Street                       2
Market                  Main Street                             1
Market                  Marion Street                           4
Market                  Monroe Street                           1
Market                  North Bennett Drive                     1
Market                  Oglesby Street                          2
Market                  South Bennett Drive                     1
Market                  Washington Street                       2
Market                  West Circle Drive                       1
Market                  William Street                          2
Market                  Wilson Street                           2
Medical Center Drive    Forest Drive                            1
Medical Center Drive    Sage Fields Boulevard                   1
N. West Union Street    Surrey Road                             1
N. West Union Street    W. Railroad Street                      3
Old 47                  Fisler Road                             4
Old Route 47            Foxtrot Lane                            1
Old Route 47            Green Apple Lane                        1
Old Route 47            Walden Pond Boulevard (Walden Pond      1
                        Estates)
Piatt                   Edwards Street                          1
Piatt                   Lafayette Street                        1
Piatt                   Main Street                             1
Piatt                   Marion Street                           1
Piatt                   McClelland Street                       1
Piatt                   Meyers Street                           1
Piatt                   Robert Webb Street                      3
Piatt                   Sherman Street                          1
Railroad                Bridge Street                           1
Ridgepoint Drive        Prairie Lane Drive                      1
Robert Webb             Crestview Drive                         2
Robert Webb             South Chaucer Boulevard                 1
Route 47                Oakview Drive                           1
Route 47                Stoddard Acres-East Westwood Drive      1
Route 47                Stoddard Acres-West Westwood Drive      1
Route 105 South         Burnside Road                           1
South Buchanan Drive    Bond Street                             1
South Chaucer Boulevard Devonshire Drive                        1
South Chaucer Boulevard Edwards Street                          1
South Chaucer Boulevard Meyers Street                           1
South Chaucer Boulevard Ridgepointe Drive                       1
State                   Center Street                           4
State                   Grant Street                            2
State                   High Street                             2
State                   Lafayette Street                        2
State                   Leo Lane                                1
State                   Lincoln Street                          2
State                   Logan Street                            1
State                   Lone Beech Road                         1
State                   Oglesby Street                          1
State                   Wilson Street                           4
State Street            Bond Street                             4
State Street            Washington Street                       2
Union Drive             East North Street                       1
Washington              Buchanan Street                         2
Washington              Chase Street                            1
Washington              Chaucer Boulevard                       1
Washington              Colfax Street                           2
Washington              Emerson Street                          2
Washington              Greely Street                           2
Washington              Hamilton Street                         2
Washington              Independence Street                     2
Washington              Piatt Street                            1
Washington Street       Charter Street                          2
Washington Street       Independence Street                     3
Washington Street       S. Chaucer Boulevard (Ridgepointe       1
                        Subdivision)
W. Railroad Street      N. West Union Street                    3
W. Union Street         W. Washington                           1
William                 Charter Street                          3
William                 Hamilton Street                         4
William                 Independence Street                     3
William                 South Buchanan Drive                    1
William                 State Street                            4
Wilson                  Buchanan Street                         3
 
(Ord. 2008-09, passed 3-10-2008; Am. Ord. 2008-13, passed 4-14-2008; Am. Ord.
2008-31, passed 7-14-2008; Am. Ord. 2008-35, passed 8-11-2008; Am. Ord. 2008-
36, passed 7-28-2008; Am. Ord. 2008-37, passed 7-28-2008; Am. Ord. 2008-53,
passed 10-14-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-17, passed 4-27-2009; Am. Ord. 2009-41, passed
8-24-2009; Am. Ord. 2009-45, passed 9-14-2009; Am. Ord. 2013-51, passed 9-9-
2013; Am. Ord. 2022-04, passed 1-24-2022; Am. Ord. 2022-05, passed 1-24-2022;
Am. Ord. 2024-39, passed 7-22-2024)
SCHEDULE II. YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
Entering Street From Street
Entering Street    From Street
Center             Chaucer Boulevard
Center             Gainesborough Court
Center             Kipling Drive
Charter            Lincoln Street
Chaucer Boulevard  Dickens Court
East North Street  Monticello Street
Emerson            McClelland Street
Emerson            Sherman Street
Hamilton           Lafayette Street
High               Charter Street
High               Chase Street
High               Hamilton Street
High               Monticello Street
High Street        Independence Street
High Street        Union Drive
Hillside Drive     Prairie Lane
Lafayette          Emerson Street
Lincoln            Chase Street
Lincoln Street     Colfax Street
Lincoln Street     Hamilton Street
Lincoln Street     Independence Street
Lincoln Street     Monticello Street
Lincoln Street     Union Drive
Main               Emerson Street
Main               Hamilton Street
Monticello Street  Chestnut Street
Park               Blaine Street
Park               Bond Street
Park               Bristow Street
Railroad           South West Union Street
Railroad           Timberview Drive
Robert Webb        Hillside Drive
Robert Webb        Jackson Street
Robert Webb        Madison Street
Robert Webb        Prairie Lane
Robert Webb        Van Buren Street
Van Buren          Adam Court/Adam Street
West Monroe Street South Irving Street
West Oglesby       North Elm Boulevard
Wilson             Charter Street
Wilson             Elm Boulevard
Wilson             Hamilton Street
Wilson             Independence Street
Wilson Street      Independence Street
Wilson Street      Lincoln Drive
 
(Ord. 2008-14, passed 4-14-2008; Am. Ord. 2008-53, passed 10-24-2008; Am. Ord.
2009-45, passed 9-14-2009; Am. Ord. 2013-51, passed 9-9-2013; Am. Ord. 2022-04,
passed 1-24-2022)
SCHEDULE III. ONE-WAY STREETS
Street Direction Extent
Street            Direction               Extent
Charter Street    Southbound only         From Livingston to Marion Street
Charter Street    Southbound only         From William to Jefferson Street
Chaucer Boulevard In a northern direction Use eastern roadway
                  In a southern direction Use a western roadway
Jefferson Street  Eastbound only          From Market to State Street
Main Street       Eastbound only          From Market to Independence Street
State Street      Northbound only         From Jefferson to William Street
State Street      Northbound only         From Marion to Livingston Street
Washington Street Westbound only          From Independence to Market Street
 
SCHEDULE IV. SPEED LIMITS OTHER THAN 30 MPH
Street From, Direction To Location Max. Speed
Street            From, Direction      To Location          Max. Speed
                  From the
                  southeastern
Allerton Road     property line of the To the city limits   45 mph
                  city landfill,
                  southwesterly
                  From the             To the southeastern
Allerton Road     intersection of      property line of the 30 mph
                  William Street and   city landfill
                  Allerton Road
Appletree Drive                                           25 mph
Applewood Drive                                           25 mph
Bridge Street     From Foothill Drive, To Front Street      35 mph
                  easterly
Bridge Street     From Foothill Drive, To the city limits   45 mph
                  westerly
                  From the             To the west boundary
County Farm Road  intersection of      of Turtle Pointe     25 mph
                  Bridge Street and    Subdivision
                  County Farm Road
East Old Route 47 From Walden Drive,   To the city limits   45 mph
                  north
East Old Route 47 From Walden Drive    To the city limits   35 mph
                  At the intersection  200 feet east and
East Washington   of East Washington   200 feet west of the 20 mph (when yellow
Street            St. and Chaucer      intersection         light is flashing)
                  Boulevard
No Passing Zone - From Greely Street,  To the city limits
East Washington   then east
                  From the             To the intersection
Fisler Road       intersection of      of Old Route 47 and  25 mph
                  Bridge Street and    Fisler Road
                  Fisler Road
                  From St. Philomena
Route 105         Catholic Church,     To the city limits   45 mph
                  northerly
                  From St. Philomena
Route 105         Catholic Church,     To Oglesby Street    35 mph
                  southerly
 
(Am. Ord. 2016-21, passed 4-11-2016; Am. Ord. 2023-20, passed 4-10-2023)
CHAPTER 77: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Municipal parking lots
   
II.   No-parking areas
   
III.   Limited parking
   
IV.   Disabled parking
   
V.   Loading and unloading zones
   
VI.   Snow routes
SCHEDULE I. MUNICIPAL PARKING LOTS.
   (A)   Locations.
Lot   Description
Lot A Located at the southwest corner of the intersection of Livingston and
      Independence Streets
Lot B Bounded by Livingston Street on the south, Hamilton Street on the east
      and State Street on the west, commonly known as the depot parking lot
Lot C Located next to and north of Nick’s Community Playground
Lot D Southeast corner of the intersection of Livingston and Market Streets
Lot E Bounded by Market Street on the east, Livingston Street on the north,
      Washington Street on the south and railroad tracks on the west
Lot F Bounded by Market Street on the east, Washington Street on the north,
      Main on the south and railroad tracks on the west
Lot G Southeast corner of the intersection of Hamilton and Center Streets
 
   (B)   Parking restrictions. The parking of motor vehicles in each lot shall
be restricted as follows, unless otherwise posted and as modified in division
(C) of this schedule.
Lot Restriction
Lot   Restriction
Lot A 2-hour parking
Lot B Time limits as posted
Lot C *
Lot D 2-hour parking
Lot E *
Lot F *
Lot G *
 
   *   Subject to abandoned vehicle regulations,
Chapter 75.
   (C)   Parking prohibited.  No vehicle shall be parked in any municipal
parking lot when lot is closed for maintenance, cleaning or snow removal.
(Am. Ord. 2011-11, passed 4-11-2011) Penalty, see §
72.99
SCHEDULE II. NO-PARKING AREAS.
Street Location
Street Location
Bridge/Center Street, on both north and south sides, from Market Street to the
city’s west corporate limits
Bridge Street, both sides of the road, from Railroad Street to the western city
limits
Buchanan Street, on the east side, for a distance of 95 feet north of the
intersection of Buchanan Street and Center Street
Buchanan Street, on the west side, from High Street to Center Street
Center Street, on the north side, between North Market Street and North
Buchanan Street
Center Street, on the south side, from North Market Street to North Charter
Street and from North Hamilton Street to North Buchanan Street
Center Street, on the south side, for a distance of 65 feet immediately east of
Buchanan Street
Charter Street, on the east side, between William Street and Marion Street
Charter Street, on the west side, from Center Street south to Livingston Street
Charter Street, both sides, between Livingston Street and Lafayette Street,
Mondays and Fridays from 2:00 a.m. to 5:00 a.m.
East Grant, on south side, from Buchanan Street to Monticello Street
East Marion Street, for a distance of 50 feet on the north side, from Piatt
Street intersection
East Marion Street, north side, from South Hamilton Street to South Buchanan
Street
East Marion Street, on the south side, between South State Street and Piatt
Street
East Washington Street, on the north and south side, between Independence
Street and the east corporate limits
 
Street Location
Street Location
East Wilson Street, on north side, from North Union Street to point 40 feet
west of center line of Buchanan Street
Hamilton Street, east side, from Kratz Road to William Street
Hamilton Street (both sides) from Livingston Street to Railroad
Kratz Road, north side, from Hamilton to Market Street
Livingston Street (both sides) from Buchanan to Hamilton Street
Livingston Street, on the north side, for a distance of 67 feet west of the
intersection of Livingston Street and Charter Street, as measured west from
Charter Street centerline
Main Street, on the south side, between Independence Street and Piatt Street
Main Street, both sides, between Market Street and Independence Street, Mondays
and Fridays from 2:00 a.m. to 5:00 a.m.
Market Street, anywhere within the limits of the city
North Buchanan Street (both sides) from East Washington Street to East Center
Street
North State Street, on the east side, for a distance of 25 feet immediately
north of Livingston Street
North State Street, on the west side, between Livingston Street and Illinois
Central tracks
North State Street, on the west side, from Livingston Street to Lone Beech Road
North State and East Livingston Street, intersection, first parking spaces on
the southeast, southwest and northwest corners of intersection
North Union Street (both sides) from Grant Street to Lincoln Street
Old Route 47, both sides of the road, from Walden Drive to Trailblazer Road
Opal Drive, on either side, situated in Wilkin Commercial Park
 
Street Location
Street Location
Piatt Street, on east and west sides, between East Marion Street and East
Washington Street
Prairie Lane, on the west side, Monday through Friday from 2:00 p.m. to 4:00
p.m.
Ridgepointe Drive, the south side, Monday through Friday from 2:00 p.m. to 4:00
p.m.
Sage Drive, on the west side
South Buchanan Street (both sides) from East Washington Street to East Marion
Street
South Independence, on the west side, between cross streets of Marion Street
and Bond Street*
State Street, both sides, between Livingston Street and Lafayette Street,
Mondays and Fridays from 2:00 a.m. to 5:00 a.m.
Surrey Court, on the west side of the street
Union Drive, on the west side, from Stoddard Court to Wilson Street
West Livingston Street, on the south side, between Market Street, and the
switch track of the Wabash Railroad Company
West Marion Street, on the north side, from North Market Street to South State
Street
West Marion Street, on the south side, between Allerton Road and South State
Street
Washington Street, both sides, between Market Street and Independence Street,
Mondays and Fridays from 2:00 a.m. to 5:00 a.m.
West Washington Street, on the south side, between Park Street and the right-
of-way of the switch track of the Wabash Railroad
West Washington Street, on the south side, for a distance of 145 feet east of
the intersection of Washington Street and Market Street, as measured east from
Market Street centerline.
NOTES:
* Fine $5-500
 
   Appropriate signs shall be procured, erected and maintained, giving notice
of the aforesaid no parking areas, and no citation for a violation of this
schedule shall be issued until such signs are erected.
(Am. Ord. 2009-44, passed 9-14-2009; Am. Ord. 2009-55, passed 12-14-2009; Am.
Ord. 2011-10, passed 4-11-2011; Am. Ord. 2011-38, passed 9-12-2011; Am. Ord.
2017-47, passed 7-10-2017; Am. Ord. 2020-10, passed 3-9-2020)
SCHEDULE III. LIMITED PARKING.
   (A)   Time limit parking - 15 minutes.
 
Street                                           Spaces                  Side
East Livingston Street, measured west from North 4 spaces                North
State Street
East Livingston Street, measured west from North First and fourth spaces North
Independence Street
Livingston Street, west of State Street          First space             South
 
   (B)   Time limit parking - 2 hours.
Street Side Location
Street                  Side                        Location
                                                    Between Livingston Street
                                                    and Lafayette Street from
Charter Street          On the east and west side   8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
                                                    except on Sunday and
                                                    holidays
                                                    West Livingston Street,
IL Rte. 105             On the south side           measured west from North
                                                    Charter Street to Market
                                                    Street
Livingston Street       On the north side           From Independence Street to
                                                    State Street
                                                    Between Market Street and
Main Street             On the north and south side Independence Street from 8:
                                                    00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. except
                                                    on Sunday and holidays
                                                    Northeast quarter of block
                                                    bounded by East Livingston
Municipal Parking Lot A                            Street, North Independence
                                                    Street, East Washington
                                                    Street, and North State
                                                    Street
                                                    Parking located east of
Municipal Parking Lot D East half                   Market Street and south of
                                                    Livingston Street
                                                    Between Livingston Street
                                                    and Lafayette Street from
State Street            On the east and west side   8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
                                                    except on Sunday and
                                                    holidays
State Street            East side and north of      To Railroad Street
                        Livingston Street
                                                    Between Market Street and
Washington Street       On the north and south side Independence Street from 8:
                                                    00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. except
                                                    on Sunday and holidays
 
(Ord. 2007-40, passed 7-23-2007; Am. Ord. 2014-40, passed 9-22-2014; Am. Ord.
2018-15, passed 3-26-2018 ; Am. Ord. 2018-30, passed 7-23-2018)
SCHEDULE IV. DISABLED PARKING.
Street Location
Street               Location
Main Street          First parking space on the north side of measured east
                     from State Street
Main Street          First parking space on the south side of measured east
                     from Charter Street
                     Southwest corner East Livingston Street and North
Parking Lot A        Independence Street immediately north of walk ramp at west
                     edge of parking lot
Parking Lot B        Depot parking lot west of North State at west entrance to
                     Lot B, first space on the right
Parking Lot B        The nineteenth and twentieth parking spaces west of North
                     State Street on the north side of Municipal Parking Lot B
                     The fourth and five spaces on the east side of Municipal
Parking Lot E        Parking Lot E as measured north from the sidewalk located
                     on the north side of Washington Street
South Independence   Fourth parking space north from Lafayette on west side of
                     Independence
South Charter Street First parking space on the west side, measured from
                     Washington Street
State Street         First parking space on the east side, measured south from
                     Washington Street
State Street         First parking space on the east side, measured north from
                     Washington Street
Washington Street    First parking space on the north side of measured east
                     from Charter Street
 
(Am. Ord. 2013-59, passed 10-28-2013)
SCHEDULE V. LOADING AND UNLOADING ZONES.
 
Time Restriction                        Location
(if any)
                                        East Grant Street, north side, from a
                                        point 40 feet west of the centerline of
-                                       Monticello Street to a point 40 feet
                                        east of the centerline of Buchanan
                                        Street
                                        East Wilson Street, south side, from
                                        the intersection of the south curb line
-                                       of East Wilson Street and the east curb
                                        line of North Buchanan Street to a
                                        point 102 lineal feet east of the point
                                        of beginning
                                        All spaces on the south side of East
7:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through  Livingston Street located between North
Friday                                  Independence Street and North Hamilton
                                        Street
                                        The 3rd parking stall on the north side
7:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m., Monday through of West Main Street, approximately 95
Friday                                  feet west of the Centerline of Market
                                        Street (IL 105)
 
(Am. Ord. 2008-34, passed 8-11-2008; Am. Ord. 2011-10, passed 4-11-2011; Am.
Ord. 2022-31, passed 9-12-2022) Penalty, see §
72.99
SCHEDULE VI. SNOW ROUTES.
   The following streets are hereby designated as snow routes. Parking is
restricted or prohibited according to the provisions of §
72.13.
   (A)   Marion Street from Piatt Street to Allerton Road;
   (B)   Center Street from Market Street to Buchanan Street;
   (C)   Buchanan Street from Center Street to Marion Street;
   (D)   Kratz Road from Market Street to Hillside Drive;
   (E)   Charter Street, both sides, between Livingston Street and Lafayette
Street;
   (F)   State Street, both sides, between Livingston Street and Lafayette
Street;
   (G)   Main Street, both sides, between Market Street and Independence
Street; and
   (H)   Washington Street, both sides, between Market Street and Independence
Street.
(Am. Ord. 2011-10, passed 4-11-2011) Penalty, see §
72.99
CHAPTER 78: NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND LOW-SPEED VEHICLES
Section
   
78.01   Definitions
   
78.02   Operation of non-highway vehicles
   
78.03   Operation of low-speed vehicles
   
78.04   Annual registration
   
78.05   Inspection
   
78.06   Application of Illinois Vehicle Code
§ 78.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions from the Illinois
Vehicle Code, as amended, shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
   LOW-SPEED VEHICLE. Any four-wheeled vehicle with a maximum speed greater
than 20 miles per hour but not greater than 25 miles per hour that conforms
with the federal motor vehicle safety standards set forth in the applicable
federal regulations.
   NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLE. A motor vehicle not specifically designed to be used on
a public highway, including an “all-terrain vehicle,” “golf cart,” “off-highway
motorcycle,” and a “recreational off-highway vehicle,” as defined by the
Illinois Vehicle Code as amended.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 4-13-2015)
§ 78.02 OPERATION OF NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLES.
   The city authorizes the operation of non-highway vehicles on roadways under
its jurisdiction where the posted speed limit is 35 miles per hour or less,
according to the requirements of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1426.1, as amended.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 4-13-2015)
§ 78.03 OPERATION OF LOW-SPEED VEHICLES.
   The city authorizes the operation of low-speed vehicles on streets under its
jurisdiction that have a speed limit not greater than 35 miles per hour,
according to the requirements of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1426.2, as amended.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 4-13-2015)
§ 78.04 ANNUAL REGISTRATION.
   No non-highway or low-speed vehicle shall be operated on any roadway of the
city, unless the owner(s) thereof shall have either: (1) been issued a
temporary license plate for on-street driving from the Illinois Secretary of
State, or (2) registered the non-highway or low-speed vehicle with the city in
accordance with the following:
   (A)   Registration shall be administered by the Chief of Police, and his or
her designees. Applications for registration shall be made on a form prescribed
by the city, and must include a statement under oath or penalties of perjury
that the non-highway or low-speed vehicle proposed to be registered meets the
statutory requirements. The application must be accompanied by an annual
registration fee of $35 and proof of the liability insurance required for the
non-highway or low-speed vehicle under Article VI of Chapter 7 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code, being ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 7-600 et seq.
   (B)   The registered non-highway or low-speed vehicle shall be issued a
sticker which shall be affixed to the registered vehicle in a prominent visible
location as directed by the Chief of Police, or his or her designees.
   (C)   Registrations shall be effective from the date of issuance until the
March 31 next following and shall be renewed annually in the same manner as the
original registration. The annual fee shall be prorated in the case of partial
years based on the months the registration will be effective.
   (D)   Registrations shall not be transferable in the event of change of
ownership.
   (E)   Registrations shall be subject to revocation by the Chief of Police in
the event of a violation of the requirements of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-
1426.1 or 1426.2, as amended, or any of the provisions of this chapter. A
revocation shall be made in writing and shall set forth the provision(s) of
statute or ordinance found to be violated. Revocations may be appealed in
writing to the City Council 14 days from the issuance of the revocation, and if
appealed the City Council shall hold a public hearing at which the affected
owner may appear, present witnesses and evidence, and be represented by an
attorney. The City Council shall uphold the revocation if it determines by a
preponderance of the evidence presented at the hearing that the violation which
was the basis for the revocation occurred. During the appeal process, the
revocation shall remain in full force and effect.
   (F)   In the event a registration is revoked due to a failure to maintain
the required liability insurance or a failure to maintain the required
equipment for the non-highway or low-speed vehicle in compliance with this
chapter or the Illinois Vehicle Code, the Chief of Police may reinstate the
registration upon documentation of reinstatement of the required insurance or
repair of the required equipment for the non-highway or low-speed vehicle.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 4-13-2015; Am. Ord. 2023-23, passed 5-8-2023)
§ 78.05 INSPECTION.
   Non-highway and low-speed vehicles that are registered, or to be registered,
are subject to an annual inspection by the Chief of Police, or his or her
designees, to determine that the vehicle meets, and continues to meet, the
requirements of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 4-13-2015)
§ 78.06 APPLICATION OF ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE.
   The operation of non-highway vehicles and low-speed vehicles in the city are
subject to the requirements of the Illinois Vehicle Code. In the event of any
conflict between the requirements of this chapter and the requirements of the
Illinois Vehicle Code, the requirements of the Illinois Vehicle Code shall
govern.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 4-13-2015)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
90.   ANIMALS
   
91.   PARKS AND RECREATION
   
92.   FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
   
93.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
   
94.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Nuisance declared
   
90.03   Housing
   
90.04   Removal of excrement
   
90.05   Noises
   
90.06   Proclamation of danger from rabies
   
90.07   Rabies inoculation
   
90.08   Impounding
   
90.09   Keeping of dangerous animals
   
90.10   Exemptions
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Hunting, see §
130.45
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Every living creature, other than man.
   COOP. A small building for housing poultry.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. A lion, tiger, leopard, ocelot, jaguar, cheetah, margay,
mountain lion, lynx, bobcat, jaguarundi, bear, hyena, wolf or coyote, or any
poisonous or life-threatening reptile.
   DANGEROUS DOG.  
      (1)   Any individual dog anywhere other than upon the property of the
owner or custodian of the dog and unmuzzled, unleashed, or unattended by its
owner or custodian that behaves in a manner that a reasonable person would
believe poses a serious and unjustified imminent threat of serious physical
injury or death to a person or a companion animal; or
      (2)   A dog that, without justification, bites a person and does not
cause serious physical injury.
(ILCS Ch. 510, Act 5, § 2.05a)
   DOG. Except where specifically distinguished, shall include all members of
the canine family.
   HEN. An adult female chicken (Gallus domesticus of the Phasianidae family)
are domestic birds that cannot fly.
   OCCUPIED RESIDENCE. A house or other type of shelter that is intended or
used for human occupancy and has been occupied by humans for more than a total
of 6 months in the last 2 years at that location. For the purposes of this
definition, INTENDED OR USED FOR HUMAN OCCUPANCY means running water and
sanitation are provided within the residence.
   OWNER. Any person who:
      (1)   Has a right of property in an animal;
      (2)   Keeps or harbors an animal;
      (3)   Has an animal in his or her care; or
      (4)   Acts as custodian of an animal.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation, or
other legal entity, any public or private institution, the state, or any
municipal corporation or political subdivision of the state.
   PRIMATE. A nonhuman member of the order primate, including but not limited
to chimpanzee, gorilla, orangutan, bonobo, gibbon, monkey, lemur, loris, aye-
aye, and tarsier.
   RUN. A fenced-off area where chickens can roam.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. Any animal off the private premises of its owner or keeper
and not controlled by a leash, rope, or other restraining paraphernalia.
   VICIOUS DOG. A dog that, without justification, attacks a person and causes
serious physical injury or death, or any individual dog that has been found to
be a “dangerous dog” upon 3 separate occasions. (ILCS Ch. 510, Act 5. § 2.19b)
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The City of Monticello Building and Zoning
Administrator or his or her designee.
(Ord. 2012-42, passed 12-10-2012; Am. Ord. 2023-29, passed 6-12-2023)
§ 90.02 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful, and hereby declared to be a nuisance, for any
animal to run or go at large at any time within the city, and any person being
the owner of the animals running at large shall be in violation of this
chapter.
   (B)   It is unlawful, and hereby declared to be a nuisance, for any person
to keep any rooster, duck, pigeon, goose or other domestic fowl, peacock, fox,
swine, pig, sheep, goat, cattle, horse, mule, or pony on any premises owned,
occupied, or controlled by him or her in the city; except that the lawful
keeping of hens in accordance with this chapter shall not be declared a
nuisance.
(Ord. 2012-42, passed 12-10-2012; Am. Ord. 2023-29, passed 6-12-2023) Penalty,
see §
90.99
§ 90.03 HOUSING.
   (A)   No person shall raise, harbor, or keep hens within the city unless a
permit has been issued by the Zoning Administrator as set forth in this
section.
   (B)   The number of hens allowed shall be a maximum of 6 hens per property.
   (C)   Permits will only be granted to persons who reside on parcels with the
following zoning designations: Single Family Residential (RE-1), Urban
Residential (RD), and Suburban Residential (RS) as defined in §
153.015.
   (D)   (1)   Permittees must provide the following care for hens:
      (2)   No hen shall be permitted to run at large. Hens shall be kept in a
designated coop or run during daylight hours, or in a coop during non-daylight
hours. Hens may be allowed to exercise in a rear yard with a 6-foot fence with
supervision.
         (a)   If the coop and run are not within a fenced yard, hens must be
kept within the coop and run at all times.
         (b)   Fences must meet the standards outlined in §
153.038.
         (c)   Feed must be stored in a fully enclosed, rodent-proof container.
   (E)   Hens must be kept in chicken coops and runs, in accordance with the
following provisions:
      (1)   The chicken coop and/or run shall be located in the rear yard of
the residential structure, but not the side or front yards as defined in §
153.019 Lot Area, Yard and Bulk regulations.
      (2)   The chicken coop and run shall meet all minimum setback
requirements from the property and be located 25 feet from any neighboring
dwelling.
      (3)   The coop must be built to provide ventilation, shade, protection
from precipitation and cold weather, and security from predators, wild birds,
and rodents.
      (4)   Openings in windows and doors must be covered by wire mesh or
screens to deter predators.
      (5)   Access doors must be sized and placed for ease of cleaning.
      (6)   The enclosed run must be attached to the coop or must surround the
coop. The sides of the run must be made of fencing or wire mesh that
discourages predators.
      (7)   The run must be enclosed on all sides, including the top or roof
plane.
      (8)   The coop shall provide a minimum of 4 square feet of floor area per
hen. The run shall provide a minimum of 8 square feet of floor area per hen.
      (9)   Coops are considered an accessory structure as defined in §
153.020, and must meet all standards outlined therein.
      (10)   Coops require a building permit.
      (11)   The coops, run, and enclosures in which any hens are kept must be
kept in a sanitary manner and be regularly cleaned in order to prevent any
accumulation of dirt, manure, or offal. They shall be kept in a clean, dry, and
sanitary condition at all times. Manure, uneaten and discarded feed, feathers,
and other waste must be removed regularly and at a minimum of once per week.
      (12)   Odors from hens, manure, or related substances shall not be
detectable from property lines.
      (13)   Manure must be stored and disposed of properly. Manure may be
composted. All manure not composted must be removed from property regularly and
at a minimum of once per week.
      (14)   Hens, coops, and runs not maintained according to this section
shall be deemed a public nuisance.
   (F)   Obtaining a permit from the city. No person shall maintain a coop and
run without first obtaining a permit.
      (1)   Permits shall be issued when:
         (a)   The applicant files a complete application to obtain or renew a
permit with the Zoning Administrator, on forms prescribed by the city and
supplied by the Zoning Administrator; and
         (b)   The applicant receives a certificate of inspection from the
Zoning Administrator demonstrating compliance with this chapter.
      (2)   If the applicant is a tenant of the property on which the hens are
to be kept, then the owner of the property must be a joint applicant and shall
be a joint permittee equally responsible for compliance with all laws and
regulations.
      (3)   Initial applications must be accompanied by a $25 application fee.
There is no fee for renewal applications.
   (G)   The city may deny a permit to or revoke a permit for any person who:
      (1)   Made false statements on any application or other information or
report required by this §
90.03;
      (2)   Owes a debt to the city;
      (3)   Has, in the last 5 years prior to application for a permit under
this section been convicted, pled guilty, or found liable for any violation of
Chapter 90,
Chapter 93 or
Chapter 153 of this code; or
      (4)   Does not meet the requirements of this §
90.03.
   (H)   All permits issued pursuant to this section shall be valid for 1 year
from the date of issuance. Permits may be automatically renewed if the
permittee has been in compliance during the previous year. If the permittee is
found to be in violation of the standards outlined in §
90.03, the permit may be revoked and may not be renewed at the end of the
permit term. A new permit will only be issued to a person with a revoked or
non-renewed permit after a new application and inspection under §
90.03(F).
   (I)   If the permittee is found to be in violation of the Illinois Criminal
Code prohibition Cruelty to Animals, ILCS Ch. 510, Act 70, § 3, et seq., or §
90.03(A) of the city code, the permit will be immediately and permanently
revoked.
   (J)   Only 1 permit will be issued per zoning lot. A zoning lot consisting
of multiple platted lots shall be considered 1 lot.
   (K)   Permits are not transferrable to any other person or property.
(Ord. 2012-42, passed 12-10-2012; Am. Ord. 2023-29, passed 6-12-2023) Penalty,
see §
90.99
§ 90.04 REMOVAL OF EXCREMENT.
   No person may appear with an animal upon the public ways or within public
places or upon the property of another, absent that person’s consent, without
some means for the removal of excrement; nor may any person fail to remove any
excrement deposited by such animal.
(Ord. 2012-42, passed 12-10-2012) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 NOISES.
   No person or persons shall keep or maintain any animal within the city which
disturbs the peace and quiet of the neighborhood or persons by frequent and
long continued noise, barking or howling.
(Ord. 2012-42, passed 12-10-2012) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 PROCLAMATION OF DANGER FROM RABIES.
   (A)   Whenever a case of rabies has occurred in or near the city, the Mayor
may act to prevent its spread among humans, dogs, or other animals. The Mayor
may order:
      (1)   That all dogs or other animals in the city be:
         (a)   Kept confined within an enclosure; or
         (b)   Kept muzzled and restrained by leash.
      (2)   That all owners or keepers of dogs or other animals take
prophylactic measures as it deems necessary to prevent the spread of rabies.
      (3)   Other measures as may be necessary to control the spread of rabies.
   (B)   The Mayor may determine the area of the city in which, and the period
of time during which, such orders shall be effective.
(Ord. 2012-42, passed 12-10-2012)
§ 90.07 RABIES INOCULATION.
   The owner or keeper of any dog in the city shall be and is hereby required
to have the dog inoculated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian each year
or as often as the veterinarian requires.
(Ord. 2012-42, passed 12-10-2012) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   An animal is hereby declared to be a nuisance, and may be taken up and
impounded:
      (1)   That is unlawfully running at large or is otherwise declared to be
a nuisance by §§
90.02 or
90.03 of this chapter;
      (2)   Which may in any manner unduly disturb the quiet of any person or
neighborhood within the city;
      (3)   Which bites any person or injures any person so as to cause an
abrasion of the skin; or
      (4)   That is a dog that commits acts or behaves in a manner within the
definition of a “dangerous dog” and/or a “vicious dog”, as defined by the
Illinois Animal Control Act, ILCS Ch. 510, Act 5, §§ 1 et seq.
   (B)   (1)   Dogs or cats may be impounded by taking them to the animal
hospital located at the present time on West Bridge Street in the City of
Monticello, Illinois. The owner or keeper of any dog or cat so impounded who
desires to make a redemption thereof is hereby required to:
         (a)   Pay the fees of the veterinarian and for the keeping of the dog
or cat before the dog or cat is released, at the regular rates charged for
those services by the veterinarian in charge; and
         (b)   Pay a $25 public safety fine to be deposited into the State of
Illinois’ Pet Population Control Fund, unless it is the dog’s or cat’s first
impoundment and the owner or keeper has the animal spayed or neutered within 14
days; and
         (c)   Pay for microchipping and registration if not already done.
      (2)   In effecting the capture of a dog or cat or dogs or cats running at
large, officers are authorized and directed to use traps, nets, or tranquilizer
guns.
   (C)   Unclaimed stray dogs or cats will be kept for a period of 5 days and
then either adopted or otherwise disposed of. The city’s only responsibility on
such stray and unclaimed dogs and cats would be to pay the veterinarian and
animal hospital for 5 days’ board.
   (D)   A dog that commits acts or behaves in a manner within the definition
of a “dangerous dog” and/or a “vicious dog” may be reported to the County
Animal Control Administrator, for possible investigation under the Illinois
Animal Control Act, ILCS Ch. 510, Act 5, §§ 1 et seq.
   (E)   If there appears to be imminent danger to the public, any dangerous
animal found not in compliance with the provisions of §
90.07 shall be subject to seizure and may immediately be placed in an approved
facility. Upon the conviction of a person for a violation of this section, the
animal with regard to which the conviction was obtained shall be confiscated
and placed in an approved facility, with the dangerous animal owner responsible
for all costs connected with the seizure and confiscation of the animal.
Approved facilities include, but are not limited to, a zoological park,
federally licensed exhibit, humane society, veterinary hospital or animal
refuge.
(Ord. 2012-42, passed 12-10-2012; Am. Ord. 2018-04, passed 1-8-2018; Am. Ord.
2023-29, passed 6-12-2023) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 KEEPING OF DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   No person shall have a right of property in, keep, harbor, care for, act as
custodian of or maintain in his or her possession any dangerous animal or
primate except at a properly maintained zoological park, federally licensed
exhibit, circus, college or university, scientific institution, research
laboratory, veterinary hospital, licensed hound running area (ILCS Ch. 520, Act
5, § 3.26), or animal refuge in an escape-proof enclosure. It is no defense
that the person violating this section has attempted to domesticate the
dangerous animal or primate.
(Ord. 2012-42, passed 12-10-2012) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Section 90.09 does not prohibit a person from continuing to possess a
primate if the person provides written notification to the County Animal
Control Administrator required under ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 48-10(c)(l). The
notification shall include:
      (1)   The person’s name, address, and telephone number; and
      (2)   The type of primate, the age, a photograph, a description of any
tattoo, microchip, or other identifying information, and a list of current
inoculations.
   (B)   Section
90.09 does not prohibit a person who is permanently disabled with a severe
mobility impairment from possessing a single capuchin monkey to assist the
person in performing daily tasks if:
      (1)   The capuchin monkey was obtained from and trained at a licensed
nonprofit organization described in Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, the nonprofit tax status of which was obtained on the basis of a
mission to improve the quality of life of severely mobility-impaired
individuals; and
      (2)   The person complies with the notification requirements as described
in division (A) above.
   (C)   A person who registers a primate under division (A) of this section
shall notify the County Animal Control Administrator within 30 days of a change
of address.
   (D)   A person who registers a primate shall notify the County Animal
Control Administrator immediately if the primate dies, escapes, or bites,
scratches, or injures a person.
(Ord. 2012-42, passed 12-10-2012)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person that violates any provision of this chapter shall be
responsible for the payment of all fees associated with any impounding.
   (C)   Each day of a violation of this chapter (and each animal where
applicable) shall constitute a separate offense.
   (D)   The owner or keeper of any dog that commits acts or behaves in a
manner within the definition of a “dangerous dog” and/or a “vicious dog”, as
defined by the Illinois Animal Control Act, ILCS Ch. 510, Act 5, §§ 1 et seq.,
upon conviction for a violation of this chapter, shall be fined not less than
$100 nor more than $750 for each offense.
(Ord. 2012-42, passed 12-10-2012)
CHAPTER 91: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
City Parks
   
91.01   Administration
   
91.02   Rules and regulations
   
91.03   Enforcement
   
91.04   Supervision
   
91.05   Prohibited conduct
   
91.06   Park hours
CITY PARKS
§ 91.01 ADMINISTRATION.
   All city-owned or operated parks shall be administered by the Recreation,
Parks, and Swimming Pool Committee of the City Council.
§ 91.02 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Recreation, Parks, and Swimming Pool Committee shall make any rules and
regulations as are necessary for the use of the parks by the public.
§ 91.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Recreation, Parks, and Swimming Pool Committee shall enforce all rules
and regulations relating to the city parks.
§ 91.04 SUPERVISION.
   The Recreation, Parks, and Swimming Pool Committee shall have supervision
over the maintenance and use of the city parks, and over any employees assigned
by the corporate authorities to maintain the parks.
§ 91.05 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person using or engaging in any activities in
any city park to refuse to obey the rules and regulations.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.06 PARK HOURS.
   (A)   All city-owned properties operated as public parks (“parks”) shall be
open for public use between the hours of 5:01 a.m. and 10:00 p.m., daily (“open
hours”), unless said open hours are temporarily modified per the direction of
the City Council, the Superintendent of City Services, or the City Recreation
Director, in which case notice of said modified hours will be conspicuously
posted at affected parks or portions thereof or communicated by city personnel
on site.
   (B)   All parks shall be closed for public use between the hours of 10:01
p.m. and 5:00 a.m., daily, and whenever open hours are modified as provided in
division (A) (collectively “closed hours”).
   (C)   No person may enter, be upon, or in any manner use a park or portion
thereof during closed hours in accordance with divisions (A) and (B), or if
entry upon or use of a park or portion thereof is otherwise prohibited by a
fence or other barricade, or per the direction of city police or staff on site.
   (D)   Any person in violation of this section shall be considered a
trespasser, and shall be cited, arrested, and prosecuted to the fullest extent
permitted under this code of ordinances and the laws of the State of Illinois.
(Ord. 2012-27, passed 7-9-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
Section
Fire Department
   
92.01   Establishment
   
92.02   Supervision over Department; equipment
   
92.03   Command at fires
   
92.04   Membership; organization
   
92.05   Records
   
92.06   Duties
   
92.07   Enforcement of ordinances
   
92.08   Use of apparatus; injury
   
92.09   Entering fire houses
Public Buildings
   
92.20   Responsibility
   
92.21   Enforcement
   
92.22   Location and number of appliances
   
92.23   Fire drills
   
92.24   Removal of apparatus
   
92.25   Doors
   
92.26   Exit lights
Public Gatherings
   
92.35   Regulations
   
92.36   Inspections
   
92.37   Exits
   
92.38   Seats
   
92.39   Doors
   
92.40   Notice
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 92.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created and established a Fire Department, consisting of a
Chief and those members of the Fire Department as may from time to time be
appointed by the Mayor and City Council.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-6-1)
§ 92.02 SUPERVISION OVER DEPARTMENT; EQUIPMENT.
   The Fire Chief shall have the control, subject to the order and direction of
the Mayor and City Council, of the Fire Department and all fire apparatus
belonging to the city; whenever any fire apparatus needs repairing, the Fire
Chief shall cause the same to be done without delay.
§ 92.03 COMMAND AT FIRES.
   In case of fire, the Fire Chief and his or her assistants shall rank in the
order named and the officer of the highest rank at the fire shall take command
of the Fire Department and direct the management thereof for the suppression of
the fire in the best manner possible. When it may be necessary for the
protection of other property and to prevent the spread of the conflagration,
the officer in command may cause buildings to be removed, torn down, or
destroyed in the best manner possible.
§ 92.04 MEMBERSHIP; ORGANIZATION.
   The Fire Department shall consist of so many members as may be decided upon
by the Mayor and City Council. The Fire Department may have any organization
approved by the Mayor and City Council, and may hold meetings and engage in
social activities with the approval of the Mayor and City Council. The
Secretary of the Fire Department, if any is elected or appointed, shall keep a
record of all meetings and shall make a report to the Mayor and City Council of
all meetings and all activities of the Fire Department. No officer shall be
elected or appointed within the organization of the Fire Department without the
approval of the Mayor and City Council.
§ 92.05 RECORDS.
   The Fire Chief shall keep or cause to be kept a record of all meetings of
the company and the attendance of the members, a record of all fires, and the
attendance of the company at the fires. He or she shall, on or before the first
meeting of the City Council of each month, present a full report of the records
and attendance at fires for the entire month preceding the report. These
reports need not be made under oath.
§ 92.06 DUTIES.
   It shall be the function and duty of the Fire Department and every member
thereof to extinguish accidental or destructive fires and to prevent the
occurrence or spread of the fires.
§ 92.07 ENFORCEMENT OF ORDINANCES.
   It shall be the duty of all officers of the Fire Department and all police
officers of the city to see that the provisions of this chapter are enforced
and to arrest on view any person who shall be found violating any of the
provisions of this chapter or who shall hinder, resist, or refuse to obey any
such officer in the discharge of his or her duty, and to that end all these
officers are hereby vested with the usual power and authority of police
officers.
(Ch. 24, Par. 3-9-4 – now repealed)
§ 92.08 USE OF APPARATUS; INJURY.
   (A)   No person shall use any fire engine, hose, cart, or any other
apparatus belonging to the city for any private purpose, other than the
extinguishment of fires, and no person shall remove the same or any part
thereof from its place of deposit, or having control thereof, shall permit the
engine, hose, cart, or other apparatus to be used for any private purpose other
than aforesaid.
   (B)   No person shall willfully or negligently break, deface or in any
manner injure any fire engine, hose equipment, or other fire apparatus
belonging to the city or shall remove any screw, bolt, nut, or any part of the
engine or other fire apparatus, or in any manner interfere with the same when
being used by the proper person or authority.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.09 ENTERING FIRE HOUSES.
   It shall be and hereby is declared unlawful for any person or persons to
enter the Fire Department house or any place where the equipment and apparatus
of the Fire Department is stored, at any time except on business pertaining to
the Fire Department or other city business.
Penalty, see §
10.99
PUBLIC BUILDINGS
§ 92.20 RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner, agent, occupant, or person charged with the custody of any public
building, auditorium, hotel, theater, lodge hall, or church and, in the case of
schools, the President of the Board of Education, or the person in charge
thereof and owning the same, shall be responsible for the equipment and
maintenance of such apparatus as is required in this subchapter for the
maintenance and safety of all exits, doors, windows, or passageways.
§ 92.21 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief or his or her assistants to inspect
all apparatus to be installed and their location, and to make or cause to be
made periodic inspections concerning the operation and accessibility of regular
and emergency exits in all these public places.
§ 92.22 LOCATION AND NUMBER OF APPLIANCES.
   Unless the public building is equipped with an adequate sprinkler system or
connected with a public fire alarm system, the following appliances must be
installed in the locations specified herein (unless other location shall be
more accessible and convenient for protection against fires):
   (A)   Theaters.
      (1)   Stage. Two 1-quart chemical hand extinguishers, 1 on each side of
the stage; one 2-1/2 gallon chemical hand extinguisher, readily accessible; one
5-gallon hand pump; 1 fire axe.
      (2)   Foyer.  Two 1-quart chemical hand extinguishers, 1 at each end.
      (3)    Manager’s office.  One 2-gallon chemical hand extinguisher or 5-
gallon hand pump.
   (B)   Public buildings, auditoriums, lodge halls, and hotels. One 5-gallon
hand pump and 1 fire axe at or near the main entrance on the ground floor; 5-
gallon hand pump at or near the foot of all basement stairways; 2 pails in
boiler room unless oil burner is used, then 2-1/2 gallons special chemical hand
extinguisher just outside boiler room door; 1 quart chemical hand extinguisher
on stage, and 1 quart chemical hand extinguisher in lobby.
   (C)   Churches.  One 5-gallon pump at or near main entrance on ground floor;
one 5-gallon hand pump and fire axe in boiler room.
   (D)   Schools.  One 5-gallon hand pump and fire axe at or near main entrance
on ground floor; same at head of each stairway; same in boiler room.
§ 92.23 FIRE DRILLS.
   It shall be the duty of the principal or other person in charge of the
pupils in every school in the city to establish and maintain a good and
efficient fire drill which shall be practiced at least once a month during the
time the building is used for school purposes. A written report shall be made
by the principal or person in charge of the building of each fire drill held,
and of the time elapsed from the first fire signal until the last person is
out.
§ 92.24 REMOVAL OF APPARATUS.
   It shall be unlawful to remove from its proper place any fire apparatus or
appliances except for inspection or in case of emergency.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.25 DOORS.
   All public buildings which may be or are used for church, school, opera
performances, theater, lecture room, hotel, public meeting places or similar
purposes, or which may be or are used for the collection of people for worship,
amusement, or instruction, and all buildings used for stores to which the
public is invited shall be so built that all doors leading from the main hall
or place of assembly shall open outward, and all means of egress for persons
within the buildings shall be by means of doors which shall open outwards from
the main hall and from the building.
§ 92.26 EXIT LIGHTS.
   In all theaters and public meeting halls, a red light illuminating the word
“EXIT” shall be kept burning over each regular and emergency exit while the
theater or hall is occupied by an audience or by patrons.
PUBLIC GATHERINGS
§ 92.35 REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to hold, manage, or conduct any public meeting or
entertainment of any kind in the city in any premises other than a building
constructed in full compliance with the ordinances and laws pertaining thereto
for auditorium, theater or lodge room purposes, excepting in compliance with
the provisions of this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.36 INSPECTIONS.
   No such gathering or entertainment shall be held or presented in any
premises other than a building as described in §§
92.20 through
92.26, unless the premises have been examined by the Fire Marshal or Building
Inspector not more than 3 days before the date of the gathering and found to be
free from any fire hazard and found to be suitable for the purpose. No
structure enclosed by a roof shall be used for this purpose unless the same is
constructed of nonflammable materials. Provided that tents or structures
covered by canvas or similar materials, they may be so used if the canvas or
other material has been properly treated so as to be rendered fire resistive.
§ 92.37 EXITS.
   Adequate unobstructed exits shall be provided in all premises used for these
purposes to permit rapid egress of all persons attending, and there shall be at
least 2 separate exits located at least 30 feet from each other. There shall be
2 lineal feet of doorway or exit space for each 100 people accommodated.
§ 92.38 SEATS.
   (A)   Any stands or rows of seats used in the premises shall be so
constructed as to be safe for the use designed, and shall be sufficiently
strong to carry the same weight and stress as is required for the construction
of the auditorium floors of theater buildings, not less than 100 pounds per
square foot.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to admit to any such premises a number of persons
to exceed the actual number of seats maintained for their accommodation.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.39 DOORS.
   All doors or gates on exits from premises used for these purposes shall open
outward, and no such exit shall be constructed or locked that egress from
inside the premises is blocked.
§ 92.40 NOTICE.
   It shall be the duty of any person or persons conducting, calling for, or
managing any gathering in any premises other than a theater, lodge room or
auditorium building constructed as provided in the first paragraph of this
subchapter, to notify the City Clerk of the date of the intended performance at
least 10 days before the meeting is to take place; upon such notice, the Fire
Marshal or the Building Inspector shall inspect the premises to determine
whether or not they comply with the provisions hereof. Any permit issued for
any such gathering shall be subject to the condition that this subchapter be
fully complied with, whether or not the condition is embodied in the permit.
CHAPTER 93: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
Garbage and Refuse
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Removal of garbage
   
93.03   Burning
   
93.04   Violations
Other Regulations
   
93.15   Watercourses
   
93.16   Pools
   
93.17   Disposal
   
93.18   Premises
   
93.19   Abatement of nuisances
   
93.20   Spitting
   
93.21   Dense smoke
Public Nuisances
   
93.30   Public nuisance defined
   
93.31   Examples
   
93.32   Definitions
   
93.33   Prohibition
   
93.34   Notice to abate
   
93.35   Lien
Maintenance Responsibilities
   
93.40   Parkway maintenance responsibilities of abutting property owners
Cannabis
   
93.50   Personal use of cannabis
   
93.51   Restrictions on cannabis cultivation
   
93.52   Persons under 21 years of age
   
93.53   Identification and false identification
   
93.54   Prohibited conduct
   
93.55   Cannabis waste
   
93.56   Cannabis advertising
   
93.57   On-premises consumption of cannabis
   
93.58   Possession of adult use cannabis in a motor vehicle
   
93.59   Preemption
   
93.60   Drug paraphernalia
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned vehicles, see
Chapter 75 of this code of ordinances
   Residential waste, see
Chapter 50 of this code of ordinances
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHES. Whenever and wherever used herein, shall be construed to mean the
waste product of combustion of any material.
   GARBAGE. Waste resulting from the handling, processing, preparation,
cooking, and consumption of food, and wastes from the handling, processing,
storage, and sale of produce.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, § 3.200)
   HAZARDOUS WASTE.  A waste, or combination of wastes, which because of its
quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical, or infectious characteristics
may cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an
increase in serious, irreversible, or incapacitating reversible illness; or
pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or the
environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, or disposed of, or
otherwise managed, and which has been identified, by characteristics or
listing, as HAZARDOUS pursuant to § 3001 of the Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act of 1976, Pub. L. No. 94-580 (42 U.S.C.A. § 6921), or pursuant to
Pollution Control Board regulations.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, § 3.220)
   LANDSCAPE WASTE. All accumulations of grass or shrubbery cuttings, leaves,
tree limbs, and other materials accumulated as the result of the care of lawns,
shrubbery, vines, and trees.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, § 3.270)
   MUNICIPAL WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, industrial lunchroom or office waste,
and other material resulting from operation of residential, municipal,
commercial or institutional establishments and from community activities,
general household waste, landscape waste, and construction or demolition
debris.
   TRASH.  Whenever and wherever used herein shall be construed to mean ashes,
as herein defined, and also to include and mean sweepings, lawn rakings,
papers, tin cans, bottles, dirt, or other accumulations not giving off noxious
odors.
   WATERCOURSE. A course or channel in which water flows. It consists of bed,
banks and water, confined in a channel, but not necessarily flowing at all
times, as many watercourses are occasionally dry. For the purposes of this
chapter, WATERCOURSE shall also include roadways, sidewalks, curbs, and
gutters.
(Am. Ord. 2014-48, passed 11-10-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal waste definitions, see ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, § 3.290 and Ch. 415,
Act 15, § 3
§ 93.02 REMOVAL OF GARBAGE.
   All garbage shall be removed at least once each week.
§ 93.03 BURNING.
   It shall be unlawful to burn or attempt to burn garbage, municipal waste,
including landscape waste, or hazardous waste, within the City of Monticello,
except as follows:
   (A)   Cardboard and paper may be burned in incinerators (not burn barrels)
approved by the Superintendent of City Services, subject to any restrictions as
reasonably may be placed upon this burning by the Superintendent of City
Services;
   (B)   Wood, paper, and cardboard may be burned in fireplaces and wood
burning stoves that are part of or erected within residential or commercial
properties; and
   (C)   Charcoal and wood may be used for the preparation of food.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to the city acting in its corporate
capacity when burning landscape waste or other materials in accordance with
regulations of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, at facilities
designated by the Superintendent of City Services.
(Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 4-28-2014) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 VIOLATIONS.
   For burning offenses in violation of §
93.03, a notice of violation, in the form of a printed envelope, a ticket, or
such other written notification deemed appropriate by the City Chief of Police
or Superintendent of City Services, may be served personally upon the person
violating the regulations. The notice shall indicate the minimum fine for the
offense designated thereon, and that the fine may be paid by placing the amount
of the fine, attached to a copy of the notice, in the city courtesy box or by
delivering it to the City Police Department within 10 days from the day the
notice is served. The minimum fine for a violation of §
93.03 shall be $50 for each offense. The minimum fine for the offense shall
double if payment is not received by the city within 10 days of the service of
the notice. If payment is not received by the city within 30 days of the
service of the notice, the city may file a complaint in the Circuit Court and
seek a fine for each violation in the amount not to exceed $200, plus court
costs.
OTHER REGULATIONS
§ 93.15 WATERCOURSES.
   It shall be unlawful and a nuisance for any person, firm, or corporation to
obstruct or pollute any watercourse or source of water supply in the city.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.16 POOLS.
   Any stagnant accumulation of water in the city is hereby declared to be a
nuisance. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to permit
any such nuisance to remain or exist on any property under his, her, or its
control.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.17 DISPOSAL.
   It shall be unlawful to deposit within the city any municipal waste except
at the city’s waste transfer station, all in accordance with the regulations of
the transfer station. It shall be unlawful to deposit hazardous waste at any
location within the city.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.18 PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any building, structure, or place to remain
in such a condition as to be dangerous to the public health or safety in any
way. Any such building, structure, or place is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.19 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to permit or
maintain the existence of any nuisance on any property under his, her, or its
control. The Chief of Police and the Health Officer are each hereby authorized
to abate any such nuisance existing in the city, whether the nuisance is
specifically recognized by ordinance or not.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.20 SPITTING.
   It shall be unlawful to spit or expectorate on any public sidewalk or other
public place, or on the floor or walls of any store, theater, hall, public
vehicle, or other place frequented by the public or to which the public is
invited.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 DENSE SMOKE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to cause or permit the emission of dense smoke
from any fire, chimney, engine, oil burner, or any other agency in the city so
as to cause annoyance or discomfort to the residents thereof.
   (B)   (1)   For the purpose of testing and grading the density of smoke, the
Ringelmann Smoke Chart, as published and used by the United States Geological
Survey, shall be and hereby is adopted as the standard for such grading
      (2)   Smoke shall be, and is hereby defined as and declared to be DENSE
when it is of a degree of number 3 of the chart, or greater, for more than 6
minutes in any 1 hour, whether the period of time is consecutive or not.
Penalty, see §
93.99
PUBLIC NUISANCES
§ 93.30 PUBLIC NUISANCE DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any act, conduct, omission, occupation, thing, condition,
or use of property which shall continue for such a length of time as to:
      (1)   Substantially annoy, injure, or endanger the comfort, health,
safety, or repose of residents of the city either individually or collectively;
      (2)   Greatly offend the public morals or decency; or
      (3)   Unlawfully or substantially interfere with, obstruct or tend to
obstruct, or render dangerous for passage any street, alley, highway, laned
roadway, or sidewalk.
§ 93.31 EXAMPLES.
   Public nuisances shall include but are not limited to the following, to wit:
   (A)   Decayed, harmfully adulterated, or unwholesome food or drink sold or
offered for sale to the public;
   (B)   Carcasses of dead animals not disposed of in a sanitary and lawful
manner within 24 hours after death;
   (C)   Accumulation of trash, garbage, or junk which attract and/or foster
the breeding of flies, mosquitoes, disease-carrying insects, rodents, or other
vermin, or in which the same reasonably may be expected to breed;
   (D)   Any stagnant water in which mosquitoes, flies, or other insects may
multiply;
   (E)   All receptacles containing trash or garbage which are not covered by
solid, tight-fitting lids or which have any uncovered holes or for which at
least weekly removal of trash and garbage is not provided;
   (F)   Nuisance greenery;
   (G)   Dense smoke, soot, cinders, noxious acids, fumes, gases, fly ash or
industrial dust from any fire, chimney, engine, oil burner, or other agency,
within the city limits emitted in such quantities as to threaten or cause
substantial injury to property and/or endanger the health of a person of
ordinary sensibility; but excluding smoke emitting from residential fireplaces
or from the burning of leaves in compliance with city ordinances;
   (H)   Any use of property, substances, or things within the city, emitting
or causing any foul, offensive, noisome, nauseous, noxious or disagreeable
odors or stenches which are extremely repulsive to the physical senses of
ordinary persons and which annoy, discomfort, injure, or inconvenience the
health of any appreciable number of persons within the city;
   (I)   The obstruction or pollution of any watercourse or source of public
water supply located within the city;
   (J)   Any structure or building that is in a state of dilapidation,
deterioration, or decay, is open to intrusion, is abandoned or damaged by fire
to the extent as not to provide shelter, is extremely unsound or in danger of
collapse or failure, and endangers the health and safety of the public;
   (K)   Any inoperable or abandoned vehicle which exists in violation of any
provisions of this code (particularly as referenced in Chapter 75 of this code
of ordinances);
   (L)   Any vehicle parked on public or private property in violation of any
city ordinance or state law;
   (M)   Dumpsters, receptacles, or garbage or trash containers located on a
public way on days other than those scheduled for removal by a hauler;
   (N)   Assimilations of garbage, junk, or trash which are located within or
upon a carport, open garage, porch, deck, or balcony if the conditions are
visible to the public from any public right-of-way;
   (O)   The storage of motorized vehicles with over 400 cc motors on porches,
decks, or balconies, if visible to the public from any public right-of-way;
   (P)   Any dangerous, wild, fierce or vicious animal kept in violation of any
provisions of this code (particularly as referenced in Chapter 90 of this code
of ordinances);
   (Q)   The storing of junk, trash, or garbage on private property where that
storage is not authorized by the zoning regulations of the City of Monticello
and in any manner not permitted by the zoning regulations; and
   (R)   The unauthorized use, possession, or cultivation of cannabis which is
inconsistent with the provisions of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, ILCS
Ch. 410, Act 705, § 1, et seq., or §§
93.50 through
93.60 of this Code of Ordinances.
(Am. Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-27-2020; Am. Ord. 2021-16, passed 4-12-2021; Am.
Ord. 2024-20, passed 3-11-2024)
§ 93.32 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE.  Any, all and every type of animal, dairy, fruit or vegetable
waste, whether liquid or solid, which results from the handling, preparation,
processing, cooking, or consumption of food or beverages. GARBAGE shall also
include miscellaneous household wastes and paper waste such as package
material, household paper products, and writing stock.
   JUNK. Discarded or inoperable household furniture, fixtures, furnishings and
appliances, and household furniture appliances and furnishings not designed for
or modified to withstand the elements or outdoor use, as well as wrecked,
partially dismantled or abandoned motor vehicles, trailers, equipment or
machinery of any type, or parts thereof, including tires, and other similar
objects.
   NUISANCE GREENERY. 
      (1)   Includes:
         (a)   Neglected weeds, grass, trees, and bushes, including weeds and
grass exceeding an average height of eight inches;
         (b)   Noxious weeds, as defined in the Illinois Noxious Weed Law, ILCS
Ch. 505, Act 100, § 2;
         (c)   Vegetation which either harbors or aids in harboring rats,
snakes, vermin, or insects or promotes disease;
         (d)   Vegetation which by reason of its location or condition
constitutes an imminent danger to any person or property, including any
obstructions to intersection sight distance requirements as determined by the
Illinois Department of Transportation's Bureau of Local Roads (BLR) manual; and
         (e)   Vegetation which covers or hinders the removal of accumulations
of trash or garbage.
      (2)   NUISANCE GREENERY does not include milkweed, as defined by ILCS Ch.
65, Act 5, § 11-20-6.5.
   TRASH.  Yard clippings, brush and material accumulated as a result of the
care of lawns, shrubbery, vines, and trees. Also, such waste materials as the
residue from the burning of wood, ashes, coal, and other combustible material,
used and unused magazines, newspapers, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, rubber,
leather, metals, mineral matter, plastic, glass, and crockery.
(Am. Ord. 2021-16, passed 4-12-2021)
§ 93.33 PROHIBITION.
   No person, firm, or entity shall cause, continue, maintain, permit, or allow
any public nuisance to exist within the city on property which he, she, or it
owns, occupies, or controls, and all these public nuisances are hereby declared
to be unlawful.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.34 NOTICE TO ABATE.
   (A)    In addition to all other abatement and enforcement procedures
provided by law, the Building Inspector of the city or any member of the Police
Department of the city, upon observing any violation of this subchapter, or
upon receiving a well-founded complaint, may issue a notice directed to the
owner of the property on which the nuisance exists and to the occupant of the
property, if the property is not owner-occupied, which notice shall contain the
following:
      (1)   A description of the violation;
      (2)   A reasonable time limit for the abatement of the nuisance by the
owner and/or occupant, which time shall not be less than 2 days, nor more than
l0 days after service of the notice, unless the offense poses an immediate
threat to the health, safety or welfare of residents of the city, in which
event the notice may demand immediate abatement;
      (3)   A statement informing the owner and/or occupant (where
circumstances warrant), that the nuisance is considered a great and immediate
threat to the public health, safety, and welfare, and that unless the nuisance
is abated in the timeframe referenced, the city may take immediate action
itself to abate the nuisance; and
      (4)   A statement that failure to abate the nuisance within the time
referenced may result in a complaint being filed by the city in the Circuit
Court.
   (B)   Upon the failure of the recipient of the notice to abate the nuisance
within the time specified, the city may proceed to abate in any and all manner
allowable by law, including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing,
the following:
      (1)   Seeking to impose a monetary penalty, as provided for in §
93.99, by instituting an ordinance enforcement action;
      (2)   Seeking to enjoin the continuation of the nuisance by the filing of
a lawsuit in a court of competent jurisdiction; and/or
      (3)   Abating the nuisance itself where permitted by law or order of the
court.
(Am. Ord. 2021-16, passed 4-12-2021)
§ 93.35 LIEN.
   Where permitted by law, the city may file a lien against any property on
which it has abated a nuisance for the cost of the abatement.
MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITIES
§ 93.40 PARKWAY MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITIES OF ABUTTING PROPERTY OWNERS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of each owner or person residing on property
adjacent to a parkway area to:
      (1)   Maintain the grass on the parkway by keeping its height at a level
below 12 inches;
      (2)   Keep the parkway free of growing weeds and other obnoxious and
unsightly vegetation;
      (3)   Keep the parkway free from infestations by vermin and insects;
      (4)   Keep the parkway free of rubbish and debris; and
      (5)   Remove any obstacle or obstruction to the flow of water on the
parkway.
   (B)   This maintenance obligation shall confer no rights on the property
owner or tenant, and nothing in this section shall be construed to compromise,
in any manner, the absolute right of the city use any city parkway as it deems
advisable with or without notice to the adjacent property owner or tenant.
(Am. Ord. 2014-28, passed 8-11-2014)
CANNABIS
§ 93.50 PERSONAL USE OF CANNABIS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided by the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act
("Act"), Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act, or Industrial Hemp
Act, the following acts are prohibited in the city:
      (1)   Possession, consumption, use, purchase, obtaining, or transporting
cannabis paraphernalia or an amount of cannabis for personal use that exceeds
the possession limit under Section 10-10 of the Act or otherwise not in
accordance with the requirements of the Act;
      (2)   Cultivation of cannabis for personal use not in accordance with the
requirements of the Act; and
      (3)   Controlling property if actions that are authorized by the Act
occur on the property not in accordance with the Act.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act,
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act, or Industrial Hemp Act, it
is unlawful for any person knowingly to possess cannabis.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided by the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act,
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act, or Industrial Hemp Act, it
is unlawful for any person knowingly to manufacture, deliver, or possess with
intent to deliver, or manufacture, cannabis.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-27-2020)
§ 93.51 RESTRICTIONS ON CANNABIS CULTIVATION.
   (A)   Any person other than a registered qualifying patient under the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act who cultivates cannabis
plants is liable for penalties provided by this subchapter.
   (B)   Any registered qualifying patient under the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Program Act who:
      (1)   Cultivates cannabis plants in violation of Section 10-5 of the
Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act;
      (2)   Cultivates more than the allowable number of cannabis plants; or
      (3)   Sells or gives away cannabis plants, cannabis, or cannabis-infused
products produced under Section 10-5 of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, is
liable for penalties as provided by this subchapter.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-27-2020)
§ 93.52 PERSONS UNDER 21 YEARS OF AGE.
   (A)   The transfer of cannabis, with or without remuneration, to a person
under 21 years of age, or allowing a person under 21 years of age to purchase,
possess, use, process, transport, grow, or consume cannabis except where
authorized by the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act or by the
Community College Cannabis Vocational Prograrn is prohibited.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person under 21 years of age knowingly to
possess cannabis or cannabis paraphernalia, except under provisions of law
authorizing the possession of medical cannabis.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian to knowingly permit his or
her residence, any other private property under his or her control, or any
vehicle, conveyance, or watercraft under his or her control to be used by an
invitee of the parent's child or the guardian's ward, if the invitee is under
the age of 21, in a manner that constitutes a violation of this section. A
parent or guardian is deemed to have knowingly permitted his or her residence,
any other private property under his or her control, or any vehicle,
conveyance, or watercraft under his or her control to be used in violation of
this Section if he or she knowingly authorizes or permits consumption of
cannabis by underage invitees. In this subsection, where the residence or other
property has an owner and a tenant or lessee, the trier of fact may infer that
the residence or other property is occupied only by the tenant or lessee.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-27-2020)
§ 93.53 IDENTIFICATION AND FALSE IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   A person who is under 21 years of age may not present or offer to a
cannabis business establishment or the cannabis business establishment's
principal or employee any written or oral evidence of age that is false,
fraudulent, or not actually the person's own, for the purpose of:
      (1)   Purchasing, attempting to purchase, or otherwise obtaining or
attempting to obtain cannabis or any cannabis product; or
      (2)   Gaining access to a cannabis business establishment.
   (B)   An agent or employee of a cannabis business establishment must demand
and be shown adequate written evidence of age and identity of a person before
finishing cannabis or cannabis products to the person.
   (C)   An agent or employee of a cannabis business establishment cannot
knowingly accept false or fraudulent written evidence of age and identity of a
person before furnishing cannabis or cannabis products to the person.
   (D)   Adequate written evidence of age and identity of the person is a
document showing a person is 21 years of age or older, issued by a federal,
state, county, or municipal govemment, or subdivision or agency thereof,
including, but not limited to, a motor vehicle operator's license, a
registration certificate issued under the Military Selective Service Act, or
art identification card issued to a member of the Armed Forces.
   (E)   Proof that the cannabis business establishment or its employee or
agent was shown and reasonably relied upon such written evidence in any
transaction forbidden by this section is an affirmative defense in any
prosecution under this section.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-27-2020)
§ 93.54 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person may engage in the following conduct:
      (1)   Possessing cannabis:
         (a)   In a school bus, unless permitted for a qualifying patient or
caregiver pursuant to the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act;
         (b)   On the grounds of any preschool or primary or secondary school,
unless permitted for a qualifying patient or caregiver pursuant to the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act;
         (c)   In any correctional facility;
         (d)   In a vehicle not open to the public unless the cannabis is in a
reasonably secured, sealed container and reasonably inaccessible while the
vehicle is moving; or
         (e)   In a private residence that is used at any time to provide
licensed child care or other similar social service care on the premises;
      (2)   Using cannabis:
         (a)   In a school bus, unless permitted for a qualifying patient or
caregiver pursuant to the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act;
         (b)   On the grounds of any preschool or primary or secondary school,
unless permitted for a qualifying patient or caregiver pursuant to the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act;
         (c)   In any correctional facility;
         (d)   In any motor vehicle;
         (e)   In a private residence that is used at any time to provide
licensed child care or other similar social service care on the premises;
         (f)   In any public place;
         (g)   Knowingly in close physical proximity to anyone under 21 years
of age who is not a registered medical cannabis patient under the Compassionate
Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act; or
         (h)   On city streets or other city property.
      (3)   Smoking cannabis in any place where smoking is prohibited under the
Smoke Free Illinois Act;
      (4)   Operating, navigating, or being in actual physical control of any
motor vehicle, aircraft, watercraft, or snowmobile while using or under the
influence of cannabis in violation of Section 11-501 or 11-502.1 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code, Section 5-16 of the Boat Registration and Safety Act, or
Section 5-7 of the Snowmobile Registration and Safety Act;
      (5)   Facilitating the use of cannabis by any person who is not allowed
to use cannabis under this subchapter or the Compassionate Use of Medical
Cannabis Program Act;
      (6)   Transferring cannabis to any person contrary to the Act or the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act;
      (7)   The use of cannabis by a law enforcement officer, corrections
officer, probation officer, or firefighter while on duty; or
      (8)   The use of cannabis by a person who has a school bus permit or a
commercial driver's license while on duty.
   As used in this section, PUBLIC PLACE means any place where a person could
reasonably be expected to be observed by others. PUBLIC PLACE includes all
parts of buildings owned in whole or in part, or leased, by the state or a unit
of local government. PUBLIC PLACE includes all areas in a park, recreation
area, wildlife area, or playground owned in whole or in part, leased, or
managed by the State or a unit of local government. PUBLIC PLACE does not
include a private residence unless the private residence is used to provide
licensed child care, foster care, or other similar social service care on the
premises.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-27-2020)
§ 93.55 CANNABIS WASTE.
   (A)   Any recyclable waste generated by an authorized cultivator for
personal use, cannabis cultivation facility, craft grower facility, or infuser
must be recycled per applicable state and local laws, ordinances, and rules.
   (B)   Any authorized cultivator for personal use, cannabis cultivation
facility, craft grower facility, or infuser must store, secure, and manage all
recyclables and waste, including organic waste composed of or containing
finished cannabis and carmabis products, in accordance with applicable state
and local laws, ordinances, and rules.
   (C)   Cannabis waste, liquid waste, or hazardous waste shall be disposed of
in accordance with 8 Ill. Adm. Code 1000.460, except, to the greatest extent
feasible, all cannabis plant waste will be rendered unusable by grinding and
incorporating the cannabis plant waste with compostable mixed waste to be
disposed of in accordance with 8 Ill. Adm. Code 1000.460(g)(1).
   (D)   Cannabis recyclables and waste must be securely stored and managed and
properly disposed of in accordance with applicable federal, state, and local
laws, ordinances, and rules.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-27-2020)
§ 93.56 CANNABIS ADVERTISING.
   (A)   No cannabis business establishment nor any other person or entity
shall engage in advertising that contains any statement or illustration that:
      (1)   Is false or misleading;
      (2)   Promotes overconsumption of cannabis or cannabis products;
      (3)   Depicts the actual consumption of cannabis or cannabis products;
      (4)   Depicts a person under 21 years of age consuming cannabis;
      (5)   Makes any health, medicinal, or therapeutic claims about cannabis
or cannabis-infused products;
      (6)   Includes the image of a cannabis leaf or bud; or
      (7)   Includes any image designed or likely to appeal to minors,
including cartoons, toys, animals, or children, or any other likeness to
images, characters, or phrases that is designed in any manner to be appealing
to or encourage consumption by persons under 21 years of age.
   (B)   No cannabis business establishment nor any other person or entity
shall place or maintain, or cause to be placed or maintained, an advertisement
of cannabis or a cannabis-infused product in any form or through any medium:
      (1)   Within 1,000 feet of the perimeter of school grounds, a playground,
a recreation center or facility, a child care center, a public park or public
library, or a game arcade to which admission is not restricted to persons 21
years of age or older;
      (2)   On or in a public transit vehicle or public transit shelter;
      (3)   On or in publicly owned or publicly operated property; or
      (4)   That contains information that:
         (a)   Is false or misleading;
         (b)   Promotes excessive consumption;
         (c)   Depicts a person under 21 years of age consuming cannabis;
         (d)   Includes the image of a cannabis leaf; or
         (e)   Includes any image designed or likely to appeal to minors,
including cartoons, toys, animals, or children, or any other likeness to
images, characters, or phrases that are popularly used to advertise to
children, or any imitation of candy packaging or labeling, or that promotes
consumption of cannabis.
   (C)   Divisions (A) and (B) do not apply to an educational message.
   (D)   Sales promotions. No cannabis business establishment nor any other
person or entity may encourage the sale of cannabis or cannabis products by
giving away cannabis or cannabis products, by conducting games or competitions
related to the consumption of cannabis or cannabis products, or by providing
promotional materials or activities of a manner or type that would be appealing
to children.
For purposes of this section, ADVERTISE means to engage in promotional
activities including, but not limited to: newspaper, radio, internet and
electronic media, and television advertising; the distribution of fliers and
circulars; billboard advertising; and the display of window and interior signs.
ADVERTISE does not mean exterior signage displaying only the name of the
licensed cannabis business establishment.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-27-2020)
§ 93.57 ON-PREMISES CONSUMPTION OF CANNABIS.
   On-premises consumption of cannabis is prohibited at or in a dispensing
organization (as defined in the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act) or retail
tobacco store (as defined in the Smoke Free Illinois Act) in the city's
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-27-2020)
§ 93.58 POSSESSION OF ADULT USE CANNABIS IN A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   No driver may use cannabis within the passenger area of any motor
vehicle upon a highway in the city.
   (B)   No driver may possess cannabis within any area of any motor vehicle
upon a highway in this state except in a sealed, odor-proof, child-resistant
cannabis container.
   (C)   No passenger may possess cannabis within any passenger area of any
motor vehicle upon a highway in this state except in a sealed, odor-proof,
child-resistant cannabis container.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-27-2020)
§ 93.59 PREEMPTION.
   (A)   This subchapter should not be construed to regulate or license the
activities described in the Cannabis Regulations and Tax Act, except as
otherwise provided in the Act.
   (B)   This subchapter should not be construed to regulate the activities
described in paragraphs (1), (2), or (3) of section 55-25 of the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act in a manner more restrictive than the regulation of
those activities by the state under the Act.
   (C)   In the event of a conflict between this subchapter, and the Act and
its administrative rules, the Act and its rules will prevail.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-27-2020)
§ 93.60 DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   A person who knowingly possesses an item of drug paraphernalia with
the intent to use it in ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing a
controlled substance into the human body, or in preparing a controlled
substance for that use, is guilty of a violation of this section. This division
(A) does not apply to a person who is legally authorized to possess hypodermic
syringes or needles under the Hypodermic Syringes and Needles Act.
   (B)   Any person who keeps for sale, offers for sale, sells, or delivers for
any commercial consideration an item of drug paraphernalia, is guilty of a
violation of this section.
   (C)   In determining intent under division (A) of this section, the trier of
fact may take into consideration the proximity of the controlled substances to
drug paraphernalia or the presence of a controlled substance on the drug
paraphernalia.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the definitions and exemptions in the
Drug Paraphernalia Control Act, as amended, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 600, §§ 2 and 4,
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning. DRUG PARAPHERNALIA does not include "cannabis paraphernalia" as
defined in Section 1-10 of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, as amended.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-27-2020) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any violation of §§
93.15 through
93.21 shall be punished by a fine of at least $100, but not to exceed $750.
Each day that the violation of this subchapter shall continue shall be deemed
to be a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person, firm, associate, or corporation who shall violate any of
the provisions of §§
93.30 through
93.35 shall be fined under the following schedule. Each day that a violation is
allowed to exist shall constitute a separate offense and a single citation may
seek fines for each day a violation exists.
 
Offenses  Minimum Fine Maximum Fine
1 or more $150         $750
 
(Am. Ord. 2014-41, passed 10-14-2014; Am. Ord. 2021-16, passed 4-12-2021; Am.
Ord. 2024-20, passed 3-11-2024)
CHAPTER 94: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.001   Supervision
   
94.002   Construction
   
94.003   Bond
   
94.004   Specifications
   
94.005   Injury to pavement
   
94.006   Repairs
   
94.007   Defects
   
94.008   Obstructions
   
94.009   Barricades
   
94.010   Disturbing barricades
   
94.011   Private use
   
94.012   Encroachments
   
94.013   Drains
   
94.014   Poles and wires
   
94.015   Gas pumps
   
94.016   Openings
   
94.017   Barbed wire fences; electric current fences
   
94.018   Deposits on streets
   
94.019   Deposits on sidewalks
   
94.020   Burning leaves and rubbish
   
94.021   View at corners
Driveways
   
94.030   Grade surfaces
   
94.031   Specifications
   
94.032   Repair
Excavations
   
94.045   Barricades and lights
   
94.046   Manner of excavating
   
94.047   Sidewalks
   
94.048   Time limits
   
94.049   Restoring surface
   
94.050   Supervision
Overhanging signs and Awnings
   
94.060   Constructions
   
94.061   Height above sidewalk
   
94.062   Inspections
Encroachment on Certain Public Rights-of-Way
   
94.075   Definitions
   
94.076   Prohibitions
   
94.077   Project right-of-way lines
   
94.078   Revocable permits
   
94.079   Not repealing other provisions
Trees and Shrubs
   
94.090   Prohibited trees
   
94.091   Injury
   
94.092   Advertisement or notices
   
94.093   Dangerous trees
   
94.094   Excavations
 
   
94.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Revocable Permits
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.001 SUPERVISION.
   All public streets, alleys, sidewalks and other public ways shall be under
the supervision of the Superintendent of City Services. He or she shall have
supervision over all work thereon, and the cleaning thereof, and shall be
charged with the enforcement of all code provisions relating to the public
places (except traffic ordinances) and is hereby authorized to enforce the
code.
§ 94.002 CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful to construct or lay any pavement on any public street,
sidewalk, alley or other public way, or to repair the same without having first
secured a permit therefor. Applications for such permits shall be made to the
Superintendent of City Services, and shall state the location of the intended
pavement or repair, the extent thereof, and the person or firm who is to do the
actual construction work. Superintendent of City Services shall notify the City
Council of each permit issued. Where the abutting lot owner, or owners, desires
the replacement of a sidewalk and the Building Inspector certifies that the
replacement is necessary, the city shall pay up to $1 per square foot only for
the sidewalk replacement, providing the abutting owner pays the balance of the
cost. This cost shall be subject to specifications submitted to the
Superintendent of City Services and approved by him or her before the work is
commenced, and the improvement shall be advertised for bids if the cost of the
improvement requires public bidding in accordance with law.
Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.003 BOND.
   Where the cost of the work to be performed exceeds $10,000, the applicant
shall file with the city a performance bond or corporate surety or a letter of
credit in the amount of 150% of the project cost. The bond or letter of credit
shall guarantee performance by the applicant and shall reimburse the city for
any loss or damage to the city resulting from the work undertaken or the manner
of doing same.
§ 94.004 SPECIFICATIONS.
   All street and sidewalk pavement shall be made in conformity with the
specifications contained in the subject regulations approved from time to time
by the City Council.
§ 94.005 INJURY TO PAVEMENT.
   It shall be unlawful to walk upon or drive any vehicle or animal upon, or
injure any newly laid street or alley pavement while the same is guarded by a
warning sign or barricade; or knowingly to injure any street, sidewalk, or
alley pavement.
Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.006 REPAIRS.
   All public streets, alley, and sidewalk pavement shall be in good repair.
The repair work, whether done by the city or the abutting owner, shall be under
the supervision of the Superintendent of City Services.
§ 94.007 DEFECTS.
   It shall be the duty of every city officer or employee becoming cognizant of
any defect in any street, alley, or sidewalk, or any obstruction thereof, to
report the same to the Superintendent of Streets as soon as possible.
§ 94.008 OBSTRUCTIONS.
    (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to:
      (1)   Cause, create or maintain any obstruction of any street, alley,
sidewalk, curb, gutter, drainage ditch, driveway, parkway, or other public way,
except as may be specifically authorized by ordinance, or by the Superintendent
of Streets;
      (2)   Deposit grass, leaves, yard waste, or snow in a manner causing or
creating obstruction on any street, alley, sidewalk, curb, gutter, drainage
ditch, driveway, parkway, or other public way;
      (3)   Obstruct any drain or drainage in any street, alley, curb, gutter,
drainage ditch, or drainage easement;
      (4)   Plow or otherwise remove accumulated snow from private property and
deposit the same on a city street or right-of-way; or
      (5)   Rake, blow, or otherwise deposit grass, leaves, or yard waste from
private property onto a city street or right-of-way.
   (B)   Temporary deposit of leaves, brush, or yard waste in a drainage ditch
for scheduled curbside pickup is not a violation of this section, provided that
the deposit does not interfere with the normal operation of the drainage ditch.
(Am. Ord. 2021-16, passed 4-12-2021) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.009 BARRICADES.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation laying or repairing any pavement on a
street, sidewalk, or other public place or making an excavation in the same
shall maintain suitable barricades to prevent injury of any person or vehicle
by reason of the work; the barricades shall be protected by suitable lights at
nighttime.
   (B)   Any defect in this pavement shall be barricaded to prevent injury; and
any person, firm, or corporation properly maintaining any opening or excavation
in any such place shall guard the opening or excavation while the same remains
open, by proper barricades and lights.
Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.010 DISTURBING BARRICADES.
   It shall be unlawful to disturb or interfere with any barricades or lights
lawfully placed to protect or mark any new pavement or excavation or opening in
any public street, alley, or sidewalk.
Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.011 PRIVATE USE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to use any street,
sidewalk, or other public place as space for the display of goods or
merchandise for sale; or to write or mark any signs or advertisements on the
pavement.
Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.012 ENCROACHMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any building or structure which
encroaches upon any public street or property.
Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.013 DRAINS.
   It shall be unlawful to obstruct any drain in any public street or alley.
Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.014 POLES AND WIRES.
   It shall be unlawful to erect any poles or wires to maintain any poles or
wires over any public place, street, alley, or other public way without first
having secured permission from the City Council.
Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.015 GAS PUMPS.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or erect any gasoline pump or tank in any
public street, alley, or sidewalk.
Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.016 OPENINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any opening or stairway
in any public street or alley or sidewalk or other public place without a
permit from the City Council.
   (B)   All such lawfully maintained openings shall be guarded by a suitable
strong cover or railing, to the approval of the Superintendent of Streets.
Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.017 BARBED WIRE FENCES; ELECTRIC CURRENT FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or construct any fence composed in whole or
part of barbed wire, or with any similar materials, designed to cause injury to
person, or any wire charged with electrical current, anywhere within the city
except to protect industrial property, in which case barbed wire must be at
least 6 feet above the sidewalk and extend inward of property.
Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.018 DEPOSITS ON STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to deposit on any street any material which may
be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material, or any glass, or
other articles which may cause injury to any person, animal, or property.
   (B)   No other materials may be deposited in streets preparatory to delivery
for use, provided that the deposit does not reduce the usable width of the
street or roadway at that point to less than 18 feet, and provided that the
material other than material used in actual building construction, shall not be
permitted to remain in the street for more than 3 hours.
   (C)   Any such material shall be guarded by lights if the same remains upon
any street during night time.
Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.019 DEPOSITS ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to deposit on any public sidewalk any material
which may be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material, or any
glass or other article which might cause injury to persons, animals, or
property.
   (B)   Merchandise or other articles may be deposited on sidewalks
preparatory to delivery, provided that the usable width of the sidewalk is not
thereby reduced to less than 4 feet; and provided that no article shall remain
on the walk for more than 1/2 hour.
Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.020 BURNING LEAVES AND RUBBISH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to burn any
leaves, paper, rubbish, or other substances upon any of the public streets,
sidewalks, or alleys in the city.
Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.021 VIEW AT CORNERS.
   It shall be unlawful to construct, or maintain or permit to remain any fence
or other structure, or any bushes or other plants, on a corner lot within 50
feet of the street line, which obstructs the view, at a height of more than 3
feet above the level of the adjacent street pavement.
Penalty, see §
94.999
DRIVEWAYS
§ 94.030 GRADE SURFACES.
   No driveway shall be so constructed or graded as to leave a step, a sharp
depression, or other obstruction on the sidewalk. The grade shall be as nearly
as possible the same as that of the adjoining sidewalk. It shall be unlawful to
have the surface finish of any driveway where the same crosses the sidewalk
constructed of such materials as to render it slippery or hazardous to
pedestrians, or to have the grade of the portion vary from the grade of the
sidewalk, or be other than level.
Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.031 SPECIFICATIONS.
   Driveways across sidewalks shall be constructed in compliance with
specifications contained in the subject regulations adopted by the City
Council.
§ 94.032 REPAIR.
   It shall be the duty of the person maintaining the driveway to keep the same
in good repair where it crosses the sidewalk, and free from obstruction and
openings.
EXCAVATIONS
§ 94.045 BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   Any person, firm, or corporation making or maintaining any excavation in any
street or alley shall keep the same adequately guarded by barricades and lights
to protect persons and property from injury.
§ 94.046 MANNER OF EXCAVATING.
   (A)   Proper bracing shall be maintained to prevent the collapse of
adjoining ground; and in excavations, the excavation shall not have anywhere
below the surface any portion which extends beyond the opening at the surface.
   (B)   No injury shall be done to any pipes, cables, or conduits in the
making of the excavations or tunnel; and notice shall be given to the persons
maintaining the pipes, cables, or conduits or to the city department or officer
charged with the care thereof, which are or may be endangered or affected by
the making of any excavation or tunnel before the pipes, cables, or conduits
shall be disturbed.
   (C)   No unnecessary damage or injury shall be done to any tree or shrub or
the roots thereof.
§ 94.047 SIDEWALKS.
   If any sidewalk is blocked by any such work, a temporary sidewalk shall be
constructed or provided which shall be safe for travel and convenient for
users.
§ 94.048 TIME LIMITS.
   Each application for a permit shall state the length of time it is estimated
will elapse from the commencement of the work until the restoration of the
surface of the ground, or until the refill is made ready for the pavement to be
put on by the city if the city restores the surface pavement. It shall be
unlawful to fail to comply with this time limitation unless permission for an
extension of time is granted by the City Council.
Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.049 RESTORING SURFACE.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation making any excavation or tunnel in or
under any public street, alley, or public place in the city shall restore the
surface thereof to its original condition if there is no pavement there. All
refills shall be properly tamped down.
   (B)   Any opening in a concrete or brick paved portion of a street shall be
repaired and the surface relaid by the applicant, in compliance with the
ordinances and subject to the supervision of the Superintendent of City
Services.
   (C)   If the opening is in a street that is surfaced by blacktop or
bituminous material, the permittee shall back fill the surface with sand or
gravel, and the city shall reinstall the surface of the street surfacing. The
cost of the resurfacing shall be paid by the permittee.
§ 94.050 SUPERVISION.
   The Superintendent of City Services shall from time to time inspect all
excavations and tunnels being made in or under any public street, alley, or
other public place in the city to see to the enforcement of the provisions of
this subchapter. Notice shall be given to him or her at least 10 hours before
the work of refilling the excavation or tunnel commences.
OVERHANGING SIGNS AND AWNINGS
§ 94.060 CONSTRUCTIONS.
   All signs and canopies extending over any public sidewalk, street, alley, or
other public place must be securely fastened and constructed so that there will
be no danger of the same being dislodged by ordinary winds or falling from
other cause.
  § 94.061 HEIGHT ABOVE SIDEWALK.
   The lowest part of any canopy, sign or non-rigid awning, or any support
thereof which extends over any public way shall be at least 8 feet above the
level of the walk or public way over which it extends; but no sign shall be
maintained over any public way used by vehicles if any part of its support or
of the sign is less than 15 feet above the level of the public way.
§ 94.062 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to inspect or cause to be
inspected every sign, canopy, or awning which extends over any sidewalk,
street, alley, or other public way. If any such sign or canopy is found to be
insecurely fastened or in otherwise dangerous condition, he or she shall report
this fact to the owner of the sign or to the owner or occupant of the premises
on which it is fastened. If the sign or canopy is not made secure or restored
to a safe condition within 10 days after the notice, the City Council may
authorize legal action to have the sign removed.
ENCROACHMENT ON CERTAIN PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
§ 94.075 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSTRUCTION EASEMENT AREA.  The area lying between the project right-of-way
limits and the platted street limits within which the city, by concurrence in
the establishment of the project right-of-way lines, will permit the state to
enter to perform all necessary construction operations.
   ENCROACHMENT.  Any building, fence, sign, or any other structure or object
of any kind (with the exception of utilities and public road signs), which is
placed, located, or maintained in, on, under or over any portion of the project
right-of-way or the roadway right-of-way where no project right-of- way line
has been established.
   PERMISSIBLE ENCROACHMENT.  Any existing awning, marquee, or sign advertising
activity on property, or similar overhanging structure supported from property,
or similar overhanging structure supported from a building immediately adjacent
to the limits of the platted street where there is a sidewalk extending to the
building line and which does not impair the free and safe flow of pedestrian
traffic or traffic on the highway. The permissive retention of overhanging
signs is not to be construed as being applicable to those signs supported from
poles constructed outside the project right-of-way line and not confined by
adjacent buildings.
   PROJECT RIGHT-OF-WAY. Those areas within the project right-of-way lines
established jointly by the city and state which will be free of encroachments
except as hereinafter defined.
   ROADWAY RIGHT-OF-WAY. Those areas existing or acquired by dedication or by
fee simple for highway purposes; also, the areas acquired by temporary easement
during the time the easement is in effect.
§ 94.076 PROHIBITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to erect or cause
to be erected, to retain or cause to be retained, any encroachment, except as
provided in §
94.077, within the limits of the project right-of-way or roadway right-of-way
where no project rights-of-way have been established.
Penalty, see §
94.999
  § 94.077 PROJECT RIGHT-OF-WAY LINES.
   Project right-of-way lines have been established at the following locations:
None established.
§ 94.078 REVOCABLE PERMITS.
   Revocable permits have been issued by the city for the temporary retention
of the following permissible encroachments, as set forth in Appendix A to this
chapter.
§ 94.079 NOT REPEALING OTHER PROVISIONS.
   This subchapter is intended to and shall be in addition to all other
ordinances, rules, and regulations concerning encroachments and shall not be
construed as repealing or rescinding any other ordinance or part of any
ordinance unless in direct conflict therewith.
TREES AND SHRUBS
§ 94.090 PROHIBITED TREES.
   No person shall plant any Chinese elm, willow, or poplar tree in any public
street, parkway, or other public place.
Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.091 INJURY.
   No person shall injure any tree planted in any public place.
Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.092 ADVERTISEMENT OR NOTICES.
   No person shall attach any sign, advertisement, or notice to any tree or
shrub in any street, parkway, or other public place.
Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.093 DANGEROUS TREES.
   (A)   Any tree or shrub which overhangs any sidewalk, street, or other
public place in the city in such a way as to impede or interfere with traffic
or travel on that public place shall be trimmed by the owner of the premises on
which the trees or shrubs grow so that the obstruction shall cease.
   (B)   Any limb of a tree which has become likely to fall on or across any
public way or place shall be removed by the owner of the premises on which the
trees or shrub grows or stands.
§ 94.094 EXCAVATIONS.
   In making excavations in street or other public places, proper care shall be
taken to avoid injury to the roots of any tree or shrub, wherever possible.
§ 94.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating §§
94.075 through
94.079 shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500 for each offense,
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed for each and every day during
which a violation continues or exists.
(Am. Ord. 2014-41, passed 10-14-2014)
APPENDIX A: REVOCABLE PERMITS
   Revocable permits have been issued by the city for the temporary retention
of the following permissible encroachments, pursuant to §
94.078:
 
Encroachment Type Location                 Owner
Sign and awnings  200 S. Market Street     Fillipo’s Pizza
Fence             980 Iron Horse Place     Faith Christian School
Staircase         107 W. Main Street       Dunwalt, LLC
Patio structure   219 W. Washington Street Bucks Pond Properties
(Am. Res. 2016-41, passed 6-27-2016; Am. Res. 2019-46, passed 8-26-2019; Am.
Ord. 2024-51, passed 11-12-2024)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
110.   BUSINESS LICENSING
   
111.   ALCOHOL
   
112.   AMUSEMENTS
   
113.   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
   
114.   SOLICITORS AND CANVASSERS
   
115.   TAXICABS
   
116.   PARADES AND SPECIAL EVENTS
   
117.   SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
   
118.   MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSING
Section
Miscellaneous Permit Requirements
   
110.01   Sound amplifiers
Cross-reference:
   Cable TV franchise, see
Table of Special Ordinances I
   Garbage and trash collectors, see
Chapter 50 of this code of ordinances
MISCELLANEOUS PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
§ 110.01 SOUND AMPLIFIERS.
   (A)   Permit required. It shall be unlawful to maintain or operate any loud
speaker or amplifier connected with any radio, phonograph, microphone, or other
device by which sounds are magnified and made heard over any public street or
public place, without having first obtained a permit therefor.
   (B)   Application. Any person, firm, or corporation desiring a permit for
the use or operation of such device shall file an application therefor with the
City Clerk upon a form provided by him or her, setting forth the name and
address of the applicant, the name and address of the owner of the device, the
date upon which it is intended to be used, and any other information as may be
prescribed.
   (C)   Issuance of permit. The permit shall permit the use of any such device
subject to the terms and conditions of this subchapter, only upon the date
specified on the permit and no other.
   (D)   Restrictions.
      (1)   No permittee shall use, operate, or employ any such device within
the city limits on Sunday or after the hour of 8:00 p.m. prevailing time of any
day, or before the hour of 8:00 a.m. prevailing time of any day; no licensee
shall use, operate, or employ the device within a radius of 2 blocks from any
church or other place of public worship while services are being held there.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to radios in homes or in private
pleasure vehicles, when the same are operated in such a manner as not to be
audible at a distance of 50 feet from the vehicle; nor to noise devices, bands,
or other musical devices used in any public parade, procession, or concert
which is operated under a permit in accordance with the ordinances of the city.
      (3)   No person shall cause or permit to be emanated or emitted from any
such device any lewd, obscene, profane, or indecent language or sounds, or any
false representation of any matter, product, or project advertised thereby, the
sale of which is prohibited by law, ordinance, or statute.
   (E)   Exemptions. The restrictions contained in this section shall not apply
to the amplified or unamplified sound of bells or chimes used for noncommercial
purposes for reasonable lengths of time.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOL
Section
General Provisions
   
111.001   Purpose
   
111.002   Applicability
   
111.003   Definitions
   
111.004   Liquor Control Act adopted by reference
Liquor Commissioner
   
111.015   Local Liquor Control Commissioner
   
111.016   Powers
   
111.017   Hearings to suspend or revoke license
   
111.018   Appeal
Licenses
   
111.030   License required
   
111.031   Classes of license
   
111.032   License fees
   
111.033   Disposition of license fees
   
111.034   Fee provisions and term
   
111.035   Application
   
111.036   Persons ineligible to license
   
111.037   Hours
   
111.038   Total number of licenses
   
111.039   Restricted areas
   
111.040   Possess only 1 license
   
111.041   Renewal
   
111.042   Displaying license
   
111.043   Transfer of license
   
111.044   Change of location
   
111.045   Record of license
   
111.046   Location restrictions
   
111.047   Premises where majority minors
   
111.048   Temporary permit to allow outdoor service on public property
Minors/Disabled Persons
   
111.060   Sales to disabled persons
   
111.061   Sales to minors
   
111.062   Sales and gifts to minors
   
111.063   Purchase/possession by minor
   
111.064   Proof of age
   
111.065   Altered identification card
   
111.066   Misrepresentation of age
   
111.067   Warning to minors
   
111.068   Minors prohibited
   
111.069   Minor employees
   
111.070   Responsibility of licensee and driver
General Provisions
   
111.080   Consumption on unlicensed premises
   
111.081   Storage on unlicensed premises
   
111.082   Use of premises after revocation
   
111.083   Lighting premises
   
111.084   (Reserved)
   
111.085   Toilet facilities
   
111.086   Words forbidden
   
111.087   Refill of original package
   
111.088   Access from licensed premises
   
111.089   Sanitary conditions
   
111.090   Employees
   
111.091   Peddling
   
111.092   Civil rights in licensed premises
   
111.093   Payment at time of sale
   
111.094   Building code
   
111.095   Retail deliveries to consumers
Procedure
   
111.110   Licensee convicted
   
111.111   Knowledge of act by employee
   
111.112   Employee convicted
   
111.113   Owner of premises permitting violation
 
   
111.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.001 PURPOSE.
   This chapter shall be liberally construed to the end that the health,
safety, and welfare of the people of the City of Monticello shall be protected,
and temperance in the consumption of alcoholic liquor shall be fostered and
promoted by sound and careful control and regulation of the sale and
distribution of alcoholic liquors.
§ 111.002 APPLICABILITY.
   No person shall manufacture, bottle, sell, blend, barter, transport,
deliver, furnish or possess any alcoholic liquor for beverage purposes, except
as specifically provided in this chapter or the Liquor Control Act; provided,
however, nothing herein contained shall prevent the possession, transportation,
and storage of alcoholic liquor for personal use of the possessor, his or her
family and guests, nor prevent the making of wine, cider, or other alcoholic
liquor by a person from fruits, vegetables, or grains, or the products thereof
by simple fermentation and without distillation, if it is made solely for the
use of the maker, his or her family and his or her guests; and provided further
that nothing herein contained shall prevent any duly licensed practicing
physician or dentist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor in the strict
practice of his or her profession, or any hospital, nursing home, or other
institution caring for sick and diseased persons, from possessing and using
alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide patients of the hospital,
nursing home or other institution; and provided further, that any drugstore
employing a licensed pharmacist may possess and use alcoholic liquor in the
concoction of prescriptions of duly licensed physicians; and provided further,
that the possession and dispensation of wine by an authorized representative of
any church for the purpose of conducting any bona fide rite or religious
ceremony conducted by that church shall not be prohibited by this chapter.
(Am. Ord. 2019-15, passed 3-11-2019; Am. Ord. 2022-03, passed 1-24-2022)
Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the definitions in the Liquor Control Act
and the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates
or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether
rectified or diluted; whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes
synthetic ethyl alcohol. It does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Includes alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and every liquid
or solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine, or beer, and
capable of being consumed as a beverage by a human being.
   BEER.  A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley or other grain, malt and hops in water, and includes among
other things beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter, and the like.
   BOWLING ALLEY. Every establishment or building, or part of an establishment
or building, as the case may be, wherein the game of bowling, played with
composition balls and 10 wooden pins, is played.
   CLUB. A corporation organized under the laws of this state, not for
pecuniary profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the
sale or consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept, used and maintained by its
members through the payment of annual dues, and owning, hiring or leasing a
building or space in a building, of an extent and character as may be suitable
and adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation of its
members and their guests; provided, that the CLUB files with the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner at the time of its application for a license under this
chapter a copy of a list of names and residences of its members, and similarly
files within 10 days of the election of any additional member, his or her name
and address; and, provided further, that its affairs and management are
conducted by a board of directors, executive committee or similar body chosen
by the members at their annual meeting, and that no member or any officer,
agent, or employee of the CLUB is paid, or directly or indirectly receives, in
the form of salary or other compensation, any profits from the distribution or
sale of alcoholic liquor to the club or the members of the club or its guests,
introduced by members beyond the amount of salary as may be fixed and voted at
any annual meeting by the members or by its board of directors or other
governing body out of the general revenue of the CLUB.
   DELIVERY.
      (1)   The movement of alcoholic liquor purchased from a licensed retailer
to a consumer through the following methods:
         (a)   Delivery within licensed retailer’s parking lot, including
curbside, for pickup by the consumer;
         (b)   Delivery by an owners, officer, director, shareholder, or
employee of the licensed retailer; or
         (c)   Delivery by a third-party contractor, independent contractor, or
agent with whom the licensed retailer has contracted to make deliveries of
alcoholic liquors.
      (2)   DELIVERY shall not include the use of common carriers.
   HOTEL and MOTEL.  Every building or other structure kept, used, maintained,
advertised, and held out to the public to be a place where food is actually
served and consumed and sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to
travelers and guests, whether transient, permanent, or residential, in which 25
or more rooms are used for sleeping accommodations of the guests and having 1
or more public dining rooms where meals are served to the guests, the sleeping
accommodations and dining rooms being conducted in the same building or
buildings in connection therewith, and the building or buildings, structure or
structures being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room
equipment and capacity.
   LICENSE. A written or printed permit issued by the Local Liquor Control
Commission, to engage in the retail sale of alcoholic liquor.
   LICENSEE.  Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, or club receiving a
license under the provisions of this chapter.
   LIQUOR CONTROL ACT. Illinois Compiled Statutes (ILCS) Ch. 235, Act 5, as
amended.
   LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER. The Mayor of the City of Monticello,
Illinois.
   OPERATOR. Any person or all persons who own, are engaged in, or conduct a
business.
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE. Any bottle, flask, jug, can, cask, barrel, keg, hogshead,
or other receptacle or container, whatsoever, used, corked or capped, sealed
and labeled by the manufacturer of alcoholic liquor, to contain and to convey
any alcoholic liquor.
   PARKLET. A space within the city right-of-way, most commonly parking spaces,
excluding sidewalk areas but extending from the sidewalk area that is to be
utilized to maintain movable outdoor furniture and will provide space for the
consumption of food or beverage. A parklet premises will be defined as a space
no less than one parking space and no greater than three parking spaces with a
removable barrier between the traffic lane and seating area. The business
applying for the parklet space will be responsible for that space and shall
provide proof of insurance evidencing commercial general liability insurance
with limits of not less than $1,000,000 per occurrence, $3,000,000 aggregate,
and an endorsement listing the City of Monticello as an additionally insured.
   RESTAURANT. Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised, and held
out to the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals are
actually and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, the space being
provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and
capacity and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees
to prepare, cook, and serve suitable food for its guests.
   RETAILER.  A person who sells or offers for sale alcoholic liquor for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form.
   SALE. Any transfer, exchange, or barter in any manner, or by any means
whatsoever, and includes and means all sales made by any person, whether
principal, proprietor, agent, servant, or employee.
   SELL AT RETAIL and SALE AT RETAIL. Sales for use or consumption and not for
resale in any form.
   SHIPPING. The movement of alcoholic liquor from a licensed retailer to a
consumer via a common carrier.
   SPIRITS. Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin, or other spirituous liquors, and these liquors when rectified, blended, or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
   TO SELL. Includes to keep or expose for sale and to keep with intent to
sell.
   WINE. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits or vegetables containing sugar including these beverages
when fortified by the addition of alcohol or spirits as above defined.
(Am. Ord. 2020-29, passed 6-8-2020; Am. Ord. 2022-03, passed 1-24-2022)
§ 111.004 LIQUOR CONTROL ACT ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Liquor Control Act, ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, §§ 1-1 et seq., and the rules
and regulations issued by the State Liquor Control Commission, as amended, are
adopted to the extent applicable in the city as fully as if set forth herein.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 1-24-2022)
LIQUOR COMMISSIONER
§ 111.015 LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER.
   The Mayor of the City of Monticello shall be the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner and is herein charged with the administration of the Liquor
Control Act being ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, this chapter, any applicable rules or
regulations adopted by the State Liquor Control Commission or the Commissioner,
and any ordinances and resolutions relating to the sale of alcoholic liquor as
may be enacted by the City Council.
§ 111.016 POWERS.
   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall have the following powers,
functions, and duties, with respect to licenses issued by the Commissioner:
   (A)   To grant all licenses and permits as provided in §§
111.030 et seq. to persons, firms, corporations, partnerships, or clubs or
premises within his or her jurisdiction;
   (B)   To receive license and permit fees and pay them forthwith to the City
Treasurer;
   (C)   To receive complaints from any citizen within his or her jurisdiction
that any provisions of the Liquor Control Act being ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, this
chapter, or any rules and regulations adopted pursuant to either, have been or
are being violated and to act upon the complaints in the proper manner;
   (D)   To examine or cause to be examined under oath any applicant for a
license or permit or for a renewal thereof, or any licensee upon whom notice of
revocation or suspension has been served, and to examine or cause to be
examined the books and records of the applicant or licensee, to hear testimony
and take proof for his or her information in the performance of his or her
duties, and, for that purpose, to issue subpoenas which shall be effective in
any part of this state. For the purpose of obtaining any of the information
desired by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner under this section, he or she
may authorize his or her Deputy Commissioner or hearing officer to act on his
or her behalf;
   (E)   To enter or authorize any law enforcing officer to enter, at any time,
upon any premises licensed or permitted herein to determine whether any
provisions of the Liquor Control Act, being ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5 or this
chapter, or any rules or regulations promulgated thereunder, have been or are
being violated, and, at that time, to examine the premises of the licensee in
connection therewith;
   (F)   To suspend for not more than 30 days, or revoke for cause, any license
or permit issued under this chapter for any 1 or more of the following reasons:
      (1)   Violation of the laws of the United States, the laws of the State
of Illinois, rules and regulations of the State Liquor Control Commission or
the Commissioner, any ordinances or resolutions of the City of Monticello, or
the conditions applicable to any license or permit;
      (2)   Knowingly permitting, without protest, any violation of this
chapter or any disorderly or immoral practice upon the premises licensed
herein;
      (3)   The willful making of any false statement as to a material fact in
the application for license or permit; or
      (4)   Failure of the licensee for any cause whatsoever to operate and
maintain a place of business at the location and on the premises pursuant to
the purpose for which the license was issued.
   (G)   To make, adopt, promulgate, alter, amend, repeal, and enforce any
reasonable rules and regulations as may be deemed necessary by the
Commissioner, for the performance of the duties herein provided and the
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter and the Liquor Control Act being
ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, and the rules and regulations thereunder;
   (H)   To require the filing of plans, drawings, and photographs with the
Commissioner showing the view into and the interior of any premises operating
under a Class A, Class B, Class C, Class D, Class E, Class F, Class J or Class
K license prior to construction or remodeling thereof; and
   (I)   To appoint, reappoint and remove up to 2 Deputy Liquor Commissioners
and assign to such Commissioner those responsibilities as the Liquor
Commissioner deems appropriate, so long as not inconsistent with the provisions
hereof.
(Am. Ord. 2013-62, passed 10-28-2013; Am. Ord. 2017-85, passed 11-13-2017; Am.
Ord. 2019-15, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 111.017 HEARINGS TO SUSPEND OR REVOKE LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon receiving a complaint that a licensee is in violation of state
law, the regulations promulgated by the State Liquor Control Commission or
Commissioner, or this code, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall at once
investigate, and finding the licensee in violation, may suspend or revoke his
or her license or permit.
   (B)   However, prior to the suspension or revocation of the license or
permit, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall cause to be served upon the
licensee a written notice to appear within 3 days at a public hearing, before
the Commissioner or hearing officer appointed by him or her, affording the
licensee the opportunity to be heard.
   (C)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner, or a hearing officer he or she
shall designate, shall preside over the hearing, held in a public place, at a
reasonable time and conducted according to any applicable rules promulgated by
the State Liquor Control Commission or the Local Liquor Control Commissioner,
and in accordance with state law, all evidence in support of the complaint of
violation shall be presented by the City Attorney or, if the City Attorney
advises the Liquor Commissioner at the hearing, then by some other attorney
selected by the Liquor Commissioner. The licensee shall have the right to
present evidence in rebuttal and to cross-examine witnesses. Hearings shall be
transcribed by a certified court reporter.
   (D)   The Commissioner, or hearing officer if appointed, shall keep and
maintain an official record of the proceedings, and within 5 days after the
close of the hearing, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall cause to be
served a written notice of his or her decision upon the licensee.
   (E)   In the event it is determined that the license or permit be suspended
or revoked, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall cause to be served a
written order of suspension or revocation, stating the reason or reasons for
the action, and the duration thereof.
(Am. Ord. 2013-67, passed 12-9-2013; Am. Ord. 2017-85, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 111.018 APPEAL.
   (A)   After receiving an order of suspension or revocation, a licensee shall
have the privilege of appeal to the Illinois Liquor Control Commission,
pursuant to the Liquor Control Act being ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5 and the
Commission’s rules and regulations, for a decision, reversing or modifying the
order of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner. All appeals to the Illinois
Liquor Control Commission shall be on the record of proceedings before the
Local Liquor License Commissioner.
   (B)   If the Illinois Liquor Control Commission affirms or modifies the
Local Liquor Control Commission’s order to suspend or revoke the license or
permit, the licensee shall cease to engage in business for which the license or
permit was issued until the order of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner is
terminated by its own provisions, or as modified by the State Commission, or
reversed upon rehearing or by the courts.
(Am. Ord. 2013-67, passed 12-9-2013; Am. Ord. 2017-85, passed 11-13-2017)
LICENSES
§ 111.030 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, corporation, partnership, club, organization, or enterprise
shall sell, expose or offer for sale at retail in the city any alcoholic liquor
unless he, she, or it shall first apply for and obtain from the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner a license to do so, and alcoholic liquor shall not be sold
in violation of the provisions of the license.
Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.031 CLASSES OF LICENSE.
   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall issue no class of license or
permit other than the following:
   (A)   Class A License. A Class A license shall permit the licensee to sell
at retail any and all alcoholic liquor, by the drink and in package, for
consumption on or off the premises where it is sold. Not more than 7 such
licenses may be issued.
   (B)   Class B License. A Class B license shall permit the licensee to sell
at retail any and all alcoholic liquor by the drink, and not in package, for
consumption only on the premises where it is sold. A Class B licensee may not
sell any alcoholic liquor in package or for consumption off the premises of the
licensee. Not more than 10 such licenses may be issued.
   (C)   Class C License. A Class C license shall permit the licensee to sell
any and all alcoholic liquor at retail by the drink, and not in package, for
consumption only on the premises where it is sold. A Class C licensee may not
sell any alcoholic liquor in package or for consumption off the premises of the
licensee. Class C licenses may be issued only to the operator of a restaurant,
as defined in §
111.003, and for which restaurant the sale of nonalcoholic items represents 70%
or more of the total sales of the restaurant. Not more than 5 such licenses may
be issued. Each holder of a Class C license shall provide to the Liquor
Commissioner copies of the licensee’s sales tax returns at the same time that
the returns are provided to the Illinois Department of Revenue. Failure to
provide these returns in a timely manner may be grounds for the revocation of
the license.
   (D)   Class D License.  A Class D license shall permit the licensee to sell
at retail any and all alcoholic liquor in the original package and not for
consumption on the premises where it is sold. Not more than 2 such licenses may
be issued.
   (E)   Reserved.
   (F)   Class E License. A Class E license shall permit the licensee to sell
at retail any and all alcoholic liquor at a picnic, outing, festival, party, or
other such occasion, by the drink, and not in package, for consumption only on
the premises where it is sold, or within an area specifically designated in
that license. The following conditions apply to Class E licenses:
      (1)   Class E licenses may be issued only to educational, fraternal,
civic, service, political, religious, charitable, or other nonprofit
organizations, unless otherwise approved by the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner.
      (2)   Class E licenses shall be limited in term, which shall not exceed 2
consecutive days, and no more than 3 such licenses shall be issued and
outstanding at any 1 time.
      (3)   No person, firm, organization, association, or corporation shall be
issued more than 5 Class E licenses in any 1 calendar year.
      (4)   Applicants for these licenses shall provide proof of insurance,
both liability and dram shop, at the time of application, which shall be at
least 15 business days prior to the date for which the license is requested.
      (5)   Applicants issued a Class E license for an event that is partially
or completely held outdoors shall:
         (a)   Use only paper or plastic products to serve alcoholic liquor or
food;
         (b)   Provide fencing with at least 2 means of ingress and 2 means of
egress around the area designated in the license;
         (c)   Monitor each means of ingress and egress so as to provide
adequate crowd control; and
         (d)   Prevent alcoholic liquor from being removed from the designated
area by invitees or customers.
      (6)   The Class E license holder shall, within 24 hours after the ending
time of the event, remove all refuse, litter, debris, garbage, and the like
from the property used for the event and the abutting public right-of-way. Upon
written application, the 24-hour period may be extended by the Commissioner for
a definite period of time for good cause shown. GOOD CAUSE shall include but
not be limited to natural disasters and extreme weather conditions.
      (7)   In the event that a Class E license holder does not remove all
refuse, litter, debris, garbage, and the like in the 24-hour period, or an
extension thereof granted by the Liquor Control Commissioner as provided above,
the city may, after 24 hours’ notice to the licensee, remove all refuse,
litter, debris, garbage and the like from the property used for the event. The
notice to the licensee shall state that the failure of the owner of the
property or licensee to remove all refuse, litter, debris, garbage, and the
like within the 24-hour period as required by that notice shall be deemed to
form a contract between the city and the owner of the property and licensee for
payment of the cost of the removal of the refuse, litter, debris, garbage and
the like. Service of the notice from the city shall be made upon the license
holder and the owner of the property. Service shall be by personal service,
except that if personal service cannot be made upon diligent inquiry, service
may be had by posting the notice on the property. The reasonable cost of the
removal shall be a lien upon the real property for which the license was
issued, which may be recovered by foreclosure of the lien or the filing of an
ordinance violation complaint against the licensee, or both.
      (8)   The failure of the licensee to remove all refuse, litter, debris,
and garbage, and the like within the aforesaid 24-hour period, or any
extensions granted by the Liquor Control Commissioner, shall also constitute a
violation of this chapter for which the licensee may be fined hereunder, or the
license may be suspended or revoked.
      (9)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner may impose reasonable
conditions upon the issuance of any Class E license. In no event shall the
alcoholic liquor sold under the auspices of a Class E license be sold or
consumed on public property unless otherwise approved by the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner. In no event shall a Class E license be issued for an
event on public property unless the applicant executes an indemnification and
hold harmless agreement on a form provided by the city.
   (G)   Class F License.  A Class F license may be issued to the operator of
any establishment licensed by the Piatt County Liquor Commission to engage in
the retail sale of any alcoholic liquor upon the annexation of that
establishment to the city. The operator of the establishment must satisfy the
provisions of §
111.036 in order to receive a Class F license. A Class F license will permit
the licensee to operate under the same liquor control restrictions as imposed
by Piatt County for the class of license issued the establishment by the Piatt
County Liquor Control Commission. The Class F license shall expire at the same
date the Piatt County Liquor license under which the establishment operated
prior to the annexation would have expired. The operator of the annexed
establishment must apply for and receive a Monticello Class A, B, C, or D
license prior to the expiration of the Class F license.
   (H)   Reserved.
   (I)   Class H License.  
      (1)   A Class H license may be issued to the holder of a Class A, B, C,
or J license, as defined in this chapter. A Class H license holder may sell
alcoholic liquor at retail by the drink, and not in package, for consumption
only, upon the sidewalk immediately adjacent to the establishment holding the
license and not extending to areas abutting the neighboring property
(hereinafter “license area”), except as provided in §
111.031(I)(3) only to patrons, seated at tables provided by the licensee. Not
more than 7 such licenses shall be issued.
      (2)   During all times the license is in effect, the licensee shall:
         (a)   Not allow or permit any customer, employee, or other person to
remove alcoholic liquor from the license area;
         (b)   Post upon each table located within the license area information
clearly describing the boundaries of the license area and informing patrons
that they are prohibited from removing alcoholic liquor from the license area;
         (c)   Keep the license area free of litter, cans, bottles, and spills
at all times. The licensee shall promptly collect and dispose of all litter,
trash, and other waste materials associated with the service of alcoholic
liquor. The licensee shall dispose of this waste in his, her, or its own trash
containers only;
         (d)   Only serve, and not prepare or cook food or meals in the license
area;
         (e)   Not obstruct the use of the sidewalk by the general public; and
         (f)   Procure and maintain, for the duration of the permit, public
liability and property damage insurance pertaining to the license area in a
minimum amount of $1,000,000 per person and $1,000,000 in the aggregate per
occurrence and property damage in a minimum amount of $1,000,000, which shall
name the City of Monticello, its officers, and employees as additional
insureds, and the same shall provide that the policy shall not terminate or be
canceled prior to the expiration date without 30 days’ advance written notice
to the city. Proof of this insurance, issued by an insurance company licensed
to do business in the State of Illinois in the form of a certificate of
insurance, shall be attached to the application.
      (3)   A Class H license holder may sell alcoholic liquor at retail by the
drink, and not in package, for consumption upon sidewalk abutting a property
adjacent to the licensed premises (the “extended license area”) subject to
compliance with the following conditions:
         (a)   The license holder shall submit a plan in a form acceptable to
the Local Liquor Commissioner detailing the location, area, and dimensions of
the extended license area, including, without limitation, the location and
number of tables, chairs, and other personal property proposed to be located in
the extended license area, and the location of the entrance to the licensed
premises;
         (b)   The license holder shall obtain and submit the written consent
of the owner and occupant of the property adjoining the extended license area
on a form acceptable to the Local Liquor Commissioner;
         (c)   The extended license area shall not extend farther than 100 feet
from the entrance to the licensed premises;
         (d)   The extended license area shall be accessible by a clear,
unrestricted path leading from the licensed premise’s entrance through the
extended license area;
         (e)   The license holder shall procure and maintain insurance coverage
in the amounts, duration, and specifications required by §
111.031(I)(2)(f) naming as additional insureds the owner and occupant of the
property adjoining the extended license area;
         (f)   The license holder and the extended license area shall comply
with all provisions of this code, including, without limitation, those
conditions set forth in §
111.031(I)(2); and
         (g)   The license holder and the extended license area shall comply
with all conditions deemed necessary and imposed by the Local Liquor
Commissioner to protect the public health, safety, and welfare, in and around
the extended license area, including, without limitation, erecting and
maintaining appropriate barriers and/or fencing separating the extended license
area from the sidewalk reserved for use by the general public.
   (J)   Class I license.  
      (1)   A Class I license shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor by a
caterer within the licensed premises. For purposes of this section, a CATERER
shall be defined as a party engaged in the business of providing food service
at private parties, weddings or other similar private events which are not open
to the general public, at a location other than the premises leased, owned, or
otherwise operated by the party, and the location of the catered event shall be
deemed the licensed premises. Not more than 1 such license shall be issued.
      (2)   A Class I licensee shall meet and operate in compliance with the
following requirements:
         (a)   Consumption of alcoholic liquor shall only be permitted on the
premises where the food is catered;
         (b)   Gross revenues from the sale of alcoholic liquor at any event
catered by a Class I licensee shall not exceed 40% of the total gross revenues
generated from the sale of alcohol and food at that event, and proof thereof
shall be available upon the request by the city for a period of 30 days after
each catered event;
         (c)   In the event that the Class I licensee has entered into a
contract with another individual or entity for the service of food at the
catered event, a copy of the contract shall be available for inspection on the
premises of the catered event, during the event; and
         (d)   Service of alcohol at any event catered by a Class I licensee
shall not exceed 8 consecutive hours.
   (K)   Class J license.
      (1)   A Class J license shall permit the retail sale of beer manufactured
on the premises, by the drink and in its original package, for consumption on
or off the premises, and the retail sale of alcoholic liquor, by the drink and
in its original package, for consumption on or off the premises. Not more than
1 such license may be issued.
      (2)   A Class J licensee shall meet and operate in compliance with the
following requirements:
         (a)   Beer must be manufactured on the premises;
         (b)   The retail sale, display and consumption of beer and alcoholic
liquor shall only be permitted in an area not exceeding 70% of the gross square
footage of the licensed premises;
         (c)   Any portion of the licensed premises used for beer
manufacturing, storage and/or shipping shall be segregated and secured from the
remainder of the premises, and public access shall not be allowed except during
supervised tours of the premises;
         (d)   Consumption of beer and alcoholic liquor shall not occur in any
portion of the licensed premises used for beer manufacturing, storage and/or
shipping, except during supervised tours and private parties;
         (e)   The licensee shall comply with all federal, state and local
laws, rules and regulations, including, but not limited to, procurement of any
required federal brewer’s notice, Illinois manufacturer’s liquor license,
Illinois craft brewer’s license, and all required licenses and permits
concerning manufacturing, packaging, storing, selling and distributing beer and
alcoholic beverages; and
         (f)   The licensee shall maintain and operate a commercial kitchen on
the premises where meals are actually and regularly prepared and offered
principally for purchase and consumption on the premises.
   (L)   Class K license.
      (1)   A Class K license shall permit the licensee to sell at retail wine
and beer by the drink for consumption on the premises, and in package, for
consumption off the premises where it is sold, in a nontraditional setting. Not
more than 1 such license may be issued.
      (2)   The following conditions apply to Class K licenses:
         (a)   Wine and beer may be served or sold no earlier than the hours
identified in §
111.037.
         (b)   Prior to receiving a license, Class K license holders shall
provide the Local Liquor Control Commissioner with a written schedule
identifying all dates and times during which wine and beer will be served and
sold on the premises. Class K license holders shall provide advance written
notice to the Local Liquor Control Commissioner of any changes to the schedule.
(Am. Ord. 2008-30, passed 7-14-2008; Am. Ord. 2010-26, passed 6-14-2010; Am.
Ord. 2010-33, passed 7-12-2010; Am. Ord. 2010-36, passed 8-9-2010; Am. Ord.
2010-51, passed 11-8-2010; Am. Ord. 2011-13, passed 4-25-2011; Am. Ord. 2011-
15, passed 4-25-2011; Am. Ord. 2013-62, passed 10-28-2013; Am. Ord. 2015-59,
passed 12-14-2015; Am. Ord. 2015-60, passed 12-15-2015; Am. Ord. 2016-18,
passed 3-28-2016; Am. Ord. 2016-22, passed 4-11-2016; Am. Ord. 2016-27, passed
4-25-2016; Am. Ord. 2016-35, passed 6-13-2016; Am. Ord. 2016-53, passed 8-22-
2016; Am. Ord. 2017-85, passed 11-13-2017; Am. Ord. 2018-26, passed 6-25-2018;
Am. Ord. 2015-61, passed 12-10-2018; Am. Ord. 2019-11, passed 1-28-2019; Am.
Ord. 2019-15, passed 3-11-2019; Am. Ord. 2019-65, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord.
2020-28, passed 6-8-2020; Am. Ord. 2023-30, passed 6-12-2023; Am. Ord. 2023-66,
passed 12-11-2023; Am. Ord. 2024-01, passed 1-8-2024; Am. Ord. 2024-25, passed
5-13-2024; Am. Ord. 2025-15, passed 2-10-2025; Am. Ord. 2025-16, passed 2-10-
2025; Am. Ord. 2025-22, passed 3-10-2025)
Cross-reference:
   Consumption on unlicensed premises, see §
111.080 of this code of ordinances
   Other provisions regarding Class E licenses, see §
111.095
§ 111.032 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall receive from each license
applicant and license renewal applicant, as the case may be, the following
annual license or event fee:
Class Fee
Class   Fee
Class A $1,000
Class B $600
Class C $600
Class D $750
Class E $50
Class F $0
Class H $0
Class I $0
Class J $750
Class K $500 for 5 or more events;
        $200 for fewer than 5 events
 
   (B)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall receive from any permit
applicant the following permit fee:
 
Class                             Fee
Temporary outdoor public property $25 (Additional fee with right-of-way permit,
                                  where applicable)
 
(Am. Ord. 2010-01, passed 1-11-2010; Am. Ord. 2013-62, passed 10-28-2013; Am.
Ord. 2017-85, passed 11-13-2017; Am. Ord. 2019-15, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 111.033 DISPOSITION OF LICENSE FEES.
   The Liquor Control Commissioner shall take custody of all license and permit
fees, and in the event the license or permit is denied, the license or permit
fee shall be returned to the applicant. Those fees as are retained by the city
shall be forthwith turned over to the City Treasurer and deposited in the
General Corporate Fund or in any other fund as the City Council may direct.
(Am. Ord. 2017-85, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 111.034 FEE PROVISIONS AND TERM.
   License fees shall be paid annually. After the issuance of a license, no
license fee or part of the fee shall be refunded. No license shall be valid
unless the annual fee is fully paid in advance. Licenses to sell alcoholic
liquor shall expire on December 31 after the date of issuance. The annual fee
for a license issued after December 31 of any year shall be prorated for the
number of full months remaining in the term of the license.
(Am. Ord. 2013-67, passed 12-9-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-44, passed 10-27-2014)
§ 111.035 APPLICATION.
   (A)   An applicant for a license or permit from the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner shall submit to the Commissioner an application, using a form
provided by the Commissioner, which shall be in writing, under oath, signed by
the applicant, and shall be accompanied by the license or permit fee applicable
to the license or permit sought.
   (B)   The application shall include, without limitation, the following
information and statements:
      (1)   The name, age, and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in case of a co-partnership, the persons entitled to share in the
profits thereof, and in the case of a corporation, the date and state of
incorporation, the object for which it was organized, the names and addresses
of the officers and directors, and the names and addresses of all stockholders
and the percentage of stock owned by each;
      (2)   The citizenship of the applicant, his or her place of birth and, if
a naturalized citizen, the time and place of his or her naturalization;
      (3)   The character of and the length of time the applicant has been in
business, and the amount of goods, wares, and merchandise on hand at the time
of application;
      (4)   The location and description of the premises which is to be
operated under the license or permit;
      (5)   A statement whether applicant has made similar application for
either license or permit on premises other than described in this application,
and the disposition of the application;
      (6)   A statement whether applicant has ever been convicted of a felony;
      (7)   A statement whether a previous license or permit by any state or
subdivision thereof or by the Federal Government has been suspended or revoked,
and if so, the reason therefor; and
      (8)   A statement that he or she will not violate any of the laws, rules,
or regulations of the State of Illinois, of the United States, or the City of
Monticello, in the conduct of his or her business.
(Am. Ord. 2013-67, passed 12-9-2013; Am. Ord. 2017-85, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 111.036 PERSONS INELIGIBLE TO LICENSE.
   The Local Liquor Control Commission shall issue no license or permit of any
kind to:
   (A)   A person who is not a resident of the city;
   (B)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he or she resides;
   (C)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
   (D)   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or state
law, unless the Commissioner determines that the person has been sufficiently
rehabilitated to warrant the public trust after considering matters set forth
in the person’s application and the Commission’s investigation. The burden of
proof of sufficient rehabilitation shall be on the applicant;
   (E)   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper of or is the
keeper of a house of ill fame;
   (F)   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality;
   (G)   A person whose license or permit issued under this chapter has been
revoked for cause;
   (H)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license or
permit issued hereunder would not be eligible for the license or permit under a
first application;
   (I)   A co-partnership, unless all of the members of the co-partnership
shall be qualified to obtain a license or permit;
   (J)   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than 5% of the stock
of the corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license or permit
hereunder for any reason other than citizenship and residence within the city;
   (K)   A corporation unless it is incorporated in Illinois, or a foreign
corporation unless it is qualified to transact business in Illinois;
   (L)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent,
unless the manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required of the
licensee;
   (M)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession, or sale of alcoholic liquor
subsequent to the passage of the Liquor Control Act being ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5
or has forfeited his or her bond to appear in court to answer charges for the
violation;
   (N)   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a
license is sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for
which the license is to be issued;
   (O)   Any law enforcing public official, including members of Local Liquor
Control Commissions, any Mayor, Alderperson, or member of the City Council or
commission, any member of a county board; and no such official shall be
interested directly in the manufacture, sale, or distribution of alcoholic
liquor, except that license may be granted to the official in relation to
premises which are not located within the territory subject to the jurisdiction
of that official if the issuance of the license is approved by the State Liquor
Control Commission;
   (P)   A person who is not the beneficial owner of the business to be
operated by the licensee;
   (Q)   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as proscribed by
any of subsections (A)(3) through (A)(11) of § 28-1, or as proscribed by § 28-
1.1 or 28-3, of the Criminal Code of 1961 being ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, or as
proscribed by a statute replaced by any of the aforesaid statutory provisions;
and
   (R)   A person or entity to whom a federal wagering stamp has been issued by
the federal government, unless the person or entity is eligible to be issued a
license under the Raffles Act, being ILCS Ch. 230, Act 15 or the Illinois Pull
Tabs and Jar Games Act, being ILCS Ch. 230, Act 20.
(Am. Ord. 2013-67, passed 12-9-2013; Am. Ord. 2017-85, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 111.037 HOURS.
   Alcoholic liquor may be sold or offered for sale at retail any time in or
upon the licensed premises between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m.
midnight on the days Monday through Thursday and between 6:00 a.m. on Friday
and 1:00 a.m. on Saturday and 6:00 a.m. on Saturday and 1:00 a.m. on Sunday.
Establishments possessing a Class A, B, C, D, E, I, J, or K license may sell
any time between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. Sunday, provided that
on New Year’s Eve the closing time for all licensees shall be extended to 2:00
a.m. on New Year’s Day. All hours referred to herein shall be local time, and
provided further that the premises licensed herein must be vacated within 1
hour after the required closing time, except for the licensee or manager and
custodial personnel.
(Am. Ord. 2012-18, passed 5-29-2012; Am. Ord. 2013-62, passed 10-28-2013; Am.
Ord. 2017-10, passed 2-13-2017; Am. Ord. 2019-15, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 111.038 TOTAL NUMBER OF LICENSES.
   In the event any 1 of the licenses provided for in this chapter shall lapse,
be revoked, surrendered, or terminated in any manner, or the licensed
establishment has closed, the maximum number of licenses in that
classification, as set forth in §
111.031, shall be automatically reduced, without further action by the City
Council.
(Ord. 2024-15, passed 2-26-2024)
§ 111.039 RESTRICTED AREAS.
   No premises within the city shall be licensed by the Local Liquor Control
Commission to sell alcoholic liquor in violation of the city zoning
regulations.
§ 111.040 POSSESS ONLY 1 LICENSE.
   Except as otherwise expressly provided in this chapter, no person, firm,
partnership, corporation, or club who possesses a valid license to sell
alcoholic liquor shall apply for or be issued any other class of license or
permit by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
(Am. Ord. 2016-22, passed 4-11-2016; Am. Ord. 2017-85, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 111.041 RENEWAL.
   Any licensee may renew his or her license at the expiration thereof,
provided he or she is then qualified to receive a license and the premises for
which a renewal license is sought are suitable for that purpose; and provided
further that the renewal privilege herein provided for shall not be construed
as a vested right which shall in any case prevent the City Council from
decreasing the number of licenses to be issued within its jurisdiction.
§ 111.042 DISPLAYING LICENSE.
   Every licensee shall cause his or her license to be framed and hung in plain
view in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
§ 111.043 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A license shall be purely a personal privilege, good for not to exceed 1
year after issuance, and shall not constitute property, nor shall it be subject
to attachment, garnishment, or execution, nor shall it be alienable or
transferable or subject to being encumbered or hypothecated. The license shall
not descend by the laws of testate or intestate devolution, but it shall cease
upon the death of the licensee, provided that executors or administrators of
the estate of any deceased licensee, and the trustee of any insolvent or
bankrupt licensee, when the estate consists in part of alcoholic liquor, may
continue the business of the retail sale of alcoholic liquor under order of the
appropriate court and may exercise the privileges of the deceased or insolvent
or bankrupt licensee until the expiration of the license, but not longer than 6
months after the death, bankruptcy, or insolvency of the licensee.
§ 111.044 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   A retailer’s license shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor only upon the
premises described in the application and license, and the location may be
changed only upon written permit to do so by the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner.
§ 111.045 RECORD OF LICENSE.
   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall keep, or cause to be kept, a
record of all retailer’s licenses or permits issued by him or her and deliver
to the City Clerk and the Chief of Police a duplicate thereof.
(Am. Ord. 2017-85, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 111.046 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   Unless an exemption is granted by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, no
license shall be issued for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor upon any
premises within 100 feet of any church, school, hospital, or home for aged or
indigent persons or for veterans, their wives and children, as measured, in the
case of a church, from the nearest part of any building used for worship
services or educational programs, and not from property lines, to the property
line of the establishment, and in the case of all other enumerated uses, the
measurement shall be from property line to property line; provided that this
restriction shall not apply to regularly organized clubs, restaurants, food
shops, or other places of business established prior to the taking effect of
this chapter, where the sale of alcoholic liquor is not the principal business.
Nor shall the restrictions set forth in this section apply to the renewal of a
license on a premises within 100 feet of any church or school, when that church
or school has been established within the 100 feet since the issuance of the
original license. Nor shall this section prevent the issuance of a Class E
license to a church, school, hospital, or home for aged or indigent persons or
for veterans pursuant to §
111.031.
(Am. Ord. 2019-15, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 111.047 PREMISES WHERE MAJORITY MINORS.
   No license shall be issued for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor upon the
premises of any store or other place of business where the majority of
customers are minors of school age or where the principal business transacted
consists of school books, school supplies, food, lunches, or drinks for the
minors.
§ 111.048 TEMPORARY PERMIT TO ALLOW OUTDOOR SERVICE ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Applicant eligibility. Only persons that:
      (1)   Possess a valid liquor license authorizing the sale and service of
alcoholic liquor; and
      (2)   Are able to demonstrate full compliance with this code may apply
for an outdoor service permit.
   (B)   Location of outdoor service area. Only areas that are immediately
adjacent to and directly accessible from an existing licensed premises are
eligible to be an outdoor service area.
   (C)   Term of permit. Outdoor service permits are valid for a period of 1
year beginning on April 1 and expiring on March 31 of the following year.
Applicants must submit with their permit application the date(s) during which
outdoor service events are proposed. No outdoor service event may exceed 3
consecutive days, and no permittee shall propose more than 5 outdoor service
events during the term of any permit. If the applicant has received approval
for a parklet space (as defined in §
111.003), the term of the permit shall be determined by the Liquor Control
Commissioner, or their designee, and the City Administrator.
   (D)   Application and inspection. 
      (1)   Applicants shall complete and submit an outdoor service permit
application on forms provided by the city and provide all plans,
specifications, and information requested by the City Clerk. Applications must
be submitted at least 15 business days before a proposed outdoor service event.
      (2)   The city may inspect the outdoor service area for compliance with
this code and the terms of the outdoor service permit during the city’s review
of any permit application and at any time during the term of any outdoor
service permit. Applicants seeking to renew a permit shall submit a renewal
application on forms provided by the city and all plans, specifications, and
information requested by the City Clerk.
   (E)   Insurance. Applicants seeking an outdoor service permit shall provide:
      (1)   Certificates of insurance in a form and an amount approved by the
City Attorney that names the City of Monticello as an additional insured and
covers the outdoor service area; and
      (2)   A signed indemnification and hold harmless agreement on a form
provided by the city.
   (F)   Conditions. The Local Liquor Control Commissioner has the authority to
impose any terms and conditions on the issuance of an outdoor service permit
that the Commissioner, in his or her sole discretion, deems necessary to
protect the public health, safety, and welfare. The Commissioner may deny any
permit application that the Commissioner determines, in his or her sole
discretion, unduly interferes with pedestrian or vehicle traffic, or otherwise
endangers the public health, safety, and welfare.
   (G)   Maintaining the public right-of-way. Portions of the public right-of-
way that are subject to an outdoor service permit must be kept free from refuse
at all times, and no food preparation is permitted on the public right-of-way.
Permittees shall maintain all public improvements on the public right-of-way in
the condition that existed on the date the outdoor service permit was issued,
and the permittee shall be responsible to the city for any damage to any public
improvements or the public right-of-way where such damage arises from or
relates to the operation or presence of the outdoor service area.
   (H)   Pedestrian access. Areas subject to an outdoor service permit shall be
organized and operated in a way that does not interfere with pedestrian access
or use. All personal property placed on the public right-of-way associated with
the operation of an outdoor service area shall be located so that a clear path
of at least 5 contiguous feet shall be provided for passage of pedestrians, and
so that ingress and egress from the licensed establishment or any other
establishment is not obstructed or materially inhibited. For all licensed
premises, the outdoor service area shall be clearly designated with a semi-
permanent barrier as approved by the city. No improvements determined to be
permanent by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner may be constructed in the
outdoor service area.
   (I)   Consumption. No patron shall leave the outdoor service area with
alcoholic liquor. Alcoholic liquor shall only be served and transferred to
patrons in the outdoor service area by a BASSET trained server, and no carry-in
or carry-out of liquor by a patron to or from the outdoor service area is
permitted.
   (J)   Number of outdoor service permits. There shall be no more than 6
outdoor service permits issued at any 1 time.
(Ord. 2012-32, passed 8-13-2012; Am. Ord. 2017-85, passed 11-13-2017; Am. Ord.
2020-29, passed 6-8-2020)
MINORS/DISABLED PERSONS
§ 111.060 SALES TO DISABLED PERSONS.
   No licensee or employee of any licensee shall sell, barter, or give away any
alcoholic liquor to any intoxicated person, or to any person known by him or
her to be an habitual drunkard, insane, mentally ill, or in need of mental
treatment.
Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.061 SALES TO MINORS.
   No licensee or employee of any licensee shall sell, barter, or give away
alcoholic liquor as defined in §
111.003 to any person under the age of 21 years.
Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.062 SALES AND GIFTS TO MINORS.
   No person, after purchasing or otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor, shall
sell, give or deliver any alcoholic liquor to a person under the age of 21
years, except in the performance of a religious ceremony or service.
Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.063 PURCHASE/POSSESSION BY MINOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to whom the sale, gift, or delivery of
alcoholic liquor is prohibited because of age, to purchase, consume, accept as
a gift or have in his or her possession any alcoholic liquor, except for the
possession or consumption by a minor of alcoholic liquor in the performance of
a religious service or ceremony, or the consumption by a minor under the direct
supervision and approval of the parents or parent of the minor in the privacy
of a home.
Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.064 PROOF OF AGE.
   If a licensee or employee of any licensee believes or has reason to believe
that a sale or delivery of alcoholic liquor is prohibited because of the non-
age of the prospective recipient, the licensee or employee shall, before making
the sale or delivery, demand presentation of some form of positive
identification, containing proof of age, issued by a public officer in the
performance of his or her official duties.
§ 111.065 ALTERED IDENTIFICATION CARD.
   No person shall transfer, alter or deface an identification card; use the
identification card of another; carry or use a false or forged identification
card; or obtain an identification card by means of false information. No person
shall purchase, accept delivery, or have possession of alcoholic liquor in
violation of this section.
Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.066 MISREPRESENTATION OF AGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to misrepresent age for the purpose of
purchasing or obtaining any alcoholic liquor.
Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.067 WARNING TO MINORS.
   In every premises licensed herein to sell alcoholic liquor, there shall be
displayed in a prominent place, a printed card, which shall be supplied by the
Local Liquor Control Commissioner, which shall read substantially as follows:
“WARNING TO MINORS:
You are subject to a fine of up to $750.00 under the
ordinances of the City of Monticello if you purchase
alcoholic liquor or misrepresent your age for the purpose
of purchasing or obtaining alcoholic liquor.”
(Am. Ord. 2019-15, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 111.068 MINORS PROHIBITED.
   No licensee shall permit, nor shall any person bring a person under the age
of 18 years in or upon any premises operating under a license issued under the
terms hereof, and no person under the age of 18 years shall enter or loiter
upon the premises; provided, however, that this section shall not apply to
hotels, motels, restaurants serving regular meals, clubs or bowling alleys, or
to minors accompanied by a parent, guardian, or responsible adult in any
establishment.
Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.069 MINOR EMPLOYEES.
   Persons under the age of 21 years are prohibited from tending bar, or from
drawing, pouring, or mixing any alcoholic liquor as an employee of any licensee
on the premises of a licensee.
§ 111.070 RESPONSIBILITY OF LICENSEE AND DRIVER.
   A licensee of a premises hereunder and the driver of any motor vehicle in
the city, in which any person under the age of 21 years possesses or consumes
any alcoholic liquor otherwise than as authorized herein, shall be deemed to be
in violation of this chapter. It shall be an affirmative defense in any
prosecution of the licensee or driver for violation of this subchapter that the
licensee or driver did not know that a violation hereof would occur or was
occurring, did not have reasonable grounds to believe a violation would occur
or was occurring, and could not have reasonably done anything to prevent the
violation from occurring.
Penalty, see §
111.999
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.080 CONSUMPTION ON UNLICENSED PREMISES.
   No person shall consume any alcoholic liquor on any street, alley, sidewalk,
or other public property, within the city, except as otherwise authorized in
this chapter. Nor shall any person consume any alcoholic liquor in any
automobile or vehicle traveling upon or parked on any street, alley, or public
property within the city. Nor shall any person bring any alcoholic liquor for
consumption by the person or his or her companion into any dining room of any
hotel, restaurant, club or place where meals are served, or where soft drinks
are sold or a soda fountain is operated, or into any public place, or use the
alcoholic liquor for mixing with or “spiking” any other beverage whatsoever.
This provision is not intended to apply to deliveries of alcoholic liquor to
licensees by wholesalers in the ordinary course of business or to the mixing of
drinks by licensees and their employees. No liquor licensee, or employee
thereof, shall permit the consumption of alcoholic liquor on the premises of
any establishment inviting public patronage, unless the premises is licensed
for the sale of alcoholic liquor by the drink.
(Am. Ord. 2012-32, passed 8-13-2012) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.081 STORAGE ON UNLICENSED PREMISES.
   No alcoholic liquor shall be kept or stored by a licensee upon any premises
other than the premises used as an establishment licensed to sell alcoholic
liquor under the provisions of this chapter.
Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.082 USE OF PREMISES AFTER REVOCATION.
   When any license shall have been revoked for any cause, for the period of 1
year thereafter no license shall be granted to any person to conduct the
business of selling alcoholic liquor upon the premises described in the revoked
license.
Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.083 LIGHTING PREMISES.
   All rooms where alcoholic liquor is sold for consumption upon the premises
shall be continuously lighted during business hours to the extent that all
parts of the interior of the premises are clearly visible.
§ 111.084 (RESERVED).
§ 111.085 TOILET FACILITIES.
   Every establishment licensed herein for consumption of alcoholic liquor on
the premises shall have separate, adequate, and convenient toilet facilities
for men and women, except that the holder of a Class E license shall have
facilities as are approved by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
§ 111.086 WORDS FORBIDDEN.
   No person licensed to sell alcoholic liquor shall use the words “saloon” or
“bar” in any sign or advertisement.
Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.087 REFILL OF ORIGINAL PACKAGE.
   No person licensed herein to sell alcoholic liquor at retail shall fill or
refill, in whole or in part, any original package of alcoholic liquor with the
same or any other kind or quality of alcoholic liquor, and it shall be unlawful
for any person to have in his or her possession for sale at retail any bottles,
casks, or other containers containing alcoholic liquor except in original
packages. This section shall not apply to licensees holding a Class J license
that wish to fill or refill growlers with beer manufactured on the premises.
(Am. Ord. 2013-62, passed 10-28-2013) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.088 ACCESS FROM LICENSED PREMISES.
   No alcoholic liquor shall be sold at retail upon any premises which has any
access from the premises to any other portion of the same building which is
kept for and leased to the public as dwelling quarters. This provision shall
not apply to hotels, motels, or connecting apartments used only by the
licensee, his or her family, and personal guests.
Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.089 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   All premises used for the sale at retail of alcoholic liquor, or for the
storage of liquor for sale, shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition and
shall be kept in full compliance with the laws regulating the condition of
premises used for the storage or sale of food for human consumption.
§ 111.090 EMPLOYEES.
   It shall be unlawful to employ, in any premises used for the sale at retail
of alcoholic liquor, any person who is afflicted with or who is a carrier of
any contagious, infectious, or venereal disease, and it shall be unlawful for
any person who is afflicted with, or a carrier of any such disease to work in
or about the premises or to engage in any way in the handling, preparation, or
distribution of the liquor.
Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.091 PEDDLING.
   It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in the city.
Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.092 CIVIL RIGHTS IN LICENSED PREMISES.
   No licensee licensed herein shall deny or permit his or her agents and
employees to deny any person the full and equal enjoyment of the
accommodations, advantages, facilities, and privileges of any premises licensed
to sell alcoholic liquor, subject only to the conditions and limitations
established by law and applicable to all citizens.
§ 111.093 PAYMENT AT TIME OF SALE.
   Each retail sale of alcoholic liquor upon premises licensed herein shall be
made and payment received by the licensee or employee of the licensee at the
time of sale.
§ 111.094 BUILDING CODE.
   Every place licensed under this chapter for the consumption of alcoholic
liquor on the premises shall meet all applicable building codes.
§ 111.095 RETAIL DELIVERIES TO CONSUMERS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, if the Illinois
Liquor Control Commission has designated a retailer as an off-premises
consumption or combined (off-premises/on- premises) license holder, the
retailer may deliver alcoholic liquor in the original package to the purchaser
for use or consumption in compliance with all applicable state laws and
guidance, including:
      (1)   The delivery shall be made only within 12 hours from the time the
alcoholic liquor leaves the licensed premises of the retailer for delivery; and
      (2)   The delivery must comply with §§ 5-1(d), 6-16, 6-29 and 6-29.1 of
the Illinois Liquor Control Act, ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, §§ 5-1(d), 6-16, 6-29 and
6-29.1.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to regulate the delivery of
alcoholic liquor inconsistent with § 5-1(d) of the Illinois Liquor Control Act,
ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 5-1(d).
   (C)   No retailer may ship alcoholic liquor to a consumer via a common
carrier.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 1-24-2022)
PROCEDURE
§ 111.110 LICENSEE CONVICTED.
   Whenever any licensee shall be convicted of any violation of this chapter,
the license of that licensee may at the discretion of the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner be revoked and all fees paid thereon shall be forfeited, and it
shall thereafter be unlawful and shall constitute a further violation of this
chapter for the licensee to continue to operate under the license.
Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.111 KNOWLEDGE OF ACT BY EMPLOYEE.
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter, by any agent, manager, or employee of any
licensee, shall be deemed and held to be the act of the licensee, and the
licensee shall be punishable in the same manner as if the act or omission had
been done or omitted by him, her, or it personally.
(Am. Ord. 2013-67, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 111.112 EMPLOYEE CONVICTED.
   Whenever any agent, manager, or other employee in a position of authority of
any licensee shall be found to have violated any of the provisions of this
chapter while engaged in the course of his or her employment, and the violation
was committed without the knowledge or approval of the licensee, and under such
conditions or circumstances in which the licensee exercising due diligence
would not have been aware of such violation, the Liquor Commissioner may take
such circumstances into consideration in determining what penalty, if any, to
impose for the violation.
(Am. Ord. 2013-67, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 111.113 OWNER OF PREMISES PERMITTING VIOLATION.
   If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the licensee
derives the right of possession of the premises, or the agent of the owner or
person, shall knowingly permit the licensee to use the premises licensed herein
in violation of the provisions of this chapter, the owner, agent, or other
person shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this chapter to the same extent
as the licensee, and be subject to the same punishment.
§ 111.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter, if no other
penalty shall be provided, shall, for a first offense, be fined not less than
$50 nor more than $750 and, for a second or subsequent conviction, be fined not
less than $100 nor more than $750, and each day in which the violation shall
exist shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Whomsoever shall violate any provision of §§
111.060 through
111.070 shall be served a notice of violation. This individual shall be fined
$100 for his or her first offense, at least $300 for his or her second offense,
if committed within 12 months of the first offense, and $750 for his or her
third offense, if committed within 12 months of the first offense. If an
individual commits a fourth offense within 12 months of the first offense, the
person shall be issued a notice to appear in court. If an individual fails to
pay to the City Clerk the appropriate fine established herein within 10 days of
having been issued the notice of violation, the individual shall be served with
a notice to appear in court. The maximum fine that may be imposed for each
violation of this subchapter is $750.
(Am. Ord. 2019-15, passed 3-11-2019)
CHAPTER 112: AMUSEMENTS
Section
Amusements
   
112.01   Application
   
112.02   Street shows
   
112.03   Athletic exhibition
   
112.04   Inspections
   
112.05   Premises
Billiard and Pool Tables
   
112.15   License required
   
112.16   Fees
   
112.17   Hours of operation
Amusement Devices Other Than Video Poker
   
112.30   Authority to regulate
   
112.31   Fee
   
112.32   Definitions
   
112.33   License required
   
112.34   Application form required
   
112.35   Length of license
   
112.36   License not transferable
   
112.37   Regulation on disturbing the peace
   
112.38   Suspension or revocation of license
State Licensed Gaming Machines
   
112.45   Authority to regulate
   
112.46   Fee
   
112.47   Definitions
   
112.48   License required
   
112.49   Number of devices allowed
   
112.50   Application form required
   
112.51   Length of license
   
112.52   License not transferable
   
112.53   Regulation on disturbing the peace
   
112.54   Conditions governing license
   
112.55   Suspension or revocation of license
   
112.56   Information requirement
   
112.57   Time of application
AMUSEMENTS
§ 112.01 APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this subchapter, except as to licensing and fees, shall
apply to all public shows, theatricals, circuses, and other amusements in the
city, whether specifically licensed in another subchapter or chapter in this
code or not.
§ 112.02 STREET SHOWS.
   No permit shall be granted or given for any exhibition, show, or other
amusement to be given on any public street or sidewalk or in such place that
the only main accommodation for the public or the audience will be in a public
place, except on order of the City Council.
§ 112.03 ATHLETIC EXHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful to conduct, operate, or exhibit any race between
persons, animals, or vehicles, or any baseball game, boxing or wrestling
matches, or any other athletic contest or exhibition for admission to which a
fee is charged without having first procured a license therefor. The City
Council shall have the power to waive any license and fee charges for not-for-
profit charitable organizations.
Penalty, see §
10.99
  § 112.04 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police and Fire Chief to see that every
exhibition, amusement, theatrical, or other public show or amusement is
inspected by a member of the Police and Fire Departments.
§ 112.05 PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful to operate or permit the operation of any amusement
licensed in this chapter unless the premises in which the amusement is operated
or permitted to be operated conforms with all the provisions or requirements in
this code relating to public buildings and public gatherings.
Penalty, see §
10.99
BILLIARD AND POOL TABLES
§ 112.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall operate, maintain, or conduct a
billiard or pool table open to the public without having first obtained a
license therefor. Applications for these licenses shall be made in writing to
the City Clerk and shall state thereon the name of the applicant, the intended
place of business, and the number of tables to be used therein. If the
applicant is a corporation, names and addresses of the president and secretary
thereof shall be given.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.16 FEES.
   The annual fees for any such license shall be $25 for each table. Every
license granted hereunder shall expire on December 31 of the year in which it
is granted. The fee shall not be prorated.
(Am. Ord. 2010-01, passed 1-11-2010; Am. Ord. 2014-45, passed 10-27-2014)
§ 112.17 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No billiard hall or other hall licensed hereunder shall be open for business
or used between the hours of 12:00 a.m. midnight and 6:00 a.m.
AMUSEMENT DEVICES OTHER THAN VIDEO POKER
§ 112.30 AUTHORITY TO REGULATE.
   This subchapter is passed pursuant to ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-42-2 and 11-
55-1, and ILCS Ch. 35, Act 510, §§ 1 et seq., and also pursuant to the case of
Hagen v. the City of Rock Island, in the Illinois Supreme Court, 18 Ill. Sec.
174, 163 NE2d 495.
(Ord. 2012-39, passed 11-26-2012)
§ 112.31 FEE.
   There hereby is imposed on the privilege of operating every coin-in-the-slot
amusement device, as defined in §
112.33 of this chapter, an annual fee of $25 plus $50 for each such device
operated within the city limits. This fee does not apply to, and is in addition
to any fees applicable to, any video gaming terminals regulated by the State of
Illinois Video Gaming Act and subject to §
112.45 of this code of ordinances. Likewise, video gaming terminals, as defined
by §
112.47 of this code of ordinances, shall not be counted for purposes of
determining the applicable fee due hereunder. Should a licensee hereunder
install 1 or more video gaming devices on the premises and, in accordance with
Chapter 112, §
112.55, remove any coin-in-the-slot amusement devices, then that licensee shall
not be entitled to any refund of any fee paid to the city under this chapter
and section for said coin-in-the-slot amusement devices.
(Ord. 2012-39, passed 11-26-2012)
§ 112.32 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COIN-IN-THE-SLOT OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICE. Any juke box, pinball machine,
miniature bowling machine, pool table, bumper pool table, or other electronic
game or machine of any kind which, upon the insertion of a coin, slug, token,
chip, plate, disc, or similar objects, including but not limited to the swipe
or insertion of an electronic card or key, may be operated by the public
generally for use as a game, entertainment, or amusement, whether or not
registering a score, and this term COIN-IN-THE-SLOT OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICE
shall also include trivia games, video games, marble machines, skill ball,
mechanical grab machines, and all games, operations, or transactions similar
thereto under whatever name they may be known. The term COIN-IN-THE-SLOT
OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICE shall also mean any electronic game machine, device,
table, or implement, whether or not coin operated, but used as a game,
entertainment, or amusement, whether or not registering a score, and whether or
not involving electronic beams or beacons of light. COIN-IN-THE-SLOT OPERATED
AMUSEMENT DEVICE also includes any electronic video game machine that is
available to play or simulate the play of a video game, including but not
limited to video poker, line up, and blackjack, utilizing a video display and
microprocessors in which the player may receive free games or credits that
CANNOT be redeemed for cash. In no case does the term COIN-IN-THE-SLOT OPERATED
AMUSEMENT DEVICE include a machine that directly dispenses coins, cash, or
tokens or that is not exclusively for amusement purposes.
(Ord. 2012-39, passed 11-26-2012)
§ 112.33 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall keep or display for operating or patronage by the public
within this city, any said coin-in-the-slot amusement device without having
first obtained a written license therefor from the City Clerk, which license
shall be framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed
premises, and such posted license may include more than 1 device on such
licensed premises.
(Ord. 2012-39, passed 11-26-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.34 APPLICATION FORM REQUIRED.
   An application for an amusement device license shall be made to the City
Clerk on forms furnished by the City Clerk. The application shall set forth the
number of coin-in-the-slot amusement devices for which permission is sought for
a particular premises, shall describe the number and type of each different
device or machine that the applicant intends to operate, and shall be
accompanied by payment of the appropriate fee.
(Ord. 2012-39, passed 11-26-2012)
§ 112.35 LENGTH OF LICENSE.
   Every license granted hereunder shall expire on December 31 of the year in
which it is granted. The fee shall not be prorated.
(Ord. 2012-39, passed 11-26-2012; Am. Ord. 2014-45, passed 10-27-2014)
§ 112.36 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   No license issued to any person hereunder shall be transferable to any other
person or for any other premises other than that set forth on the license.
Application must be made annually.
(Ord. 2012-39, passed 11-26-2012)
§ 112.37 REGULATION ON DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   No license issued under this subchapter shall permit the operation of any
coin-in-the-slot amusement device at any place or in any manner which will
disturb the peace and quiet of persons outside, or beyond the premises on which
such amusement device is being used. No immoral or indecent selection shall be
presented in any such amusement device.
(Ord. 2012-39, passed 11-26-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.38 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Nothing in the provisions of this subchapter shall preclude the right of the
Mayor to suspend or revoke the license of the licensee, as follows:
   (A)   The Mayor may temporarily suspend any license issued under the terms
of this subchapter when he or she has reason to believe that the continued
operation of a particular licensed premises will immediately threaten the
welfare of the community or create an imminent danger of violation of
applicable law. In such case, he or she may, upon the issuance of a written
order stating the reason for such determination and without notice or hearing,
order the licensed premises closed for not more than 7 days, provided that the
licensee shall be given an opportunity to be heard in a public hearing during
the 7-day periods and further provided that if such licensee shall also be
engaged in the conduct of other businesses on the licensed premises, such order
shall not be applicable to such other businesses.
   (B)   The Mayor may suspend or revoke any license issued under the terms of
this subchapter upon due notice to the licensee of the time and place of a
public hearing, and a public hearing, if the Mayor determines upon hearing that
the licensee has failed or refused to comply with the terms of this subchapter,
has failed or refused to comply with other law applicable to the business of
keeping or providing coin-in-the-slot amusement devices, or has been convicted
by a court of competent jurisdiction of a violation of any provision of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2012-39, passed 11-26-2012)
STATE LICENSED GAMING MACHINES
§ 112.45 AUTHORITY TO REGULATE.
   This chapter is passed pursuant to ILCS Ch. 230, Act 40, §§ 1 et seq. (the
Illinois Video Gaming Act).
(Ord. 2012-39, passed 11-26-2012)
§ 112.46 FEE.
   There is hereby imposed on the privilege of operating every video gaming
terminal in this city, as defined by the Illinois Video Gaming Act, ILCS Ch.
230, Act 40, §§ 1 et seq., an annual fee of $25 for each such device.
(Ord. 2012-39, passed 11-26-2012)
§ 112.47 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. As used herein shall include any person, firm, corporation or
association, or partnership which, as permitted by state law and regulation,
owns or possesses or places for use by the public any video gaming device, and
shall also mean any such person, firm, corporation, partnerships or association
having control over any such device.
   VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL. The same meaning as set forth in the Illinois Gaming
Act, ILCS Ch. 230, Act 40, § 5.
(Ord. 2012-39, passed 11-26-2012)
§ 112.48 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall keep or display for operating or patronage by the public
within this city, any video gaming terminal without having first obtained a
license therefor from the city, through the City Clerk, and said license shall
be framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed
premises, and such posted license may include more than 1 device on such
licensed premises. It shall be a prerequisite to any license from the city that
the person keeping the video gaming terminal have a valid license from the
State of Illinois for each such video gaming terminal and the loss or
suspension of any such license by the state shall automatically result in the
same status for the license issued hereunder, without refund of any license
fee. Pursuant to state regulation, the city, through the City Clerk shall also
report to the State of Illinois any discipline or change in status of any video
gaming licenses issued hereunder.
(Ord. 2012-39, passed 11-26-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.49 NUMBER OF DEVICES ALLOWED.
   The number of video gaming terminal devices permitted upon a licensed
premises at any 1 time shall not exceed that number authorized in the license
issued for said premises by the state.
(Ord. 2012-39, passed 11-26-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.50 APPLICATION FORM REQUIRED.
   An application for a video gaming license shall be made to the City Clerk on
forms furnished by the city. The application shall set forth the number of
video gaming terminals for which permission is sought for a particular
premises; shall include a copy of the license from the State of Illinois for
each video gaming terminal for which an application to the city is being made;
and shall be accompanied by payment of the appropriate fee.
(Ord. 2012-39, passed 11-26-2012)
§ 112.51 LENGTH OF LICENSE.
   Every license granted hereunder shall expire on December 31 of the year in
which it is granted. The fee shall not be prorated.
(Ord. 2012-39, passed 11-26-2012)
§ 112.52 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   No license issued to any person hereunder shall be transferable to any other
person or for any other premises other than that set forth on the license.
Application must be made annually.
(Ord. 2012-39, passed 11-26-2012)
§ 112.53 REGULATION ON DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   No license issued under this subchapter shall permit the operation of any
video gaming terminal at any place or in any manner which will disturb the
peace and quiet of persons outside, or beyond the premises on which such
amusement device is being used. No immoral or indecent selection shall be
presented in any such device.
(Ord. 2012-39, passed 11-26-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.54 CONDITIONS GOVERNING LICENSE.
   (A)   In addition to any other condition or regulation contained in this
subchapter or in the statutes of the State of Illinois, no video gaming
terminal shall be located in any establishment that does not have a valid and
current liquor license from the city.
   (B)   No license issued hereunder shall permit the operation on the same
premises of any coin-in-the-slot amusement devices, as defined in §§
112.30 et seq. of this code of ordinances, that simulate any of the games found
on video gaming terminals. Licensees may remove such coin-in-the-slot amusement
devices from the premises at the time of obtaining their video gaming license
from the city and such removal shall be a precondition to the operation of any
video gaming terminals. No refund of any fees paid or other credit shall be
given for the removal of such coin-in-the-slot amusement devices.
(Ord. 2012-39, passed 11-26-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.55 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Nothing in the provisions of this chapter shall preclude the right of the
Mayor to suspend or revoke the license of the licensee, as follows:
   (A)   The Mayor may temporarily suspend any license issued under the terms
of this chapter when he or she has reason to believe that the continued
operation of a particular licensed premises will immediately threaten the
welfare of the community or create an imminent danger of violation of
applicable law. In such case, he or she may, upon the issuance of a written
order stating the reason for such determination and without notice or hearing,
order the licensed premises closed for not more than 7 days, provided that the
licensee shall be given an opportunity to be heard in a public hearing during
the 7-day periods and further provided that if such licensee shall also be
engaged in the conduct of other businesses on the licensed premises, such order
shall not be applicable to such other businesses.
   (B)   The Mayor may suspend or revoke any license issued under the terms of
this chapter upon due notice to the licensee of the time and place of a public
hearing, and a public hearing, if the Mayor determines upon hearing that the
licensee has failed or refused to comply with the terms of this chapter, has
failed or refused to comply with other law applicable to the business of
keeping or providing video gaming devices or has been convicted by a court of
competent jurisdiction of a violation of any provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 2012-39, passed 11-26-2012)
§ 112.56 INFORMATION REQUIREMENT.
   Applications for the licenses required above shall be filed in duplicate
with the City Clerk (with 1 of said copies being retained, each, by the City
Clerk and by the applicant).
(Ord. 2012-39, passed 11-26-2012)
§ 112.57 TIME OF APPLICATION.
   Any such application submitted above shall be submitted at least 30 days
prior to the commencement of the period for which the license is sought.
(Ord. 2012-39, passed 11-26-2012)
CHAPTER 113: MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Establishment permit required
   
113.03   Application
   
113.04   Inspections
   
113.05   Termination of permits
   
113.06   Revocation or suspension
   
113.07   Masseur/masseuse permit; application, issuance, revocation
   
113.08   Facilities
   
113.09   Operation requirements
   
113.10   Advertising
   
113.11   Inspections
   
113.12   Employment of persons under the age of 18
   
113.13   Identification card
   
113.14   Transfer of permits
   
113.15   Display of permit
   
113.16   Employment of masseurs/masseuses
   
113.17   Limitation on applicability
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMPLOYEE. Any and all persons other than the masseurs or masseuses, who
render any service to the permittee, who receive compensation directly from the
permittee, and who have no physical contact with customers and clients.
   HEALTH OFFICER. An inspecting officer of the Monticello Public Health
District.
   MASSAGE or PRACTICE OF MASSAGE. Any method of pressure on or friction
against or stroking, kneading, rubbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating, or
stimulating of the external soft parts of the body with the hands or with the
aid of any mechanical or electrical apparatus or appliance, with or without
such supplementary aids as rubbing alcohol, liniments, antiseptics, oils,
powder, creams, lotions, ointments, or other similar preparations.
   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT.  Any establishment having a fixed place of business
where any person, firm, association, or corporation engages in, carries on, or
permits to be engaged in or carried on any of the activities of the practice of
massage.
   MASSEUR or MASSEUSE.  Any person who, for any consideration whatsoever,
engages in the practice of massage.
   PERMITTEE or LICENSEE.  The operator or owner (if an individual) of a
massage establishment.
   PERSON. Any individual, co-partnership, firm, association, joint stock
company, corporation or combination of individuals of whatever form or
character.
   SEXUAL OR GENITAL AREA.  The genitals, pubic area, anus, or peritoneum of
any person and the breasts of a female.
§ 113.02 ESTABLISHMENT PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in, conduct or carry on,
or to permit to be engaged in, conducted or carried on, in, or upon any
premises in the city the operation of a massage establishment, without first
having obtained a permit.
   (B)   (1)   Filing of application. Every applicant for a permit to maintain,
operate, or conduct a massage establishment shall file an application with the
City Clerk.
      (2)   Fee. Every such applicant shall pay a nonrefundable application fee
of $100 to the City Treasurer.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.03 APPLICATION.
   The applicant for a permit to operate a massage establishment shall furnish
the following information:
   (A)   Name (including any alias) and address;
   (B)   Written proof that the individual is at least 18 years of age;
     (C)   All residential addresses for the past 3 years;
   (D)   The business, occupation, or employment of the applicant for the 4
years immediately preceding the date of application;
   (E)   The massage or similar business license or permit history of the
applicant, i.e., whether the person, in previously operating in this or another
city or state under a license or permit, has had the license or permit revoked
or suspended, the reason therefor, and the business activity or occupation
subsequent to the action or suspension or revocation;
   (F)   All criminal or city ordinance violation convictions, including
forfeiture of bond and pleadings of nolo contendere, on all federal, state, and
local charges, except minor traffic violations;
   (G)   If the applicant is a corporation or a partner of a partnership is a
corporation, the name of the corporation exactly as shown in its articles of
incorporation;
   (H)   A drawing or written description which adequately describes the space
in the building where the massage business of the applicant is to be conducted;
   (I)   The information required above for the following individuals:
      (1)   The operator, manager, or owner;
      (2)   Any partner or limited partner of a partnership application;
      (3)   Any officer, director, or greater than 10% stockholder of a
corporate applicant or corporate partner of a partnership.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.04 INSPECTIONS.
   The City Clerk shall issue no permit or permit renewal for the conduct,
operation, or maintenance of the massage establishment proposed in the
application until the following officers, after inspection or investigation,
report favorably as to the matters indicated below:
   (A)   Health Officer. The Health Officer shall inspect and report in
connection with the prevention of nuisances and the spread of disease.
   (B)   Plumbing Inspector, Building Inspector, and Electrical Inspector.  The
Plumbing, Building and Electrical Inspectors shall inspect and report in
connection with full compliance with respective city plumbing, building and
electrical codes.
   (C)   Chief of Police.
      (1)   The Chief of Police shall investigate and report in connection with
the accuracy of the information required above in §
113.03:
         (a)   The Chief of Police shall report favorably if he or she finds no
substantial inaccuracies in the information furnished and shall not report
favorably if investigative findings show substantial inaccuracies;
         (b)   The Chief of Police shall not report favorably if investigative
findings show that, within 4 years of the date of the application, the
applicant or any other person who will be directly or indirectly engaged in the
management or operations of a massage establishment has been convicted of the
following:
            1.   A felony;
            2.   An offense involving sexual misconduct with children; or
            3.   Prostitution, soliciting for a prostitute, pandering, keeping
or residing in a place of prostitution, pimping or any other offense involving
moral turpitude in relation to sexual conduct.
         (c)   The Chief of Police may delegate the investigative, inspection,
and reporting responsibilities imposed by this chapter.
      (2)   Upon receipt of favorable reports from the offices as indicated
above and the receipt of a recent photograph of the applicant, the City Clerk
shall issue a massage establishment permit to the applicant. Reports shall be
submitted or deemed favorable within 30 days after the applicant’s submission
of an application.
§ 113.05 TERMINATION OF PERMITS.
   Every massage establishment permit will terminate at the expiration of 1
year from the date of its issuance, unless sooner suspended or revoked.
§ 113.06 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Any license or permit for a limited time may be suspended by the Mayor
at any time during the life of the license or permit for any violation by the
licensee or permittee of the ordinance provisions relating to the license or
permit, the subject matter of the license or permit, or to the premises
occupied, the revocation may be in addition to any fine imposed.
   (B)   Before any license is revoked by the Mayor, he or she shall give 5
days’ written notice in advance by registered mail, return receipt requested,
directed to the licensee at the usual place of business within the city of the
reason for the revocation. Any licensee may appeal the decision of the Mayor to
revoke any license to the Council. This appeal shall be in writing, setting
forth the reasons for the appeal and shall be filed with the Clerk within 10
days after the receipt of the notice from the Mayor to revoke the license. Upon
receipt of the notice, the Council shall fix a time and place for hearing the
appeal. The hearing shall be held not more than 20 days following the receipt
of the notice of appeal by the Clerk. The filing of an appeal by the licensee
shall not operate as a stay of the determination of the Mayor to revoke the
license.
   (C)   When in any 12-month period a license or permit under this chapter has
been suspended more than twice or there have been more than 2 convictions,
including bond forfeitures, for violations of any provision of this chapter,
the Mayor may permanently revoke the respective massage establishment permit or
the masseur or masseuse permit.
§ 113.07 MASSEUR/MASSEUSE PERMIT; APPLICATION, ISSUANCE, REVOCATION.
   (A)   Filing fee. Any person, including an applicant for massage
establishment permit, who engages in the practice of massage shall file an
application for a masseur or masseuse permit with the City Clerk and shall pay
a nonrefundable filing fee of $25 for an original application and $10 for a
renewal application to the City Treasurer.
   (B)   Application form for masseur or masseuse permit. The applicant for a
masseur or masseuse permit shall furnish the following information:
      (1)   Name (including any alias) and address;
      (2)   Social Security number and driver’s license number, if any;
      (3)   Applicant’s weight, height, color of hair and eyes;
      (4)   Business, occupation, or employment of the applicant for the 4
years immediately preceding the date of application;
      (5)   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of, pleaded nolo
contendere to, or suffered a forfeiture on a bond in relation to charges of
committing any federal, state, or local crime, except minor traffic violations.
If the answer is in the affirmative, a statement must be made giving the place
and the court in which the conviction plea or forfeiture was had, the specific
charge under which the conviction plea or forfeiture was obtained, and the
sentence imposed;
      (6)   A recent photograph of the applicant; and
      (7)   The results of a physical examination for contagious and
communicable diseases, which shall include a recognized blood test for
syphilis, a culture for gonorrhea, a test or tests which will demonstrate
freedom from tuberculosis, which is to be made and interpreted by a licensed
physician acceptable to the Health Officer, and any other laboratory tests done
in a laboratory acceptable to the Health Officer as may be necessitated by the
above examination, a certificate based upon the applicant’s physical
examination and issued within 30 days of the examination, signed by a physician
duly licensed by the State of Illinois and stating that the person examined is
either free from any contagious or communicable disease or incapable of
communicating any of those diseases to others. Applicants shall undergo the
physical examination referred to above and submit to the Health Officer the
certificate required herein prior to commencement of their employment and at
least once every 12 months thereafter.
   (C)   Issuance of masseur or masseuse permit.
      (1)   The City Clerk shall issue a masseur or masseuse permit within 30
days following application, unless an investigative report of the Chief of
Police indicates that, within 4 years of the date of application, the applicant
for masseur or masseuse permit has been convicted of:
         (a)   A felony;
         (b)   An offense involving sexual misconduct with children; or
         (c)   Keeping or residing in a place of prostitution, solicitation for
a prostitute, prostitution, pandering, or any other offense involving moral
turpitude in relation to sexual conduct.
      (2)   After reviewing the information furnished by the applicant, further
investigation is at the option of the Chief of Police.
   (D)   Revocation of masseur or masseuse permit. A masseur or masseuse permit
issued by the City Clerk shall be revoked where it appears that the masseur or
masseuse has been convicted of any offense which would be cause for denial of a
permit upon an original application, has made a false statement on an
application for a permit, or has committed an act in violation of this chapter.
§ 113.08 FACILITIES.
   (A)   No massage establishment shall be issued a permit, nor be operated,
established, or maintained in the city, unless an inspection by the Health
Officer reveals that the establishment complies with each of the following
minimum requirements:
      (1)   Construction of rooms used for toilets, tubs, steam baths, and
showers shall be made waterproofed with approved waterproof materials and shall
be installed in accordance with the Building Code of the city;
      (2)   All massage tables, bathtubs, shower stalls, steam or bath areas,
and floors shall have surfaces which may be readily disinfected;
      (3)   Adequate bathing, dressing, and locker facilities shall be provided
for the patrons to be served at any given time. In the event male and female
patrons are to be served simultaneously, separate bathing, dressing, locker,
and massage room facilities shall be provided;
      (4)   The premises shall have adequate equipment for disinfecting and
sterilizing nondisposable instruments and materials used in administering
massages. These nondisposable instruments and materials shall be disinfected
after use on each patron;
      (5)   Closed cabinets shall be provided and used for the storage of clean
linen, towels and other materials used in connection with administering
massages. All soiled linens, towels, and other materials shall be kept in
properly covered containers or cabinets, which containers or cabinets shall be
kept separate from the clean storage areas;
      (6)   Toilet facilities shall be provided in convenient locations. When
employees and patrons of different sexes are on the premises at the same time,
separate toilet facilities shall be provided for each sex. A single water
closet per sex shall be provided for each 20 or fewer employees or patrons of
that sex on the premises at any 1 time. Urinals may be substituted for water
closets after 1 water closet has been provided. Toilets shall be designated as
to the sex accommodated therein;
      (7)   Lavatories or wash basins provided with both hot and cold running
water shall be installed in either the toilet room or a vestibule. Lavatories
or wash basins shall be provided with soap and a dispenser and with sanitary
towels; and
      (8)   The premises shall be equipped with a service sink for custodial
services.
   (B)   The Health Officer shall certify or report that the proposed massage
establishment complies or does not comply with all the requirements of this
section of this chapter, and shall send that certification or report to the
City Clerk.
§ 113.09 OPERATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every portion of the massage establishment, including appliances and
apparatus, shall be kept clean and operated in a sanitary condition.
   (B)   Price rates for all services shall be prominently posted in the
reception area in a location available to all prospective customers.
   (C)   All employees, including masseurs and masseuses, shall be clean and
wear clean, nontransparent outer garments, covering the sexual and genital
areas. A separate dressing room for each sex must be available on the premises
with individual lockers for each employee.
   (D)   All massage establishments shall be provided with clean, laundered
sheets and towels in sufficient quantity and shall be laundered after each use
thereof and stored in a sanitary manner.
   (E)   The sexual or genital areas of patrons must be covered by towels,
cloths, or undergarments when in the presence of an employee, masseur, or
masseuse.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person, in a massage establishment,
knowingly to place his or her hand upon, to touch with any part of his or her
body, to fondle in any manner, or to massage a sexual or genital area of any
other person.
   (G)   No masseur or masseuse, employee or operator shall perform, offer, or
agree to perform any act which would require the touching of a patron’s genital
area.
   (H)   All walls, ceilings, floors, pools, showers, bathtubs, steam rooms,
and all other physical facilities shall be in good repair and maintained in a
clean and sanitary condition. Wet and dry heat rooms, steam or vapor rooms, or
steam or vapor cabinets, shower compartments and toilet rooms shall be
thoroughly cleaned each day the business is in operation. Bathtubs and showers
shall be thoroughly cleaned after each use. When carpeting is used on the
floors, it shall be kept dry.
   (I)   Oils, creams, lotions, or other preparations used in administering
massages shall be kept in clean, closed containers or cabinets.
   (J)   Eating in the massage work areas shall not be permitted. Animals,
except for seeing-eye dogs, shall not be permitted in the massage work areas.
   (K)   No masseur or masseuse shall administer a massage on a patron’s skin
inflammation, or skin eruption, unless a physician duly licensed by the State
of Illinois certifies in writing that the person may be safely massaged on that
area.
   (L)   Each masseur and masseuse shall wash his or her hands in hot running
water, using a proper soap or disinfectant before administering a massage to
each patron.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.10 ADVERTISING.
   No massage establishment granted a permit under the provisions of this
chapter shall place, publish, or cause to be placed, published, or distributed
any advertising matter that depicts any portion of the human body that would
reasonably suggest to prospective patrons that any services are available other
than authorized massage services.
§ 113.11 INSPECTIONS.
   The Chief of Police and the Health Officer shall from time to time, and at
least twice a year, make an inspection of each establishment granted a permit
under the provisions of this chapter for the purposes of determining that there
is compliance with the provisions of this chapter. The inspections shall be
made at reasonable times and in a reasonable manner.
§ 113.12 EMPLOYMENT OF PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF 18.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, proprietor, manager, or other person in
charge of any massage establishment to employ any person who is not at least l8
years of age.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.13 IDENTIFICATION CARD.
   The City Clerk shall provide each masseur and masseuse granted a permit with
an identification card which shall contain a photograph of the masseur or
masseuse and the full name and permit number assigned to that masseur or
masseuse, which must be worn on the front of the outermost garment at all times
during the hours of operation of any establishment granted a permit pursuant to
this chapter.
§ 113.14 TRANSFER OF PERMITS.
   No permit for the operation of a massage establishment issued pursuant to
the provisions of this chapter shall be transferable. However, upon the death
or incapacity of the permittee, the massage establishment may continue in
business for a reasonable period of time to allow for an orderly transfer of
the permit, but the period shall not exceed 60 days.
§ 113.15 DISPLAY OF PERMIT.
   Every permittee shall display a valid permit in a conspicuous place within
the massage establishment so that the same may be readily seen by persons
entering the premises.
§ 113.16 EMPLOYMENT OF MASSEURS/MASSEUSES.
   It shall be the responsibility of the permittee for the massage
establishment or the employer of any persons purporting to act as masseurs and
masseuses to ensure that each person employed as masseur or masseuse shall
first have obtained a valid permit pursuant to this chapter.
§ 113.17 LIMITATION ON APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall not apply to hospitals, nursing homes, sanitaria, or
persons holding an unrevoked certificate to practice the healing arts under the
laws of the State of Illinois, or persons working under the direction of any
such persons or in any such establishments, nor shall this chapter apply to
barbers or cosmetologists lawfully carrying out their particular profession or
business and holding a valid, unrevoked license or certificate of registration
issued by the State of Illinois.
CHAPTER 114: SOLICITORS AND CANVASSERS
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Prohibited solicitation
   
114.03   “No knock” registry
   
114.04   Commercial door-to-door solicitation license required
   
114.05   No license required for non-commercial door-to-door solicitation
   
114.06   Door-to-door solicitation
   
114.07   Application for commercial door-to-door solicitation license
   
114.08   Denial or revocation of a license
   
114.09   Constitutional rights
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words shall be considered to
have the meanings hereinafter ascribed thereto”
   DOOR-TO-DOOR COMMERCIAL SOLICITATION. Attempting to make personal contact
with any person at his residence, without prior invitation by or appointment
with the resident, for the primary purpose of:
      (1)   Attempting to sell, for present or future delivery, any goods,
wares, or merchandise, or any services to be performed immediately or in the
future, whether or not the person has, carries or exposes a sample of such
goods, wares or merchandise, and whether or not he is collecting advance
payments for such sales and services;
      (2)   Seeking or attempting to obtain contributions of money or any other
thing of value for the benefit of any association, organization, corporation,
or program, excluding those defined under door-to-door non-commercial
solicitation; or
      (3)   Personally delivering to the resident a handbill or flyer
advertising a commercial event, activity, good, or service that is offered to
the resident for purchase at a location away from the residence or at a future
time.
   DOOR-TO-DOOR NON-COMMERCIAL SOLICITATION. Attempting to make personal
contact with any person at his or her residence, without prior specific
invitation by or appointment with the resident, for the primary purpose of:
      (1)   Seeking or asking for a gift or donation for a public entity or
nonprofit organization exempt from federal income tax under 26 U.S.C. 501(c);
      (2)   Soliciting the sale of goods, wares, or merchandise for present or
future delivery, or the sale of services to be performed immediately or in the
future, with the entire proceeds of such sale to be paid directly to, or used
exclusively for the benefit of, a public entity or nonprofit organization
exempt from federal income tax under 26 U.S.C. 501(c);
      (3)   Personally delivering to the resident a handbill or flyer
advertising a future not-for-profit event, activity, good or service;
      (4)   Distribution of religious tracts and information on behalf of a
religious organization;
      (5)   Door-to-door soliciting and pamphleteering as a vehicle for the
dissemination of ideas, or views or opinions by one engaged in political
activities as a candidate or on behalf of a candidate in a recognized federal,
state or local election, or on behalf of an issue on an upcoming ballot; or
      (6)   Attempting to sell or deliver newspapers, magazines, or newspaper
magazine subscriptions.
   LICENSE. A document issued by the Police Department authorizing a commercial
solicitor to engage in door-to-door commercial solicitation.
   PUBLIC ENTITY. The United States of America, the State of Illinois, and any
county, municipality, school district, special district, and any other kind of
district, agency, instrumentality, or political subdivision thereof organized
pursuant to law and any separate entity created by intergovernmental contract
or cooperation only between or among the federal, state, county, municipality,
school district, special district, and every other kind of district, agency,
instrumentality, or political subdivision thereof.
   RESIDENCE. A private residence in the city, including condominium units and
apartments, and including the yards, grounds, or hallways thereof.
(Ord. 2018-22, passed 5-14-2018)
§ 114.02 PROHIBITED SOLICITATION.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city that the occupant
or occupants of residences in the city shall make the determination of whether
solicitors shall be, or shall not be, invited to their residence.
   (B)   No person may engage in door-to-door commercial solicitation at any
residence without prior invitation from the occupant if the residence:
      (1)   Is registered with the city’s “No Knock” registry for door-to-door
commercial solicitation; or
      (2)   Prominently displays a notice stating “No Commercial Solicitors” or
“No Commercial Solicitation” on or near the main entrance or door to any
dwelling unit in the residence.
   (C)   No person may engage in any door-to-door commercial or non-commercial
solicitation upon any residence without prior invitation from the occupant
thereof if the residence is:
      (1)   Registered with the city’s “No Knock” registry for door-to-door
commercial and non-commercial solicitation; or
      (2)   Prominently displays a notice stating “No Solicitors” or “No
Solicitation” on or near the main entrance or door to any dwelling unit in the
residence.
   (D)   No person may engage in door-to-door commercial or non-commercial
solicitation at any residence after the owner or occupant asks the person to
leave the residence.
(Ord. 2018-22, passed 5-14-2018) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.03 “NO KNOCK” REGISTRY.
   (A)   An occupant may prohibit door-to-door commercial and/or non commercial
solicitation without prior invitation at his or her residence by registering
the residence with the Chief of Police.
   (B)   The Chief of Police will maintain and publish a “No Knock” registry on
the city’s website, indicating those occupants prohibiting door-to-door
commercial and/or non-commercial solicitation at his or her residence.
(Ord. 2018-22, passed 5-14-2018)
§ 114.04 COMMERCIAL DOOR-TO-DOOR SOLICITATION LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in door-to-door commercial
solicitation at a residence without first obtaining a license issued by the
Chief of Police. Unless authorized or permitted pursuant to the terms and
provisions of this chapter, the practice of being in and upon private
residential property within the city by door-to-door commercial solicitors is a
nuisance prohibited and punishable as set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-22, passed 5-14-2018) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.05 NO LICENSE REQUIRED FOR NON-COMMERCIAL DOOR-TO-DOOR SOLICITATION.
   Persons engaged in non-commercial door-to-door solicitation are not required
to obtain a license.
(Ord. 2018-22, passed 5-14-2018)
§ 114.06 DOOR-TO-DOOR SOLICITATION.
   (A)   Every person licensed pursuant to this chapter must at all times
possess and display their license in a conspicuous place while soliciting and
shall produce the same whenever requested to do so by a police officer or other
person. Persons must display their license on the lanyard provided by the
Police
Department and wear it at all times while they are soliciting.
   (B)    Not more than two individuals will engage in door-to-door commercial
or non-commercial solicitation at any residence at the same time without
permission of the occupant.
   (C)   Door-to-door solicitation is allowable every day between the hours of
8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m., except Sundays and any state or federal holidays.
(Ord. 2018-22, passed 5-14-2018; Am. Ord. 2025-23, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 114.07 APPLICATION FOR COMMERCIAL DOOR-TO-DOOR SOLICITATION LICENSE.
   (A)   Each person applying for a door-to-door commercial solicitation
license must make a written application on forms provided by the city with
payment of the license fees to the City of Monticello. The applicant shall
state upon oath or affirmation that the information contained in the
application is truthful to the best of his or her knowledge and belief.
   (B)   The applicant must supply the following information and any such
additional information that the city may require upon the application form.
      (1)   Applicant’s true and correct name, and any former names or aliases;
      (2)   Applicant’s business address and business telephone number;
      (3)   If different from the applicant, the name, address, and phone
number of the responsible person or entity;
      (4)   The name, address, and phone number of the applicant’s immediate
supervisor, if any;
      (5)   Information regarding the applicant’s business including, without
limitation, its legal status and proof of registration with, or a certificate
of good standing from the Illinois Secretary of State;
      (6)   Proof the applicant or the applicant’s business has registered with
the Illinois Department of Revenue for the payment of sales tax;
      (7)   A brief explanation of the nature and duration of the applicant’s
proposed solicitation activity that requires a license under this chapter;
      (8)   A complete list of all persons to be authorized to solicit under
the license;
      (9)   For each person authorized to solicit under a license, the
following information:
         (a)   Name, address, phone number and date of birth;
         (b)   Proof of identification by submittal of any of the following
that bear a photograph of sufficient quality to identify the person:
            1.   A valid U.S. driver’s license or identification card issued by
any state;
            2.   A valid United States uniformed service identification card;
            3.   A valid U.S. passport; or
            4.   U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services Green Card;
      (10)   A statement that the applicant, nor any person to be authorized to
solicit under the license, have not:
         (a)   Been convicted in any jurisdiction of robbery, theft,
embezzlement, larceny, or crime involving the obtaining of money or property by
false pretenses; and
         (b)   Had any jurisdiction revoke or deny them a permit, license, or
registration in connection with soliciting.
      (11)   A $25 application fee.
   (C)   Within five business days of the Chief of Police’s receipt of a
complete application, the Chief of Police will issue a license for a term of
one year, unless the Chief of Police determines that the license application
should be denied under the criteria stated in section §
114.08.
   (D)   Each applicant must read and sign a statement in substantially the
following form:
      “I,                                           , having read and
understood the provisions of the Monticello City Code regarding soliciting and
in particular the provision contained therein against soliciting at residential
premises where notices against solicitation have been posted.
      Signed:                                                      
      Date:                                                          ”
(Ord. 2018-22, passed 5-14-2018; Am. Ord. 2025-23, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 114.08 DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF A LICENSE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police will send the applicant or licensee a “Notice of
Denial” or “Notice of Revocation” for a door-to-door commercial solicitation
license by first class mail, if the Chief of Police determines that the
applicant or licensee:
      (1)    Made any material misrepresentation or false statement in the
license application;
      (2)   Authorized, condoned, or knowingly tolerated any unlawful
solicitation or any solicitation conducted under the license in such a manner
as to constitute a nuisance, crime, fraud, trespass, invasion of privacy, or
deceptive practice;
      (3)   Failed to comply with applicable laws, including registration with
the Illinois Department of Revenue for the payment of sales tax;
      (4)   Failed to conduct and/or supervise solicitation activities under
the license so as to reasonably ensure that such solicitation is in compliance
with the terms of the license and with the provisions of this chapter;
      (5)   Was previously denied or had a solicitation permit revoked for
violating this section, within the past 365 days; or
      (6)   Failed to pay a previous citation issued for violating this
section.
   (B)   Within five business days of the “Notice of Denial” or “Notice of
Revocation,” the applicant or licensee may submit a written request to the
Mayor for a hearing to dispute the license denial or revocation.
   (C)   Within five business days of the applicant or licensee’s request for a
hearing, the Mayor will submit a “Notice of Hearing” to the applicant or
licensee by first class mail, not less than five business days prior to the
date of the hearing. The “Notice of Hearing” will describe the Chief of
Police’s grounds for denial or revocation of the license and notify the
applicant of the time and place of the hearing, and their right to counsel, to
submit evidence, and to cross-examine witnesses.
   (D)   The Mayor will deny the application or revoke the license:
      (1)   In the absence of a timely request for hearing; or
      (2)    Upon finding of grounds for denial or revocation of the license
based upon the preponderance of the evidence after a hearing.
   (E)   The revocation period shall be one year (365 days). At the end of one
year, the person may apply for another solicitor's permit.
(Ord. 2018-22, passed 5-14-2018; Am. Ord. 2025-23, passed 3-10-2025)
§ 114.09 CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHTS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted or enforced to deprive any
person of any rights guaranteed under the constitutions of the state of
Illinois or the United States.
(Ord. 2018-22, passed 5-14-2018)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Notwithstanding any other remedies available to the city pursuant to this
chapter, any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
punished by a fine of not more than $750 for each offense, to which court or
adjudication costs may be added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
on each day on which the violation occurs or continues to occur. The city may
pursue any appropriate remedy at law or in equity to enforce the terms of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2018-22, passed 5-14-2018)
CHAPTER 115: TAXICABS
Section
   
115.01   License required
   
115.02   Definitions
   
115.03   Character of applicant
   
115.04   Annual fee
   
115.05   Vehicles
   
115.06   Drivers
   
115.07   Insurance
   
115.08   Traffic rules
   
115.09   Unlawful use
   
115.10   Passengers
   
115.11   Rates of fare
   
115.12   Driver’s license
   
115.13   Driver’s license fee
   
115.14   Qualifications
   
115.15   License revoked
   
115.16   Public Vehicle Commission
   
115.17   Certificate required
   
115.18   Existing service
   
115.19   Abandonment
§ 115.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to engage in the business of operating a taxicab in the
city without first having secured a license therefor. Application for such
licenses shall be made in writing to the City Clerk, and shall state thereon
the name of the applicant, the intended place of business, and the number of
cabs to be operated. If the applicant is a corporation, the names and addresses
of the president and secretary thereof shall be given.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TAXICAB.  Includes any vehicle used to carry passengers for hire but not
operating on a fixed route.
§ 115.03 CHARACTER OF APPLICANT.
   No such license shall be issued to or held by any person who has been
convicted of a felony; nor shall a license be issued by any corporation, if any
officer thereof would be ineligible for a license under the foregoing
conditions.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.04 ANNUAL FEE.
   (A)   The annual fee, payable in advance, for the license shall be in an
amount as determined by the City Council from time to time for each taxicab
operated. Whenever the number of cabs so operated shall be increased during the
license year, the licensee shall notify the City Clerk of the change and shall
pay the additional fee.
   (B)   This fee shall be in lieu of any other vehicle fee required by
ordinance, and the City Clerk shall issue suitable tabs or stickers for the
number of cabs covered by each license. The tag or sticker shall be displayed
in a prominent place on each taxicab while it is in use, and may be transferred
to any taxicab put into service to replace one withdrawn from service.
   (C)   The licensee shall notify the Clerk of the motor number and state
license number of each cab operated and of the corresponding municipal tag or
sticker number.
§ 115.05 VEHICLES.
   (A)   No taxicab shall be operated unless it bears a state license duly
issued; and no cab shall be operated unless it is equipped with proper brakes,
lights, tires, horn, muffler, rear vision mirror, and windshield wiper in good
condition. It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to inspect every taxicab
as often as may be necessary to see to the enforcement of the provisions of
this section.
   (B)   Each taxicab, while operated, shall have on each side, in letters
readable from a distance of 20 feet, the name of the licensee operating it. If
more than 1 cab is operated by a licensee, each cab shall be designated by a
different number, and the number shall also so appear on each side of the cab.
§ 115.06 DRIVERS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a taxicab or be hired or permitted to do so,
unless he or she is duly licensed as a chauffeur.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any driver of a taxicab while on duty to
drink any intoxicating liquor, or to use any profane or obscene language, to
shout or call to prospective passengers, or to disturb the peace in any way.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.07 INSURANCE.
   No taxicab shall be operated unless it is covered by a bond or public
liability policy as required by statute.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.08 TRAFFIC RULES.
   It shall be the duty of every driver of a taxicab to obey all traffic rules
established by statute or ordinance.
§ 115.09 UNLAWFUL USE.
   It shall be unlawful knowingly to permit any taxicab to be used in the
perpetration of a crime or misdemeanor.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.10 PASSENGERS.
   It shall be the duty of the driver of any taxicab to accept as a passenger
any person who seeks to so use the taxicab, provided the person is not
intoxicated and conducts himself or herself in an orderly manner. No person
shall be admitted to a taxicab occupied by a passenger without the consent of
the passenger. The driver shall take his or her passenger to his or her
destination by the most direct available route from the place where the
passenger enters the cab.
§ 115.11 RATES OF FARE.
   (A)   The rates to be charged shall be such as are set by ordinance of the
City Council from time to time.
   (B)   No extra charge shall be made for baggage or parcels, the size of
which permits them to be carried in the cab.
§ 115.12 DRIVER’S LICENSE.
   No person shall drive a taxicab unless he or she shall have secured a
license therefor as herein provided.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.13 DRIVER’S LICENSE FEE.
   The annual fee for a taxicab driver’s license shall be in an amount as
determined by the City Council from time to time.
§ 115.14 QUALIFICATIONS.
   No such license shall be issued to any person who is not competent to
operate a motor vehicle or who is not familiar with the traffic laws and
ordinances. The Chief of Police shall examine each applicant for a taxicab
driver’s license to determine the competency of the applicant, and no such
license shall be issued excepting on certificate of the Chief that the
applicant has demonstrated his or her ability to operate a motor vehicle as
required herein.
§ 115.15 LICENSE REVOKED.
   The Mayor may revoke any taxicab driver’s license for repeated violations of
traffic laws or ordinances, or of any ordinance provision regulating the
conduct of the drivers.
§ 115.16 PUBLIC VEHICLE COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Public Vehicle Commission which shall
consist of 3 members appointed by the Mayor for a term of 1 year. The Mayor
shall designate the Chairperson of the Commission.
   (B)   The Public Vehicle Commission shall meet on the call of the
Chairperson or of 2 members thereof, at such times as may be necessary to
transact its business.
§ 115.17 CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
   No license to operate a taxicab in the city shall be issued unless and until
the Public Vehicle Commission shall certify that the public need for taxicab
service requires the additional service to be rendered by the applicant. In
deciding this question, the Commission shall consider the need of the public
for taxicab service, the number of cabs in operation, and the anticipated
future demands.
§ 115.18 EXISTING SERVICE.
   No such certificate shall be required for the renewal of any operator’s
license.
§ 115.19 ABANDONMENT.
   If any licensee on whose behalf such a certificate has been issued shall
fail to operate all or any of the taxicabs covered by the certificate for a
period of 6 consecutive days, the certificate may be revoked or modified by the
Commission so as to cover and authorize only the number of cabs actually
operated.
CHAPTER 116: PARADES AND SPECIAL EVENTS
Section
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   Permit required; application
   
116.03   Application review; issuance; denial
   
116.04   Revocation; refusal to issue; emergency
   
116.05   Conditions; contents
   
116.06   Requirements of sponsor
   
116.07   Payment for city services
   
116.08   Public conduct
   
116.09   Disturbing assemblies prohibited
   
116.10   Mob actions prohibited
   
116.11   Interpretation
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSEMBLY. Any event designed, promoted, or conducted in order to encourage
the gathering of people upon public property at a specified location, and shall
include any farmer’s market, flea market, ceremony, show, demonstration,
exhibition, street dance, pageant, party, circus, concert, sporting event,
game, or similar activity, except that a parade shall not be considered an
ASSEMBLY for the purposes of this chapter.
   PARADE.  A procession of any kind, which moves from place to place upon
public property along a specified route, and shall include any march, race,
walk-a-thon, bike-a-thon, demonstration, or similar activity.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any street, alley, sidewalk, parkway, or parking lot owned,
controlled, or managed by the city.
   SPECIAL EVENT. Any assembly or parade held on public property as defined in
this chapter. SPECIAL EVENT shall not include events for which all participants
use sidewalks, observe traffic safety and safety regulations and do not
interfere with the safe and orderly movement of pedestrians and vehicles, and
funeral processions.
   SPONSOR. The person who has applied for a permit under this chapter. The
SPONSOR shall be the person to whom the permit is issued.
§ 116.02 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly publicly promote or advertise, sponsor,
engage in, conduct or participate in any special event unless a permit therefor
has first been obtained consistent with this chapter.
   (B)   For recurring special events that take place on a daily, weekly, or
monthly basis during a specified period of time, only 1 permit shall be
required per calendar year.
   (C)   The applicant for a special events permit shall submit a complete
application to the Police Chief at least 15 days prior to the date of the event
upon forms provided by the city. The time period shall be counted so as to
exclude the day the application is submitted and the day the special event will
begin.
   (D)   The application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the sponsor and the
name, address, and telephone number of the sponsor’s representatives who will
manage or direct the special event and who will be present during the conduct
of the event;
      (2)   The date of the event and the hours during which the applicant
proposes to conduct the event;
      (3)   The proposed location of the event and, if it is a parade, the
route to be followed;
      (4)   A reproducible diagram showing the proposed layout of the event
including proposed, and if provided, restrooms, first aid facilities, emergency
vehicle access, tents or temporary structures, utility lines, lighting and area
restriction devices (including barricades or screening);
      (5)   A narrative description of the event;
      (6)   The number of persons expected to attend;
      (7)   The number of vendors, merchants, exhibitors, and units expected to
participate and the facilities expected to accommodate them;
      (8)   Whether or not fireworks will be used, and a copy of the
application for the state fireworks permit;
      (9)   Whether tents or other temporary structures will be used;
      (10)   Whether or not electricity and water will be needed and the manner
in which they are to be provided;
      (11)   The number and type of sound amplification devices proposed to be
used as part of the event activities; and
      (12)   A general statement as to the number and type of musicians or
musical presentations proposed to be a part of the event.
§ 116.03 APPLICATION REVIEW; ISSUANCE; DENIAL.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a completed application for the permit required by
this chapter, the Police Chief shall determine the anticipated effect of the
event on public health and safety. The Police Chief shall also immediately
forward a copy of the completed application to the Mayor.
   (B)   Within 5 days after the receipt of a completed application, the Police
Chief shall notify the applicant that he or she:
      (1)   Will grant the permit;
      (2)   Will deny the permit based upon criteria set forth in division (C)
of this section; or
      (3)   Requires a conference with the applicant to seek clarification or
offer suggestions as to alterations in the permit application.
   (C)   (1)   The Police Chief is empowered to deny a permit for an event only
if, based upon the completed application and the clarification or alteration of
the application received by the Police Chief from the applicant, the event:
         (a)   Will fail to comply with noise, health, or safety regulations of
the city or otherwise violate applicable ordinances or state statutes;
         (b)   Will unreasonably interfere with or restrict the delivery of
city or emergency services or business or residential activity within the
proposed event area, on the proposed event route, or other areas of the city;
         (c)   Will unreasonably conflict in time or location with other
permitted activities in the proposed event area or proposed event route; or
         (d)   Will damage or destroy city property.
      (2)   In addition, the Police Chief may deny a permit if the applicant
fails to attend a conference as required by division (B)(3) of this section or
has repeatedly violated the ordinances of the city with respect to special
events within the past 12-month period.
§ 116.04 REVOCATION; REFUSAL TO ISSUE; EMERGENCY.
   (A)   The Police Chief, in addition to the grounds specified in §
116.03, may deny or revoke a license for failure to comply with the provisions
of this chapter, conditions placed on the face of the permit, applicable codes
or ordinances of the city, or state statute.
   (B)   The decision of the Police Chief to deny or revoke a permit required
by this chapter shall be appealable by the sponsor to the Mayor. This appeal
shall be initiated by written notice to the Mayor before the close of the next
regular city business day after the date of service of the denial or
revocation, or the appeal shall be deemed waived. The sponsor shall be given an
opportunity to be heard by the Mayor or his or her designee upon any denial or
revocation within 5 business days after receipt of the notice of appeal. The
Mayor may sustain or reverse the decision of the Chief based upon the criteria
set forth in §
116.03. The decision of the Mayor shall be made before the close of the next
city regular business day following the conclusion of the hearing. The sponsor
shall receive written notice of the Mayor’s decision, which decision shall be a
final decision for the purposes of administrative review.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provision in this code if, in the judgment
of the Police Chief, an emergency situation has been created, such that the
continued use of public property by a permittee will immediately threaten life,
health, or property, the Police Chief or his or her designee, upon the issuance
of a written order stating the reason for the conclusion and without notice or
hearing, may immediately revoke the permit and require the use of public
property to cease immediately. No person shall continue to use public property
contrary to the order.
Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.05 CONDITIONS; CONTENTS.
   (A)   If a permit required by this chapter is not denied by the Police Chief
based on the criteria set forth in §
116.03(C), he or she shall issue the permit to the sponsor for activities and
events as detailed in the application; provided, however, that the Police Chief
may attach reasonable conditions to the permit directly relating to the
criteria set forth in§
116.03(C) in order to prevent the denial of a permit and to provide for the use
of city personnel or equipment reasonably necessitated by the conduct of the
event for crowd or traffic control. The use and deployment of city personnel
and equipment shall be as directed by the Police Chief.
   (B)   Upon approval of the application for a permit required by this
chapter, the permit shall include the following:
      (1)   The approved application;
      (2)   The conditions for the use of required city personnel or equipment;
      (3)   Route or location, time, and date and event;
      (4)   Reasonable conditions for the operation of the event; and
      (5)   The signature of the sponsor acknowledging all requirements or
responsibilities, prior to the date of the event.
   (C)   The Police Chief shall cause notice of permit issuance to be sent to
the Mayor and Superintendent of City Services.
§ 116.06 REQUIREMENTS OF SPONSOR.
   In addition to applicable codes and ordinances, the sponsor of a special
event shall comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   Allow access to the area of the event without payment, except that
donations may be requested or fees charged for goods or services at individual
stands or booths;
   (B)   Remove debris, trash, or garbage resulting from the conduct of the
event from public property and private property within the vicinity of the
event within 24 hours after the end of the event; provided, however, that the
permittee shall remove and lawfully dispose of any injurious substance or
material immediately after the deposit thereof. This cleanup shall also include
the removal of trash, litter, garbage, and debris from city trash receptacles
and proper disposition of the trash, litter, garbage, and debris;
   (C)   Keep fire lanes and 1 lane of the street accessible to emergency
vehicles;
   (D)   Comply with any and all conditions placed upon the face of the permit;
   (E)   Comply with all applicable laws and ordinances;
   (F)   Obtain prior approval of the Police Chief before any changes are made
in the operation or setup of the event as detailed in the approved permit;
   (G)   Conduct the event in such a manner that the city is able to continue
to provide normal services to other portions of the city and not interrupt the
orderly and safe movement of vehicle and pedestrian traffic contiguous to the
location of the event;
   (H)   Move expeditiously and without unreasonable delays from point of
origin to point of termination if the event is a parade;
   (I)   Be present at the scene of the event either personally or through
employees, agents, or representatives who have been designated upon the permit
during the entire course of the event. At least 1 sponsor, employee, agent, or
representative present at the event shall have in his or her possession a copy
of the approved permit; and
   (J)   If requested by the Chief, after the event has taken place, attend a
meeting relative to the conduct of the special event to work toward future
improvements in the coordination of that event.
§ 116.07 PAYMENT FOR CITY SERVICES.
   (A)   The sponsor of a special event who accepts a permit thereby consents
to the formation of a contract between the sponsor and the city for payment of
costs for the provision of city services and equipment as set forth in division
(B) of this section.
   (B)   The sponsor shall pay to the city, within 15 days after the conclusion
of the permitted event, the direct and reasonable costs incurred by the city as
required to provide for the cleanup of the property if that service is not
performed by the permittee as required in §
116.06. Additionally, the amount of the payment required shall include
compensation for loss or damage to city property.
§ 116.08 PUBLIC CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede, or interfere
with any special event for which a permit is in effect or with any person,
vehicle, or animal participating or being used in the special event.
   (B)   No driver of a vehicle shall knowingly drive between the vehicles or
persons comprising a parade when the vehicles or persons are in motion, unless
directed by a police officer.
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall have the authority, when reasonably
necessary, to restrict street access or to prohibit or restrict the parking of
vehicles along a city street or part thereof constituting a part of the route
or location of a permitted special event. The Chief of Police shall cause
posting of signs to that effect. No person shall drive, park, or leave
unattended any vehicle in violation of the sign. No person shall interfere with
the placement of any barricades or markings authorized by the Chief of Police
to regulate, restrict, or prohibit the movement of traffic.
§ 116.09 DISTURBING ASSEMBLIES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall disturb any lawful assemblage of people in the city.
Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.10 MOB ACTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall engage in mob action.
   (B)   Mob action consists of any of the following:
      (1)   The use of force or violence disturbing the public peace by 2 or
more persons acting together and without authority of law;
      (2)   The assembly of 2 or more persons to do an unlawful act; or
      (3)   The assembly of 2 or more persons, without authority of law, for
the purpose of doing violence to the person or property of anyone alleged to
have violated law or for the purpose of exercising correctional powers or
regulatory powers over any person by violence.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.11 INTERPRETATION.
   It is the expressly declared legislative intention that this chapter shall
be interpreted and administered so as to allow the fullest expression and
guarantee of First Amendment rights consistent with the protection of the
public health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the city.
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   The penalty for violating this chapter is as set forth in §
10.99.
CHAPTER 117: SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
Section
   
117.01   Definitions
   
117.02   Tax imposed
   
117.03   Collection of tax by retailers
   
117.04   (Reserved)
   
117.05   Returns to Department
   
117.06   Resellers
§ 117.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMOUNT PAID. The amount charged to the taxpayer’s service address in this
municipality regardless of where such amount is billed or paid.
   DEPARTMENT. The Illinois Department of Revenue.
   GROSS CHARGE.
      (1)   The amount paid for the act or privilege of originating or
receiving telecommunications in this municipality and for all services and
equipment provided in connection therewith by a retailer, valued in money
whether paid in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services and
property of every kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction
on account of the cost of the telecommunications, the cost of the materials
used, labor or service costs, or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit
is extended, the amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. GROSS
CHARGES for private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel
point within this municipality, charges for the channel mileage between each
channel point within this municipality, and charges for that portion of the
interstate interoffice channel provided within Illinois.
      (2)   However, GROSS CHARGES shall not include:
         (a)   Any amounts added to a purchaser’s bill because of a charge made
pursuant to:
            1.   The tax imposed by this chapter;
            2.   The tax imposed by the Telecommunications Excise Tax Act, ILCS
Ch. 35, Act 630, §§ 1 et seq.;
            3.   The tax imposed by I.R.C. § 4251;
            4.   911 surcharges; or
            5.   Charges added to customers’ bills pursuant to the provisions
of § 9-221 or § 9-222 of the Public Utilities Act, ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, §§ 9-
221 and 9-222, as amended; or
            6.   Any similar charges added to customers’ bills by retailers who
are not subject to rate regulation by the Illinois Commerce Commissioner for
the purpose of recovering any of the tax liabilities or other amounts specified
in those provisions of the Public Utilities Act;
         (b)   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside
the municipality;
         (c)   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage
of data or information for subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. This equipment includes but
is not limited to the use of calculators, computers, data processing equipment,
tabulating equipment, or accounting equipment and also includes the usage of
computers under a time-sharing agreement;
         (d)   Charges for customer equipment, including any equipment that is
leased or rented by the customer from any source, wherein the charges are
desegregated and separately identified from other charges;
         (e)   Charges to business enterprises certified under ILCS Ch. 220,
Act 5, § 9-222.1 of the Public Utilities Act to the extent of the exemption and
during the period of time specified by the Department of Commerce and Community
Affairs;
         (f)   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly-
owned subsidiaries or between wholly-owned subsidiaries when the tax imposed
under this chapter has already been paid to a retailer and only to the extent
that the charges between the parent corporation and wholly-owned subsidiaries
or between wholly-owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit for the corporation rendering
such services;
         (g)   Bad debts (BAD DEBT means any portion of a debt that is related
to a sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
         (h)   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin-operated
telecommunications devices; or
         (i)   Amounts paid by telecommunications retailers under the
Telecommunications Infrastructure Maintenance Fee Act, ILCS Ch. 35, Act 635.
   INTERSTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS. All telecommunications that either originate
or terminate outside this state.
   INTRASTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS. All telecommunications that originate and
terminate within this state.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability
company, or a receiver, trustee, guardian, or other representative appointed by
order of any court, the federal and state governments, including state
universities created by statute, or any city, town, county, or other political
subdivision of this state.
   PURCHASE AT RETAIL. The acquisition, consumption or use of
telecommunications through a sale at retail.
   RETAILER. Every person engaged in the business of making sales at retail as
defined in this section. The Department may, in its discretion, upon
application, authorize the collection of the tax hereby imposed by any retailer
not maintaining a place of business within this state, who, to the satisfaction
of the Department, furnishes adequate security to ensure collection and payment
of the tax. The retailer shall be issued, without charge, a permit to collect
the tax. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of the retailer to collect
the tax upon all of the gross charges for telecommunications in this state in
the same manner and subject to the same requirements as a retailer maintaining
a place of business within this state. The permit may be revoked by the
Department at its discretion.
   RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE, or any like term.
Any retailer having or maintaining within this state, directly or by a
subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities, transmission facilities, sales
office, warehouse or other place of business, or any agent or other
representative operating within this state under the authority of the retailer
or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether the place of business or agent or
other representative is located here permanently or temporarily, or whether the
retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in this state.
   SALE AT RETAIL. The transmitting, supplying or furnishing of
telecommunications and all services and equipment provided in connection
therewith for a consideration, to persons other than the federal and state
governments, and state universities created by statute and other than between a
parent corporation and its wholly-owned subsidiaries or between wholly-owned
subsidiaries for their use or consumption and not for resale.
   SERVICE ADDRESS. The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received by a taxpayer. In the event this may not be a defined
location, as in the case of mobile phones, paging systems, and maritime
systems, SERVICE ADDRESS means the customer’s place of primary use, as defined
in the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Conformity Act (ILCS Act 35, Act
638). For air to ground systems and the like, SERVICE ADDRESS shall mean the
location of a taxpayer’s primary use of the telecommunications equipment as
defined by telephone number, authorization code, or location in Illinois where
bills are sent.
   TAXPAYER. A person who individually or through his or her agents, employees,
or permittees engages in the act or privilege of originating or receiving
telecommunications in a municipality and who incurs a tax liability as
authorized by this chapter.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS.  
      (1)   In addition to the meaning ordinarily and popularly ascribed to it,
includes, without limitation, messages or information transmitted through use
of local, toll, and wide area telephone service, private line services, channel
services, telegraph services, teletypewriter, computer exchange services,
cellular mobile telecommunications service, specialized mobile radio,
stationary 2- way radio, paging service, or any other form of mobile and
portable 1-way or 2-way communications, or any other transmission of messages
or information by electronic or similar means, between or among points by wire,
cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio, satellite, or similar facilities.
As used in this chapter, PRIVATE LINE means a dedicated nontraffic sensitive
service for a single customer, that entitles the customer to exclusive or
priority use of a communications channel or group of channels, from 1 or more
specified locations to 1 or more other specified locations.
      (2)   (a)   TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include value added services in
which computer processing applications are used to act on the form, content,
code, and protocol of the information for purposes other than transmission.
         (b)   TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include purchases of
TELECOMMUNICATIONS by a telecommunications service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by such provider to the ultimate retail
consumer who originates or terminates the taxable end-to-end communications.
         (c)   Carrier access charges, right-of-access charges, charges for use
of intercompany facilities, and all telecommunications resold in the subsequent
provision of, used as a component of, or integrated into, end-to-end
telecommunications service shall be nontaxable as sales for resale.
         (d)   Prepaid telephone calling arrangements shall not be considered
TELECOMMUNICATIONS subject to the tax imposed under this chapter. For purposes
of this chapter, PREPAID TELEPHONE CALLING ARRANGEMENTS means that term as
defined in Section 2-27 of the Retailers’ Occupations Tax Act (ILCS Ch. 35, Act
120, § 2-27).
(Am. Ord. 2013-67, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 117.02 TAX IMPOSED.
   A tax is hereby imposed upon any and all the following acts or privileges:
   (A)   The act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving
in the municipality intrastate telecommunications by a person at a rate of 6%
of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a
retailer.
   (B)   The act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving
in the municipality interstate telecommunications by a person at a rate of 0.5%
of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a
retailer. To prevent actual multistate taxation of the act or privilege that is
subject to taxation under this division (B), any taxpayer, upon proof that the
taxpayer has paid a tax in another state on such event, shall be allowed a
credit against any tax enacted pursuant to or authorized by this section to the
extent of the amount of such tax properly due and paid in such other state
which was not previously allowed as a credit against any other state or local
tax in this state.
   (C)   The tax imposed by this section is not imposed on such act or
privilege to the extent such act or privilege may not, under the Constitution
and statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by the
municipality.
(Am. Ord. 2013-67, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 117.03 COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS.
   (A)   The tax authorized by this chapter shall be collected from the
taxpayer by a retailer maintaining a place of business in this state and shall
be remitted by such retailer to the Department. Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this chapter and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the Department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers shall collect
the tax from the taxpayer by adding the tax to the gross charge for the act or
privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications when sold for use in
the manner prescribed by the Department. The tax authorized by this chapter
shall constitute a debt of the taxpayer to the retailer until paid, and if
unpaid, is recoverable at law in the same manner as the original charge for
such sale at retail. If the retailer fails to collect the tax from the
taxpayer, then the taxpayer shall be required to pay the tax directly to the
Department in the manner provided by the Department.
   (B)   Whenever possible, the tax authorized by this chapter shall, when
collected, be stated as a distinct item separate and apart from the gross
charge for telecommunications.
(Am. Ord. 2013-67, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 117.04 (RESERVED).
§ 117.05 RETURNS TO DEPARTMENT.
   On or before the last day of February, and on or before the last day of
every month thereafter, the tax imposed under this chapter on telecommunication
retailers shall be returned with appropriate forms and information as required
by the Department pursuant to the Illinois Simplified Municipal
Telecommunications Tax Act (Public Act 92-526, section 5-50) and any
accompanying rules and regulations created by the Department to implement the
Act.
(Am. Ord. 2013-67, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 117.06 RESELLERS.
   (A)   If a person who originates or receives telecommunications claims to be
a reseller of such telecommunications, such person shall apply to the
Department for a resale number. Such applicant shall state facts which will
show the Department why such applicant is not liable for the tax authorized by
this chapter on any of such purchases and shall furnish such additional
information as the Department may reasonably require.
   (B)   Upon approval of the application, the Department shall assign a resale
number to the applicant and shall certify such number to the applicant. The
Department may cancel any number which is obtained through misrepresentation,
or which is used to send or receive such telecommunication tax free when such
actions in fact are not for resale, or which no longer applies because of the
person’s having discontinued the making of resales.
   (C)   Except as provided in this chapter, the act or privilege of
originating or receiving telecommunications in this state shall not be made tax
free on the grounds of being a sale for resale unless the person has an active
resale number from the Department and furnishes that number to the retailer in
connection with certifying to the retailer that any sale to such person is
nontaxable because of being a sale for resale.
(Am. Ord. 2013-67, passed 12-9-2013)
CHAPTER 118: MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
Section
   
118.01   Definitions
   
118.02   Mobile food service on private or public property
   
118.03   Mobile food service requirements
   
118.04   Service area and operations
   
118.05   Time limits
 
   
118.99   Penalty
§ 118.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE FOOD SERVICE. The preparation or sale of food, beverages, or other
products from a mobile food vehicle/truck or pushcart.
   MOBILE FOOD VEHICLE/TRUCK. A vehicle or trailer-mounted food service used to
provide mobile food service and designed to be readily movable.
   MOBILE FOOD VENDOR. Any person conducting mobile food service in a mobile
food vehicle/truck or pushcart within the city.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any real property zoned for residential, business, or
industrial use, or any combination thereof, but excluding property owned by a
taxing district, public rights-of-way, and public alleys.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Property owned by a taxing district including public
rights-of-way, alleys, sidewalks, streets, parks and parking lots.
   PUSHCART. A nonmotorized unit limited to serving non-perishable foods or
commissary wrapped food maintained at proper temperatures.
   SPECIAL EVENT. For the purposes of this chapter, any event where a non-
profit organization or government entity has secured a right-of-way permit for
occupying city property (i.e., sidewalk, street, parking lot, park).
(Ord. 2020-44, passed 9-28-2020; Am. Ord. 2025-44, passed 6-23-2025)
§ 118.02 MOBILE FOOD SERVICE ON PRIVATE OR PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to operate as a mobile
food vendor on private property or public property without having first
obtained registration approval from the Monticello Police Chief and fully
complying with the terms of this chapter. Applications for operations on public
property must receive a right-of-way permit from the city, in addition to
application approval from the Monticello Police Chief. Mobile food vendor
registration applications shall be submitted to the Monticello Police Chief
upon forms provided for that purpose. Each registrant shall pay a $25
registration fee for the first vehicle or pushcart, and a $10 fee for each
additional vehicle or pushcart. An annual fee of $100 can be paid for each
vehicle permit where visits will exceed 4 within city limits within a calendar
year. All fees are nonrefundable.
   (B)   Each registrant shall provide the following information:
      (1)   Completed mobile food vendor registration application;
      (2)   Registrant name, address, phone number, and e-mail address;
      (3)   Business name, address, phone number, and e-mail address;
      (4)   Driver/operator name, address, phone number, and e-mail address;
      (5)   List of mobile food vehicles/trucks or pushcarts intended to be
operated including the make, model, year, vehicle identification number, and
license plate number for each;
      (6)   Illinois Department of Revenue identification number for the
retailers' occupation tax. No registration shall be issued if the registrant
does not have an identification number, except that no identification number
shall be required if a mobile food vendor is a nonprofit organization and the
registrant furnishes the city with a tax-exempt number and written proof of its
tax-exempt status;
      (7)   Copy of driver's license for all registrants, drivers, and
operators;
      (8)   Written consent from the owner of the property upon which the
mobile food vehicle/truck
or pushcart will be located;
      (9)   Copy of Health Department permits;
      (10)   Copy of current vehicle registration;
      (11)   Proof of liability and automobile insurance;
      (12)   Affirmation that they are not a registered sex offender, as
defined in the Sex Offender Registration Act (ILCS Ch. 730, Act 150, § 1);
      (13)   A plan or other document depicting the proposed location of the
mobile food vehicle/truck or pushcart;
      (14)   An executed unconditional agreement and consent for mobile food
vending on a form approved by the City Attorney; and
      (15)   All other information and documents the Monticello Police Chief
deems to be reasonably necessary to evaluate compliance with the terms of this
chapter and the terms of the mobile food vendor registration application.
   (C)   The registration requirement for mobile food vehicles/trucks or
pushcarts is waived for all special events authorized by a city-issued permit.
(Ord. 2020-44, passed 9-28-2020; Am. Ord. 2025-44, passed 6-23-2025)
§ 118.03 MOBILE FOOD SERVICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All mobile food vendors and mobile food service shall comply with the
following:
      (1)   All food preparation shall be conducted in strict accordance with
all city codes, ordinances, rules, and regulations, and all county Health
Department codes, ordinances, rules, and regulations.
      (2)   All food items available for sale and the price of each food item
must be posted on the exterior of the mobile food vehicles/trucks or pushcarts.
      (3)   Each mobile food vehicle/truck or pushcart operator shall have an
operator's identification card, including a picture of the operator,
prominently displayed upon the operator so that it is clearly visible to the
customers at the point of sale. The registrant will be responsible for
providing identification cards to the operators.
      (4)   No mobile food vehicle/truck shall be operated unless it is
equipped with required brakes, lights, tires, horn, muffler, rearview mirrors,
and windshield wipers, all of which shall be in good and working condition.
      (5)   The registrant shall furnish the city, on an annual basis, an
inspection and certificate of safety for each mobile food vehicle/truck or
pushcart indicating the mobile food vehicle/truck or pushcart is in a safe
mechanical and operating condition.
      (6)   The operation, use, and condition of each mobile food vehicle/truck
or pushcart must comply with all applicable city ordinances, codes, rules, and
regulations, including, without limitation, Chapter 153, as amended.
      (7)   Each mobile food vehicle/truck or pushcart and all mobile food
vendors must comply will all city, state, county, and federal tax laws, codes,
ordinances, rules, and regulations, including, without limitation, all
retailers' occupation tax requirements, as amended.
      (8)   It shall be unlawful for any person, mobile food vehicle/truck
vendor, or pushcart to drink any alcoholic beverages, shout or call to
prospective customers, or to disturb the peace in any manner while on duty.
      (9)   All mobile food service shall comply with the terms and conditions
of approval imposed by the city on the mobile food vendor's registration
application.
   (B)   Mobile food service shall be prohibited as follows:
      (1)   Upon any property other than private property, including, without
limitation, any city-owned property, park, public right-of-way, or public
alley.
      (2)   Within 200 feet of any school property between 7:00 a.m. and 4:00
p.m. or when school is in session unless the mobile food vendor possesses
written permission from the school district that contains a date and time range
that they are authorized to operate as a mobile food vendor on school district
property.
      (3)   In any area where the operation impedes vehicular or pedestrian
travel as determined by the Chief of Police or his or her designee.
      (4)   Prohibitions listed may be waived if a special event and/or right-
of-way permit is issued by the city.
(Ord. 2020-44, passed 9-28-2020)
§ 118.04 SERVICE AREA AND OPERATIONS.
   (A)   No person who operates a mobile food vehicle/truck or pushcart shall
place or permit to be placed any food or supplies on the ground.
   (B)   No person who operates mobile food vehicle/truck or pushcart shall
place or permit to be placed tables or chairs adjacent to the mobile food
vehicle/truck or pushcart unless the mobile food vehicle/truck or pushcart is
located on private property or as part of a special event for which the city
has issued a special event permit.
   (C)   Mobile food vehicles/trucks or pushcarts equipped with any form of
mechanical sound equipment shall not exceed the sound levels set forth in this
code. No sound shall be allowed while the mobile food vehicles/trucks or
pushcarts are stopped.
(Ord. 2020-44, passed 9-28-2020)
§ 118.05 TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   Mobile food vendors may conduct business from 8:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m.,
Sunday through Saturday, including holidays, unless such business is located on
private property or as part of a permitted special event.
   (B)   Mobile food vendors are not licensed to conduct business door-to-door.
   (C)   A mobile food vendor shall not conduct business from a stationary
location for more than 8 hours, unless such business is located on private
property as part of a permitted special event.
   (D)   The city shall have the ability to restrict the location of mobile
food vendors should the city determine the location creates a parking shortage,
unsafe parking conditions, or otherwise poses a threat to the public health,
safety, or welfare.
(Ord. 2020-44, passed 9-28-2020)
§ 118.99 PENALTY.
   Any person found liable/guilty by a preponderance of the evidence of a
violation of this chapter in an administrative/judicial hearing shall be
subject to the penalty set forth in §
10.99 of this code.
(Ord. 2020-44, passed 9-28-2020)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
Chapter
   
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Offenses Against Property
   
130.01   Fire hazards
   
130.02   Advertising
   
130.03   Posting bills
   
130.04   Trespass to city property
Offenses Against Morals
   
130.15   Indecent publications
   
130.16   Unlawful assemblages
Offenses Against Public Safety
   
130.30   Scaffolds
   
130.31   Obstructing exits or stairways
   
130.32   Drilling
   
130.33   Curfew; parental responsibility
   
130.34   Smoking on public property
Weapons
   
130.45   Hunting
   
130.46   Missiles
   
130.47   Discharge of firearms
OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
§ 130.01 FIRE HAZARDS.
   It shall be unlawful to permit or store any combustible refuse in such a way
as to create a fire hazard, or to store or throw any refuse of any kind on any
alley, street, or other public place in the city.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 ADVERTISING.
   It shall be unlawful to advertise any unlawful business or article in the
city, and it shall be unlawful to injure or deface any lawful advertisement or
notice.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 POSTING BILLS.
   It shall be unlawful to post, attach or affix any sign, advertising, notice
or other printed, painted or other graphic matter or material on any pole,
equipment, traffic control device, fixture, furniture or other object in the
public right-of-way without a permit issued by the city. This section shall not
apply to a governmental agency or public utility acting in furtherance of its
authorized purpose. The city may remove and discard any material which violates
this section.
(Am. Ord. 2016-39, passed 6-27-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.04 TRESPASS TO CITY PROPERTY.
   Trespass to parking lots.
      (A)   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to trespass on city
parking lots from 11:00 p.m. to 5:00 a.m.
      (B)   Those people who do park their vehicles on the city parking lots
prior to 11:00 p.m. may lawfully enter for purpose of expeditiously removing
same after 11:00 p.m.
      (C)   The Superintendent of City Services of the City of Monticello shall
cause to be erected signs of notice forbidding entry in conspicuous locations
at all city parking lots reading “NO TRESPASSING” 11:00 p.m. to 5:00 a.m.
(Am. Ord. 2012-27, passed 7-9-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
OFFENSES AGAINST MORALS
§ 130.15 INDECENT PUBLICATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale, or to circulate, pass
from one person to another or expose in any public place or anywhere in view of
a store or place frequented by the public any immoral, indecent, or obscene
publications, printed or written matter, or picture or other representation.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to keep any such publication, printed or written
matter, picture or other representation in any place frequented by or where it
may come into possession of minors, or to disclose or expose the material to a
minor.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.16 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLAGES.
   It shall be unlawful to collect, gather, or be a member of any disorderly
crowd, or any crowd gathered together for any unlawful purpose.
Penalty, see §
10.99
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC SAFETY
§ 130.30 SCAFFOLDS.
   Any scaffolds or ladders placed in such a position that they overhang or can
fall onto any public street, alley, or other public place in the city shall be
firmly and properly constructed and safeguarded; and it shall be unlawful to
place or leave any tools or article on that place in such a manner that the
same can fall onto the street, sidewalk, alley, or other public place, from a
height greater than 4 feet.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.31 OBSTRUCTING EXITS OR STAIRWAYS.
   It shall be unlawful to obstruct or permit the obstruction of any stairway,
aisles, corridor, or exit in any office building, factory, hotel, school,
church, theater, assembly hall, lodge, or other public hall, or any building
used by 2 or more tenants or families in such a manner that it interferes with
the free use of the stairway, aisle, corridor, or exit.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.32 DRILLING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to drill or
commence to drill a well for oil or gas in the city.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.33 CURFEW; PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Definitions   For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   CURFEW HOURS.
      (1)   Between 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on Saturday;
      (2)   Between 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on Sunday; and
      (3)   Between 10:30 p.m. on Sunday to Thursday, inclusive, and 6:00 a.m.
on the following day.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances, or the resulting
state, that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited
to a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident or any situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately-owned place of business operated for a profit
to which the public is invited, including but not limited to any place of
amusement or entertainment.
   GUARDIAN.
      (1)   A person, who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of
a minor; or
      (2)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court.
   MINOR. Any person under 18 years of age.
   PARENT. A person who is:
      (1)   A natural parent, adoptive parent, or step-parent of another
person; or
      (2)   At least 18 years of age and authorized by a parent or guardian to
have the care and custody of a minor.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to streets, highways and the
common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities and shops.
   REMAIN.  
      (1)   To linger or stay; or
      (2)   To fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police
officer or the owner, operator or other person in control of the premises.
   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
   (B)   Violations.
      (1)   A minor commits a violation of this section if he or she remains in
any public place or on the premises of any establishment during curfew hours.
      (2)   A parent or guardian of a minor, or other person in custody or
control of a minor, commits a violation if he or she knowingly permits the
minor to remain in any public place or on the premises of any establishment
during curfew hours.
   (C)   Defenses. It is a defense to an ordinance violation action brought
under division (B) that the minor was:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian or other person, at
least 18 years of age, who was in custody or control of the minor at the
direction of the minor's parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor, if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor's presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by a government or governmental
agency, a civic organization or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor, or going to or returning home from, without any
detour or stop, an official school, religious or other recreational activity
supervised by adults and sponsored by a government or governmental agency, a
civic organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married, or had been married, or is an emancipated minor under the
Emancipation of Minors Act.
   (D)   Enforcement. Before taking any enforcement action under this section,
a law enforcement officer shall ask the apparent violator's age and reason for
being in the public place or establishment. The officer shall not issue a
notice to appear, or make an arrest pursuant to state statute, unless the
officer reasonably believes that a violation has occurred and that, based on
any response and other circumstances, no defense in division (C) is present.
   (E)   A person found to have violated any provision of this section shall be
fined not less than $10 nor more than $500 for each violation.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.34 SMOKING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Smoking in any building, structure, deck area, patio, pavilion, park,
or other outdoor area owned or operated by the city or a public school
district, and within 15 feet of any entrance or exit to a city or public school
district building is a nuisance and is hereby prohibited. This prohibition will
not apply to public rights-of-way under the city’s jurisdiction, or to property
outside the corporate limits.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, SMOKE or SMOKING includes inhaling,
exhaling, burning or carrying any lighted or burning cigarette, cigar, pipe;
hookah pipe, pipe weed, or other lighted tobacco product in any manner or in
any form; or the use of any alternative nicotine product causing the user to
exhale any smoke, vapor, or other substance other than those produced by
unenhanced human exhalation.
   (C)   For the purposes of this section, ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT
includes any product or device not consisting of or containing tobacco that
provides for the ingestion into the body of nicotine, whether by chewing,
smoking, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling, snorting, sniffing, or by any other
means. ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT excludes cigarettes, smokeless tobacco, or
other tobacco products as these terms are defined in Section 1 of the
Prevention of Tobacco Use by Minors and Sale and Distribution of Tobacco
Products Act (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 675, § 1) and any product approved by the
United States Food and Drug Administration as a nontobacco product for sale as
a tobacco cessation product, as a tobacco dependence product, or for other
medical purposes, and is being marketed and sold solely for that approved
purpose.
(Ord. 2019-16, passed 2-25-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
WEAPONS
§ 130.45 HUNTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in killing any animal or bird
other than as prescribed by law in the city.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.46 MISSILES.
   It shall be unlawful to cast, throw, or propel any missile on any street,
alley, or public place; and it shall be unlawful to throw or deposit any glass,
nails, tacks, or other similar articles on any street, sidewalk, or alley in
the city.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.47 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearms or air gun in the city;
provided that this section shall not be construed to prohibit any officer of
the law to discharge a firearm in the performance of his or her duty; nor to
any citizen to discharge a firearm when lawfully defending his or her person or
property.
Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
Chapter
   
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
   
151.   FLOOD HAZARD CONTROL
   
152.   LAND SUBDIVISION AND DEVELOPMENT
   
153.   ZONING REGULATIONS
   
154.   CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN THE RIGHTS-OF-WAY
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Codes
   
150.01   Building Codes
   
150.02   Existing Structure Code
   
150.03   Electrical Code
   
150.04   Plumbing Code
   
150.05   Life Safety Code
Administration
   
150.15   House numbering
   
150.16   Stormwater management; compliance
   
150.17   Comprehensive plan
   
150.18   Parks and recreation element of the comprehensive plan
CODES
§ 150.01 BUILDING CODES.
   (A)   One- and 2-family dwellings. Chapters 1 through 24, inclusive, of the
International Residential Code, 2003 edition, including Appendix Chapters A
through H, inclusive, as published by International Code Council, Inc., copies
of which are on file in the Municipal Building, 210 N. Hamilton, and which are
hereby incorporated herein by reference, be and are hereby adopted as the
Residential Code of the City of Monticello, Piatt County, Illinois, regulating
and governing the construction, alteration, movement, enlargement, replacement,
repair, equipment, location, removal and demolition of 1- and 2-family
dwellings, and providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees
therefor, subject to the following modifications, to wit:
      (1)   In Section R101.1 of the Residential Code, and wherever else in
that Code the “Name Of Jurisdiction” is to be inserted, “the City of
Monticello, Piatt County, Illinois” shall be deemed inserted;
      (2)   Paragraphs 1 and 2 under the subheading of “Building” of Section
R105.2 are hereby deleted;
      (3)   The number of days appearing in Section R105.5 is hereby changed
from “180 days” to “90 days;”
      (4)   All references in Section R112 to the “Board of Appeals” shall be
deemed to refer to the “Planning and Zoning Board;”
      (5)   The following specifications are inserted in Table 301.2(1):
         (a) Ground snow load: 20 pounds per square foot;
         (b)   Wind speed (mph): 90;
         (c)   Seismic design category: B;
         (d)   Weathering: Severe;
         (e)   Frost line depth: 3 feet/36 inches;
         (f)   Termite: Moderate to heavy;
         (g)   Decay: Slight to moderate;
         (h)   Winter design temp: 2;
         (i)   Ice shield: Yes;
         (j)   Flood hazards:
            1.   May 15, 1991; and
            2.   Within the corporate limits: May 15, 1991; areas annexed since
1991: January 6, 1978.
         (k)   Air freezing index: 1,250 - 1,300; and
         (l)   Mean annual temp: 52.
      (6)   Wherever the number 10 appears in Section R303.4.1, it shall be
changed to the number 12.
      (7)   Delete the language in Section R303.8 before the word “every” in
the second line, and begin the section with the word “Every.”
   (B)   All buildings and structures other than 1- and 2-family dwellings.
Chapters 1 through 26 and 30 through 35, inclusive, of the International
Building Code, 2003 edition, as published by International Code Council, Inc.,
copies of which are on file in the City Office, and which are hereby
incorporated herein by reference, be and are hereby adopted as the Building
Code of the City of Monticello, Piatt County, Illinois, regulating and
governing the conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings and
structures, by providing standards for supplied utilities and facilities, and
other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that structures are
safe, sanitary, and fit for occupation and use, and the condemnation of
buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use, and the demolition
of such structures as herein provided; and providing for the issuance of
permits and the collection of fees therefor, subject to the following
modifications, to wit:
      (1)   In Section 101.1 of the Building Code, and wherever else in that
Code the “Name Of Jurisdiction” is to be inserted, “the City of Monticello,
Piatt County, Illinois” shall be deemed inserted;
      (2)   The reference in Section R101.4.4 to “the International Plumbing
Code” is hereby stricken and a reference to the “Illinois State Plumbing Code”
is hereby inserted in its place; and the reference in those sections to “the
International Private Sewage Disposal Code” is hereby stricken and a reference
to Chapter 52 of this municipal code is hereby inserted in its place;
      (3)   The reference to the “International Fire Code” in Section 101.4.6
is hereby deleted, and a reference to the “NFPA Life Safety Code 2003” is
hereby inserted in its place;
      (4)   Paragraphs 1 and 2 under the subheading of “Building:” and
paragraph 1 under the subheading of “Plumbing:” of Section 105.2 are hereby
deleted;
      (5)   The number of days appearing in Section 105.5 is hereby changed
from “180 days” to “90 days;”
      (6)   In Section 1612.3, insert “May 15, 1991” as the “Date of Issuance;”
and
      (7)   In Section 3410.2, insert “February 28, 2005,” the effective date
of this division (B), as the “Date To Be Inserted.”
(Am. Ord. 2014-36, passed 9-8-2014)
§ 150.02 EXISTING STRUCTURE CODE.
   (A)   Code.  The Existing Structures Code that pertains to all buildings and
structures in the city is the most recent edition of the BOCA National Existing
Structure Code, as published by the Building Officials and Code Administrators
International, Inc., as amended and revised.
   (B)   The National Existing Structure Code is amended and revised in the
following respects:
      (1)   Section ES-100.1 (page 1, second line). Insert: “City of
Monticello.”
      (2)   Section ES-110.2 (page 8, third line). Insert: “Less than $25 nor
more than $200,” and delete from lines 3 and 4: “or imprisonment for a term not
to exceed (number of) days, or both.”
      (3)   Section ES-111.4 (page 9, second line). Insert: “15 days.”
      (4)   Section ES-112.1 “Petition” (page 10) shall be deleted in its
entirety and read as follows:
         ES-112.1 Petition: Any person affected by any notice which has been
issued in connection with the enforcement of any provision of this code, or of
any rule or regulation adopted pursuant thereto, shall have the right to
request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the Board, provided
that such person shall file with the City Clerk, a written petition requesting
such hearing and stating the basis therefore, which shall be limited to the
following bases:
            1.   The true intent of this Code or the rules legally adopted
thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted; or
            2.   The provisions of this Code do not apply; or
            3.   The requirements of this Code are adequately satisfied by
other means.
      (5)   Section ES-112.2 "Appeals Board" (page 10) shall be deleted in its
entirety and read as follows:
         ES-112.2 Appeals Board: In order to protect existing structures in the
jurisdiction by vigorous enforcement of the provisions of this code, there
shall be and is hereby created a Code Appeals Board, hereafter referred to as
the "Board," consisting of 3 members who shall be appointed by the Mayor,
subject to the advice and consent of the Aldermen, and shall hold office at the
Mayor's pleasure.
      (6)   Section ES-112.2.1 "Membership" (page 10) shall be deleted in its
entirety and read as follows:
         ES-112.2.1(a) Membership: Each member of the board shall be, in the
sole discretion of the Mayor and subject to the consent of the Aldermen,
qualified by experience and training to pass on matters pertaining to the
regulations set forth in this code. The members of the board shall be residents
of the city and may not be employees of the city.
         ES-112.2.1(b) Alternate members: The Mayor shall further appoint 1
alternate member to the Board who shall be called by the Board chairman to hear
appeals during the absence or disqualification of a member. The alternate
member shall possess the qualifications identified herein for board membership.
         ES-112.2.1(c) Chairman: The Board shall annually select one of its
members to serve as chairman.
         ES-112.2.1(d) Secretary: The Board shall annually select one of its
members to serve as secretary. The secretary shall file a record of appeal
proceedings with the Clerk of the city.
         ES-112.2.1(e) Disqualification of a member: A member shall not hear an
appeal or vote on any appeal in which that member has a professional or
financial interest.
      (7)   Section ES-112.2.2 "Vote" (page 10) shall be deleted in its
entirety and read as follows:
         ES-112.2.2 Decision: The Board shall hear all appeals relative to the
enforcement of this Code, and by a concurring vote of the majority of its
members, shall reverse or affirm wholly or partly, or modify the decision or
action appealed from, and shall make such order or determination as in its
opinion ought to be made. The Board shall only modify or reverse the decision
of the code official by a concurring vote of a majority of the 3 Board members.
Failure to secure a concurring majority vote shall be deemed a confirmation of
the decision of the code official. The Board shall record its decision in
writing.
      (8)   Section ES-112.2.3 "Financial Interest" (page 10) shall be deleted
in its entirety and read as follows:
         ES-112.2.3 Open Meetings: All hearings before the Board shall be open
to the public.
      (9)   Section ES-112.3 "Records" (page 11) shall be deleted in its
entirety and read as follows:
         ES-112.2.3 Procedures: The purpose of an appeal hearing is to allow
all parties a reasonable and fair opportunity to be heard. Any person may
appear at an appeal hearing and present relevant evidence, rebut evidence
presented by others, and the opportunity to cross-examine witnesses. At a
minimum, the appellant, the appellant's representative, the code official, the
city's representative, and other interested persons may appear and offer
testimony or evidence. The Board chairperson, acting in his sole discretion,
may exclude testimony or evidence that is irrelevant, immaterial or unduly
repetitious. Cross-examination of witnesses shall be permitted. The procedures
shall not require strict compliance with evidentiary rules.
      (10)   A new Section ES-112.4 is hereby created as follows:
         ES-112.4 Additional Rules: The Board may adopt additional rules of
procedure and make said procedures governing appeals hearings public through
the secretary.
      (11)   A new Section ES-112.5 is hereby created as follows:
         ES-112.5 Administration: The code official shall take immediate action
in accordance with the decision of the Board.
      (12)   Section ES-201.0 "Applied Meaning of Words and Terms" (pages 13-
14) shall be amended to repeal the stated definition of "code official" and
replace said definition with the following:
         "Code official: The City Building Inspector or any duly authorized
representative thereof."
   (C)   Violations. Any person found to be violating any provision of the
Existing Structure Code shall be served by the Building Inspector with a
written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable
time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within
the period of time stated in the notice, permanently cease all violations. Any
violation not corrected within the allotted time shall subject the violator to
legal action for enforcement of the Code.
(Am. Ord. 2013-16, passed 4-8-2013)
§ 150.03 ELECTRICAL CODE.
   (A)   Code. The Electrical Code applicable to the construction of all
buildings within the City of Monticello is the National Electrical Code 2005,
including all subsequent additions and revisions thereto.
   (B)   Violations. Any person found to be violating any provision of the
Electrical Code adopted by the city shall be served by the Building Inspector
with a written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a
reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender
shall, within the period of time stated in the notice, permanently cease all
violations.
§ 150.04 PLUMBING CODE.
   (A)   Code. The plumbing code applicable to the construction of all
buildings within the City of Monticello is the “State of Illinois Department of
Public Health’s Illinois State Plumbing Code 2004,” including all subsequent
additions and revisions thereto.
   (B)   Violations. Any person found to be violating any provision of the
Plumbing Code adopted by the city shall be served by the Building Inspector
with a written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a
reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender
shall, within the period of time stated in the notice, permanently cease all
violations.
§ 150.05 LIFE SAFETY CODE.
   (A)   Code.  The Life Safety Code applicable to the construction and
maintenance of all buildings and structures within the city is the 2003 edition
of the National Fire Prevention Association, Inc., (NFPA) 101, Life Safety
Code, including all subsequent additions and revisions thereto.
   (B)   Violations. Any person found to be violating any provision of the Life
Safety Code adopted by the city shall be served by the Building Inspector with
a written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable
time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within
the period of time stated in the notice, permanently cease all violations.
ADMINISTRATION
§ 150.15 HOUSE NUMBERING.
   (A)   House numbering required. All lots, buildings, and structures in the
city shall be numbered in accordance with the following plan:
      (1)   Washington Street shall be the base line for north and south
numbers; State Street shall be the base line for east and west numbers.
      (2)   Even numbers shall be on the west side and north side of the street
and odd numbers shall be on the east side and south side of the street.
   (B)   Chart. The Zoning Administrator shall keep a chart showing the proper
street number of every lot in the city, which chart shall be open for
inspection by anyone interested therein.
   (C)   Number on house. It shall be the duty of the owner and occupant of
every residential house in the city to have placed thereon, in a place legible
from the street, minimum 3-inch numeric, not script, figures located a minimum
5 feet from the ground, near the entrance door or garage door facing the
street, showing the number of that house. Any person, firm, or corporation
failing to so number any house owned or occupied by him, her or it, after
receiving notice to do so from the Police Department, shall be fined $1 per day
from the date of notification.
(Am. Ord. 2008-24, passed 5-27-2008; Am. Ord. 2014-12, passed 4-28-2014; Am.
Ord. 2014-41, passed 10-14-2014)
§ 150.16 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT; COMPLIANCE.
   All new construction involving a significant increase in impervious surface
shall provide for adequate on-site stormwater detention and stormwater drainage
facilities. All storm drainage system design and construction shall comply with
the provisions of the Stormwater Management Regulations of Chapter 52 of this
code of ordinances. Where stormwater regulations within this code conflict, the
more stringent of the regulations shall prevail, as determined by city staff.
§ 150.17 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   (A)   Establishment. The official plan of the city shall consist of the
following:
      (1)   The city plan approved by the Corporate Authorities shall consist
of a map of the city, charts and diagrams showing proposed additions to and
improvements of the city streets, parks, public buildings, sewage disposal
system, water system, and street lighting system;
      (2)   The specifications for street construction and paving established
by the corporate authorities;
      (3)   The city zoning regulations; and
      (4)   The city subdivision control regulations.
   (B)   Extra-territorial jurisdiction. The official plan shall include land
within 1-1/2 miles of the corporate limits of the City of Monticello, as they
may be revised from time to time due to annexation.
   (C)   Official plan map. There exists an official plan map which has
heretofore been adopted by the corporate authorities of the city and which may
be amended from time to time.
   (D)   Reference. The city shall consider the official plan map as a guide to
future land use and development. This map shall also be used as a broad general
guide for future zoning of areas outside the corporate limits of the city when
same are ready for annexation and development. The city shall consider the
location of areas for parks, open spaces, schools, hospitals, and neighborhood
commercial uses on the map as advisory only and shall not be bound to develop
or permit development of the areas exactly as shown on the map.
   (E)   Thoroughfares.
      (1)   Primary thoroughfares shall be located on all section lines within
and without the city. Primary thoroughfares shown on the official plan map and
any others established shall have 100 feet right-of-way and the pavement width
shall be 52 feet.
      (2)   Secondary thoroughfares shall be located, when possible, on all
half-section lines around the city. Secondary thoroughfares shown on the
official plan map and any others established shall have 80 feet right-of-way
and pavement width shall be 36 feet.
      (3)   The city subdivision regulations shall govern the standards for
quality of materials for the construction of all streets and shall govern the
width of pavements and right-of-way for residential, local, or minor streets,
both within and without the city.
   (F)   Compliance.
      (1)   No plat of subdivision, plan for the construction or layout of
streets, or work involving laying sewer or water mains shall be approved unless
the same complies fully with the requirements of the official plan.
       (2)   The subdividing of land within the city, or within 1-1/2 miles of
the corporate limits thereof, into 2 or more lots, tracts, or parcels of land,
unless otherwise allowed by ILCS Ch. 765, Act. 205, shall be prohibited unless
the owner thereof complies with the provisions of the Planning and Zoning Board
and the City Council.
      (3)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates this provision shall
not be eligible for a building permit, nor shall he, she, or it have the right
to connect to the city utilities, unless the Mayor and City Council shall waive
the violation by vote at a regular meeting.
(Am. Ord. 2014-36, passed 9-8-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5 and Ch. 765, Act. 205
§ 150.18 PARKS AND RECREATION ELEMENT OF THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   (A)   The City Council of Monticello does hereby adopt the Draft Parks and
Recreation Element Update of the City Comprehensive Plan, dated June 15, 1995,
as revised, as an official amendment to the 1971 City Comprehensive Plan.
   (B)   The Parks and Recreation Element Update adopted above shall supersede
and replace all relevant portions of the 1971 Comprehensive Plan and 1975 Plan
for Neighborhood Park-Playgrounds and Related Facilities, and shall serve as
the primary parks and recreation planning document for the city.
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD HAZARD CONTROL
Section
   
151.01   Purpose
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   Base flood elevation
   
151.04   Duties of the Floodplain Manager
   
151.05   Development permit
   
151.06   Other regulations; certificate of occupancy
   
151.07   Consent for inspection
   
151.08   Revocation of permit
   
151.09   Completion of work heretofore authorized
   
151.10   Application fees
   
151.11   Preventing increased flood heights and resulting damages
   
151.12   Protecting buildings
   
151.13   Subdivision requirements
   
151.14   Public health and other standards
   
151.15   Carrying capacity and notification
   
151.16   Variances
   
151.17   Disclaimer of liability
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to the city by
ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 1-2-1, 11-12-12, 11-30-2, 11-30-8 and 11-31-2 in order
to accomplish the following purposes:
   (A)   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   (B)   Protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from flood
damage;
   (C)   To promote and protect the public health, safety, and general welfare
of the citizens from the hazards of flooding;
   (D)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
   (E)   Maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   (F)   Make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   (G)   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and stormwater impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development.
(Ord. 2015-34, passed 8-10-2015)
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions are adopted:
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year. The BASE FLOOD is also known as the 100-year flood. The base
flood elevation at any location is as defined in §
151.03 of this chapter.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation in relation to mean sea level of
the crest of the base flood.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a building having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. A walled and roofed structure, including gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground including manufactured homes,
prefabricated buildings and gas or liquid storage tanks. The term also includes
recreational vehicles and travel trailers installed on a site for more than 180
days per year.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. 
      (1)   Any facility which is critical to the health and welfare of the
population and, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the disaster.
Damage to these critical facilities can impact the delivery of vital services,
can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or can put special
populations at risk.
      (2)   Examples of CRITICAL FACILITIES where flood protection should be
required include: emergency services facilities (such as fire and police
stations), schools, hospitals retirement homes and senior care facilities,
major roads and bridges, critical utility sites (telephone switching stations
or electrical transformers, and hazardous material storage facilities
(chemicals, petrochemicals, hazardous or toxic substances).
   DEVELOPMENT. 
      (1)   Any manmade change to real estate including, but not necessarily
limited to:
         (a)   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a
building, or any structural alteration to a building;
         (b)   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
         (c)   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site
for a manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than
180 days per year;
         (d)   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges,
culverts or similar projects;
         (e)   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls or fences;
         (f)   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating,
paving, or other alterations of the ground surface;
         (g)   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid
storage tanks, and channel modifications or any other activity that might
change the direction, height, or velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include routine maintenance of existing
buildings and facilities, resurfacing roads, or gardening, plowing, and similar
practices that do not involve filing, grading, or construction of levees.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations
adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD FRINGE. That portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP. A map prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a
community. This map includes insurance rate zones and may or may not depict
floodways and show base flood elevations.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
   FLOODPLAIN AND SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). 
      (1)   These 2 terms are synonymous. Those lands within the jurisdiction
of the city, the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city, or that may be
annexed into the city, that are subject to inundation by the base flood. The
floodplains of the North East Tributary, North Unnamed Creek, Sangamon River,
South Branch Creek, South Branch Creek Tributary, and South Unnamed Creek are
generally identified as such on panel number(s) 17147C0161D, 17147C0162D,
17147C0163D, 17147C0164D and 17147C0175D of the countywide Flood Insurance Rate
Map of Piatt County prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and
dated June 16, 2011. FLOODPLAIN also includes those areas of known flooding as
identified by the community.
      (2)   The floodplains of those parts of unincorporated Piatt County that
are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city or that may be annexed
into the City of Monticello are generally identified as such on the Flood
Insurance Rate map prepared for Piatt County by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency and dated June 16, 2011.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural or nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property and then contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form published by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry flood proofed to the flood protection
elevation.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE). The elevation of the base flood plus 1
foot of freeboard at any given location in the floodplain.
   FLOODWAY. That portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the
base flood. The floodway shall be according to the best data available from
federal, state, or other sources.
   FREEBOARD. An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed
development, unknown localized conditions, wave actions and unpredictable
effects such as those caused by ice or debris jams.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register.
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily
determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district.
      (3)   Individually listed on the state inventory of historic places by
the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency.
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that
has been certified by the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency.
   IDNR/OWR. Illinois Department of Natural Resources/Office of Water
Resources.
   IDNR/OWR JURISDICTIONAL STREAM. Illinois Department of Natural Resource
Office of Water Resources has jurisdiction over any stream serving a tributary
area of 640 acres or more in an urban area, or in the floodway of any stream
serving a tributary area of 6,400 acres or more in a rural area. Construction
on these streams requires a permit from the department. (Ill Admin. Code Tit.
17, Pt. 3700.30). The department may grant approval for specific types of
activities by issuance of a statewide permit which meets the standards defined
in §
151.06.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of §
151.12.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in 1 or more sections that is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to requited utilities.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into 2 or more lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a
community and includes any subsequent improvements of such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed on or after the effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by a community.
   NFIP. National Flood Insurance Program.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE or TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less in size; and
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood related damages sustained by a structure on 2
separate occasions during a 10-year period for which the cost of repairs at the
time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SFHA. See FLOODPLAIN.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement and means the date
the building permit was issued. This, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or
other improvement, was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start
means either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation or placement
of a manufactured home on a foundation. For a substantial improvement, actual
start of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of a building whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. See BUILDING.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cumulative percentage of damage subsequent to the adoption of this chapter
equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred regardless of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and
materials must be included in this determination. The term includes REPETITIVE
LOSS buildings.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or improvement of a
structure taking place subsequent to the adoption of this chapter in which the
cumulative percentage of improvements:
         (a)   Equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure
before the improvement or repair is started; or
         (b)   Increases the floor area by more than 20%.
      (2)   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building
commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of
the structure. This term includes structures which have incurred repetitive
loss or substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work done. The term
does not include:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or the Illinois Register of Historic Places.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the required federal, state, and/or local permits
and elevation certification is presumed to be in violation until such time as
the documentation is provided.
(Ord. 2015-34, passed 8-10-2015)
§ 151.03 BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.
   (A)   This chapter's protection standard is the base flood. The best
available base flood data are listed below. Whenever a party disagrees with the
best available data, the party shall finance the detailed engineering study
needed to replace the existing data with better data and submit it to the FEMA
and IDNR/OWR for approval prior to any development of the site.
   (B)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of North East Tributary,
North Unnamed Creek, Sangamon River, South Branch Creek, South Branch Creek
Tributary, and South Unnamed Creek shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood
profiles in the countywide Flood Insurance Study of Piatt County prepared by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated June 16, 2011.
   (C)   The base flood elevation for each floodplain delineated as an "AH
Zone" or AO Zone" shall be that elevation (or depth) delineated on the
countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of Piatt County.
   (D)   The base flood elevation for each of the remaining floodplains
delineated as an "A Zone" on the countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of Piatt
County shall be according to the best data available from federal, state or
sources. Should no other data exist, an engineering study must be financed by
the applicant to determine base flood elevations.
   (E)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of those parts of
unincorporated Piatt County that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction
of the city, or that may be annexed into the city, shall be as delineated on
the 100-year flood profiles in the Flood Insurance Study of Piatt County
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated June 16, 2011.
(Ord. 2015-34, passed 8-10-2015)
§ 151.04 DUTIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN MANAGER.
   The Floodplain Manager shall be responsible for the general administration
of this chapter and ensure that all development activities within the
floodplains under the jurisdiction of the city meet the requirements of this
chapter. Specifically, the Floodplain Manager shall:
   (A)   Process development permits in accordance with §
151.05;
   (B)   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of §
151.11;
   (C)   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to §
151.12 are met and maintain a record of the "as-built" elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) or floodproof certificate;
   (D)   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements of
§
151.13;
   (E)   Ensure that water supply and waste disposal systems meet the Public
Health standards of §
151.14;
   (F)   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of §
151.16 are met and maintain documentation of any variances granted;
   (G)   Inspect all development projects and take any and all penalty actions
outlined in §
151.18 as necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter;
   (H)   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state, and federal permits;
   (I)   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse;
   (J)   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
   (K)   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this chapter;
   (L)   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps,
copies of state and federal permits, and documentation of compliance for
development activities subject to this chapter;
   (M)   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with this chapter and
make substantial damage determinations for structures within the floodplain;
and
   (N)   Maintain the accuracy of floodplain maps including notifying IDNR/OWR
and/or submitting information to FEMA within 6 months whenever a modification
of the floodplain may change the base flood elevation or result in a change to
the floodplain map.
(Ord. 2015-34, passed 8-10-2015)
§ 151.05 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body not exempted by law shall
commence any development in the floodplain without first obtaining a
development permit from the Floodplain Manager. The Floodplain Manager shall
not issue a development permit if the proposed development does not meet the
requirements of this chapter.
   (A)   The application for development permit shall be accompanied by:
      (1)   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line
dimensions;
      (2)   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from
excavation or filling;
      (3)   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings;
      (4)   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of §
151.12; and
      (5)   Cost of project or improvements as estimated by a licensed engineer
or architect. A signed estimate by a contractor may also meet this requirement.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the
Floodplain Manager shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood
elevation. Any development located on land that can be shown by survey
elevation to be below the base flood elevation. Any development located on land
that can be shown by survey data to be higher than the current base flood
elevation and which has not been filled after the date of the site's first
Flood Insurance Rate Map is not in the floodplain and therefore not subject to
the requirements of this chapter. In addition, any development located on land
shown to be below the base flood elevation and hydraulically connected to a
flood source, but not identified as floodplain on the current Flood Insurance
Rate Map, is subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   The Floodplain Manager shall maintain documentation of the existing
ground elevation at the development site and certification that this ground
elevation existed prior to the date of the site's first Flood Insurance Rate
Map identification.
   (D)   The Floodplain Manager shall be responsible for obtaining from the
applicant copies of all other federal, state, and local permits, approvals or
“Permit Not Required” letters that may be required for this type of activity.
The Floodplain Manager shall not issue a permit unless all other federal,
state, and local permits have been obtained.
(Ord. 2015-34, passed 8-10-2015)
§ 151.06 OTHER REGULATIONS; CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Before starting any of the work regulated by this chapter, an
applicant shall comply with the requirements set forth in other applicable city
regulations with respect to the submission and approval of preliminary and
final subdivision plats, improvement plans, building permits and zoning
permits, inspections, appeals, sanitary sewer connection permits, and similar
matters, along with those set forth in this chapter and as may be required by
federal or state laws and the regulations of any department of the State of
Illinois. Where provisions of this chapter are more restrictive than other
requirements, this chapter shall apply.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to use or occupy any buildings of any development
site or any part thereof hereafter constructed in the Special Flood Hazard Area
without first making application for and obtaining a certificate of occupancy
from the city. Request for issuance of a certificate of occupancy shall be
submitted to the Building Inspector upon completion of the work authorized in
the floodplain development permit and building permit issued for the project in
question. If, upon final inspection of a building or development site, the
Building Inspector finds the work has been performed in accordance with the
approved application and plans of the floodplain development permit and the
building permit, a certificate of occupancy, may be issued. If final inspection
reveals otherwise, a certificate of occupancy shall not be issued until all
deficiencies are collected.
(Ord. 2015-34, passed 8-10-2015)
§ 151.07 CONSENT FOR INSPECTION.
   All work for which a floodplain development or building permit is required
shall be subject to inspection by the Building Inspector, Floodplain Manager or
his or her duly authorized representative. It shall be unlawful to refuse to
permit the Building Inspector, Floodplain Manager or his or her representative
to enter the premises or structure at any reasonable time to make an
inspection. It shall be unlawful to interfere with or hinder the Building
Inspector, Floodplain Manager or his or her representative when in the
performance of his or her duties.
(Ord. 2015-34, passed 8-10-2015)
§ 151.08 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Building Inspector may revoke a floodplain development permit in a case
where there has been any false statement or misrepresentation as to a material
fact in the application or plans on which the permit was based. The Building
Inspector may revoke a floodplain development permit when work is performed
contrary to the provisions of the application or plans on which the permit is
based. When a permit is revoked, the Building Inspector shall inform the
permittee in writing of the specific steps the permittee must take in order to
have the permit reissued. It shall be unlawful to continue any work authorized
by a floodplain development permit after revocation of that permit and until
the permit is reissued or until a new permit is issued.
(Ord. 2015-34, passed 8-10-2015)
§ 151.09 COMPLETION OF WORK HERETOFORE AUTHORIZED.
   Nothing in this chapter shall require changes in the plans, construction, or
designated use of a building or other development project or portion thereof
which has been otherwise lawfully authorized, or the construction of which
shall have been actually begun and in which entire building or development
project shall be completed within 1 year of the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-34, passed 8-10-2015)
§ 151.10 APPLICATION FEES.
   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be accompanied by an
application fee. The application fee for a floodplain development permit shall
be as established from time to time by the City Council in its schedule of
charges for building permits which is adopted by reference as Appendix A of
Chapter 153. This application fee shall be in addition to any other application
fee required for other permits required for development upon the site.
(Ord. 2015-34, passed 8-10-2015)
§ 151.11 PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND RESULTING DAMAGES.
   Within any floodway identified on the countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map,
and within all other floodplains where a floodway has not been delineated, the
following standards shall apply:
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no development
shall be allowed which, acting in combination with existing and anticipated
development will cause any increase in flood heights or velocities or threat to
public health and safety. The following specific development activities shall
be considered as meeting this requirement:
      (1)   Bridge and culvert crossings of streams in rural areas meeting the
conditions of the Illinois Department of Natural Resources, Office of Water
Resources Statewide Permit Number 2;
      (2)   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 3;
      (3)   Aerial utility crossings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 4;
      (4)   Minor boat docks meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 5;
      (5)   Minor, non-obstructive activities such as underground utility
lines, light poles, sign posts, driveways, athletic fields, patios, playground
equipment, minor storage buildings not exceeding 70 square feet and raising
buildings on the same footprint which does not involve fill and any other
activity meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 6;
      (6)   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 7;
      (7)   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions
of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 8;
      (8)   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 9;
      (9)   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential
buildings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 10;
      (10)   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 11;
      (11)   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widening
meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide Permit Number 12;
      (12)   Temporary construction activities meeting the following conditions
of IDNR/OWR statewide Permit Number 13; and
      (13)   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely
within a flood fringe area shall be exempt from state floodway permit
requirements.
   (B)   Other development activities not listed in division (A) may be
permitted only if:
      (1)   Permit has been issued for the work by IDNR/OWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required); or
      (2)   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA when necessary, and
approval obtained from FEMA for a revision of the regulatory map and base flood
elevation.
(Ord. 2015-34, passed 8-10-2015)
§ 151.12 PROTECTING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   In addition to the state permit and damage prevention requirements of
§
151.11, all buildings located in the floodplain shall be protected from flood
damage below the flood protection elevation. This building protection
requirement applies to the following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of a new building or alteration or
addition to an existing building valued at more than $1,000 or 70 square feet;
      (2)   Substantial improvements or structural alterations made to an
existing building that increase the floor area by more than 20% or equal or
exceed the market value by 50%. Alteration shall be figured cumulatively
subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. If substantially improved, the
existing structure and the addition must meet the flood protection standards of
this section;
      (3)   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. If
substantially damaged the entire structure must meet the flood protection
standards of this section within 24 months of the date the damage occurred;
      (4)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. (The building protection requirements do not apply to
returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage);
      (5)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days per year; and
      (6)   Repetitive loss to an existing building as defined in §
151.02.
   (B)   Residential or non-residential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by 1 of the following methods:
      (1)   The building may be constructed on permanent land fill in
accordance with the following:
         (a)   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation;
         (b)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than 6 inches
before compaction and should extend at least 10 feet beyond the foundation
before sloping below the flood protection elevation;
         (c)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or other structural measure;
         (d)   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporated
debris or refuse material; and
         (e)   Shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage from or
onto neighboring properties and when necessary stormwater management techniques
such as swales or basins shall be incorporated.
      (2)   The building may be elevated on solid walls in accordance with the
following:
         (a)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls, crawlspace, or other foundation that is permanently open to flood
waters;
         (b)   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at
or above the flood protection elevation;
         (c)   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the flood protection
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry
and exit of flood waters. Designs must either be certified by a licensed
professional engineer or by having a minimum of 1 permanent opening on each
wall no more than 1 foot above grade with a minimum of 2 openings. The openings
shall provide a total net area of not less than 1 square inch for every 1
square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding below the base flood
elevation; and
         (d)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored,
designed, and certified so as to minimize exposure to hydrodynamic forces such
as current, waves, ice, and floating debris.
            1.   All structural components below the flood protection elevation
shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage.
            2.   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps, and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation provided they are waterproofed.
            3.   The area below the flood protection elevation shall be used
solely for parking or building access and not later modified or occupied as
habitable space; or
            4.   In lieu of the above criteria, the design methods to comply
with these requirements may be certified by a licensed professional engineer or
architect.
      (3)   The building may be constructed with a crawlspace located below the
flood protection elevation provided that the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
         (b)   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall
have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. A minimum of 1 opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than 1 square inch per 1 square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than 1 foot above grade;
         (c)   The interior grade of the crawlspace below the flood protection
elevation must not be more than 2 feet below the lowest adjacent exterior
grade;
         (d)   The interior height of the crawlspace measured from the interior
grade of the crawl to the top of the foundations wall must not exceed 4 feet at
any point;
         (e)   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawlspace within a reasonable period
of time after a flood event;
         (f)   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation
must be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage; and
         (g)   Utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the
flood protection elevation.
   (C)   Non-residential buildings may be structurally dry floodproofed (in
lieu of elevation) provided a licensed professional engineer or architect
certifies that:
      (1)   Below the flood protection elevation the structure and attendant
utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood;
      (2)   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration, rate
of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy, and the
impact from debris and ice;
      (3)   Floodproofing measures will be incorporated into the building
design and operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity; and
      (4)   Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
floodproofing for the purpose of this division.
   (D)   Manufactured homes or travel trailers to be permanently installed on
site shall be:
      (1)   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation in accordance
with division (B); and
      (2)   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement by
being tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations for the Illinois
Mobile Home Tie-Down Act issued pursuant to 77 Ill. Adm. Code § 870.
   (E)   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles on site for more than 180
days per year shall meet the elevation requirements of division (D) unless the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   The vehicle must be either self-propelled or towable by a light
duty truck;
      (2)   The hitch must remain on the vehicle at all times;
      (3)   The vehicle must not be attached to external structures such as
decks and porches;
      (4)   The vehicle must be designed solely for recreation, camping,
travel, or seasonal use rather than as a permanent dwelling;
      (5)   The vehicles largest horizontal projections must be no larger than
400 square feet;
      (6)   The vehicle's wheels must remain on axles and inflated;
      (7)   Air conditioning units must be attached to the frame so as to be
safe for movement of the floodplain;
      (8)   Propane tanks as well as electrical and sewage connections must be
quick-disconnect;
      (9)   The vehicle must be licensed and titled as a recreational vehicle
or park model; and
      (10)   Must either:
         (a)   Entirely be supported by jacks; or
         (b)   Have a hitch jack permanently mounted, have the tires touching
the ground and be supported by block in a manner that will allow the block to
be easily removed by used of the hitch jack.
   (F)   Garages, sheds or other accessory structures constructed ancillary to
an existing residential use may be permitted provided the following conditions
are met:
      (1)   The garage of shed must be non-habitable;
      (2)   The garage or shed must be used only for the storage of vehicles
and tools and cannot be modified later into another use;
      (3)   The garage or shed must be located outside of the floodway or have
the appropriate state and/or federal permits;
      (4)   The garage or shed must be on a single-family lot and be accessory
to an existing principle structure on the same lot;
      (5)   Below the base flood elevation, the garage or shed must be built of
materials not susceptible to flood damage;
      (6)   All utilities, plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
must be elevated above the flood protection elevation;
      (7)   The garage or shed must have at least 1 permanent opening on each
wall not more than 1 foot above grade with 1 square inch of opening for every 1
square foot of floor area;
      (8)   The garage or shed must be less than $15,000 in market value or
replacement cost whichever is greater or less than 576 square feet (24'x 24');
      (9)   The structure shall be anchored to resist floatation and
overturning;
      (10)   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers, etc.) shall be stored above the flood protection elevation; and
      (11)   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implications.
(Ord. 2015-34, passed 8-10-2015)
§ 151.13 SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The City Council shall take into account hazards, to the extent that
they are known, in all official actions related to land management use and
development.
   (B)   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
planned unit developments, and additions to manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protections
standards of §
151.11 and §
151.12. Any proposal for such development shall include the following data:
      (1)   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain, where
the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the applicant
shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation;
      (2)   The boundary of the floodway when applicable; and
      (3)   A signed statement by a licensed professional engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the Plat Act (ILCS Ch. 765, Act 205, § 2).
   (C)   Streets, blocks lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located
and laid out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and
channels. Wherever possible the floodplains shall be included within parks or
other public grounds.
(Ord. 2015-34, passed 8-10-2015)
§ 151.14 PUBLIC HEALTH AND OTHER STANDARDS.
   (A)   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development. In
addition to the requirements of §
151.11 and §
151.12 the following standards apply:
      (1)   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants, or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation unless
such materials are stored in a floodproofed and anchored storage tank and
certified by a professional engineer or floodproofed building constructed
according to the requirements of §
151.12;
      (2)   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage;
      (3)   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters;
      (4)   New and replacement on-site sanitary sewer lines or waste disposal
systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during flooding. Manholes or other above ground
openings located below the flood protection elevation shall be watertight; and
      (5)   Construction of new or substantially unproved critical facilities
shall be located outside the limits of the floodplain. Construction of new
critical facilities shall be permissible within the floodplain if no feasible
alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated or structurally dry
floodproofed to the 500-year flood frequency elevation or 3 feet above the
level of the 100-year flood frequency elevation, whichever is greater.
Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic
substances will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes
elevated to or above the level of the base flood elevation shall be provided to
all critical facilities.
   (B)   All other activities defined as DEVELOPMENT shall be designed so as
not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages.
(Ord. 2015-34, passed 8-10-2015)
§ 151.15 CARRYING CAPACITY AND NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   For all projects involving channel modification, fill, or stream
maintenance (including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse
shall be maintained.
   (B)   In addition, the city shall notify adjacent communities in writing 30
days prior to the issuance of a permit for the alteration or relocation of the
watercourse.
(Ord. 2015-34, passed 8-10-2015)
§ 151.16 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a
specific development proposal, the applicant may apply to the Planning and
Zoning Board for a variance. The Planning and Zoning Board shall review the
applicant's request for a variance and shall submit its recommendation to the
City Council. The City Council may attach such conditions to granting of a
variance as it deems necessary to further the intent of this chapter.
   (B)   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that
all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain;
      (2)   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
      (3)   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
      (4)   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety or
creation of a nuisance;
      (5)   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities, or other
public facilities;
      (6)   The applicant's circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP; and
      (7)   All other state and federal permits have been obtained.
   (C)   The City Council shall notify an applicant in writing that a variance
from the requirements of the building protections standards of §
151.12 that would lessen the degree of protection to a building will:
      (1)   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25 per
$100 of insurance coverage;
      (2)   Increase the risk to life and property; and
      (3)   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks
and that the applicant acknowledges in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
   (D)   Historic structures. Variances to the building protection requirements
of §
151.12 which are requested in connection with reconstruction, repair, or
alteration of a historic site or historic structure as defined in HISTORIC
STRUCTURE, may be granted using criteria more permissive than the requirements
of §
151.11 and §
151.12 subject to the conditions that:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure; and
      (2)   The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure being
removed as a certified historic structure.
   (E)   Agriculture. Any variance granted for an agricultural structure shall
be decided individually based on a case by case analysis of the building's
unique circumstances. Variances granted shall meet the following conditions as
well as those criteria and conditions set forth in this chapter.
   (F)   In order to minimize flood damages during the 100-year flood and the
threat to public health and safety, the following conditions shall be included
for any variance issued for agricultural structures that are constructed at-
grade and wet-floodproofed:
      (1)   All agricultural structures considered for a variance from the
floodplain management regulations of this chapter shall demonstrate that the
varied structure is located in wide, expansive floodplain areas and no other
alternate location outside of the special flood hazard area exists for the
agricultural structure. Residential structures or animal confinement
facilities, such as farm houses, cannot be considered agricultural structures;
      (2)   Use of the varied structures must be limited to agricultural
purposes in Zone A only as identified on the community's Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM);
      (3)   For any new or substantially damaged agricultural structures, the
exterior and interior building components and elements (i.e. foundation, wall
framing, exterior and interior finishes, flooring, etc.) below the base flood
elevation, must be built with flood-resistant materials in accordance with §
151.12;
      (4)   The agricultural structures must be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structures in accordance with §
151.12. All of the building's structural components must be capable of
resisting specific flood-related forces including hydrostatic, buoyancy, and
hydrodynamic and debris impact forces;
      (5)   Any mechanical, electrical, or other utility equipment must be
located above the base flood elevation or floodproofed so that they are
contained within a watertight, floodproofed enclosure that is capable of
resisting damage dining flood conditions in accordance with §
151.12;
      (6)   The NFIP requires that enclosure or foundation walls, subject to
the 100-year flood, contain openings that will permit the automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters in accordance with §
151.12(B);
      (7)   The agricultural structures must comply with the floodplain
management floodway provisions of §
151.11. No variances may be issued for agricultural structures within any
designated floodway;
      (8)   Wet-floodproofing construction techniques must be reviewed and
approved by the Floodplain Administrator and a registered professional engineer
or architect prior to the issuance of any floodplain development permit for
construction; and
      (9)   Upon application for a variance, a public hearing shall be held by
the Planning and Zoning Board. No less than 15 days and no more than 30 days
notice shall be given in a newspaper of general circulation in the city. The
Planning and Zoning Board shall review the request for a variance and shall
submit its advisory opinion to the City Council. The City Council shall fix a
reasonable time for the consideration of the variance request. Every decision
of the City Council shall be by resolution, each of which shall contain a full
record of the findings of the City Council in a particular case. Each
resolution shall be filled with the City Clerk.
(Ord. 2015-34, passed 8-10-2015)
§ 151.17 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the floodplain will be free
from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on the part of
the city or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that results
from proper reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision made
lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 2015-34, passed 8-10-2015)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain or
failure to comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed
to be a violation of this chapter. Upon due investigation, the Floodplain
Manager may determine that a violation of the minimum standards of this chapter
exists. The Floodplain Manager shall notify the owner in writing of such
violation.
   (B)   If such owner fails after 10 days notice to correct the violation:
      (1)   The city shall make application to the circuit court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order as
the court deems necessary to secure compliance with the chapter;
      (2)   Any person who violates this chapter shall upon conviction thereof
be fined not less than $50 or more than $750 for each offense;
      (3)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues; and
      (4)   The city shall record a notice of violation on the title of the
property.
   (C)   The Floodplain Manager shall inform the owner that any such violation
is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore may cause
coverage by a Standard Flood Insurance Policy to be suspended.
   (D)   The Floodplain Manager is authorized to issue an order requiring the
suspension of the subject development. The stop-work order shall be in writing,
indicate the reason for the issuance, and shall order the action, if necessary,
to resolve the circumstances requiring the stop-work order. The stop-work order
constitutes a suspension of the permit.
   (E)   No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or revoked
until a hearing is held by the Planning and Zoning Board. Written notice of
such hearing shall be served on the permittee and shall state:
      (1)   The grounds for the complaint, reasons for suspension or
revocation; and
      (2)   The time and place of the hearing.
   (F)   At such hearing the permittee shall be given an opportunity to present
evidence on their behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the Planning and
Zoning Board shall determine whether the permit shall be suspended or revoked.
   (G)   Nothing herein shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 2015-34, passed 8-10-2015)
CHAPTER 152: LAND SUBDIVISION AND DEVELOPMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Title
   
152.002   Jurisdiction
   
152.003   Policy
   
152.004   Purpose
   
152.005   Purpose of planned unit development regulations
   
152.006   Interpretation, conflict
   
152.007   Saving provision
   
152.008   Rules of construction
   
152.009   Definitions
Administration
   
152.020   Amendments
   
152.021   Conditions
   
152.022   Resubdivision of land
   
152.023   Vacation of plats
   
152.024   Waivers
   
152.025   Obligation to comply
   
152.026   Land trusts; disclosures of beneficial interests
   
152.027   Timing (subdivision flow chart)
Submission and Review Procedures
   
152.040   Pre-application conference
   
152.041   Preliminary plan
   
152.042   Public improvement engineering plans and specifications
   
152.043   Public improvement installation and inspection procedure
   
152.044   Final plat submission and review procedure
   
152.045   Final development plans for planned unit developments
   
152.046   Payment, performance and workmanship guarantees
   
152.047   Submission of record drawings
   
152.048   Acceptance for maintenance
   
152.049   Final security release
Form and Content
   
152.060   Concept plan
   
152.061   Preliminary plans and supporting material
   
152.062   Public improvement engineering plans and specifications
   
152.063   Final plat
   
152.064   Final development plans for planned unit developments
   
152.065   Final plat public improvement payment, performance and workmanship
bond
   
152.066   Record drawings
Specific Regulations for Planned Unit Developments
   
152.075   Permitted uses in planned unit developments
   
152.076   Land use intensity ratings and related requirements for residential
planned unit developments
   
152.077   Specific regulations for commercial planned unit developments
   
152.078   Specific regulations for industrial planned unit developments
Erosion and Sediment Control
   
152.090   General applicability
   
152.091   Authority of the Superintendent of City Services
   
152.092   Standards for the design and maintenance of control measures for soil
erosion, sediment, and stormwater
   
152.093   Maintenance of erosion, sediment, and temporary stormwater control
measures
   
152.094   Permanent ground surface cover
   
152.095   Liability
   
152.096   Responsibility of permittee
   
152.097   Action upon noncompliance
   
152.098   Notice of violation
   
152.099   Stop-work orders
   
152.100   Appeals
   
152.101   Enforcement of notice of violation and stop-work orders
   
152.102   Effective date
 
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, cited and referred to as the Land Subdivision
Code of the City of Monticello, Illinois, the city’s subdivision regulations,
or this chapter.
§ 152.002 JURISDICTION.
   These regulations shall apply to every subdivision (as defined herein)
occurring inside the corporate limits of the City of Monticello, Illinois or
occurring in the unincorporated areas within 1-1/2 miles from the city’s
corporate limits, as those limits exist at the time the subdivision occurs;
provided, however, that if the majority of the subdivision, as shown on the
preliminary plat thereof, is situated further than 1-1/2 miles from the
corporate limits, the city shall apply to the subdivision the subdivision
standards of the County of Piatt.
§ 152.003 POLICY.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city to consider
subdivisions and planned unit developments and the subsequent development
thereof as subject to the control of the city pursuant to the city
comprehensive plan for the orderly, planned, efficient, and economical
development of the city.
   (B)   Land to be subdivided or developed as a planned unit development shall
be of a character that it can be used safely for building purposes without
danger to health or peril from fire, flood, or other menace, and land should
not be subdivided or developed as a planned unit development until available
public facilities and improvements exist and proper provision has been made for
drainage, water, sewerage, and capital improvements such as schools, parks,
recreation facilities, transportation facilities, and improvements. The
existing and proposed public improvements shall conform to and be properly
related to the proposals shown on the city comprehensive plan, official map,
and it is intended that this chapter should supplement and facilitate the
enforcement of the provisions and standards contained in
Chapter 151 (Flood Hazard Control); Title V (utilities); and
Chapter 153 (Zoning Regulations) of this city code, as amended, and in the city
comprehensive plan, official map and the capital improvements program of the
city.
§ 152.004 PURPOSE.
   Because every subdivision of land within the jurisdiction of these
regulations is or may become a part of the city and because each has or may
have an impact on services provided by the city, as well as on services
provided by other governmental units serving the community, this chapter is
adopted for the following purposes:
   (A)   To protect, provide, and promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare of the city;
   (B)   To guide the future growth and development of the city, in accordance
with the comprehensive plan;
   (C)   To provide for adequate light, air, and privacy; to secure safety from
fire, flood, and other danger; and to prevent overcrowding of the land and
undue congestion of population;
   (D)   To protect the character and the social and economic stability of all
parts of the city and to encourage the orderly and beneficial development of
all parts of the community;
   (E)   To protect and conserve the value of land throughout the city and the
value of buildings and improvements upon the land, and to minimize the
conflicts among the uses of land and buildings;
   (F)   To guide public and private policy and action in order to provide
adequate and efficient transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks,
playgrounds, recreation, and other public requirements and facilities;
   (G)   To provide the most beneficial relationship between the uses of land
and buildings and the circulation of traffic throughout the city, having
particular regard to the avoidance of congestion in the streets and highways,
and the pedestrian traffic movements appropriate to the various uses of land
and buildings, and to provide for the proper location and width of streets and
building setback lines;
   (H)   To establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for
subdivisions and resubdivisions, in order to further the orderly layout and use
of land, and to ensure proper legal descriptions and monumenting of subdivided
land;
   (I)   To ensure that public facilities are available and will have a
sufficient capacity to serve the proposed subdivision and areas reasonably
anticipated to be served by the facilities;
   (J)   To prevent the pollution of air, streams, and ponds; to assure the
adequacy of drainage facilities; to safeguard the water table; and to encourage
the wise use and management of natural resources throughout the city in order
to preserve the integrity, stability, and beauty of the community and the value
of the land;
   (K)   To preserve the natural beauty and topography of the city and to
ensure appropriate development with regard to these natural features; and
   (L)   To provide for open spaces through the most efficient design and
layout of the land, including the use of average density in providing for
minimum width and area of lots, while preserving the density of land as
established in the city’s zoning ordinance.
§ 152.005 PURPOSE OF PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The purpose of the planned unit development regulations is to
encourage and allow more creative and imaginative design for land development
than is possible under the more conventional zoning regulations. The planned
unit development also provides for more efficient use of the land and thus may
result in more economical land development. Preservation of natural site
qualities, better urban amenities, more open spaces, and a higher quality
project are also intended results of the planned unit development process.
   (B)   The process is intended to be an alternative to the conventional
subdivision of land and lot by lot development contemplated by the subdivision
regulations of this code and the zoning district regulations of
Chapter 153 of this city code, as amended. The following objectives may be
attained through the use of the planned unit development process:
      (1)   A maximum choice in the types of environment available to the
public by allowing a development that would not be possible under the strict
application of the other sections of this chapter and
Chapter 153 of this city code, as amended;
      (2)   Permanent preservation of common open space and recreation areas
and facilities;
      (3)   A pattern of development to preserve natural vegetation,
topographic, and geologic features;
      (4)   The prevention and/or control of soil erosion and surface flooding;
      (5)   A creative approach to the use of land and related physical
features that results in better development and design and the construction of
aesthetic amenities;
      (6)   An efficient use of the land resulting in more economic networks of
utilities, streets, schools, public grounds and buildings and other facilities;
      (7)   A land use which promotes the public health, safety, comfort,
morals, and welfare;
      (8)   A combination and coordination of architectural styles, building
forms, and building relationships with a possible mixing of different urban
uses in an innovative overall design;
      (9)   Innovations in residential, commercial, and industrial development
so that growing demands of the population may be met by greater variety in
type, design, and layout of buildings and by the conservation and more
efficient use of open space auxiliary to the buildings;
      (10)   The combination of a number of review and approval procedures into
a single plan review and approval process; and
      (11)   The use of public input and participation in the design and
development of innovative and creative land use proposals.
   (C)   The planned unit development is intended to provide for projects
incorporating a single type of a variety of related uses which are planned,
developed, and maintained as a unit. The planned unit development should
provide amenities not otherwise required by law and often establishes
facilities and open space greater than the minimum required by code. This
development may consist of subdivided lots, provided that the platted lots are
maintained in unified control with unsubdivided property maintained in separate
ownership but unified control.
   (D)   The planned unit development may permit the transfer of dwelling units
from one portion of the tract to another and will permit the clustering of
dwelling units in 1 or more locations upon the tract. The uses permitted within
the planned unit development shall be the same as those authorized in the
zoning district in which it is located, unless otherwise provided by the
allowable exceptions under
Chapter 153 of this city code, as amended.
   (E)   The unique and substantially different character of planned unit
developments requires that they be processed under a special plan review
procedure. Planned unit developments are of a different character than
conventional subdivisions or other projects requiring site plan review,
requiring the establishment herein of specific and additional procedures,
standards, and exceptions to govern the recommendations of the Planning
Commission and the action by the City Council.
   (F)   A person, by choosing to develop property as a planned unit
development, elects to submit a contemplated development proposal to a
legislative and discretionary review by the Planning Commission and City
Council. It is the intent of this code that the planned unit development review
procedure be conducted as an alternative to subdivision review as under this
code. All planned unit developments shall be designed in a manner as to conform
to the provisions of the city major street plans, trunk sewer extension plans,
water distribution system plans, and storm drainage plans.
§ 152.006 INTERPRETATION, CONFLICT.
   (A)   Interpretation. In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of these regulations shall be held to be the minimum requirements
for the promotion of the public health, safety, and general welfare. These
regulations shall be construed broadly to promote the purposes for which they
are adopted.
   (B)   Conflict.
      (1)   Public provisions. These regulations are not intended to interfere
with, abrogate, or annul any other provision of law except as provided in these
regulations. Where any provision of these regulations imposes restrictions
different from those imposed by any other provision of these regulations or any
other ordinance, rule, or regulation, or other provision of law, the provision
which is more restrictive or imposes higher standards shall control.
      (2)   Private provisions.  These regulations are not intended to abrogate
any easement, covenant, or other private agreement or restriction, provided
that where the provisions of these regulations are more restrictive or impose
higher standards or regulations than the easement, covenant, or other private
agreement or restriction, the requirements of these regulations shall govern.
§ 152.007 SAVING PROVISION.
   This chapter shall not be construed as abating any action now pending under
or by virtue of prior existing subdivision regulations, or as discontinuing,
abating, modifying, or altering any penalty accruing or about to accrue, or as
affecting the liability of any person, firm, or corporation, or as waiving any
right of the city under any section or provision existing at the time of
adoption of this chapter, or as vacating or annulling any rights obtained by
any person, firm, or corporation, by lawful action of the city, except it shall
be expressly provided for in this chapter.
§ 152.008 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   The language set forth in this chapter shall be interpreted in accordance
with the following rules of construction, unless the context clearly requires a
different construction.
   (A)   The singular includes the plural and the plural the singular;
   (B)   The present tense includes the past and future, and the future
includes the present;
   (C)   The words “should” or “shall” are mandatory, while the word “may” is
permissive;
   (D)   Terms connoting a particular gender include each and every other
gender;
   (E)   Whenever a word or term defined hereinafter appears in the text of
this chapter, its meaning shall be construed as set forth in the definition
thereof, and any word appearing in the parenthesis between a word and its
definition shall be construed in the same sense as that word;
   (F)   All words and terms not defined herein shall be construed in their
generally accepted meaning; and
   (G)   The terms “corporate authority,” “Mayor and Council,” “City Council”
and “Council” all mean the Mayor and City Council of the City of Monticello.
§ 152.009 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and terms, whenever they occur in this chapter, shall be
interpreted as herein defined.
   ABUTTING (CONTIGUOUS, ADJACENT). To have 1 or more common boundary lines or
district lines.
   ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW COMMITTEE. A committee comprised of the Mayor of the
City of Monticello, the Superintendent of City Services, the City Attorney, and
the City Engineer.
   ALLEY.  A public right-of-way which is less than 30 feet wide and affords a
secondary means of access to abutting property. Frontage on an ALLEY shall not
be construed as satisfying the requirements related to frontage on a public
street.
   AREA, GROSS. The entire area within the lot lines of the property proposed
for subdivision/development, including any areas to be dedicated/reserved for
street and alley right-of-way and for the public uses.
   BASEMENT. The story of a building which is partly below and partly above
grade, and having at least 1/2 its height above grade.
   BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a street or streets and any
combination of boundary lines of public or institutionally owned lands,
railroad rights-of-way, rivers and lakes and/or other lines of demarcation. A
BLOCK may be located in part within an incorporated city or town.
   BUILDING. Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any
use or occupancy.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. The individual occupying that position on the staff of
the City of Monticello, Illinois, or his or her designated representative.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE.  A line within a lot, or other parcel of land, so
designated on the preliminary plan and the final plat, which denotes the area
between such line and the adjacent street right-of-way line where an enclosed
building, and other obstructions are prohibited, except those obstructions
permitted by the city zoning regulations, as amended.
   CELLAR. The portion of a building which is partly or completely below grade
and having at least 1/2 of its height below grade.
   CENTERLINE.
      (1)   The centerline of any right-of-way having uniform width;
      (2)   The original centerline, where a right-of-way has been widened
irregularly; or
      (3)   The new centerline, whenever a road has been relocated.
   CITY. The City of Monticello, Illinois,
   CITY CLERK. The City Clerk of Monticello, Illinois, or his or her duly
authorized representative.
   CITY PLANNER.  The individual occupying that position on the staff of the
City of Monticello, Illinois, or his or her duly authorized representative.
   COLLECTION TILE SYSTEM. A tile system serving individual lots for the
purpose of receiving water discharged from sources such as footing tiles.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The composite of the functional and geographic elements
of the comprehensive plan of the city or any segment thereof in the form of
plans, maps, charts, textual materials, and the official map, as adopted by the
City Council.
   CROSS SLOPE. The degree of inclination measured across pavements rather than
in the direction traffic moves on the pavement.
   DEDICATE. Transfer of ownership of right-of-way, parcel of land or
improvement to this municipality or other public or quasi-public entity without
compensation.
   DEVELOPER. See owner, as defined herein.
   DEVELOPMENT.  The act of changing a tract of land and/or the state of a
tract of land after its function has been purposefully changed by humans,
including but not limited to construction of structures on the land and
alterations to the land, except grading that does not alter the natural flow of
stormwater.
   DRAINAGE WAY, IMPROVED. A portion of a right-of-way or easement used or
intended principally for storm, surface or ground water drainage which meets or
exceeds the design and construction standards for public drainage ways.
   DRAINAGE WAY, UNIMPROVED. A portion of a right-of-way or easement used or
intended principally for storm, surface or ground water drainage which does not
meet or exceed the design and/or construction standards for public drainage
ways.
   DRIVEWAY. A private access way for motor vehicles between a public or
private street and 1 or more structures or off-street parking areas.
   DWELLING.  A building designed or used principally for residential
occupancy, including without limitation single-family dwellings, 2-family
dwellings, and multiple-family dwellings.
   EASEMENT. A quantity of land set aside over or under which a liberty,
privilege, or advantage in land is dedicated and is distinct from ownership of
the land. May be granted either to the public, a particular person, a utility
company, or a combination thereof.
   ENGINEER. A licensed professional engineer licensed by the State of
Illinois.
   ESCROW DEPOSIT. A deposit in cash or other approved securities to assure the
completion of improvements within a subdivision or planned unit development.
   EXCAVATION.  Any act by which organic matter, earth, sand, gravel, rock, or
any other similar material is cut into, dug, quarried, uncovered, removed,
displaced, relocated or bulldozed, and shall include the conditions resulting
therefrom.
   FAMILY.  Two or more persons related to each other by blood, marriage, or
legal adoption, living together as a single housekeeping unit; or a group of
not more than 3 persons, who need not be related by blood, marriage, or legal
adoption, living together as a single housekeeping unit and occupying a single
dwelling unit. FAMILY shall also include members of a service dependent
population living in community living facilities as herein defined. Any foster
children residing with such person or persons shall also be deemed to be part
of the FAMILY.
   FIELD CONSTRUCTION OBSERVER. An individual, company, or firm authorized by
the certifying or design engineer to observe and make detailed inspection of
any and all portions of the work and/or materials installed as to ensure
compliance with the Manual of Practice for the Design of Public Improvements in
the City of Monticello.
   FILL. Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock or any other material is
deposited, placed, replaced, pushed, dumped, pulled, transported, or moved by
humans to a new location, and shall include the conditions resulting therefrom.
   FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN.  A final plan that is required to be submitted to
the city as specified in the planned unit development regulations, as set forth
in §§
152.075 through
152.078.
   FINAL PLAT.  A map or plan of a subdivision and any accompanying material as
described hereafter.
   FINAL PUNCH LIST. A tabulation of deficiencies requiring corrective action
prior to final acceptance of a project.
   FLOOD. A general or temporary condition of inundation of normally dry land
areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid accumulation or the runoff of
surface waters from any source.
   FRONTAGE.  The measure of lineal contiguity between a lot or portion thereof
and another lot, public street, alley, or public way.
   FRONTAGE ROAD. A local street which is parallel to and either adjacent to or
within the right-of- way of an arterial street.
   GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION SYSTEM (G.I.S.). A computer system maintained by the
city and/or Piatt County that stores and links nongraphic attributes or
geographically referenced data with graphic map features to allow a wide range
of information processing and display operations, as well as map production,
analysis, and modeling.
   ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (I.D.O.T). The division of state
government identified by this name.
   LONG-TERM LAND LEASE. The leasing of all or a portion of a tract of land for
a period of time of 10 years or more for new development where sale of the
tract of land would obligate the owner to comply with this chapter of this city
code.
   LOT. A quantity of land capable of being described with such certainties
that its location and boundaries may be established and which is designated by
its owner or developer as land to be conveyed, used, or developed as a unit, or
which has been conveyed, used, or developed as a unit, including any easements
appurtenant thereto. The LOT shall have frontage on public or private street.
   LOT AREA. The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the vertical planes
through front, side, and rear lot lines.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot located at the intersection of 2 or more streets. A lot
abutting on curved street or streets shall be considered a CORNER LOT if
straight lines drawn from the foremost points of the side lot lines to the
foremost point of the lot meet at an interior angle less than 135 degrees.
   LOT DEPTH. Any distance between the midpoints of straight lines connecting
the foremost points of the side lot lines in front and the rearmost points of
the side lot lines in the rear.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot which has a pair of opposite lot lines along 2
substantially parallel streets.
   LOT, INTERIOR.  A lot which faces on 1 street or with opposite sides on 2
streets
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the office
of the Piatt County Recorder of Deeds, or a lot or parcel described by metes
and bounds, the description of which has been legally recorded.
   LOT, OUT. A lot depicted on a preliminary plan or final plat which does not
meet the requirements of this code for lots of record and which may not be used
for construction of habitable buildings or parking lots.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot other than a corner lot with frontage on more than 1
street. THROUGH LOTS abutting 2 streets may be referred to as DOUBLE FRONTAGE
LOTS.
   MANUAL. A document entitled A Manual of Practice for the Design of Public
Improvements in the City of Monticello.
   MEDIAN. An area between opposite traffic lanes of a street or roadway, or an
area between 2 parallel streets or roadways.
   NO-ACCESS STRIP. An area at least 3 feet wide along a lot line within which
no vehicular driveways shall be permitted.
   OFFICIAL COMPREHENSIVE PLAN (COMPREHENSIVE PLAN). The composite of the
functional and geographic elements of the comprehensive plan of the city, or
any segment thereof, in the form of plans, maps, charts, textual materials and
the official map, as adopted by the City Council.
   OFFICIAL MAP.  The map adopted by the City Council as part of the
comprehensive plan, which is designated OFFICIAL MAP in that plan.
   OFFICIAL ZONING MAP. See zoning map, as defined herein.
   OUTLET. See lot, out, as defined herein.
   OWNER.  Any person, firm, association, partnership, private corporation,
public or quasi-public corporation, or a combination of any of them, or other
legal entity having sufficient proprietary interest in the land sought to be
subdivided or developed to commence and maintain proceedings under the
provisions of this code.
   PARCEL. All contiguous land used or legally described and recorded as a
single unit.
   PARKING LOT. An area not on public right-of-way, exclusive of driveways,
which is used for the parking of motor vehicles. For purposes of computing the
number of parking spaces in a lot, all areas used for parking under unified
control on the same or contiguous parcels of land shall be considered as 1 lot.
   PARKING PAD. An off-street parking area adjacent to a driveway which
provides parking for a single motor vehicle.
   PARKWAY. The area of land within a street right-of-way which is located
between the back of the curb and the right-of-way line.
   PAVEMENT.  The portion of a street designated for vehicular use measured
from face of curb to face of curb, or edge to edge of paved street surface
where there are not curbs.
   PEDESTRIAN WAY. A right-of-way or easement across or within a block
designated for pedestrian use.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.  A lot or group of lots which is developed as a
unit under single ownership or unified control, which includes 1 or more
principal buildings or uses, and is processed under the PLANNED UNIT
DEVELOPMENT procedure of this chapter of this city code.
   PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD.  The Planning and Zoning Board of the City of
Monticello, Illinois.
   PRELIMINARY PLAN.  A tentative map or plan of a proposed subdivision as
described in this chapter of the city code.
   PROJECT. All of the various parts of proposed construction submitted to the
city for approval.
   PROPERTY LINE.  The lines bounding a lot or parcel and delineating the land
in individual ownership.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS. Public improvements include streets, sidewalks, public
utilities and other structures, fixtures or land appurtenances which are or are
intended to be dedicated to the city and the public generally.
   RECORD DRAWINGS (DOCUMENTS). A compiled set of documents which can consist
of specifications and/or drawings (furnished by the city, contractor(s), other
sources, and the like) showing reported location(s) of work for the completed
project.
   RESERVE.  To set aside a parcel of land in anticipation of its acquisition
by this municipality (or other government entity) for public purposes.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land dedicated to be used by the public for
vehicular and/or pedestrian passage; storm, surface or ground water drainage;
or public utility placement.
   ROADWAY. A portion of a right-of-way designated for motorized vehicular use.
   SETBACK. The minimum longitudinal distance between the building line or
structure and the related front, side, or rear property line.
   SETBACK LINE. A line shown on a plat delineating the setback.
   SIDEWALK. A portion of a right-of-way used or intended principally for
pedestrian passage which meets or exceeds the design standards for public
SIDEWALKS. 
   STORY. That portion of a building included between the upper surface of a
floor and the upper surface of the floor or roof next above. A basement shall
be counted as a STORY and a cellar shall not be counted as a STORY.
   STORY HEIGHT. The vertical distance from top to top of 2 successive tiers of
beams or finished floor surfaces, and, for the topmost story, from the top of
the floor finish to the top of the ceiling joists, or, where there is not a
ceiling, to the top of the roof rafters.
   STREET.  That portion of a right-of-way used and maintained as a principal
means of access to adjacent lots of record or property, which meets the design
and construction standards for the classification it holds.
   STREET, CUL-DE-SAC. A local street with 1 outlet which ends with a
turnaround.
   STREET, EXTERIOR. A street on the perimeter of a subdivision.
   STREET, INTERIOR. A street entirely within the confines of a subdivision.
   STREET, PRIVATE. A street owned and maintained by private entity.
   STREET, PUBLIC. A street owned and maintained by the public.
   STREET STANDARDS AND CLASSIFICATIONS. The current classifications and
standards as described in the Illinois Department of Transportation “Design and
Environment Manual” as modified by the City Council pertaining to requirements
of streets.
   STRUCTURE.  Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the
ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground. Among
other things, STRUCTURES include buildings, walls, and signs.
   SUBDIVIDE. To SUBDIVIDE means:
      (1)   The division of land or a lot into 2 or more lots, parcels, or
tracts;
      (2)   The dedication of streets, ways, or other areas for use of the
public;
      (3)   Any development of property which, according to city codes,
necessitates the extension of public utilities to the property by main or by
service connection;
      (4)   Any development of property which requires that a new street be
constructed;
      (5)   Any development of property that meets the definition of a planned
unit development as defined in this code; and
      (6)   The granting of a long-term land lease for new development.
   SUBDIVISION. The configuration of lots of record, outlots, public rights-of-
way and public improvements which result from subdividing land in accordance
with the procedures, requirements, and standards of this code.
   SUBDIVISION MINOR. A subdivision of land into 4 or fewer lots which:
      (1)   Does not require, under these subdivision regulations, the design
or construction of any public improvements, other than utility service
connections and sidewalks;
      (2)   Is in conformity with the city comprehensive plan and Chapter 153
(zoning regulations) of this code or County of Piatt zoning ordinance,
whichever is applicable;
      (3)   Is otherwise in conformity with all applicable laws and
regulations, unless previously waived by the entity with jurisdiction;
      (4)   Is located within the city, or is otherwise the subject of an
annexation agreement which requires and sets forth the condition of its future
annexation to the City of Monticello; and
      (5)   Contains lots, all of which front on an existing street or roadway,
and not involving extension of any new street, roadway, or easement of access.
   SUPERINTENDENT OF CITY SERVICES.  The individual occupying that position on
the staff of the City of Monticello, or his or her duly authorized
representative.
   TRAIL. That portion of a right-of-way physically separated from motorized
vehicles and intended for nonmotorized transportation and recreational uses.
   UNIFIED CONTROL. The combination of 2 or more tracts of land, either through
unified ownership or other arrangements, wherein each owner has agreed to allow
use and develop the owner’s tracts as a single lot under the provisions of the
ordinance applicable to planned unit developments.
   USE. The purpose or activity for which the land, or building thereon, is
designed, arranged, or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained, and
shall include any manner of performance of that activity with respect to the
regulations of the zoning chapter.
   VACATE. To terminate the legal existence of a right-of-way or easement or
subdivision and to so note on the final plat recorded with the Piatt County
Recorder of Deeds.
   WAIVER.  Deviation, relaxation, adjustment, or modification of a requirement
of this code.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.  The City Building Inspector for the City of
Monticello, Illinois, or his or her designated representative.
   ZONING MAP. The map adopted by the City Council showing all the zoning
district boundaries within the City of Monticello, Illinois.
(Am. Ord. 2010-44, passed 9-27-2010; Am. Ord. 2014-36, passed 9-8-2014)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.020 AMENDMENTS.
   The Planning and Zoning Board may from time to time recommend to the City
Council amendments to these regulations, which shall then be approved or
disapproved by the City Council.
(Am. Ord. 2014-36, passed 9-8-2014)
§ 152.021 CONDITIONS.
   In recommending approval to the Monticello City Council of variances,
exceptions, or waivers of conditions, the Planning and Zoning Board may
recommend such conditions as will, in its judgment, secure substantially the
purposes described in §
152.004.
(Am. Ord. 2014-36, passed 9-8-2014)
§ 152.022 RESUBDIVISION OF LAND.
   Resubdivision of a lot or an outlot of record in an approved subdivision
shall be permitted only if the resubdivided lots so formed shall meet all the
zoning, building, and other regulations. Utilities must be provided to each
resubdivided lot as per the city’s standards. The approval of the resubdivision
shall be subjected to the same process as for a new subdivision.
§ 152.023 VACATION OF PLATS.
   In accordance with state law, any plat or part thereof may be vacated by the
owner of the parcel, at any time before the sale of any lot therein, by written
vacation instrument to which a copy of the plat is attached. If there are
public service facilities in any street, or other public way, or easement shown
on the plat, the instrument shall reserve to the city or other public entity or
public utility owning those facilities the property, rights-of-way, and
easements necessary for continuing public service by means of those facilities
and for maintaining or reconstructing the same. If there are no public service
facilities in any street or easement, then those streets and easements shall be
vacated without any reservation for utilities. The vacation instrument shall be
approved by the City Council in the same manner as plats of subdivision, and
shall also be approved by the public utilities involved. In the case of platted
parcels wherein any lots have been sold, the written instrument must also be
signed by all the owners of the lots in the parcel. In cases where a public
right-of-way, street, or alley is to be vacated, a public hearing on the
vacation shall be held by the City Council, prior to the City Council approving
or disapproving the vacation.
§ 152.024 WAIVERS.
   (A)   General. Where the City Council finds that extraordinary hardships or
practical difficulties may result from strict compliance with this chapter and/
or the purposes of the regulations in this chapter may be served to a greater
extent by an alternative proposal, the City Council may approve waivers to
these subdivision regulations so that substantial justice may be done and the
public interest secured; provided that the waiver shall not have the effect of
nullifying the intent and purpose of these regulations; and further provided
that the City Council shall not approve waivers unless it shall make findings
based upon evidence presented to it in each specific case that:
      (1)   The granting of the waiver will not be detrimental to the public
safety, health, or welfare or injurious to other property located in the
vicinity of the property in question;
      (2)   The conditions upon which the request for a waiver is based are
unique to the property for which the waiver is sought and are not applicable
generally to other property;
      (3)   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape or
topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular
hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience,
if the strict letter of the regulations in this code is carried out; and
      (4)   The waivers will not in any manner vary the provisions of Chapter
153 of this code (zoning regulations), as amended, unless a zoning variance
change or conditional use has previously been granted by the City Council.
   (B)    Conditions. In approving waivers, the City Council may require such
conditions as will, in its judgment, secure substantially the objectives of the
standards or requirements of this code.
   (C)   Procedures. A petition for any waiver shall be submitted in writing by
the owner at the time when the preliminary plan is filed for the consideration
of the Planning and Zoning Board. The petition shall state fully the grounds
for the application and all facts relied upon by the petitioner. The Planning
and Zoning Board may recommend waivers from the regulations of this code in
specific cases which, in the Planning and Zoning Board’s opinion, meet the
standards for granting waivers as provided in this section.
(Am. Ord. 2014-36, passed 9-8-2014)
§ 152.025 OBLIGATION TO COMPLY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to subdivide
any land within the corporate limits of the City of Monticello or any
unincorporated area within 1-1/2 miles of the city’s corporate limits without
following the procedures, satisfying the requirements of and meeting or
exceeding the standards specified in this code; provided, however, the
provisions of this code shall not apply in the following instances:
      (1)   Conveyances of a lot comprising and containing all contiguous
property owned by a person, group of persons, firm, or entity, as a single
parcel, to some other person, group of persons, firm, or entity;
      (2)   To the offer, sale, or conveyance of 1 or more lots of record;
      (3)   To the sale or exchange of parcels of land between the owners of
adjoining and contiguous property which, if subject to the requirements of this
code, would not necessitate the dedication of public right-of-way or
installation of public utilities; provided that the transfer shall not create a
lot which does not meet minimum requirements of this code;
      (4)   To conveyances made to correct discrepancies in prior conveyances;
      (5)   To conveyances of land relating to the dedication of land for
public use or interest relating to or arising from the vacation of land
impressed with a public use; and
      (6)   To conveyances of land, the principal use of which is presently
agricultural and intended to be used principally for future agricultural
purposes.
   (B)   In addition, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation
to develop, build on, use, or improve any lot without dedicating the street
right-of-way as would have been required by this chapter, if the lot had been
subdivided from a larger parcel immediately prior to the development,
construction, use, or improvement.
   (C)   The obligation to comply with this subdivision code will be waived by
the city where units are created pursuant to the Illinois Condominium Property
Act being ILCS Ch. 765, Act 605, except where “foot-print” lots are created
which are equal to or larger than the individual units and a fee interest is
conveyed in the underlying property.
Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.026 LAND TRUSTS; DISCLOSURES OF BENEFICIAL INTERESTS.
   Whenever any trustee of a land trust, or any beneficiary or beneficiaries of
a land trust, makes application to the City of Monticello for approval of a
subdivision under this code relating to the land which is the subject of the
trust, the application shall identify each beneficiary of the land trust by
name and address and define his or her interest therein as required by ILCS
Chapter 765, Act 405. All these applications shall be verified by the applicant
in his, her, or its capacity as trustee, or by the beneficiary as a beneficial
owner of interest in the land trust. If the application is filed by a body
politic or corporate entity, it shall be verified by a duly authorized officer
of the body politic or other corporate entity for whom the application is made.
These verifications shall be in the form of 1 of the examples cited in Appendix
C attached to the ordinance establishing this chapter and hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in full herein.
§ 152.027 TIMING (SUBDIVISION FLOW CHART).
   Note: In order to view this PDF link you must have Adobe Reader.
Please click here to view the Subdivision Flow Chart.
SUBMISSION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES
§ 152.040 PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE.
   (A)   Prior to the submission of a preliminary plan as required by §
152.041 or a planned unit development application pursuant to §
153.081, the owner or developer of a proposed subdivision or planned unit
development shall prepare a concept plan of the proposed subdivision or planned
unit development and attend a regular Planning and Zoning Board meeting for the
purpose of reviewing the concept plan. The Planning and Zoning Board may invite
other individuals or entities as it deems appropriate. The purpose of this pre-
application conference is to review the concept plan, which is a preliminary
concept and which may, after the pre-application conference, be then refined by
the owner or developer into a preliminary plan as required by §
152.041 or a planned unit development application pursuant to §
153.081.
   (B)   This concept plan shall be drawn to engineering scale and shall show
the conceptual layout of the proposed subdivision or planned unit development,
including the general layout of streets, drainage, sewerage, and land uses and
the present location of major natural features such as streams and lakes.
   (C)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall advise the owner or developer at
the pre-application conference whether the concept plan is consistent with the
subdivision principles of planning defined in the Manual of Practice for the
Design of Public Improvements of the City of Monticello and with the official
comprehensive plan, zoning code, this code and other applicable codes of the
city in order to assist the owner or developer prior to the preparation of the
preliminary plan required by §
152.041 or a planned unit development application pursuant to §
153.081. This pre-application conference may be waived by mutual agreement
between the staff and the owner or developer.
(Am. Ord. 2013-43, passed 7-22-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-36, passed 9-8-2014)
§ 152.041 PRELIMINARY PLAN.
   Before subdividing any land subject to requirements of this code, the owner
or developer shall comply with the following:
   (A)   Submission.  The owner or developer shall submit to the Superintendent
of City Services 18 full- size paper copies of a preliminary plan in the form
and providing all information required by §
152.061 for review prior to submission of preliminary plan.
   (B)   Filing fee. An application for approval of a preliminary subdivision
plan shall be filed with the Superintendent of City Services and be accompanied
by a fee receipt reflecting payment to the City Treasurer of the appropriate
following fee as set forth in
Chapter 153, city zoning regulations. In addition to the filing fee, the owner
or developer shall pay to the City of Monticello the cost for the city to
publish a public notice of any hearing on the preliminary plan of the
subdivision required to be published in a newspaper of general circulation in
the city. This cost shall be paid to the city prior to the hearing. Failure to
pay this cost prior to the hearing shall result in the cancellation of the
hearing. Subdivisions within a drainage district must also pay an additional
fee assessed by the County Soil and Water Conservation District.
   (C)   Scheduling and notification of public hearing. Upon receipt of a
preliminary plan and required filing fee, the Superintendent of City Services
shall schedule and give notice of a legislative public hearing before the
Planning and Zoning Board in the manner prescribed by division (F) of this
section. The legislative public hearing shall be scheduled not later than at
the first regularly scheduled Planning and Zoning Board meeting occurring more
than 15 days after the filing date of the preliminary plan.
      (1)   The notice shall contain:
         (a)   The name of the proposed subdivision and its address or commonly
known location and legal description;
         (b)   A statement of what the petition is requesting the Planning and
Zoning Board to make recommendations for approval;
         (c)   A statement of where copies of the petition, the preliminary
plan or preliminary development plan and all other supporting documentation can
be inspected by the public; and
         (d)   A statement that all interested persons have the right to appear
at the public hearing on the preliminary plan or preliminary development plan
and present evidence.
      (2)   The Superintendent of City Services on behalf of the Planning and
Zoning Board shall notify the owner or developer of the proposed subdivision as
to the time and place of the public hearing thereon at least 15 days prior to
the date of the hearing.
   (D)   Distribution of preliminary plan for review and comment. The
Superintendent of City Services shall route 1 or more copies of the preliminary
plan to various city staff members for review and comment. One copy of the plan
shall be provided to each member of the Planning and Zoning Board and each
member of the City Council, prior to their respective consideration and review
of the plan.
   (E)   Administrative review and comment. The Superintendent of City Services
shall review the plan and shall submit a written report containing the
recommendations to the Planning and Zoning Board for its consideration at the
public hearing on the preliminary plan application. The Superintendent of City
Services shall review the preliminary plans and send the review comments to the
owner or the developer prior to scheduling legislative hearing.
   (F)   Legislative public hearing and recommendation. The Planning and Zoning
Board shall conduct a legislative public hearing on the preliminary plan,
during which it shall determine the extent to which the plan conforms or fails
to conform with the standards of this code and shall, not later than 30 days
after the adjournment of the legislative public hearing, transmit its
recommendation on the plan to the City Council. The Planning and Zoning Board
may recommend approval of a preliminary plan with an approval recommendation
conditioned upon the making of 1 or more changes in the proposal, which changes
shall be enumerated in the Board’s transmittal to the City Council or may
transmit the plan to the City Council without recommendation. When the
preliminary plan has been acted upon by the Planning and Zoning Board, the
Board shall transmit its recommendation in writing to the City Council as
provided hereafter. If the Board recommends approval of the preliminary plan,
it shall so indicate on the copy of the plan along with any additional
requirements. Conversely, if the Board recommends disapproval of the plan, it
shall furnish the applicant a written statement setting forth the reason for
the recommendation and specifying with particularity the aspects in which the
preliminary plan fails to comply with the requirements of this code or does not
comply with the official comprehensive plan. Should the Planning and Zoning
Board fail to act within the 30 days from the adjournment of the public
hearing, or fail to adjourn the public hearing within 120 days of its
commencement, the plan shall be submitted to the Council without
recommendation.
   (G)   Council approval or rejection of a proposed preliminary plan.  
      (1)   Within 30 days after receipt of the Planning and Zoning Board
recommendation or within 180 days from the filing date of the preliminary plan,
whichever occurs first, the City Council shall approve or reject the proposed
preliminary plan. Failure of the Council to act within the prescribed time
period shall constitute approval of the preliminary plan.
      (2)   The Superintendent of City Services, upon approval of the
preliminary plan by the City Council, shall secure a reproducible mylar and 3
paper copies of the plan from the owner/developer, showing any changes
requested by the City Council. The City Clerk shall then cause 7 copies of the
approved preliminary plan with such signatures affixed thereon to be made and
shall distribute the copies in the following manner:
         1.   One copy together with the reproducible mylar copy shall be sent
to the Superintendent of City Services;
         2.   One copy to the Piatt County Soil and Water Conservation District
(if required);
         3.   One copy shall be sent to the City Planner;
         4.   One copy shall be sent to the Fire Chief;
         5.   One copy shall be sent to the owner or developer;
         6.   One copy shall be retained by the City Clerk for filing; and
         7.   One copy shall be sent to appropriate Superintendent of Schools.
   (H)   Extension of time periods by mutual consent. Time periods for review
by the Planning and Zoning Board or City Council may be extended by mutual
consent of the owner or developer and the Planning and Zoning Board or Council.
Any such extension shall stay the running of all subsequent time periods.
   (I)   Extension of preliminary plans.  Approved preliminary plans or
portions thereof on which no final plat has been submitted for review and
approval shall expire and be of no force or effect 2 years after their
approval, except:
      (1)   The filing of a final plat and necessary supporting documents
pursuant to §§
152.042 and
152.044 shall extend the life of a remaining valid preliminary plan for 1 year;
or
      (2)   If the life of a preliminary plan is extended by action of the City
Council.
(Am. Ord. 2013-43, passed 7-22-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-36, passed 9-8-2014)
§ 152.042 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT ENGINEERING PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   Before subdividing any land subject to the requirements of this code, an
owner or developer shall comply with the following:
   (A)   Prerequisites. Approval and continuing validity of a preliminary
subdivision plan;
   (B)   Submission. The owner or developer shall submit to the Superintendent
of City Services 4 sets of engineering plans and 2 sets of specifications for
all public improvements proposed in or necessary to serve lots depicted in an
approved preliminary plan or portion thereof, which plans and specifications
shall be in the form and include the content required by §
152.062. The public improvement engineering plans and specifications shall
conform to approved preliminary plan; and
   (C)   Review and approval.
      (1)   The public improvement plans and specifications shall be reviewed
and approved or disapproved by the Superintendent of City Services.
      (2)   The Superintendent of City Services will require the owner or
developer to submit all data, plans, specifications, and additional materials
as may be necessary to completely and accurately determine the extent of
compliance or noncompliance with the city’s public improvement design standards
and accepted engineering practice and to demonstrate that the construction and
installation will meet or exceed all public improvement requirements as
outlined in A Manual of Practice for the Design of Public Improvements in the
City of Monticello.
      (3)   The public improvement plans and specifications shall meet or
exceed the city subdivision, public improvement design standards and otherwise
demonstrate good and acceptable engineering design and practice.
      (4)   Approval or disapproval by the Superintendent of City Services
shall be in writing and shall make reference to the public improvement plans
and specifications.
§ 152.043 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT INSTALLATION AND INSPECTION PROCEDURE.
   The owner or developer of property desiring to install public improvements
in an area depicted on a proposed or approved preliminary plan, or approved or
proposed final subdivision plat, shall perform the installation in accordance
with the following procedure:
   (A)   Prerequisites to installation.
      (1)   Approval of a final plat; and
      (2)   Posting of a final plat, public improvement payment, performance
and workmanship bond and security therefor, in the amount and form specified in
§
152.065 for all public improvements depicted in, adjacent to or necessary to
serve lots or outlots depicted in an area for which final plat approval has
been obtained.
   (B)   Construction observation.  During installation of public improvements,
either before or after final plat approval, the owner or developer shall comply
with the requirements of Sec. 1.13 of A Manual of Practice for the Design of
Public Improvements in the City of Monticello.  Failure to comply and install
or maintain the installations in a manner that permits construction observation
shall constitute grounds for rejecting or revoking preliminary plan or final
plat approval, forfeiting pledged security and, in addition, shall constitute a
violation of this chapter; and
   (C)   Plan review and observation and testing fee. The cost incurred by the
city pursuant to §
152.042 shall be paid by the owner or developer prior to final acceptance of
the land improvements. The certifying or design engineer shall provide for 100%
construction inspection as well as provide for all testing and associated fees
necessary to ensure compliance with A Manual of Practice for the Design of
Public Improvements in the City of Monticello. All land improvements to be
installed under the provisions of this code may, at any time, be inspected and
tested by the city during the course of construction. The Superintendent of
City Services or the City Inspector shall stop all construction activities upon
knowledge of noncompliance with this code until the noncompliance can be
remedied.
§ 152.044 FINAL PLAT SUBMISSION AND REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   Before subdividing any land, subject to requirements of this code, an owner
or developer shall comply with the following final plat submission, review, and
approval procedure:
   (A)   Prerequisites.
      (1)   Approval and continuing validity of a preliminary subdivision plan;
      (2)   Approval of the public improvement plans and specifications
proposed in, adjacent to, or necessary to serve lots or outlots depicted in the
area for which final plat approval is sought;
      (3)   Prior to recording the final plat, payment of any and all
applicable fees; and
      (4)   Prior to recording the final plat, the posting of any required
final plat public improvement payment, performance and workmanship bond; filing
and establishment of any required adjacent street substandard roadway
improvement guarantees and security; making of any required public land
dedications or cash contribution in lieu thereof, and obtaining and filing with
the city of any on-site easements or right-of-way for public improvements
serving the site.
   (B)   Submission. The owner or developer shall submit to the Superintendent
of City Services 1 full- size reproducible mylar, 12 half-size paper prints and
1 digital computer-aided drafting file copy of a final plat, in a form and
providing all the information, data and supporting material required by §
152.063 and retaining the design characteristics of the approved preliminary
plan and public improvement engineering plans and specifications. The 1
transparent mylar shall be considered the official copy.
   (C)   Distribution of final plat for review and comment.  The Superintendent
of City Services shall route final plat for review and comment as follows: 1
copy to city staff; and 1 copy to City Engineer. A copy of the final plat shall
be made available to members of the City Council prior to their consideration
of the plan.
   (D)   City Council review and approval or disapproval. Within 30 days from
the submission of a final plat and supporting material, the City Council shall
review the final plat to determine the extent to which it conforms with the
approved preliminary plan and approved public improvement plans and
specifications and shall further review the supporting material to determine
its conformance with the requirements of this code. If the final plat
substantially conforms with the approved preliminary plan and public
improvement plans and specifications and if the supporting material meets all
code requirements, then the Council shall approve the final plat by ordinance
within 30 days from the date of its review. The Council may approve the plats
subject to the subsequent posting of final plat payment, performance and
workmanship bond; adjacent substandard roadway improvement guarantee; and
related security documents and reserves.
      (1)   If the final plat does not in some way substantially conform with
the approved preliminary plan or if the supporting material does not conform
with all code requirements, then the Council, within 30 days from the date of
its review, shall take 1 of the following actions:
         (a)   By ordinance, approve the final plat;
         (b)   By ordinance, approve the final plat with conditions;
         (c)   By ordinance, disapprove the final plat; or
         (d)   Refer the final plat to the Planning and Zoning Board for
legislative public hearing, at which time and place the Planning and Zoning
Board shall determine the extent to which the final plat conforms or fails to
conform with the standards of this code.
      (2)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall, not later than 30 days after
the adjournment of the legislative public hearing, transmit its recommendation
on the final plat to the City Council. Within 60 days from the receipt of the
Planning and Zoning Board’s recommendation with respect to the final plat, the
City Council shall, by ordinance, approve, approve with conditions, or
disapprove the plat.
   (E)   Recording.  Within 7 days from the date of adoption of an ordinance
approving the final plat, or within 7 days from the date on which the last
event referred to this code or characterized in the ordinance as a prerequisite
to recording of the final plat occurs, whichever is later, the Superintendent
of City Services shall record a copy of the final plat, a certified copy of the
ordinance approving the final plat, and any supporting certificates necessary
to accomplish the recording in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of Piatt
County. If the final plat is not recorded within 90 days of City Council
approval, the plan shall become null and void.
   (F)   Expedited final plat submission, review, and approval for minor
subdivision.  Notwithstanding the sequential procedure for subdivision plan
submission, review, and approval specified elsewhere in this subchapter, an
owner or developer meeting the prerequisites specified in this division may
utilize the expedited final plat process described herein:
      (1)   Prerequisites.
         (a)   The plat depicts a total of not more than 4 lots and outlots;
         (b)   The plat includes all contiguous property in common ownership or
unified control;
         (c)   The proposed subdivision shall not necessitate the construction
or installation of public street improvements;
         (d)   No waivers of this code be requested other than waivers of bonds
and fees; and
         (e)   The developer has approved construction plans for any public
improvements needed.
      (2)   Submission. Any person desiring to utilize the expedited final plat
procedure shall submit the following to the Superintendent of City Services:
         (a)   A written request to waive the preliminary plan, submission,
review, and approval procedure;
         (b)   Six copies of a construction plan and floodplain map (if
applicable). The construction map shall show all information concerning
existing and proposed utilities as required for a preliminary plan. The
floodplain plan (if applicable) will outline the area in the flood hazard area;
         (c)   One mylar and 12 half-size paper prints and 1 digital computer-
aided drafting file copy of a final plat in a form providing all information,
data, and supporting material required by §
152.063. The 1 transparent mylar shall be considered the official copy; and
         (d)   A fee receipt reflecting payment to the City Treasurer of the
appropriate fee as set forth in
Chapter 153, city zoning regulations.
      (3)   Distribution of final plat for review and comment. The
Superintendent of City Services shall route 1 or more copies of the final plat
to the city staff members for review and comment. One copy of the final plat
shall be made available to the members of the City Council prior to their
consideration of the plat. The city staff shall submit a written recommendation
to the City Council prior to their consideration of the plat.
      (4)   City council review, referral, and approval or disapproval. Within
30 days from the submission of a final plat under this expedited review and
procedure, the City Council shall review the submission to determine the extent
to which it conforms with the requirements of this code. If the material meets
all code requirements, then the Council shall approve the final plat by
ordinance within 30 days from the date of its review. The Council may approve
the plats subject to the subsequent payment of fees, posting of a final plat
payment, performance and workmanship bond.
         (a)   Within 30 days from the date of its review, the Council shall
take 1 or more of the following actions:
            1.   By ordinance, approve the final plat;
            2.   By ordinance, approve the final plat with conditions;
            3.   By ordinance, disapprove the final plat;
            4.   Require the submission of a preliminary plan; or
            5.   Refer the Final Plat to the Planning and Zoning Board for
legislative public hearing, at which time and place the Planning and Zoning
Board shall determine the extent to which the final plat conforms with the
standards of this code.
         (b)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall, not later than 30 days
after the adjournment of the legislative public hearing, transmit its
recommendation on the final plat to the City Council. Within 60 days from the
receipt of the Planning and Zoning Board recommendation with respect to the
final plat, the Council shall, by ordinance, approve or disapprove same.
      (5)   Conformance with other requirements.  Except as provided in this
section, the recording of final plats, the posting of bonds, the submission of
record drawings, and the release of bonds shall be as provided in this chapter.
(Am. Ord. 2014-36, passed 9-8-2014)
§ 152.045 FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLANS FOR PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Prerequisites.
      (1)   City Council approval and continuing validity of a preliminary
planned unit development plan;
      (2)   City Council approval of the public improvement plans and
specifications proposed in, adjacent to, or necessary to serve lots or outlots
depicted in the area for which final plat approval is sought;
      (3)   Prior to recording the final planned unit development plan payment
of any and all applicable fees; and
      (4)   Prior to recording the final plat, the posting of any required
final plat public improvement payment, performance and workmanship bond; filing
and establishment of any required adjacent street substandard roadway
improvement guarantees and security; making of any required public land
dedications or cash contribution in lieu thereof; and obtaining and filing with
the city of any off-site easements or right-of-way for public improvements
serving the site.
   (B)   Submission.  The owner or developer shall submit to the Superintendent
of City Services 1 mylar, 12 half-size paper prints, and 1 digital computer-
aided drafting file copy of a final plat, in a form and providing all the
information, data and supporting material required by §
152.063 and retaining the design characteristics of the approved preliminary
development plan and public improvement engineering plans and specifications.
The 1 transparent mylar shall be considered the official copy.
   (C)   Distribution of final development plan for review and comment. The
Superintendent of City Services shall route 1 or more copies of the final
development plan to City Engineer for review and comment. One copy of the final
development plan shall be made available to members of the City Council prior
to their consideration of the plan.
   (D)   Review, referral, and approval or disapproval. Within 30 days from the
submission of a final development plan and supporting materials, the
Superintendent of City Services shall review the final development plan to
determine the extent to which it conforms with the approved preliminary
development plan and approved public improvement plans and specification, and
shall further review the supporting material to determine its conformance with
the requirements of this code. If the final development plan substantially
conforms with the approved preliminary development plan and public improvement
plans and specifications, and if the supporting material meets all code
requirements, then the Superintendent of City Services shall recommend approval
to the City Council of the final development plan within 30 days from the date
of its review. If the final development plan does not in some way substantially
conform with the approved preliminary development plan or if the supporting
material does not conform with all code requirements, then the Superintendent
of City Services, within 30 days from the date of its review, shall take 1 of
the following actions:
      (1)   Recommend approval of the final development plan;
      (2)   Recommend approval of the final development plan, with conditions;
or
      (3)   Refer the final development plan to the Planning Commission for
legislative public hearing, at which time and place the Planning Commission
shall determine the extent to which the final development plan conforms or
fails to conform with the standards of this code. The Planning Commission
shall, not later than 30 days after the adjournment of the legislative public
hearing, transmit its recommendation on the final development plan to the City
Council. Within 60 days from the receipt of the Planning Commission’s
recommendation with respect to the final development plan, the City Council
shall, by ordinance, approve or disapprove the plan. The City Clerk shall then
cause 7 paper, 1 reproducible mylar, and 1 digital computer-aided drafting file
copy of the approved final development plan with the signatures affixed thereon
to be made and shall distribute the copies in the following manner:
         1.   One paper and 1 reproducible mylar copy together with the
computer digital copy shall be sent to the Superintendent of City Services;
         2.   One copy shall be sent to the Piatt County Soil and Water
Conservation District, if required;
         3.   One copy shall be sent to the City Planner;
         4.   One copy shall be sent to the Fire Chief;
         5.   One copy shall be sent to the owner or developer;
         6.   One copy shall be retained by the City Clerk for filing; and
         7.   One copy shall be sent to the appropriate Superintendent of
Schools.
   (E)   Changes in the final development plan.
      (1)   Minor changes in the location, siting, height, or character of the
buildings and structures may be authorized by the Superintendent of City
Services, if required by engineering or other circumstances not foreseen at the
time of adoption of the ordinance approving the final development plan.
      (2)   No change authorized by this division may cause any of the
following:
         1.   A change in the use or character of the development;
         2.   An increase in the intensity of use of over 10%;
         3.   An increase in any dimension of a building or structure by more
than 5% in any direction;
         4.   A reduction in an approved open space of 5% or more;
         5.   A reduction in off-street parking and loading space of 5% or
more, provided minimum code requirements are met; or
         6.   A reduction in required pavement widths of 5% or more, provided
minimum code requirements are met.
   (F)   Revocation of approved planned unit development.
      (1)   The City Council may consider an approved final planned unit
development plan subject to revocation if construction falls more than 2 years
behind the schedule filed with the final development plan or if development
exceeds 5 years.
      (2)   The owner of property in a planned unit development plan or the
owner of any portion thereof may petition for revocation of the planned unit
development plan in whole or in part.
      (3)   Upon initiation by the City Council or the owner of property in an
approved planned unit development requesting vacation of the planned unit
development in whole or in part, the City Council shall refer the item to the
City Planning Commission for public hearing and recommendation. Notice of the
hearing shall be provided by the Planning Commission in the manner set forth
for legislative public hearings by the Planning Commission. Additionally, the
Planning Commission shall provide personal notice to all persons having an
ownership interest in the planned unit development. The personal notice shall
be provided based on ownership recorded with the Recorder of Deeds of Piatt
County. Personal notice shall be by regular U.S. mail or personal delivery at
least 5 days prior to the public hearing on revocation.
      (4)   The Planning Commission shall conduct a legislative public hearing
and make a recommendation to the City Council regarding revocation of the
planned unit development.
      (5)   Upon receipt of the Planning Commission recommendation, the City
Council shall take up and consider the petition to revoke in whole or in part
the subject planned unit development. The City Council may approve or deny, in
whole or in part, revocation of the subject planned unit development. The City
Council may impose reasonable conditions on the revocation in order to advance
the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens.
      (6)   In the event the City Council revokes an approved planned unit
development plan in whole or in part, then the City Clerk shall file a notice
of the revocation with the Piatt County Recorder of Deeds.
      (7)   Revocation of an approved planned unit development plan shall
preclude any additional construction pursuant to the revoked plan, except
construction determined necessary by the city to wind up the development and
put the same in a safe and sanitary condition. Any security posted to guarantee
installation of required public improvements shall continue in effect until all
approved public improvements are completed, all windup construction is
completed, and all claims against the security are resolved.
      (8)   Upon revocation of an approved planned unit development plan, the
property for which the plan is revoked shall retain its zoning district
classification, absent the plan.
§ 152.046 PAYMENT, PERFORMANCE AND WORKMANSHIP GUARANTEES.
   Either prior to the approval of final subdivision plat or prior to its
recording and within the time framework, if any, specified in the ordinance of
approval, the owner and/or developer shall post, secure, and file with the City
Clerk a final plat public improvement payment, performance and workmanship bond
with appropriate evidence of security, and file and (if applicable) establish
an adjacent substandard roadway improvement guarantee and security in the
manner, amount, and form described respectively in §
152.065.
§ 152.047 SUBMISSION OF RECORD DRAWINGS.
   After installation, completion, inspection, testing, and receipt of
engineering approval, but before city acceptance for maintenance of any public
improvements within a subdivision, the owner or developer shall submit record
drawings of the public improvement plans in the form and with the content
required by Sec. 1.16 of A Manual of Practice for the Design of Public
Improvements in the City of Monticello.
§ 152.048 ACCEPTANCE FOR MAINTENANCE.
   After the developer has complied with the requirements of Sec. 1.16 of A
Manual of Practice for the Design of Public Improvements in the City of
Monticello, the Superintendent of City Services shall provide written
acceptance.
§ 152.049 FINAL SECURITY RELEASE.
   One year after the date of accepting public improvements for maintenance,
unless a material or workmanship claim is submitted to the surety company or
escrow agent, the security for final plat public improvement, payment,
performance and workmanship bonds shall expire and may be released upon
certification of satisfactory condition by the Superintendent of City Services.
FORM AND CONTENT
§ 152.060 CONCEPT PLAN.
   A proposed concept plan shall be drawn to engineering scale and shall show
the conceptual layout of the proposed subdivision or planned unit development
including the general layout of streets, drainage, sewerage, and land uses and
the present location of major natural features such as streams and lakes.
§ 152.061 PRELIMINARY PLANS AND SUPPORTING MATERIAL.
   (A)   General. The owner or developer submitting a preliminary plan shall
submit all information required by this section in the form specified. Failure
of an owner or developer to provide this information in the form required shall
be sufficient grounds for the city to refuse to accept the filing of a
preliminary plan or to reject the preliminary plan at any stage in the review
and approval process.
   (B)   Minimum area included in a preliminary plan.  A preliminary plan shall
include not less than all contiguous property in common ownership or unified
control.
   (C)   Required form and content of a preliminary plan. Plans, drawings,
surveys, maps, schematics, and comparable material shall be submitted in the
form and content as specified in Sec. 1.05 of A Manual of Practice for the
Design of Public Improvements in the City of Monticello.
§ 152.062 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT ENGINEERING PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   General. The owner or developer submitting public improvement
engineering plans and specifications shall submit all the information required
by this section in the form specified. Failure of an owner or developer to
provide this information in the form required shall be sufficient grounds for
the city to refuse to accept the filing of public improvement engineering plans
and specifications, to reject the plans and specifications at any stage in the
review and approval process, to reject a final plat depicting lots or outlots
served by the public improvements.
   (B)   Minimum material submitted. Engineering plans and specifications shall
be submitted for all public improvements proposed in or necessary to serve lots
depicted in an approved preliminary plan or portion thereof. These materials
shall include, without limitation, plans, profiles, standard details, and
special details drawn in sufficient detail and supported with sufficient data
to make possible a complete and accurate determination of the extent of
compliance or noncompliance with the city’s Manual of Practice for Design of
Public Improvements in the City of Monticello and sufficient to permit
construction and installation of the proposed improvements without additional
or supporting engineering data.
  § 152.063 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   General. The owner or developer submitting a final plat shall submit
all information required by this section in the form specified. Failure of an
owner or developer to provide this information in the form required shall be
sufficient grounds for the city to refuse to accept the filing of a final plat
or to reject the final plat in any stage of review and approval process.
   (B)   Area included in a final plat.
      (1)   A final plat shall not include any area not included in an approved
and then valid preliminary plan.
      (2)   A final plat shall not depict any public improvements or lots
served by, which are to be served by, or which under this code require service
by public improvements, unless the public improvements have been submitted,
reviewed, and approved.
   (C)   Required form and content of final subdivision plats and supporting
documents.  Final plats, certificates, and comparable material shall be
submitted in the form and content as specified in Sec. 1.05 of A Manual of
Practice for the Design of Public Improvements in the City of Monticello.
   (D)   Dedication of streets.
      (1)   All streets within a subdivision shall be located within dedicated
public or private right-of- way. All streets and rights-of-way shall be public
unless specifically stated otherwise on both the preliminary plan and the final
plat.
      (2)   For private streets, a separate legal instrument, such as a
covenant running with the land, shall be submitted which sets forth the manner
by which the private streets within the subdivision shall be maintained. This
legal instrument may provide an indenture establishing an association or
similar organization to be responsible for maintenance of the streets.
§ 152.064 FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLANS FOR PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   General. The owner or developer submitting a final development plan
shall submit all information required by this section in the form specified.
Failure of an owner or developer to provide this information in the form
required shall be sufficient grounds for the city to refuse to accept the
filing of a final development plan or to reject the final development plan in
any stage of the review and approval process.
   (B)   Area included in a final development plan.
      (1)   A final development plan shall not include any area not included in
an approved and then valid preliminary development plan.
      (2)   A final development plan shall not depict any public or private
improvements or lots served by, which are to be served by, or which under this
code require service by public or private improvements, unless the utility plat
for the public and private improvements has been submitted, reviewed, and
approved.
   (C)   Required form and content of final development plans and supporting
documents. Final development plans, certificates, and comparable material shall
be submitted in the form as specified in Sec. 1.05 of A Manual of Practice for
the Design of Public Improvements in the City of Monticello.
   (D)   Dedication of streets.
      (1)   All streets within a planned unit development shall be located
within dedicated public or private right-of-way. All streets and rights-of-way
shall be public unless specifically stated otherwise on both the preliminary
plan and the final plat.
      (2)   For private streets, a separate legal instrument, such as a
covenant running with the land, shall be submitted which sets forth the manner
by which the private streets within the subdivision shall be maintained. This
legal instrument may provide an indenture establishing an association or
similar organization to be responsible for maintenance of the streets.
§ 152.065 FINAL PLAT PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT PAYMENT, PERFORMANCE AND WORKMANSHIP
BOND.
   (A)   Nature of the obligation.  
      (1)   Any owner, developer, or subdivider shall submit a final plat
public improvement payment, performance and workmanship bond obligating the
signer(s) to do each of the following:
         (a)   Install all public improvements depicted on an approved
preliminary plan, engineering plans and specifications or final plat;
         (b)   Pay all costs incurred by the city; and
         (c)   Prepare and submit to the city 1 complete set of plans showing
the required land improvements as actually installed in the manner described in
this chapter.
      (2)   All public improvement shall be completed within 1 year following
the approval of the final plat by the Mayor and City Council of the city and
prior to acceptance of the improvements for maintenance. In addition, the
execution of the subdivider’s final plat public improvement payment,
performance and workmanship bond shall obligate the signer(s) to guarantee the
improvements against faulty materials and workmanship for a period of 1 year
following acceptance of the improvements for maintenance.
   (B)   Penal amount of bond and security.
      (1)   Penal amount. The penal amount of the final plat public improvement
payment and performance and workmanship bond shall be the higher of the
following:
         (a)   If some or all of the improvements have been installed,
inspected, and approved, then 100% of the Superintendent of City Services’
written estimate of the cost of installing all public improvements not then
installed and inspected, plus 20% of the Superintendent of City Services’
estimate for all improvements installed as a 1-year guarantee for the materials
and workmanship of all improvements. Also, the developer must pay all costs
incurred by the City of Monticello, pursuant to this chapter and prepare all
record drawings and specifications not then submitted; or
         (b)   If none of the improvements have been installed, then 120% of
the Superintendent of City Services’ written estimate of the cost of installing
all public improvements, guaranteeing the materials and workmanship of all the
improvements. Also, the developer must pay all costs incurred by the City of
Monticello, pursuant to this chapter and prepare record drawings and
specifications not then submitted.
      (2)   Security. The final plat public improvement payment, performance
and workmanship bond shall be secured in one of the following ways:
         (a)   By posting a cash escrow amount in an Illinois bank or savings
and loan association in the amount specified in division (B)(1) of this section
as adjusted by any released authorization by the Superintendent of City
Services;
         (b)   By posting an irrevocable letter of credit in the amount
specified in division (B)(1) above from a local bank or savings and loan
association naming the city as a beneficiary thereof. The renewable irrevocable
letter of credit shall be for a minimum length of time of 2 years with a 2-
month notice to the city prior to expiration; or
         (c)   By posting a corporate surety bond payable to the city in the
amount as specified in division (B)(1). The bond shall be in a form with surety
and conditions approved by the city’s corporation counsel. The surety bond
shall be from an insurance company authorized to conduct business in the State
of Illinois. This bond shall be acknowledged before a notary public by the
principal. The owner or developer shall keep the corporate surety bond in full
force and effect until 1 year after official action of the city accepting the
subdivision for maintenance, or until such later date as any written claim
against the bond by the city is finally resolved.
   (C)   Form of bond and security documents.
      (1)   The form of the final plat public improvement payment, performance
and workmanship bond secured by corporate surety is as provided in Exhibit F or
F-1, attached to the ordinance establishing this chapter and hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in full herein.
      (2)   The form of the final plat public improvement payment, performance
and workmanship bond secured by cash escrow is provided in Exhibit G, attached
to the ordinance establishing this chapter and hereby adopted by reference as
if set out in full herein.
      (3)   The form of the final plat public improvement payment, performance
and workmanship bond secured by an irrevocable letter of credit is as provided
in Exhibit H, attached to the ordinance establishing this chapter and hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in full herein.
   (D)   Releases from escrow accounts posted as security. As installation of
public improvements progresses, and is inspected and approved by the
Superintendent of City Services, releases from the escrow accounts may be
authorized by the Superintendent of City Services in writing, based upon his or
her estimate of the cost for work completed, inspected, and approved; provided,
however, no release shall be made which would reduce the escrow account to an
amount less than 20% of the Superintendent of City Services’ original estimate
of the cost of installing all public improvements, plus all costs incurred by
the City of Monticello and the cost of preparing record drawings until all
public improvements in the subdivision have been accepted for maintenance, at
which time the escrow account shall be released to an amount of not less than
20% of the Superintendent of City Services’ original estimate of cost. Funds
then remaining in the escrow account may be released 1 year after acceptance of
the subdivision for maintenance or on such later date as any written claim
against the escrow account by the city is finally resolved.
§ 152.066 RECORD DRAWINGS.
   Record drawings shall be submitted in accordance with Sec. 1.16 of the
Manual of Practice for the Design of Public Improvements for the City of
Monticello.
SPECIFIC REGULATIONS FOR PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
§ 152.075 PERMITTED USES IN PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   In addition to the lawfully authorized uses permitted in each zoning
district, the following additional uses are permitted in a residential planned
unit development:
   (A)   Residential planned unit developments in the RS, RE-1, RE-2, and RD
Zoning Districts.
      (1)   Detached single-family dwelling units;
      (2)   Semi-detached single-family dwelling units (1 dwelling unit joined
to 1 other dwelling unit by a party wall);
      (3)   Attached single-family dwelling units, townhouses, and row houses
in groups of no more than 5 dwelling units per building; and
      (4)   Uses authorized in the underlying zoning district by special use
permit or after site plan review.
   (B)   Residential planned unit developments in the RM Districts.
      (1)   Semi-detached single-family dwelling units (1 dwelling unit joined
to 1 other dwelling unit by a party wall);
      (2)   Attached single-family dwelling units, townhouses, and row houses
in groups of no more than 5 dwelling units per building; and
      (3)   Multi-family dwellings or apartment dwellings.
§ 152.076 LAND USE INTENSITY RATINGS AND RELATED REQUIREMENTS FOR RESIDENTIAL
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum land area requirement for a residential planned unit
development. 
      (1)   In RS, RE-1, RE-2, and RD Planned Unit Developments: 5 acres; and
      (2)   In RM Planned Unit Developments: 5 acres.
   (B)   Minimum dwelling unit requirement. No residential planned unit
development shall contain less than 5 dwelling units.
   (C)   Density, floor area, and common recreation space and requirements for
residential planned unit developments.  In accordance with the following table:
 
         Maximum Net                      Minimum Open    Minimum
Zoning   Density         Maximum Floor    Space (Percent  Common
District (Dwelling Units Area (Percent of of              Recreation Space
         per Acre)       Land Area)       Land Area)      (Percent of Land
                                                          Area)
RS       2.00            10.0             80.0            2.5
RE-1     4.00            20.0             76.0            3.6
RE-2     8.00            34.8             73.0            4.9
RD       10.00           40.0             72.0            5.2
RM       23.00           52.8             71.0            6.2
 
   (D)   Minimum off-street parking requirements.  Two parking spaces for each
dwelling unit.
   (E)   Architectural plans.  
      (1)   When townhouses (rowhouses) are proposed as a part of a planned
unit development in the RS, RE-1, RE-2, and RD Districts, building elevations
and architectural renderings shall be required with submission of the
preliminary development plans.
      (2)   For all residential planned unit developments, typical building
elevations and architectural renderings shall be required with submission of
the preliminary development plans.
§ 152.077 SPECIFIC REGULATIONS FOR COMMERCIAL PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Permitted uses. Uses authorized in the underlying zoning district by
special use permit or after site plan review.
   (B)   Minimum land area requirement for a commercial planned unit
development. Five acres.
   (C)   Minimum use requirement. No commercial planned unit development shall
contain less than 3 commercial uses.
   (D)   Maximum floor area requirement.  Thirty-one percent of the gross land
area in the planned unit development.
   (E)   Minimum landscaped open space requirement. Fifteen percent of the
gross land area in the planned unit development.
   (F)   Minimum off-street parking requirement. Parking spaces shall be
provided in accordance with the zoning regulations of this code.
§ 152.078 SPECIFIC REGULATIONS FOR INDUSTRIAL PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Permitted uses. Uses authorized in the underlying zoning district by
special use permit or after site plan review.
   (B)   Minimum land area requirement for an industrial planned unit
development. Five acres.
   (C)   Minimum use requirement. No industrial planned unit development shall
contain less than 3 industrial uses.
   (D)   Maximum floor area requirement. Fifty percent of the gross land area
in the planned unit development.
   (E)   Minimum landscaped open space requirement. Ten percent of the gross
land area in the planned unit development.
   (F)   Minimum off-street parking requirement.  Parking spaces shall be
provided in accordance with the zoning code of this code.
 EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
§ 152.090 GENERAL APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   All subdivision of property which requires construction of public
improvements shall be required to have erosion and sediment control.
   (B)   All land disturbance activities which require a permit being issued by
the city, including but not necessarily limited to new building construction,
building additions, fence, deck and demolition, shall be required to have
erosion and sediment control.
(Ord. 2009-12, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 152.091 AUTHORITY OF THE SUPERINTENDENT OF CITY SERVICES.
   The Superintendent of City Services, or his or her representative, may enter
any site for which a permit has been issued to inspect the site before, during
and after construction to determine compliance with these regulations.
Permission to enter a site shall be a condition of each permit issued.
(Ord. 2009-12, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 152.092 STANDARDS FOR THE DESIGN AND MAINTENANCE OF CONTROL MEASURES FOR SOIL
EROSION, SEDIMENT, AND STORMWATER.
   (A)   All control measures required under this chapter shall conform to the
design criteria, standards, and specifications provided in the Manual of
Practice for the Design of Public Improvements in the City of Monticello,
"Manual Of Practice" now in effect or as hereafter amended. All control
measures installed shall be sufficient to prevent sediment from leaving the
permit site during a 5-year frequency storm event. The Superintendent of City
Services may require additional control measures pursuant to the standards if
determined as necessary after site inspection.
   (B)   Developer shall comply with United States Environmental Protection
Agency (USEPA), National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES)
program, of the Federal Clean Water Act being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., most
current regulations.
   (C)   The permittee, his or her agents, contractors and employees shall
carry out the proposed work in accordance with the approved plans and
specifications, and in compliance with all the requirements of the permit,
including those documents referenced in these regulations. A land disturbance
activity shall be considered in conformance with these regulations if soils
have been prevented from being deposited onto adjacent properties, rights-of-
way, public storm drainage system, wetlands or watercourses. The design,
testing, installation, and maintenance of erosion and sediment control
operations and facilities shall adhere to the standards and specifications
contained in the Manual of Practice, which are hereby incorporated into these
regulations. In the event of conflict between provisions of said Manual and of
these regulations, these regulations shall govern.
(Ord. 2009-12, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 152.093 MAINTENANCE OF EROSION, SEDIMENT, AND TEMPORARY STORMWATER CONTROL
MEASURES.
   (A)   Construction and maintenance.
      (1)   On-site erosion and sediment control measures shall be installed or
constructed and functional prior to initiating clearing, grading, stripping,
digging, excavation, or fill activities on the site.
      (2)   Sediment control measures and temporary stormwater control measures
are to be maintained so they are operating effectively until permanent ground
surface protection and permanent stormwater control measures are established in
accordance with the Manual.
   (B)   Changes to erosion control plan. Written approval must be obtained
from the Superintendent of City Services, or his or her representative, prior
to making any modification to the approved erosion and sediment control plan.
(Ord. 2009-12, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 152.094 PERMANENT GROUND SURFACE COVER.
   (A)   Public improvements will not be accepted until all public right-of-way
and drainage easements have permanent ground surface cover.
   (B)   A certificate of occupancy will not be granted until the permitted
property has permanent ground cover or approved erosion and sediment control
measures in place and functioning as designed.
   (C)   Exceptions to this requirement may be granted by the Superintendent of
City Services in accordance with this chapter if ground and weather conditions
are not suitable for the establishment of permanent ground cover.
(Ord. 2009-12, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 152.095 LIABILITY.
   Neither the issuance of a permit under the provisions of these regulations,
nor the compliance with the provisions hereof, or with any condition imposed by
the Superintendent of City Services, or his or her representative, shall
relieve any person from responsibility for damage to persons or property
resulting from the activity of the permittee. Compliance with the conditions
imposed by these regulations, or conditions imposed by the Superintendent of
City Services, or his or her representative, shall not create any liability on
the city resulting from such compliance.
(Ord. 2009-12, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 152.096 RESPONSIBILITY OF PERMITTEE.
   The permittee shall maintain a copy of the permit, approved plans and
reports required under the permit on the work site and available for inspection
by the Superintendent of City Services, or his or her representative, during
all working hours. The permittee, at all times, shall ensure that the property
is in conformity with the approved grading plan, erosion and sediment control
plans, and the permittee shall also conform to the following:
   (A)   General. Notwithstanding other conditions or provisions of the permit,
or the minimum standards set forth in these regulations, the permittee is
responsible for the prevention of damage to adjacent property and persons
arising from land disturbance activities. No person shall grade on land in any
manner, or so close to the property line as to endanger or damage any person or
adjoining public street, sidewalk, alley or any other public or private
property without supporting and protecting such property from settling,
cracking, erosion, sedimentation or other damage or personal injury which might
result.
   (B)   Public ways. The permittee shall be responsible for the prompt removal
of any soil, miscellaneous debris or other materials washed, spilled, tracked,
dumped or otherwise deposited on public streets, highways, sidewalks, public
thoroughfares or public sanitary or storm water conveyance systems, by the
construction activity, or during transit to and from the construction site, and
shall promptly correct any damages resulting therefrom. All public ways shall
be free of any soil or miscellaneous debris from or relating to the
construction site prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. 2009-12, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 152.097 ACTION UPON NONCOMPLIANCE.
   (A)   In the event work does not conform to the permit, or to the plans and
specifications, or these regulations or to any instructions of the
Superintendent or his or her representative, a notice of violation shall be
served upon the permittee in accordance with §
152.098. After a notice of violation is given, the permittee or his or her
contractor shall correct the violation within 48 hours. If an imminent hazard
exists, the Superintendent of City Services may require that all land
disturbance activities cease and corrective work begin immediately by the
permittee or his or her contractor.
   (B)   If the Superintendent of City Services or his or her representative
finds any existing conditions not as stated in the application or approved
plans, the Superintendent of City Services or his or her representative may
issue a stop work order under §
152.099 on the entire project, or any specified part thereof, until a revised
plan is submitted conforming to the currently existing conditions, or
appropriate remedial work is completed to bring the project into compliance
with the existing plan.
   (C)   Failure of the permittee to comply with the directives of this section
will constitute a violation pursuant to these regulations. The Superintendent
of City Services or his or her representative may cancel the permit and proceed
with the necessary restoration of the site at the expense of the owner. The
owner will be billed for the expenses incurred by the city. Failure to pay will
result in the city seeking recovery of costs and damages.
(Ord. 2009-12, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 152.098 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   The Superintendent of City Services, or his or her representative, shall
serve a notice of violation upon any person responsible, in whole or in part,
for the construction, alteration, repair, maintenance, or removal of drainage
improvements in violation of engineering plans and specifications approved
pursuant to this chapter, or in violation of any permit issued under the
provisions of these regulations, or otherwise in violation of this chapter.
Such notice shall direct the discontinuance of the illegal action or condition
and the abatement of the violation.
(Ord. 2009-12, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 152.099 STOP-WORK ORDERS.
   The Superintendent of City Services, or his or her representative, in his or
her sole discretion, may require that all work on a site which is being
performed contrary to the provisions of these regulations or is being performed
in an unsafe or dangerous manner, be immediately stopped. The Superintendent of
City Services, or his or her representative, may issue a stop-work order for
the entire project, or any specified part thereof, if any of the following
conditions exist:
   (A)   Any land disturbance activity regulated under these regulations is
being undertaken without a permit;
   (B)   The erosion and sediment control plan is not being fully implemented;
   (C)   Any of the conditions of the permit are not being met;
   (D)   The work is being performed in a dangerous or unsafe manner; or
   (E)   Entry is refused to allow inspection.
      (1)   The stop-work order shall be in writing and shall be posted and
served upon the permittee, as provided below. In addition a copy of the stop-
work order may be given to any person in charge of, or performing work on
drainage improvements in the development, or to an agent of any of the
foregoing. The stop-work order shall state the conditions under which work may
be resumed. No person shall continue any work after having been served with a
stop-work order, except such work as is directed to be performed to remove a
violation or dangerous or unsafe condition, as provided in the order.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, a stop-work order is validly
posted by posting a copy of the stop-work order on the site of the land
disturbing activity in reasonable proximity to a location where the land
disturbing activity is taking place. A copy of the order, in the case of work
for which there is a permit, shall be mailed by first class mail, postage pre-
paid, to the address listed by the permittee on the permit. In the case of work
for which there is no permit, a copy of the order shall be mailed to the person
to whom real estate taxes are assessed, or if none, to the taxpayer shown by
the records of the County Assessor.
      (3)   If the permittee does not immediately cease land disturbance
activity upon posting of the stop-work order or comply with the erosion and
sediment control plan or permit conditions within 1 day, the Superintendent, or
his or her representative, may revoke the permit.
      (4)   If the owner or land user where no permit has been issued, does not
cease the land disturbance activity, the issuing authority may request the City
Attorney to obtain injunctive relief and/or a fine.
      (5)   Five days after posting a stop-work order, the Superintendent of
City Services, or his or her representative, may issue a notice to the owner
and permittee of the city's intent to perform the work necessary to prevent
erosion and institute sediment control. The city, or its representatives, may
go on the land and commence work after 7 days from issuing the notice. The
costs incurred by the city, or its representative, to perform this work shall
be paid by the owner or permittee. In the event no permit was issued, the
costs, plus a reasonable administrative fee, shall be billed to the owner.
      (6)   Compliance with the provisions of these regulations may be enforced
by injunction and/or fines.
(Ord. 2009-12, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 152.100 APPEALS.
   The permittee, or its designee, may appeal a decision of the Superintendent
of City Services, or his or her representative, pursuant to these regulations.
The appeal shall be in writing, setting forth the reasons for the appeal, and
shall be filed with the Superintendent of City Services within 10 days after
the decision which prompted the appeal. The Superintendent of City Services
shall fix a time and place for hearing the appeal, not more than 20 days
following the receipt of the appeal. The filing of an appeal shall not operate
as a stay of a notice of violation or stop-work order. Upon finding that the
decision appealed from is correct, the Superintendent of City Services shall
deny the appeal. Decisions of the Superintendent of City Services shall be in
writing and shall be mailed to the permittee upon finding of fact that there is
no violation of the regulations or the permit issued.
(Ord. 2009-12, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 152.101 ENFORCEMENT OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION AND STOP-WORK ORDERS.
   (A)   A complaint may be filed with the Circuit Court for any violation of
this chapter. A separate violation shall be deemed to have been committed on
each day that the violation continues to exist.
   (B)   In addition to other remedies, the City Attorney may institute any
action or proceeding which:
      (1)   Prevents the unlawful construction, alteration, repair,
maintenance, or removal of drainage improvements in violation of this chapter
or the violation of any permit issued under the provision of these regulations;
      (2)   Prevents the occupancy of a building, structure or land where such
violation exists;
      (3)   Prevents any illegal act, conduct, business, or use in or about the
land where such violation exists;
      (4)   Restrains, corrects or abates the violation; and/or
      (5)   Seeks a fine against the violator.
   (C)   In any action or proceeding under this section, the City Attorney may
request the court to issue a restraining order or preliminary injunction, as
well as a permanent injunction, upon such terms and conditions as will enforce
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-12, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 152.102 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   These regulations shall be applicable to all sites for which a building
permit has not been issued prior to March 23, 2009.
(Ord. 2009-12, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting, or
refusing to comply with, or resisting or opposing the investigation or
enforcement of any of the provisions of this code, upon conviction thereof
shall be punished by a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $500 for the
second and each subsequent offense in any 180-day period. A separate and
distinct offense shall be regarded as committed each day upon which the person
shall continue any violation, or permit the violation to exist after
notification or knowledge of the existence thereof.
(Am. Ord. 2009-12, passed 3-23-2009)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Purpose
   
153.002   Interpretation
   
153.003   Definitions
Districts and District Regulations
   
153.015   Designation of districts
   
153.016   Official zoning map
   
153.017   Principal uses permitted in zoning districts
   
153.018   Application of district regulations
   
153.019   Lot area, yard and bulk regulations
   
153.020   Accessory buildings, structures and uses
Supplementary Regulations
   
153.030   Mobile homes
   
153.031   Home occupations
   
153.032   Bed and breakfast establishments
   
153.033   Off-street parking and loading requirements
   
153.034   On street parking restrictions
   
153.035   Stormwater management
   
153.036   Billboards
   
153.037   Signs
   
153.038   Fences
   
153.039   Decks, patios and porches
   
153.040   Adult entertainment facilities
   
153.041   Medical cannabis businesses
Nonconformances
   
153.050   Purpose
   
153.051   Definitions
   
153.052   Nonconforming lot
   
153.053   Nonconforming structure
   
153.054   Nonconforming use
Administration
   
153.070   Building and Zoning Administrator
   
153.071   Planning and Zoning Board
   
153.072   (Reserved)
   
153.073   City Council
   
153.074   Building permits
   
153.075   Appeals
   
153.076   Certificate of occupancy
   
153.077   Variances
   
153.078   Conditional use permit
   
153.079   Amendments
   
153.080   Public hearings
   
153.081   Planned unit developments
Violations
   
153.090   Complaints
   
153.091   Violators
   
153.092   City’s remedies
Schedule of Fees, Charges and Expenses
   
153.105   Schedule of fees
   
153.106   Payment of fees
   
Appendix A:    Schedule of fees, charges and expenses
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 PURPOSE.
   These zoning regulations have been adopted for the following purposes:
   (A)   To promote and protect the health, safety, comfort, morals, welfare,
convenience, and necessity of the public;
   (B)   To secure adequate light, pure air, privacy, and convenience of access
to property;
   (C)   To divide the city into zoning districts, prescribing and regulating
therein the location, erection, reconstruction, alteration, and use of
buildings, structures, and land for residential, business, manufacturing, and
other specified needs;
   (D)   To provide for a wide range of housing needs;
   (E)   To fix reasonable standards to which buildings and structures shall
conform and to provide that alterations or remodeling of existing buildings or
structures be conducted in accordance with current standards as set forth
herein;
   (F)   To protect the physical and mental health of the public by reducing or
abating objectionable smoke, noise, or other objectionable materials or
influences wherever possible;
   (G)   To protect against fire, explosions, noxious fumes, and other dangers;
   (H)   To avoid or lessen congestion in the public streets;
   (I)   To establish setback lines along streets and alleys and to regulate
the location of structures relative to such lines;
   (J)   To otherwise avoid or lessen the hazards to persons or damage to
property resulting from the accumulation or runoff of storm and floodwater;
   (K)   To prevent the overcrowding of land and the undue concentration of
structures by regulating and limiting the use and bulk of buildings in relation
to the land surrounding them;
   (L)   To protect the character and maintain the stability of residential,
business, and industrial areas within the city;
   (M)   To prohibit uses or structures which are incompatible with the
character of other appropriate existing or intended development within zoning
districts;
   (N)   To provide for the gradual elimination of those existing uses of land,
buildings, and structures, and of those buildings and structures that do not
conform to the standards of the zoning district in which they are located;
   (O)   To conserve and enhance the taxable value of land and buildings
throughout the city;
   (P)   To promote the orderly development of the city;
   (Q)   To facilitate the more efficient use of existing utilities in the
city;
   (R)   To define and limit the powers and duties of the administrative
officers and bodies as provided herein.
   (S)   To effectuate the planning program.
§ 153.002 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   For the purposes of these regulations and in order to carry out their
provisions and intentions, certain words, terms, and phrases shall be deemed to
have the meaning ascribed to them in this chapter.
   (B)   The word “used” as applied to any land or structure shall be construed
to include “arranged”, “designed”, “maintained”, “occupied”, and “intended”.
The word “building” shall include the word “structure” or “premises”, the word
“lot” shall include the word “plot” or “parcel”, the word “person” includes a
firm, association, organization, partnership, trust, company or corporation as
well as an individual.
   (C)   Words in the singular number include the plural, and those in the
plural number include the singular. Words used in the present tense shall
include the future. The word “shall” is mandatory.
   (D)   In interpreting and applying the provisions of these regulations, they
shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public
safety, health, convenience, comfort, morals, prosperity, and general welfare.
It is not intended by these regulations to interfere with or abrogate or annul
any easements, covenants or other agreements between parties, except that if
these regulations impose a greater restriction, these regulations shall
control.
   (E)   Whenever a provision of these regulations or any other provision of
law, whether set forth in these regulations or established by any other
ordinance, regulations, statute, or rule of any kind, imposes overlapping or
contradictory regulations or contains any restrictions covering any of the same
subject matter, the provision which is more restrictive or which imposes higher
standards or requirements shall control.
   (F)   Unlisted uses are prohibited by this chapter. The listing of a use as
"prohibited" or "not permitted" in this chapter shall not be construed to
permit unlisted uses by inference.
(Am. Ord. 2020-42, passed 8-24-2020)
§ 153.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY. A structure or use that:
      (1)   Is clearly incidental to and customarily found in connection with a
principal building or use;
      (2)   Is subordinate to and serves a principal building or a principal
use;
      (3)   Is subordinate in area, extent or purpose to the principal building
or principal use served;
      (4)   Contributes to the comfort, convenience, or necessity of the owner,
occupants, business or industry in the principal building or principal use
served; and
      (5)   Is located on the same lot as the principal building or use served.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING or ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A building or portion of a
building subordinate to a main building on the same lot occupied by, or denoted
exclusively to, an accessory use.
   ADDITION. An extension or increase in floor area or height of a building or
structure.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT FACILITY. Any sexually oriented business such as an
adult cabaret, adult store, adult theater or massage parlor as defined in §
153.040.
   ALTERATION. Any change, addition, or modification in construction or type of
occupancy, or in the structural members of a building, such as walls or
partitions, columns, beams or girders, the completion of which may be referred
to herein as “altered” or “reconstructed.”
   AGRICULTURAL ACTIVITY. Includes forests and forest products, harvest and
management, dairy farming, livestock grazing and pasturage, truck gardening,
the raising of crops, fruit, and nursery stock, fish farms, animal kennels and
fur bearing animal farms, and the harvesting, processing, packaging, packing,
shipping, and selling of products produced on the premises, and incidental farm
occupations, excluding commercial feed lots.
   ALLEY. A public thoroughfare which affords only a secondary means of access
to abutting property. Access only by an alley shall not be considered
sufficient public access for meeting the definition of a lot or issuance of a
building permit.
   ANIMAL HOSPITAL OR CLINIC. A structure or portion thereof designed or used
for the indoor care, observation, or treatment of domestic animals by a
registered veterinarian.
   ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY. A facility for adults in need of some protective
oversight or assistance due to functional limitation that provides a living
arrangement integrating shelter, food and other supportive services to maintain
a resident's functional status.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. Any land, building, structure, or premises used
for the retail sale of motor vehicle fuels, oils, or accessories, or for
servicing or lubricating motor vehicles or installing or repairing parts and
accessories, but not including the repairing or replacing of motors, bodies, or
fenders of motor vehicles or painting motor vehicles.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a building which is partly or wholly below grade,
but so located that the vertical distance from the grade elevation to the floor
of this portion of the building is greater than the vertical distance from the
grade to the ceiling of this portion of the building. A BASEMENT shall not be
counted as a story.
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS. An operator-occupied residence providing
accommodations for a charge to the public with no more than 5 guest rooms for
rent. Breakfast may be provided to the guests only. BED AND BREAKFAST
ESTABLISHMENTS shall not include motels, hotels, boarding houses, or food
service establishments.
   BOARD. The Planning and Zoning Board of the City of Monticello.
   BUILDABLE AREA OF A LOT. That portion of a lot free of easements and bounded
by the setback lines designating the required front, rear and side yards.
   BUILDING. Any structure built or maintained for the shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels, or property of any kind.
   CANNABIS. As defined in Section 1-10 of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act,
as amended.
   CANNABIS BUSINESS. A "cannabis business establishment" as defined in Section
1-10 of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, as amended; such other cannabis
business establishments authorized under the Act, as amended; or a medical
cannabis business; or an on-premises cannabis consumption establishment.
   CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER. A "craft grower" as defined in Section 1-10 of the
Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, as amended.
   CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER. A "cultivation center" as defined in Section 1-
10 of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act as amended.
   CANNABIS DISPENSARY. A "dispensing organization" or "dispensary" as defined
in Section 1-10 of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, as amended.
   CANNABIS INFUSER. An "infuser organization" or "infuser" as defined in
Section 1-10 of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, as amended.
   CANNABIS PROCESSOR. A "processing organization" or "processor" as defined in
Section 1-10 of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, as amended.
   CANNABIS TRANSPORTER. A "transporting organization" or "transporter" as
defined in Section 1-10 of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, as amended.
   CLINIC. An establishment where human or animal patients are not lodged
overnight but are admitted for examination and treatment by a group of
physicians, dentists, veterinarians, or similar professionals.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use allowed in a zoning district after a permit is
granted by the City Council in accordance with §
153.078.
   DAY CARE CENTER. A child care facility, licensed by the Illinois Department
of Children and Family Services.
   DISTRICT. A part of the city designated on the zoning map and subject to
these regulations.
   DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT. One which accommodates the patron's automobiles,
from which the occupants may watch, purchase, or otherwise conduct business
from automobiles. This includes restaurants for which there are no
accommodations for eating indoors.
   DWELLING. Any building (excluding travel trailer and mobile homes, and
including modular home, as defined herein) which is exclusively designed for or
used for 1 or more dwelling units.
   DWELLING, APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms in a multi-family dwelling, or
where 1 or more units are established above nonresidential uses, a room or
suite of rooms intended or designed for use as a residence by a single family.
   DWELLING, COMMUNITY LIVING FACILITY. A dwelling operated under state license
or certification or contract to provide supervision, food, lodging, or other
services to a service dependent population as herein defined, living and
cooking together in a single cooperative housekeeping unit, consisting of a
basic group of members of a service dependent population and additional staff
persons providing supervision of service to the basic group, as specified in
aforesaid licensing, certification or contract regulations. COMMUNITY LIVING
FACILITIES are limited to 1 per structure.
   DWELLING, COMMUNITY LIVING FACILITY, CATEGORY I. A COMMUNITY LIVING FACILITY
DWELLING with a basic group limited to not more than 4 service dependent
individuals plus a maximum of 2 resident (live-in and/or shift) staff at any
given time, subject to a higher number of staff if required to meet state or
federal regulations. The facility is intended for permanent placements, and
shall not be for crisis or short-term transient placements.
   DWELLING, COMMUNITY LIVING FACILITY, CATEGORY II. A COMMUNITY LIVING
FACILITY DWELLING with a basic group limited to not more than 8 service
dependent individuals plus a maximum of 2 resident (live-in and/or shift) staff
at any given time, subject to a higher number of staff if required to meet
state or federal regulations. The facility is intended for permanent
placements, and shall not be for crisis or short-term transient placement.
   DWELLING, COMMUNITY LIVING FACILITY, CATEGORY III. A COMMUNITY LIVING
FACILITY DWELLING with a basic group limited to not more than 16 service
dependent individuals plus a maximum of 4 resident (live-in and/or shift) staff
at any given time, subject to a higher number of staff if required to meet
state or federal regulations. The facility may be used for temporary placement
of service dependent individuals.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A dwelling designed for or occupied exclusively by 2
or more families.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A dwelling designed for or occupied exclusively by
1 family.
   DWELLING, ZERO LOTLINE. A form of development in which individual dwelling
units are placed on separately platted lots. They may be attached to one
another, but not necessarily. Each unit shall be considered a single-family
dwelling.
   DWELLING UNIT. One room or a suite of rooms in a dwelling and designated for
or used by 1 family for living and sleeping purposes.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others; a grant by the property owner of the use of an area of land by a public
body or a private party for specified purposes.
   FAMILY.
      (1)   One or more persons related to each other by blood, marriage, or
legal adoption, living together as a single housekeeping unit except that up to
2 persons need not be related to the group by blood, marriage or legal
adoption. Any child living in a “Foster Family Home” shall also be deemed to be
part of a family; or
      (2)   Group of not more than 3 persons, who need not be related by blood,
marriage or legal adoption, living together as a single housekeeping unit and
occupying a single dwelling unit.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building, either detached or attached to the
principal building, designed for the housing of automobiles which are the
property of, and for the use of, the occupants of the lot on which the garage
is located. The term shall include, but shall not be limited to, such
structures as “carports”.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any building or premises, except those used as private
garages, used for equipping, repairing, hiring, selling or storing motor driven
vehicles.
   GRADE. The average level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to
the exterior walls of the building.
   HEIGHT, BUILDING. The vertical distance above the grade measured to the
highest point of the building. The height of a stepped or terraced building
shall be the maximum height of any segment of the building.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any gainful business, occupation, profession or trade
carried on by an occupant of a dwelling unit as a use which is clearly
incidental and secondary to the use of the premises for dwelling purposes.
   HOTEL. A building in which lodging or lodging and board are provided and
offered to the public for compensation and which is customarily open to
transient guests.
   INSTITUTION. A nonprofit establishment for public use or public service.
   KENNEL. Any lot or premises on which 4 or more dogs, cats, and/or other
household pets over 4 months of age are either permanently or temporarily
boarded.
   LANDSCAPED AREA. An area that is devoted and maintained to the growing of
shrubbery, grass or other plant and ornamental material.
   LOADING SPACE. Space logically and conveniently located for bulk pickups and
deliveries, scaled to delivery vehicles expected to be used, and accessible to
such vehicles when required off-street parking spaces are filled. Required off-
street loading space is not to be included as off-street parking space in
computation of required off-street parking space.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or suitable for occupancy by a use permitted
by these regulations, including the main building or uses, with accessory
buildings, the open spaces and parking spaces required by the regulations, and
contiguous to a street or upon an officially approved place.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot located at the intersection of 2 or more streets where
the corner interior angle formed by the intersection of the 2 streets is 135
degrees or less; a lot abutting upon a curved street or streets if tangents to
the curve, at the 2 points where the lot lines meet the curve, form an interior
angle of less than 135 degrees.
   LOT, COVERAGE. The percentage of a lot that is covered by building(s) and
structures covered by a roof.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot fronting on 2 non-intersecting streets, as
distinguished from a corner lot.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot, or double frontage lot,
fronting only 1 street.
   LOT LINES. The property lines or other lines bounding a lot.
      (1)   FRONT. The line dividing a lot from a street from which legal
access is available.
      (2)   REAR. The lot line opposite the front lot line. In case of a 3-
sided lot, it shall mean a line within the lot, 10 feet long, concentric with
and at the maximum distance from the front lot line. In case of an irregular
sided lot, it shall mean 1 or more lines opposite the front lot line.
      (3)   SIDE. Any lot line other than a front or rear lot line.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot designated on a subdivision plat or deed, duly recorded
pursuant to the statute in the County Recorder's Office.
   LOT WIDTH. For regularly shaped lots, LOT WIDTH is the average distance
between the side lot lines, measured at right angles to the depth of the lot;
for irregularly shaped or wedge-shaped lots, LOT WIDTH is the distance between
the side lot lines measured at the points of intersection of the front setback
line and the side lot lines.
   LOT, ZONING. A parcel of land, composed of 1 or more recorded lots under
common ownership, occupied or to be occupied by a principal building(s) or
principal use(s) along with permitted accessory buildings or uses, meeting all
the requirements for area, buildable area, width, yards, and any other
requirements set forth in these regulations.
   MAIN BUILDING. See “principal building.”
   MAIN USE. See “principal use.”
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING. A broad term referring to both mobile homes and
modular homes, as defined herein, and excluding motor homes, travel trailers,
campers, and tents.
   MEDICAL CANNABIS BUSINESSES. A medical cannabis cultivation center or
medical cannabis dispensary.
   MEDICAL CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER. A "cultivation center" as defined in
Section 10 of the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act, as
amended.
   MEDICAL CANNABIS DISPENSARY. A "medical cannabis dispensing organization,"
or "dispensing organization," or "dispensary organization," as defined in
Section 10 of the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act, as
amended.
   MOBILE HOME. A movable or portable dwelling constructed for year-round
living and is towed on its own chassis, connected to utilities, and designed
without a permanent foundation. It can consist of 1 or more units that can be
folded, collapsed, or telescoped when towed, and expanded later for additional
cubic capacity. It can also consist of 2 or more units, separately towable but
designed to be joined into 1 integral unit, capable of being again separated
into the components for repeated towing. A MOBILE HOME is at least 29 feet in
length and 10 feet in width. Mobile homes are towed to their sites by trucks
whose movements are controlled by state highway regulations, or they are
shipped longer distances on railroad flatcars to designated locations and then
towed to the site. This definition excludes motor homes, travel trailers,
campers, and tents.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. An area of land upon which 2 or more occupied mobile homes
are harbored either free of charge or for revenue purposes, and shall include
any building, structure, vehicle or enclosure used or intended for use as a
part of the equipment of such-mobile home park.
   MODULAR HOME. A factory-fabricated, transportable building unit designed to
be incorporated at a building site into a structure to be used for residential
purposes. The modules are of standard dimensions designed to meet the
requirements of single-family living, efficient production-line techniques, and
transportation over existing roads and highways. Not only the shell of dwelling
modules, but also the mechanical equipment - wiring, plumbing, and interior
cabinetry, and perhaps even furniture and furnishings are produced at the
factory. Unlike the mobile home, as defined herein, the modular housing units
are placed on permanent foundations at the site and are required to adhere to
IRC 2003 Building Code regulations, as adopted by the city.
   MOTEL. A building designed for transient occupancy containing rooms or
suites with separate entrances, providing living, sleeping, and toilet
facilities. A general kitchen and a dining room may be provided.
   NONCONFORMANCE. A nonconforming lot, structure or use which lawfully existed
before these regulations or future amendments but which is prohibited in the
district in which it exists under the terms of these regulations.
   NONCONFORMING USES. Any building or land lawfully occupied by a use, or in
the case of a building, lawfully situated at the time of the passage of these
regulations or amendments thereto, which does not conform after passage of
these regulations or amendment thereto with these regulations.
   NURSERY SCHOOL. A school or other instructional facility for preschool
children.
   NURSING HOME. A home for the aged or infirm in which 3 or more persons not
of the immediate family are received, kept or provided with food and shelter,
or care for compensation; but not including hospitals, clinics, or similar
institutions devoted primarily to the diagnosis and treatment of the sick or
injured.
   ON-PREMISES CANNABIS CONSUMPTION ESTABLISHMENT. A cannabis dispensary or
retail tobacco store (as defined in Section 10 of the Smoke Free Illinois Act)
authorized or permitted to allow the on-premises consumption of cannabis.
   PARKING SPACE. An area of definite length and width, for the purpose of
parking motor vehicles, which area shall be exclusive of drives, aisles or
entrances giving access thereto, and shall be fully accessible for the parking
of permitted vehicles.
   PERMITTED USES. Those uses permitted by right. An applicant for a building
permit must be given a permit if he or she complies with all requirements of
these regulations.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A lot or group of lots which is developed
comprehensively under single ownership or unified control, which includes 1 or
more principal buildings and/or uses, and is processed in accordance with §
153.081 of the City Code.
   POOL, SWIMMING. Any permanent or portable pool, used for swimming or bathing
over 24 inches in depth.
   PREMISES. A lot together with all buildings and structures thereon.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. The main building upon a lot or the building which
houses the principal use of the premises (see “accessory buildings or use.")
   PRINCIPAL USE. The specific primary use of the land or building.
   ROOF. The uppermost exterior surface of a building. Roof shall be taken to
mean a permanent rigid surface or covering. Tarps and other non-rigid coverings
are to be specifically excluded.
   SERVICE DEPENDENT POPULATION. A group of individuals who, by reason of
mental or physical disability, require supervision offered in connection with
residence in a community living facility as herein defined, but do not require
medical or nursing care on site. Such groups shall reside as members of a
single housekeeping unit in a quasi-parental relationship with staff. The
groups shall not include persons for whom such services are a requirement of a
sentence upon conviction of a criminal offense or whose need for such services
arises during or immediately following a sentence of incarceration for a
criminal offense nor for the treatment or rehabilitation of drug or alcohol
addiction.
   SETBACK. The distance required to obtain minimum front, side, or rear yard
open space provisions of this chapter.
   SPOT ZONING. The rezoning of a relatively small area into a district which
is unrelated to the immediate area or the general plan for the community. The
rezoning may be a special privilege or an inconsistent restriction of 1
property which is not made applicable to others. A zoning pattern once
established and relied upon must be sufficiently stable to accomplish the
purposes of the plan and to protect those who comply with the law.
   STORAGE SHED. An accessory structure used for the storage of items, other
than vehicles, that are associated with the residential use of the primary
structure.
   STORE, RETAIL. A store from which 80% of the sales are of that type of goods
which are received directly at the store by or which are delivered from the
store to the ultimate consumer. The qualifying percentage for a retail store
shall be based on total sales and sales subject to the Illinois Retailers
Occupational Tax.
   STORE, WHOLESALE. A store at which goods are sold for delivery on or from
the premises to a person other than the ultimate consumer. Should a store not
qualify as a retail store, it shall be deemed to be a wholesale store.
   STREET. A place or way, however designated, for vehicular travel which
affords principal means of access to abutting property.
   STREET CENTER LINE. A line halfway between the right-of-way lines of a
street.
   STREET LINE. The right-of-way line of a street.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the
ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground. Among
other things, structures include buildings, walls, and signs.
   TECHNOLOGY AND DATA CENTER. A use primarily dedicated to computers, servers,
communications, infrastructure, and/or related equipment, either publicly or
privately owned or operated, and where information is stored, processed,
received and/or transferred. Examples include internet and telecommunication
service providers, network operations centers, server facilities, web hosting
facilities and other related entities that provide access via
telecommunications networks to computer-held information.
   TEMPORARY STRUCTURE. An accessory building or structure used to store
construction materials and/or equipment during construction.
   USE. The purpose or activity for which land, or any structure thereon, is
designed, arranged, or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained.
   VARIANCE. A relaxation of the strict terms of the zoning regulations in
order to provide relief for a property owner (or occupant) upon whom the zoning
regulations have imposed undue hardship or difficulty. Usually variance
applications request relief from required lot sizes and widths, setbacks, and
minimum yards. Variances should be granted only to provide relief in unusual
situations which were not intended or foreseen when the comprehensive zoning
regulations were adopted. No variance should be granted unless it will be in
harmony with the general intent and purpose of the regulations.
   YARD, FRONT. The area between the face of the main building and the front
property line and also the area from the front property line to a line extended
in a parallel direction to the face of the main building from the outermost
corner to the side property line.(See diagram below).
   YARD, REAR. The area between the face of the main building and the back
property line and also the area from the back property line to a line extended
in a parallel direction to the face of the main building from the outermost
corner to the side property line.(See diagram below).
   YARD, SIDE. The area between the side lot line and the main building
extending from the front yard line to the rear yard line. (See diagram below).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a48609afc6d43a74fff5c3e4253c60a675818ce5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1659.jpg]
 
   ZONING DISTRICT. A portion of the city within which, on a uniform basis,
certain uses of land and buildings are permitted.
(Am. Ord. 2008-56, passed 10-14-2008; Am. Ord. 2013-42, passed 7-22-2013; Am.
Ord. 2013-43, passed 7-22-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-36, passed 9-8-2014; Am. Ord.
2020-42, passed 8-24-2020)
DISTRICTS AND DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 153.015 DESIGNATION OF DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of this section is to create a series of districts
or zones of such number and character as are necessary to achieve compatibility
of uses within each district, to implement the Comprehensive Plan of the city
and to complement the official zoning map of the city.
   (B)   Districts. For the purposes of these regulations, the land within the
boundaries of the city is hereby divided into the following districts:
      (1)   B - Business. The Business District designated as B is established
to provide areas for office and retail, wholesale, and commercial
establishments which offer a wide range of goods and services.
      (2)   IC - Planned Industrial/Commercial Zone.
         (a)   The intent of the IC Zone is to provide opportunities for
planned developments that combine industrial and commercial uses. Typical IC
uses include, but are not limited to, light manufacturing, warehousing, office,
research and development, and wholesale and retail sales. The IC Zone is
appropriate for commercial uses which require large display or storage areas.
It is also appropriate for office uses which involve associate light assembly
and/or warehousing. IC developments should typically be located in areas
ensuring a high degree of visibility and vehicular access. IC developments
should also demonstrate a higher quality of appearance than general industrial
(I-1) developments, befitting their more commercial nature. An integrated
“campus” or “park-like” setting for IC developments is encouraged.
         (b)   Appropriate uses in the IC zone may include any type of
business, administration or industrial use that is free from obnoxious or
offensive noise, odor, dust, gas, smoke, or vibration, and which is part of a
unified site design.
         (c)   Before the land is used or any building erected or used for any
of the above purposes, a preliminary plan and a final plan shall be approved by
the City Council for all contiguous property within this district in any 1
location. The review process for the preliminary and final plan shall follow
all applicable procedures, standards and requirements of the Zoning,
Subdivision and Development Regulations, as determined by the Planning and
Zoning Board.
         (d)   The development plans shall be prepared by and have the seal of
an architect and/or engineer duly registered to practice in this state. No
building permit shall be issued until a final plat of the proposed development
is approved and recorded.
         (e)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall review the conformity of the
proposed development with the standards of the official city plan and
recognized principles of civic design, land use planning, and landscape
architecture. The Board may impose conditions regarding the layout, circulation
and performance of the proposed development and may require that appropriate
deed restrictions be filed enforceable by the city. A plat of development shall
be recorded regardless of whether a subdivision is proposed and the plat shall
show building lines, common land, streets, easements and other applicable
features required by the chapter of the municipal code regulating the
subdivision of land.
         (f)   The Commission may hold 1 or more public hearings on the
development plans. The recommendations of the Commission shall be forwarded to
the City Council who shall approve or disapprove the action of the Commission
with or without modification. After approval by the City Council and after any
required restrictions are in effect, the Building Inspector may issue permits
enabling the approve final development plan to be carried out.
         (g)   From time to time, the proponents may make minor changes in the
approved final plan so long as such changes have been approved by the planning
Commissioner, upon denial of approval by the Planning and Zoning Board, with
the approval of the City Council. What constitutes a “minor” change will be
determined at the sole discretion of the Planning and Zoning Board. No building
or occupancy permits shall be issued for any building or use that is not in
accordance with an approved final plan. The final plan may be used as the plan
required to obtain an occupancy or building permit, except that it shall also
show the use or types of uses to be accommodated in each building or portion
thereof in addition to the other requirements of the Zoning, Subdivision or
Development Regulations.
      (3)   I-1 - General Industrial. This industrial district is established
to provide areas in which manufacturing and related commercial and
administrative operations are the principal use of the land. Areas for
industrial development should be free from incompatible commercial uses,
dwellings, and institutions for human care.
      (4)   RC - Conservation. The Conservation District is established to
prevent the construction upon or alteration of rural or natural environments
which have natural conditions of soil, slope, susceptibility to flooding or
erosion, vegetation or an interaction between the aforesaid, which make such
lands unsuitable for urban development. Further, this district is established
to protect areas of the environment that, if altered, would cause health or
pollution problems and environmental deterioration. The Conservation District
will also ensure adequate areas for future conservation and recreational
pursuits.
      (5)   RD - Urban Residential. Typical for the older residential areas of
the city. The Urban Residential District is established to provide a variety of
housing types related to the size and character of the development site or lot.
In older neighborhoods, this zone allows a transition of large homes from owner
to rental occupied, moreover, economical construction is allowed in such
neighborhood. In the Urban Residential District appropriate religious,
educational and recreational facilities create a balanced neighborhood. It is
the intent of these zoning regulations that no new development be zoned Urban
Residential.
      (6)   RE-1 - Single Family Residential. This Single Family Residential
District is intended to provide areas for single family dwellings set on
standard sized residential building lots of at least 8,000 square feet, in
which the principal use of the land is for single family, together with the
appropriate religious, education and recreational facilities as the basic
elements of a balanced neighborhood. It is intended for areas where community
facilities for water supply and sewage disposal are available.
      (7)   RM - Multiple Family Residential. The Multiple Family Residential
District is intended to provide areas for 2-family and multiple family
dwellings set in a moderate density housing environment where this use is
compatible with surrounding land uses. It is intended for areas where community
facilities for water supply and sewage disposal are available with appropriate
religious, educational and recreational facilities to create a balanced
neighborhood.
      (8)   RS - Suburban Residential. The Suburban Residential District is
established to provide a low density area in which the principal use of land is
for single-family on large sized residential building lots, together with the
appropriate religious, educational and recreational facilities as the basic
elements of a balanced neighborhood.
      (9)   RU - Rural. The Rural District is established as a district in
which agricultural activity is encouraged as the principal use of land. The
specific intent of the rural zone is to facilitate the long term use of lands
best suited to agricultural production by preventing a mixture of urban and
rural uses which often create incompatibilities and conflict with agricultural
pursuits, which place unbalanced tax loads on agricultural lands and which
encourage the premature termination of agricultural pursuits.
   (C)   Zoning upon annexation. All land which may hereafter be incorporated
into the zoning jurisdictional area of the city, whether through annexation or
otherwise, shall, unless a valid pre-annexation agreement in effect at the time
of annexation provides otherwise or unless, after a public hearing, specific
action by the City Council provides otherwise, automatically be classified from
its present or most recent classification under the Piatt County Zoning
Ordinance, to a classification under the City of Monticello Zoning Ordinance,
according to the following table:
Former Zoning District New Zoning District
Piatt County           City of Monticello
Former Zoning District        New Zoning District
Piatt County                  City of Monticello
A-1, Agricultural             RU, Rural
AC, Conservation              RC, Conservation
RS, Suburban Residential      RS, Suburban Residential
RD, Urban Residential         RD, Urban Residential
B-1, General Business         B, Business
I-1, General Industrial       I-1, General Industrial
I-A, Interchange Agricultural RU, Rural
I-R, Interchange Residential  RS, Suburban Residential
I-B, Interchange Business     B, Business
I-I, Interchange Industrial   I-l, General Industrial
 
(Am. Ord. 2014-36, passed 9-8-2014)
§ 153.016 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   (A)   Map.  The zoning map published by the city pursuant to §
153.016(B) shall be the official zoning map. The various zone designations
indicated on the official zoning map shall be controlling and determinative of
the uses permitted on the real estate outlined upon the map according to the
limitations applicable to each zoning district as set forth in these zoning
regulations.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-13-19)
   (B)   Publication of the map. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
the City Council shall cause to be published no later than March 31 of each
year, a map clearly showing the existing zoning uses, divisions, restrictions,
regulations and classifications of the city for the preceding calendar year. If
in any calendar year after the first map is published, there are no changes in
zoning uses, divisions, restrictions, regulations and classifications in the
city, no map shall be published for such calendar year.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-13-19)
   (C)   District boundaries. Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of
districts as shown on the official zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
      (1)   Boundaries shown as following or approximately following the city
limits shall be construed as following such limits.
      (2)   Boundaries shown as following or approximately following streets,
highways, or alleys shall be construed to follow the center lines of such
streets, highways or alleys.
      (3)   Boundary lines which follow or approximately follow platted lot
lines or other property lines as shown on the county tax maps shall be
construed as following such lines.
      (4)   Boundaries shown as following or approximately following section
lines, half-section lines, or quarter-section lines, shall be construed as
following such lines.
      (5)   Boundaries shown as following or approximately following railroad
lines shall be construed to lie midway between the main tracks of such railroad
lines.
      (6)   Boundaries shown as following or approximately following the center
lines of streams, rivers, or other continuously flowing water courses shall be
construed as following the channel center line of such water courses taken at
mean low water, and in the event of a natural change in the location of such
streams, rivers or water courses, the zone boundary shall be construed as
moving with the channel center line.
      (7)   Boundaries shown as separated from, and parallel or approximately
parallel to, any of the features listed above shall be construed to be parallel
to such feature and at such distance therefrom as is shown on the map.
Distances not specifically indicated on the map shall be determined by the
scale of the map.
      (8)   Where a district boundary line divided a lot which was in single
ownership at the time of passage of these regulations, the Building and Zoning
Administrator may permit the extension of the regulations for either portion of
the lot not to exceed 50 feet beyond the district boundary line into the
remaining portion of the lot.
      (9)   Whenever any street, alley, or other public way is vacated, the
zoning district adjoining each side of each street, alley or public way shall
be automatically extended to the center of the vacated area; and all areas
included in the vacation shall then and henceforth be subject to all
appropriate regulations of the extended districts.
   (D)   Exhibit “A”. The zoning map attached to the Zoning Ordinance and
marked as “Exhibit A,” which is incorporated by reference and expressly
referred to herein, and the area designations indicated thereon are hereby
declared to be the official zoning map of the city, and from this date forward
the area designations shall be controlling and determinative of the uses
permitted on the real estate outlined upon the map according to the limitations
applicable to each classification under this amended zoning ordinance and the
zoning ordinance adopted on April 29, 1975. No use other than those permitted
by this zoning ordinance shall be allowed, caused or permitted by any person,
owner, occupant or tenant on any of the premises contained within the city.
(Am. Ord. 2008-56, passed 10-14-2008)
§ 153.017 PRINCIPAL USES PERMITTED IN ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Designation of uses. 
Table I which follows, lists principal uses which are permitted in the
districts by right (designated by “X”) or by conditional use (designated by
“C”) which may be permitted only after a hearing by the Planning and Zoning
Board and a favorable vote by the City Council.
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   
Table I does not apply to home occupations (see §
153.031).
      (2)   A conditional use permit is hereby required for any and all changes
or alterations to the structure, visual appearance, or use of any building,
structure, lot monument, or thing that has been declared an historic
preservation site by the Historic Preservation Commission.
Table I - Principal Uses by Zoning District
X = Permitted by Right    C = Permitted by Conditional Use   * = Prohibited Use
in All Districts
                                                  Zoning Districts
Principal Use                                     B I-C I-1 RC RD RE-1 RM RS RU
Adult entertainment facility                            X
Agricultural implement sales                      C X   X
Agricultural activity                             X X       C                X
Ambulance service                                 X X
Amusement or recreation hall                      X X
Animal husbandry                                                             X
Apartments (see dwelling)
Appliance repair                                  X X   X
Assisted living facility                          C C          X  X       X  X
Auction house                                     C X   X                    C
Automobile sales                                  X X   X
Automobile service station                        C X   X                    C
Automobile and machinery wrecking or parts              C
Bait shop                                         X X   X   C                X
Bakery with sale on the premises                  X X   X
Bank                                              X X
Barber shop                                       X X
Beauty shop                                       X X
Bed and breakfast                                              X          X  X
Bowling alley                                     X X   X
Bus terminal                                      C C
Cannabis craft grower                             * *   *   *  *  *    *  *  *
Cannabis cultivation center                       * *   *   *  *  *    *  *  *
Cannabis dispensary                               * *   *   *  *  *    *  *  *
Cannabis infuser                                  * *   *   *  *  *    *  *  *
Cannabis processor                                * *   *   *  *  *    *  *  *
Cannabis transporter                              * *   *   *  *  *    *  *  *
Car wash                                          X X   X
Cemetery                                                    C                X
Church                                            C C   C      C  C    C  C  C
Clinic                                            X C          C
Club, private                                     X X   X
Commercial establishment not designated           X C   C
Country club                                                C  C          C  X
Crop production                                   X X   X   X  X  X    X  X  X
Day care center                                   X C          C  C    X
Dry cleaning establishment                        X X   X
Drug store                                        X X   X
Dwelling, community living facility, category I                X  X       X
Dwelling, community living facility, category II               C       X
Dwelling, community living facility, category III C            C       X
Dwelling, single-family                           C C          X  X       X  X
Dwelling, multi-family                            C C          C       X
Dwelling, zero lotline                              C          C  C       C
Educational or charitable institution             X X                        X
Funeral home                                      C C          C       C     X
Garage, public                                    X X   X
Golf course                                       C         C  C  C    C  C  X
Golf course, driving range                        C C   C   C                C
Golf course, miniature                            X X   X                    C
Grain elevator                                          X
Grain mill products - manufacturing/packaging           X
Greenhouse, commercial                            X X   X      C             X
Grocery store                                     X X   X
Hardware store                                    X X   X
Heating and air conditioning establishment        X X   X
Hospital                                          C C
Hotel                                             X C
Kennel                                            X C
Industry (not otherwise designated)                 C   C
Laundromat                                        X X   X
Library                                           X C          X       X
Lodge                                             X X   X
Lumberyard                                        X X   X
Manufacturing (not otherwise designated)          C C   X
Medical cannabis cultivation center               C     C
Medical cannabis dispensary                       C
Mobile home park                                               C             C
Modular home (single family)                      C     C      X  X       X  X
Motel                                             X C
Night club                                        X X   X
Nursery, children                                 X C          X  C    X     X
Nursery, commercial                               X X   X      C             X
Nursing home                                      C C          C       C
Office, professional                              X X   X      C             X
On-premises cannabis consumption establishment    * *   *   *  *  *    *  *  *
Park, public                                      X X   X   X  X  X    X  X  X
Personal services shop                            X X   X
Planned unit development                          C C   C   C  C  C    C  C  C
Plumbing/heating/electrical contractor shop       X X   X
Printing office                                   X X   X
Public building - governmental agency             X X   X   C  C  C    C  C  C
Parking lot                                       X X   X      C       C
Radio and television towers/station               X X   X                    X
Repair shop (excluding cars/heavy equipment)      X X   X
Resort                                                                       C
Restaurant, indoor service only                   X X   X                    C
Restaurant, drive-in                              X X   X                    C
Retail store (excluding slaughtering animals)     X X   X
Retreat, religious                                          C                X
Riding stable                                                                X
School - public or private                        C C          C  C    C  C
Skating rink                                      X X   X                    C
Shoe repair shop                                  X X   X
Sheet metal shop                                    C   X
Tavern                                            X C   X
Technology and data center                        X X   X
Telephone exchange/answering service              X X   X
Theater, auditorium                               X C
Theater, drive-in                                 C C   C                    C
Tourist home                                      X            C  C    C
Train depot                                       X X   X
Truck terminal                                      C   X
Veterinary hospital                               C C
Warehouse                                         X X   X
Wholesale stores                                  X X   X
 
(Am. Ord. 2008-56, passed 10-14-2008; Am. Ord. 2013-42, passed 7-22-2013; Am.
Ord. 2013-043, passed 7-22-2013; Am. Ord. 2013-61, passed 10-28-2013; Am. Ord.
2014-36, passed 9-8-2014; Am. Ord. 2016-78, passed 11-28-2016; Am. Ord. 2020-
42, passed 8-24-2020)
§ 153.018 APPLICATION OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Conformity with regulations. No building, structure, or land shall
hereafter be used or occupied, and no building or structure or part thereof
shall hereafter be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally
altered except in conformity with all of the regulations herein specified for
the district in which it is located.
   (B)   Minimum regulations. The density and yard regulations established
herein are minimum regulations for each and every building existing at the
effective date of these regulations and for any building hereafter erected or
structurally altered.
   (C)   Application to each building. No part of a yard or other open space,
or off-street parking or loading space required about or in connection with any
building for the purpose of complying with these regulations, shall be included
as part of a yard, open space, or off-street parking or loading space similarly
required for any other building.
   (D)   One main building per lot. Every building hereafter erected or
structurally altered shall be located on a lot as herein defined and in no case
shall there be more than 1 main building on a lot except as follows:
      (1)   The lot lies within a RM, B, I-1 or I-C zoning district;
      (2)   A conditional use permit is issued for the construction of more
than one main building on 1 lot;
      (3)   The required yards are maintained around the group of buildings;
and
      (4)   Buildings that are parallel are separated by a horizontal distance
that is at least equal to the height of the highest of the parallel buildings
(see Figure 1.)
   Figure 1: Distance Requirements for Parallel Buildings
   (E)   One main use per lot. Only 1 main use shall be allowed per lot,
provided that more than 1 main use may be allowed per lot after the issuance of
a conditional use permit.
§ 153.019 LOT AREA, YARD AND BULK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted, a
single-family dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any
single nonconforming lot of record (see §
153.052).
      (2)   Bulk refers to the height and lot coverage for structures in
specific districts.
      (3)   See
Table II for lot area, yard, and bulk regulations for the designated districts.
Table II - Lot Area, Yard and Bulk Regulations
         Width   Area                              Yard                        Bulk
                             Minimum Lot Size
                             Residential Use       Minimum
                 Non-        Minimum Lot Size      Required Yard   Minimum
         Minimum Residential Area/Family (Square   (Feet)          Yard                 Maximum
District Lot     Use Minimum Feet)                                 Abutting    Maximum  Structure
         Width   Area                                              Residential Lot      Height
         (Feet)  (Square                                           District    Coverage (Feet)
                 Feet)       Single Multi  Zero    Front Side Rear (Feet)
                             Family Family Lotline


B        65      7,000       6,500  4,000  N/A     None  None None 15          100%     45
IC       65      7,000       6,500  4,000  4,000   25    15   20   30(b)       40%      45
                                                         (a)
I-1      65      7,000       N/A    N/A    N/A     35    15   None 25          40%      45
RC       150     1 acre      N/A    N/A    N/A     50    25   50   20          10%      35
                             8,000                       (a),                  40% for
RD       65 S-F  8,000       (c) or (e)    4,000   30    (f)  10   N/A         M-F      45
         40 Z-L              4,000                       and                   60% for
                             (d)                         (g)                   S-F
RE-1     75 S-F  8,000       8,000  N/A    4,000   30    (a)  20   N/A         40%      35
         40 Z-L                                          (h)
RM       80      8,000       N/A    (i)    N/A     30    10   20   N/A         50%      45
RS       100 S-F 18,500      18,500 N/A    6,000   30    10   20   N/A         30%      35
         50 Z-L                                          (a)
RU       150     1 acre      1 acre N/A    N/A     50    25   30   30          20%      35
(a)   Zero feet along common lotline for zero lotline dwellings on which a conditional use permit
has been issued
(b)   May also be subject to buffer requirements
(c)   For lots established after August 15, 1977
(d)   For lots established prior to August 15, 1977
(e)   8,000 square feet minimum with 2,500 square feet for each 3 bedroom dwelling unit; 2,000
square feet for each 2 bedroom dwelling unit; 1,500 square feet for each 1 bedroom dwelling unit
(f)   6 feet for lots 60 feet or less in width; 10% of lot width for lots over 60 feet in width,
to a maximum of 10 feet
(g)   For 3 story multi-family buildings, a minimum of 10-foot side yards are required
(h)   8 feet for lots 80 feet or less in width; 10% of lot width for lots over 80 feet in width,
to a maximum of 10 feet
(i)   8,000 square feet minimum with 3,000 square feet for each 3 bedroom dwelling unit; 2,500
square feet for each 2 bedroom dwelling unit; 2,000 square feet for each 1 bedroom dwelling unit
M-F   Multi-family
S-F   Single family
Z-L   Zero lotline
N/A   Not applicable
 
   (B)   Front yards.
      (1)   The front yard setbacks indicated in
Table II shall apply to these respective zoning districts except where 30% or
more of a block front is improved with buildings. In that event, the setback
may be decreased to a line joining the 2 adjacent corners of the building on
either side thereof, or, where there is a building on only 1 side, a line
projected from the corresponding adjacent corner of the building.
      (2)   Where a block front is divided among districts with different front
yard requirements, the deepest front yard required shall apply to the entire
block front.
      (3)   On corner lots there must be a front yard setback on both streets.
On a corner lot, any lot line or yard not considered a front lot line or yard
shall be a side lot line or side yard.
      (4)   On double frontage lots, such as, lots fronting on 2
nonintersecting streets, there shall be a front yard and a rear yard. The front
and rear shall be determined by the existing usage of the lot.
      (5)   Front yards shall be devoted entirely to landscaped areas and the
necessary paving of driveways and sidewalks to reach parking or loading areas
in the side or rear yards.
      (6)   All front yards must meet intersection sight distance requirements
as determined by the Illinois Department of Transportation's Bureau of Local
Roads (BLR) manual.
      (7)   See division (E).
   (C)   Rear yards.
      (1)   The extent of required setbacks for each zoning district shall be
as set forth in
Table II.
      (2)   Swimming pools, basketball courts, tennis courts and home barbecue
grills may occupy a rear yard provided that they are not located closer than 5
feet to the rear lot lines.
      (3)   See division (E).
   (D)   Side yards.
      (1)   Required side yards shall be maintained on each side of the
dwelling or building. The extent of the required yard for each zoning district
shall be as set forth in
Table II.
      (2)   No side yard shall be required where dwellings are erected above
commercial structures, except side yards as may be required for a commercial
dwelling in the district in which it is located.
      (3)   If a variance (§
153.077) or a conditional use permit (§
153.078) has been issued, the side yards stipulated therein shall be required.
      (4)   On corner lots, there must be a front yard setback on both streets.
On a corner lot, any lot line or yard not considered a front lot line or yard
shall be a side lot line or side yard.
      (5)   For purposes of the side yard regulations, a multi-family dwelling
unit shall be considered 1 building occupying lot.
      (6)   For 3-story multi-family buildings, a minimum of 10-foot side yards
are required.
      (7)   The minimum width of side yards for schools, libraries, churches,
community buildings and other public and semi-public buildings in RU, RS, RC,
RE-1, and RM districts shall be 25 feet, except where a side yard is adjacent
to a commercial or industrial district, in which case the width of the yard
required in the adjoining district shall be required for that yard.
      (8)    Swimming pools, basketball courts, tennis courts and home barbecue
grills may occupy a side yard provided that they are not located closer than 5
feet to the side lot lines.
      (9)   See division (E).
   (E)   All yards.
      (1)   Sills, window air-conditioning units, chimneys, roofs, cornices,
and ornamental features may project into a required yard a distance not to
exceed 24 inches.
      (2)   Open fire escapes and fireproof outside stairways and ordinary
projections of chimneys and flues into a required yard for a distance of not
more than 3½ feet may be permitted when so placed as to not obstruct light and
ventilation.
      (3)   Those parts of existing buildings that violate yard requirements
may be repaired and remodeled in accordance with §
153.053, but not reconstructed to structurally altered in such a way as to
increase their nonconformity.
      (4)   Filling station pumps and pump islands may occupy required yards
provided, however, that they are not less than 15 feet from all lot lines.
      (5)   Walkways, retaining walls, decorative lights, flag poles,
birdbaths, bird houses, and the like may be located in any yard, so long as
they are a minimum of 2 feet from any lot line.
   (F)   Height regulations.
      (1)   Maximum height limits established for buildings and structures are
as follows:
         (a) Thirty-five feet in the RU, RC, RS and RE-1 districts.
         (b)   Forty-five feet in the RD, RM, B, I-1 and IC districts.
      (2)   Buildings and structures greater in height than the abovementioned
limits may be constructed only after issuance of a variance.
(Am. Ord. 2008-56, passed 10-14-2008; Am. Ord. 2016-78, passed 11-28-2016)
§ 153.020 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES.
   (A)   General regulations. The uses permitted in the various zoning
districts are principal uses, and a building, structure or use that is
accessory to a permitted use is allowable in connection with such a use
provided it shall meet the requirements of this section.
      (1)   Accessory buildings, structures and uses shall be compatible with
the principal uses.
      (2)   Accessory buildings and structures shall not be established prior
to the establishment of the principal use; however, this shall not prohibit the
construction of a temporary structure prior to construction provided the
following rules are followed:
         (a)    A temporary structure shall only be allowed in conjunction with
the issuance of a building permit.
         (b)    The temporary structure shall be removed upon completion of the
original building project.
      (3)   Accessory buildings may not be used for dwelling purposes.
      (4)   Where the accessory building is structurally attached to a main
building, it shall be subject to, and must conform to, all regulations of this
chapter applicable to the main building.
      (5)   All accessory buildings, structures and uses must conform with such
other regulations that apply, including city adopted building code regulations.
   (B)   Location; lot coverage. 
      (1)   No detached accessory building, structure or use may be erected in
a front yard.
      (2)   In no case shall a detached accessory building be located in a
utility easement.
      (3)   In the RE-1, and RD Districts, when the principal use of the main
building is single family residential, the maximum height of an accessory
building shall be limited to 17 feet, accessory buildings greater than 17 feet
in height may be constructed only after issuance of a variance.
      (4)   A detached accessory building shall not be located within 10 feet
of the main building. Accessory buildings in existence prior to the date of
adoption of this chapter are permitted to remain as legal nonconforming
structures.
      (5)    A detached accessory building shall not be closer than 5 feet to
the rear lot line, 5 feet from the side lot line.
   (C)   Permitted accessory buildings.  
      (1)   In the RU, RC, RE-1, RM, RS, and RD Districts, the following
accessory buildings are permitted:
         (a)   One non-commercial greenhouse that does not exceed in floor area
25% of the ground area of the main building.
         (b)   One private residential garage, either attached or detached, not
to exceed 1,000 square feet in size in an RD, RE-1 and RM Districts and not to
exceed 1,500 square feet in RC, RS and RU Districts.
         (c)   Tennis court, basketball court, swimming pool, garden house,
barbecue oven, fireplace, and similar uses customarily accessory to residential
uses.
         (d)   One storage shed not to exceed 200 square feet in size.
      (2)   Additional or other accessory buildings or uses may be constructed
only after issuance of a conditional use permit.
      (3)   In the Business (B), Industrial (I-1), and Planned Industrial/
Commercial (IC) Districts, parking lots and garages are permitted in
conformance with the requirements of §
153.033.
      (4)   In the Rural (RU) District, accessory buildings may include barns,
stables, storage sheds, and other structures necessary for agricultural
activities.
(Am. Ord. 2008-56, passed 10-14-2008)
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS
§ 153.030 MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   Occupancy of mobile homes. Residential occupancy of mobile homes is
permitted only in mobile home parks licensed by the state.
   (B)   Pre-existing mobile homes outside of mobile home parks.  Mobile homes,
as defined herein, which are located outside of mobile home parks as of the
date of enactment of this amendment (May 22, 1995), shall be considered to be
legally nonconforming uses and shall be permitted to remain in their locations,
to be modified, and to be reconstructed following total or partial damage or
destruction, as long as all other provisions of these zoning regulations,
including yard setbacks, are met.
§ 153.031 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to maintain the character and
integrity of residential areas and to provide a means through the establishment
of specific standards and procedures by which home occupations can be conducted
in residential neighborhoods, without jeopardizing the health, safety and
general welfare of the surrounding neighborhood.
   (B)   Home occupation, minor. Minor home occupations are home occupations
which shall not have nonresident customers or employees and where the
occupation complies with the following:
      (1)   There are no persons, other than immediate members of the family,
residing in the dwelling unit, engaged in the home occupation.
      (2)    There are no signs, advertising, displays, or other indications on
the premises identifying the home occupation.
      (3)   The home occupation is clearly incidental and secondary to the
residential use of the premises, does not change the residential character
thereof, and results in no incompatibility with or disturbance to the
surrounding residential uses.
      (4)   The home occupation does not create a nuisance to surrounding
residents by reasons of noise, light, odor, dust, smoke, fumes, vibrations or
electrical interference.
      (5)   All home occupations complies with all applicable federal, state,
and local regulations.
      (6)   No noticeable increase in on-street parking results from the
operation, nor does any increased traffic hazard occur as a result of vehicles
entering or exiting the premises.
   (C)   Home occupation, major. Major home occupations are home occupations
where customers and employees may come to the home and where the occupation
complies with the following:
      (1)   A conditional use permit is required.
      (2)   No more than 1 person, who is not a member of the family residing
on the premise, shall be employed.
      (3)    An identification sign shall not be greater than 16" x 24" and
shall be attached to and mounted flush against the building. Flashing and/or
illuminated signs are prohibited. There shall be no other display that will
indicate from the exterior that the building is being utilized for any purpose
other than that of a dwelling.
      (4)   Any home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to
the residential use of the premises, should not change the residential
character thereof, and shall result in no incompatibility or disturbance to the
surrounding residential uses.
      (5)   The home occupation shall not create a nuisance to surrounding
residents by reasons of noise, light, odor, dust, smoke, fumes, vibrations or
electrical interference.
      (6)   All home occupations shall comply with all applicable federal,
state, and local regulations.
      (7)    A day care shall have no more than 8 children, including the
occupants' natural or adopted children under age 18, who are in the home under
full-time care.
      (8)   On-street parking is prohibited.
      (9)    The home occupation shall not increase any traffic hazard as a
result of vehicles entering or exiting the premises.
   (D)   Prohibited occupations. 
      (1)   The following home occupations are prohibited in the city:
         (a)   General retail.
         (b)   Tanning salons.
         (c)   Funeral homes.
         (d)   Restaurants.
         (e)   Renting of trailers.
         (f)   Medical or dental offices, clinics or hospitals.
         (g)   Animal kennels or hospitals.
         (h)   Engine repair shops.
         (i)   Welding shops.
         (j)   Any activity which produces or involves the storage of noxious
matter, or employs, produces or involves the storage of flammable matter.
         (k)   Automotive repairs or detailing.
         (l)   Contracting, excavating, or machine shops.
         (m)    Any wholesale business unless it is conducted entirely by mail
and/or telephone and does not involve the receipt, sale, shipment, delivery or
storage of merchandise on or from the premises.
         (n)   Cannabis businesses.
      (2)   The regulations appearing in this section shall not apply to any
home occupation lawfully in existence on the date of adoption of these
regulations, which may be maintained as a matter of right as a legal
nonconforming use.
(Am. Ord. 2020-42, passed 8-24-2020)
§ 153.032 BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   A conditional use permit is required for all bed and breakfast
establishments.
   (B)    The bed and breakfast establishment shall be operated in conformity
with all state and local regulations.
   (C)   One parking space shall be provided for each room offered for
overnight accommodations, plus 2 additional spaces for the dwelling unit.
§ 153.033 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Necessity. Public necessity and business success demand that off-
street parking and, where applicable, loading spaces, be required of all new
uses and expansions of existing uses whether residential or nonresidential.
   (B)   Off-street parking requirements for residential uses. Off-street
parking spaces shall be provided for residential uses as follows:
      (1)   Single-family dwelling unit - 2 spaces for each dwelling.
      (2)   Multi-family dwelling unit - 2 spaces for each dwelling.
   (C)   Off-street parking requirements for nonresidential uses. See
Table III, “Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements for Nonresidential Uses.”
   (D)   Rules for computing parking spaces. In computing the number of
required off-street parking spaces, the following rules shall apply:
      (1)   Floor area shall mean the gross floor area of the specific use,
excluding any floor or portion thereof used for parking, as herein defined.
      (2)   Where fractional spaces result, the parking spaces required shall
be the nearest whole number.
      (3)   In the case of mixed uses, the parking spaces required shall equal
the sum of the requirements of the various uses computed separately.
      (4)   Parking spaces shall have a minimum width of 9 feet.
      (5)   See
Table IV, “Parking Lot Dimensions Table”.
Table III - Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements for Non-Residential Uses
               One Parking Space
                            For    For   For
               For   For    each   each  each  For each  For
               each  each   180    200   500   1000 Sq   each            For each   For
               50    100    Sq.    Sq.   Sq.   Ft plus   3000  For each  6 Seats of each
               Sq.   Sq.    Ft.    Ft.   Ft.   one space Sq.   5                    Guest
               Ft.   Ft. of of     of    of    for each  Ft.   Employees Auditorium
               of    Dining Office Floor Floor 4         of              Capacity   Room
               Floor Area          Space       Employees Floor
               Space        Space  over  Space           Space
                                   2000
Amusement                                                                X
centers
Appliance                                X
stores
Banks                                    X
Bowling alleys Five spaces per lane
Churches                                                                 X
Commercial                               X
establishments
Dental offices              X
Department                         X
stores
Funeral        X
parlors
Hospitals                                      X
Hotels, motels       X                                         X                    X
Industrials                                                    X
(mfgrs.)
Medical                     X
offices
Night clubs          X
Offices,                                 X
general
Professional                X
offices
Restaurants          X
Retail stores                      X
Schools                                        X
Service                            X
organizations
Technology                               X
data centers
Theaters                                                                 X
Warehouses                                               X
Wholesalers                                              X
 
Table IV - Parking Lot Dimensions
Angle of Parking Stall Width Curb Length  Stall Depth Driveway Width
                             Per Car
                 A           C            D           E
                9'0"        23'0"        9'0"        12'0"
0º              9'6"        23'0"        9'6"        12'0"
                10'0"       23'0"        10'0"       12'0"
                9'0"        26'4"        15'0"       11'0"
20º             9'6"        27'10"       15'6"       11'0"
                10'0"       29'3"        15'11"      11'0"
                9'0"        18'0"        17'4"       11'0"
30º             9'6"        19'0"        17'10"      11'0"
                10'0"       20'0"        18'3"       11'0"
                9'0"        14'0"        19'2"       12'0"
40º             9'6"        14'10"       19'6"       12'0"
                10'0"       15'3"        19'11"      12'0"
                9'0"        12'9"        19'10"      13'0"
45º             9'6"        13'5"        20'2"       13'0"
                10'0"       14'2"        20'6"       13'0"
                9'0"        11'9"        20'5"       12'0"
50º             9'6"        12'5"        20'9"       12'0"
                10'0"       13'2"        21'0"       12'0"
                9'0"        10'5"        21'0"       18'0"
60º             9'6"        11'0"        21'3"       18'0"
                10'0"       11'6"        21'6"       18'0"
                9'0"        9'8"         21'0"       19'0"
70º             9'6"        10'2"        21'3"       18'0"
                10'0"       10'8"        21'3"       18'0"
                9'0"        9'2"         20'4"       24'0"
80º             9'6"        9'8"         20'5"       24'0"
                10'0"       10'3"        20'6"       24'0"
                9'0"        9'0"         19'0"       24'0"
90º             9'6"        9'6"         19'0"       24'0"
                10'0"       10'0"        19'0"       24'0"
 
   (E)   Location of required parking spaces. All parking spaces required
herein shall be located as follows:
      (1)   The parking spaces required in division (B) for residential
buildings or uses shall be located on the same lot with the building or use
served.
      (2)   The parking spaces required for any other building or use may be
located in an area within 300 feet of the building and 2 or more owners of
buildings may join together in providing the required parking spaces. Where the
required parking spaces are not located on the same lot with the building or
use served, the usage of the lot or tract upon which the parking spaces are
provided shall be restricted by an instrument of record describing the premises
for which the parking is provided and assuring the retention of such parking so
long as required by these regulations.
      (3)   No parking spaces may be located in a front yard other than on the
driveway in an RE-1, RS, RD, or RM District.
   (F)   Minimum improvement and maintenance standards.
      (1)   All open parking areas provided in compliance with these
regulations shall be surfaced with a durable, dust-proof surface consisting of
concrete, bituminous concrete, or compacted gravel or crushed stone properly
sealed and surface treated. The parking areas shall be maintained in a usable
dust-proof condition and graded and drained to dispose of all surface water.
Whenever lighting is provided, it shall be so hooded or shielded as to reflect
light away from abutting or neighboring property, including public rights-of-
way.
      (2)   One standard tree, at least 1-1/4 inches in diameter, shall be
planted and maintained on the lot for each 10 parking spaces. The following
trees shall not be planted: American elm, Chinese elm, American plane tree, Box
elder (female), Common horse chestnut, Ginkgo (female), Poplar and Willow.
      (3)   Planting within 30 feet of entrances and exits to the parking lot
shall be limited to shrubs not greater than 3 feet in height when mature.
Planting within 30 feet of a street corner shall be limited to shrubs not
exceeding 3 feet in height when mature. All plantings shall be maintained by
the owner.
      (4)   The location of each parking space and the direction of movement
along the access driveways shall be indicated by painting upon the surface of
the lot. A structurally sound curb, or other abutment, no less than 6 inches in
height, shall be installed and so placed as to insure that no part of an
automobile either extends over or is capable of accidentally rolling across the
property line of the parking lot.
      (5)   All nonconforming parking spaces, with the exception of those
required for single-family and multi-family units shall be surfaced with
concrete or bituminous concrete or compacted gravel or crushed stone property
sealed or surface treated within 5 years of the date of passage of these
regulations.
   (G)   Off-street loading requirements.
      (1)   There shall be provided at the time any building is erected, off-
street loading space in accordance with the requirements of this section.
      (2)   Office buildings, apartments, hotels and motels - 1 space for each
5,000 to 50,000 square feet of gross floor area; 2 spaces for each 50,000 to
200,000 square feet of gross floor area; 1 additional space for each 75,000
square feet of gross floor area above 200,000 square feet.
      (3)   Retail or service establishment or wholesale commercial use – 1
space for each 2,000 to 20,000 square feet of gross floor area; 2 spaces for
each 20,000 to 100,000 square feet of gross floor area; 1 additional space for
each 75,000 square feet of gross floor area above 100,000 square feet.
      (4)   Manufacturing or industrial use - 1 space for each 10,000 square
feet of floor area or fraction thereof in excess of 5,000 square feet.
      (5)   Tractor-trailer units and other loading vehicles shall not be
permitted to obstruct the normal traffic flow of public streets. Off-street
apron space shall provide room for vehicular maneuverability for each required
off-street loading space.
      (6)   The following apron space is required for one maneuver into or out
of a loading space vehicle or other possible obstruction in the area of
maneuver. See
Table V, “Apron Space Required for One Maneuver Into or Out of Position”.
Table V: Apron Space Required for One
Maneuver Into or Out of Position
Length of Tractor-Trailer Width of Position “Apron” Space
                         10'               46'
35'                       12'               43'
                         14'               39'
                         10'               48'
40'                       12'               44'
                         14'               42'
                         10'               57'
45'                       12'               49'
                         14'               48'
                         10'               70'
55'                       12'               65'
                         14'               59'
                         10'               74'
60'                       12'               69'
                         14'               64'
                         10'               78'
65'                       12'               73'
                         14'               68'
 
(Am. Ord. 2008-56, passed 10-14-2008; Am. Ord. 2013-42, passed 7-22-2013)
§ 153.034 ON STREET PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Definitions.
      (1)   Truck tractor. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for
drawing other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a
part of the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
      (2)   Semi-trailer. Every vehicle without motive power designed for
carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so
constructed that some part of its weight and that of its load rests upon or is
carried by another vehicle.
   (B)   Parking restrictions. No person shall stand or park any truck tractor
or semi-trailer on any public street within the RC, RE-1, RM, RS, or RD zoning
districts for a greater period than is necessary for the reasonably expeditious
loading or unloading of such vehicle.
§ 153.035 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT.
   All new construction involving a significant increase in impervious surface
shall provide for adequate on-site stormwater detention and stormwater drainage
facilities. All storm drainage system design and construction shall comply with
the provisions of Chapter 52 (Stormwater Management). Where stormwater
regulations within the municipal code conflict, the more stringent of the
regulations shall prevail, as determined by city staff.
§ 153.036 BILLBOARDS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of these regulations is to encourage the
effective use of billboards as a means of communication in the city; maintain
and enhance the aesthetic environment and the city's ability to attract sources
of economic development and growth; improve pedestrian and traffic safety;
minimize the possible adverse affect of billboards on nearby public and private
property; and enable the fair and consistent enforcement of these regulations.
   (B)   Applicability/effect. A billboard may be erected, placed, established,
painted, or created in the city only in conformance with the standards,
procedures, exemptions and other requirements of these regulations. The intent
of these regulations is to:
      (1)   Establish a permit system to allow a variety of types of billboards
in commercial and industrial zones, subject to the standards of these
regulations;
      (2)   Allow certain billboards that are small, unobtrusive and incidental
to the principal use of the respective lots on which they are located, subject
to the substantive requirements of these regulations, but without the
requirement for a permit;
      (3)   Prohibit all billboards not expressly permitted by these
regulations; and
      (4)    Provide for the enforcement of these regulations.
   (C)   Definitions.    For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   BILLBOARD. An outdoor informational or advertising structure, including the
supporting billboard structure, which is visible from a street or highway and
has a message area larger than 150 square feet. Directional or official signs
authorized by law shall not be considered a billboard for the purpose of this
chapter.
   BILLBOARD AREA. The entire area within a continuous perimeter enclosing the
extreme limits of the billboard message and background; provided however, such
perimeter shall not include any structural elements lying outside of the
billboard and not forming an integral part or border of the billboard.
   BILLBOARD FACE. The surface of the billboard, including letters and
background, upon, against or through which the message is displayed or
illustrated.
   BILLBOARD STRUCTURE. The supports, uprights, braces and framework of the
billboard.
   DOUBLE-FACED BILLBOARD. A billboard with 2 faces only, with each face
oriented 180 degrees from the other.
   ERECT. To build, construct, attach, hang, place, suspend, or affix.
   FREESTANDING BILLBOARD. A billboard which is attached to or part of a
completely self- supporting structure.
   ILLUMINATED BILLBOARD. A billboard which is lighted with an artificial light
source.
   V-TYPE BILLBOARD. A freestanding billboard with 2 billboard faces that are
angled from each other by more than 0 degrees and less than 90 degrees.
   (D)   Permits, forms and application fees.
      (1)   Billboard permits.
         (a)   It is unlawful for any person to erect any billboard that
requires a permit according to this chapter without first securing a permit.
         (b)   Permits shall also be required for all governmental agency
(except traffic and safety) billboards, but all fees for the billboards shall
be waived; however, all other conditions and requirements of this chapter shall
apply.
         (c)   Permits for the erection of billboards regulated by this chapter
shall be issued for the useful life of the billboard.
         (d)    Any billboard for which a permit is issued shall be erected and
in place within 6 months from the date of such permit, or the permit will
become automatically void and a new permit shall be applied for pursuant to
this §
153.036.
      (2)   Billboard permit application form. Application for a billboard
permit shall be made on the billboard permit application form available from
the Building Inspector and shall be submitted to the same, and provide the
following information:
         (a)   Name, address, and telephone number of the applicants and owner;
         (b)   Name, address, and telephone number of firm or agency erecting,
maintaining or designing the billboard, if any;
         (c)   Location, zoning district, parcel number, and length of building
frontage of lot where billboard is to be attached or located;
         (d)   A sketch showing the location and dimensions of the proposed
billboard(s);
         (e)   Type of illumination to be used, if any;
         (f)   Any electrical permit required and issued for the billboard;
         (g)   Authorization to file a permit application; and
         (h)   Signature of applicant and date.
      (3)   Billboard application fees. The City Council shall set a fee
schedule for billboard permits by resolution. The fee schedule may be updated
from time to time, at the discretion of the City Council. The Building
Inspector shall provide applicants with information designating the amount of
fees to be paid. All fees shall be payable to the city.
   (E)   Billboard application.
      (1)   Administration.
         (a)   Upon receiving a completed and signed application, including the
appropriate fee, the Building Inspector shall have a period of 10 days to
either reject or approve the billboard application.
         (b)   If the application is approved, the Building Inspector shall
provide the applicant with a permit for the erection of the billboard applied
for.
         (c)   If the signed application is denied, written reasons for the
denial shall be supplied to the applicant by the Building Inspector.
         (d)    Upon notice of any application being rejected by the Building
Inspector, the applicant shall have access to the appeal and/or variance
procedure set forth in §
153.075 (A) of this chapter.
      (2)   Enforcement. Any person who violates any provisions of this section
shall be fined $50 for each offense. The fine may be assessed by a city police
officer issuing a citation to the offender. Each day that a violation is
allowed to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
   (F)   Billboards.  
      (1)   No billboard shall be erected without a permit. Billboards shall be
prohibited in the downtown area, defined: Norfolk and Southern Railroad tracks
on the west, High Street on the north, Buchanan Street on the east, and Marion
Street on the south. Billboards shall also be prohibited within 100 feet of
Market Street, from High Street south to the city limits, and on Center/Bridge
Street, from Buchanan Street west to the city limits. Billboards are permitted
only in zoning Districts B and I-1, subject to the following requirements:
         (a)   Spacing. No billboard may be located closer than 1,000 feet to
any other billboard, provided, however, this provision does not prevent
erection of freestanding, double-faced, 2 single-faced back-to-back, or V-type
billboards.
         (b)   Size. The maximum area of a billboard face shall be 425 square
feet or if 2 single-faced back-to-back or a V-type sign, a total of 850 square
feet. There shall be no more than 2 sign faces.
         (c)   Height. Billboards shall not exceed the height of 45 feet.
         (d)    Lighting. All electrical service wiring, including wiring used
for billboard lighting, shall be installed underground and in protective
electrical conduit. No overhead wiring shall be permitted.
         (e) Supporting structure. The supporting structure shall be set firmly
in or below the ground surface and shall not be attached to any building or any
other structure whether portable or stationary.
         (f)   Flashing lights. The use of flashing lights on billboards is
prohibited.
      (2)   The regulations appearing in this division shall not apply to any
billboard lawfully erected and in existence on August 23, 2004, which may be
maintained as a matter of right as a legal nonconforming sign and may be
rebuilt or relocated on the same property, provided the billboard is
constructed with similar materials and maintains the original size and height.
(Am. Ord. 2008-56, passed 10-14-2008)
§ 153.037 SIGNS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of these regulations is to encourage the
effective use of signs as a means of communication in the city; maintain and
enhance the city's aesthetic environment; improve pedestrian and traffic
safety; minimize the possible adverse affect of signs on nearby public and
private property; and enable the fair and consistent enforcement of these
regulations.
   (B)   Applicability/effect. A sign may be erected, placed, established,
painted, or created in the city only in conformance with the standards,
procedures, exemptions and other requirements of these regulations. The intent
of these regulations is to:
      (1)   Establish a permit system to allow a variety of types of signs in
commercial and residential zoning districts, subject to the standards of these
regulations;
      (2)   Allow certain signs that are small, unobtrusive and incidental to
the principal use of the respective lots on which they are located, subject to
the substantive requirements of these regulations, but without the requirement
for a permit;
      (3)   Prohibit all signs not expressly permitted by these regulations;
and
      (4)   Provide for the enforcement of these regulations.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL SIGN. A sign located in the B, I-1 or I-C zoning districts.
   ERECT. To build, construct, attach, hang, place, suspend, or affix.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. A sign which is attached to or part of a completely self-
supporting structure.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN. A sign which is lighted with an artificial light source.
   RESIDENTIAL SIGN. A sign located in the RC, RD, RE-1, RS or RU zoning
districts.
   SIGN. Any device, frame, letter, figure, character, mark, point, design,
picture, logo, stroke, trademark, or reading matter, which is used or intended
to be used to attract attention or convey information, when the same is placed
out of doors in view of the general public; and in addition, any of the above
which is not placed out of doors, but which is illuminated with artificial or
reflected light, and is attached or painted directly on the window or door of
the building facade.
   SIGN AREA. The entire area within a continuous perimeter enclosing the
extreme limits of the sign message and background; provided however, such
perimeter shall not include any structural elements lying outside of such sign
and not forming an integral part or border of the sign.
   SIGN FACE. The surface of the sign, including letters and background, upon,
against or through which the message is displayed or illustrated.
   SIGN HEIGHT. The distance from the natural ground level to the highest point
of the sign.
   SIGN STRUCTURE. The supports, uprights, braces and framework of the sign.
   SPECIAL EVENT SIGN. A temporary sign advertising or announcing a special
community-wide event or activity conducted by or sponsored by or on behalf of a
unit of local government, a charitable organization or a not-for-profit
corporation. A special community-wide event or activity is one which seeks to
attract donations, participants, or customers throughout the city.
   (D)   Permits, forms and application fees.
      (1)   Sign permits.
         (a)   It is unlawful for any person to erect any sign that requires a
permit according to this chapter without first securing a permit.
         (b)   Permits for the erection of signs regulated by this chapter
shall be issued for the useful life of the sign.
         (c)   Any sign for which a permit is issued shall be erected and in
place within 6 months from the date of such permit, or the permit will become
automatically void and a new permit shall be applied for pursuant to this
section.
      (2)   Sign permit application form. Application for a sign permit shall
be made on the sign permit application form available from the Building
Inspector and shall be submitted to the same, and provide the following
information:
         (a)   Name, address, and telephone number of the applicants and owner
with authorization of the property owner to file a permit application;
         (b)   Name, address, and telephone number of firm or agency erecting,
maintaining or designing the sign if any;
         (c)   Address and zoning district of the property where the sign is to
be located;
         (d)   A sketch showing the location and dimensions of the proposed
sign(s);
         (e)   Type of illumination to be used if any;
         (f)   Signature of applicant and date.
      (3)   Sign application fees. The City Council shall set a fee schedule
for sign permits by resolution. The fee schedule may be updated from time to
time at the discretion of the City Council. The Building Inspector shall
provide applicants with information designating the amount of fees to be paid.
All fees shall be payable to the city.
   (E)   Sign application.
      (1)   Administration.
         (a)   Upon receiving a completed and signed application, including the
appropriate fee, the Building Inspector shall have a period of 10 days to
either reject or approve the sign application.
         (b)   If the application is approved, the Building Inspector shall
provide the applicant with a permit for the erection of the sign applied for.
         (c)   If the signed application is denied, written reasons for the
denial shall be supplied to the applicant by the Building Inspector.
         (d)   Upon notice of any application being rejected by the Building
Inspector, the applicant shall have access to the appeal procedure set forth in
§
153.075.
      (2)   Enforcement. Any person who violates any provisions of this section
shall be fined $50 for each offense. The fine may be assessed by a city police
officer issuing a citation to the offender. Each day that a violation is
allowed to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
      (3)   Removal. Where applicable, the city reserves the right to remove
any signs illegally placed on public or city property. The signs shall be held
at the city municipal building for 5 working days. After 5 working days have
elapsed, the signs shall be disposed of.
   (F)   Commercial signs.  
      (1)   No sign shall be erected without a permit. Signs shall be
prohibited in any public right-of-way or on city property with the exception of
traffic and regulatory signs. Signs are permitted only on private property with
the permission of the property owner, subject to the following requirements:
         (a)   Distance. All signs must meet intersection sight distance
requirements as determined by the Illinois Department of Transportation's
Bureau of Local Roads (BLR) manual.
         (b)   Size. The maximum area of a sign face shall be 425 square feet
or if 2 single-faced back-to-back or a V-type sign, a total of 850 square feet.
There shall be no more than 2 sign faces.
          (c)   Height. Signs shall not be erected at height of more than 45
feet.
         (d)   Lighting. All electrical service wiring, including wiring used
for sign lighting, shall be installed underground and in protective electrical
conduit. No overhead wiring shall be permitted.
         (e)   Structure. The supporting structure shall be set firmly in or
below the ground surface and shall not be attached to any building or any other
structure whether portable or stationary.
         (f)   Flashing lights. The use of flashing lights on signs is
prohibited.
      (2)   The regulations appearing in this section shall not apply to any
commercial sign lawfully erected and in existence on at the time of adoption of
these regulations, which may be maintained as a matter of right as a legal
nonconforming sign and may be rebuilt or relocated on the same property,
provided the sign is constructed with similar materials and maintains the
original size and height.
   (G)   Residential signs. No permit shall be required. Signs shall be
prohibited in any public right-of-way or on city property with the exception of
traffic and regulatory signs. Signs are permitted only on private property with
the permission of the property owner, subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   Distance. All signs must meet intersection sight distance
requirements as determined by the Illinois Department of Transportation's
Bureau of Local Roads (BLR) manual.
      (2)   Size. The maximum area of a sign face shall be 6 square feet or if
2 single-faced back-to-back or a V-type sign, a total of 12 square feet. There
shall be no more than 2 sign faces.
      (3)   Height. Signs shall not exceed the height of 4 feet.
      (4)   Lighting. No illuminated signs or flashing lights shall be
permitted.
   (H)   Exceptions. Temporary special event signs may be placed in public
right-of-way or on city property with the written permission of the City
Administrator. The temporary special event signs may be placed no more than 2
weeks prior to the advertised event and must be removed no later than 3 days
after the event. Permanent signs may be placed in public right-of-way with the
issuance of an encroachment permit pursuant to §§
94.075-
94.079 . Any such sign shall constitute a limited public forum for placement of
messages relating to the activity or business of the permittee only.
(Am. Ord. 2016-38, passed 6-27-2016)
§ 153.038 FENCES.
   (A)   Scope. The installation, erection, and/or maintenance of a fence is
hereby prohibited except in strict compliance with the standards, procedures,
exemptions and other requirements of these regulations.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   FENCE. Any barrier, structure, or gate erected upon or near, but not limited
to, the property line between adjoining property owners, for the purpose of
separating, screening, enclosing or protecting property. For the purpose of
this chapter, a fence shall not include naturally growing shrubs, bushes and
other foliage or privacy screens as defined herein.
   FENCE HEIGHT. The distance from the natural ground level to the top of the
highest component of the fence.
   PRIVACY SCREEN. A barrier erected within the interior of a parcel of
property and not upon a property line for the purpose of obscuring windows,
patios, decks, courtyards, swimming pools and other similar outdoor features,
from observation by persons outside the perimeter of the property.
   RECREATIONAL FENCE. A fence used principally as a backstop, shield, or
enclosure for a sport or recreational activity.
   (C)   Permits required. No fence shall be substantially altered, erected or
placed upon any property without first obtaining a fence permit. Plans
indicating specific location, material, type and height of proposed fence shall
accompany the permit application filed with the Building and Zoning
Administrator. Before a building permit is issued, the owner may be required to
provide positive proof of the lot line by survey or location of lot line
stakes. All fences must meet intersection sight distance requirements as
determined by the Illinois Department of Transportation's Bureau of Local Roads
(BLR) manual.
   (D)   Residential and Business Districts (B, RC, RU, RS, RE-1, RD, and RM.)
      (1)   Height of fence.
         (a)    Fence height shall not exceed 4 feet in front yards and 6 feet
in side and rear yards. Fence height for multi-family residential property,
which abut single or multi-family property shall be 6 feet in height in side
yards and 6 feet in height in rear yards.
         (b)   On that portion of a premises which constitutes the side of a
residential corner lot, fences shall not exceed 6 feet in height.
      (2)   Location.
         (a)   Fences may be located on property lines.
         (b)   No fence shall be located closer than 12 inches to a public
sidewalk, except in business districts.
      (3)   Material specifications.
         (a)   Fences shall be constructed of wood, metal, masonry, or PVC, and
other materials of required stability approved by the Building and Zoning
Administrator.
         (b)   Only new material shall be used, which has been manufactured
and/or treated in a manner to prevent rust and corrosion, and/or rot and decay.
         (c)   All posts shall be sunk in the soil to a depth of at least 3
feet.
         (d)   No person shall erect or cause to be erected a fence which is
made with or upon which is fixed barbed wire; or has any protective spike,
nail, or sharp pointed object; or is charged with electric current.
      (4)   Design requirements.
         (a)   Areas zoned or used for multiple family residential purposes,
which abut single or multi-family property, shall have erected upon the
adjoining property line, a fence to act as a screen between the properties. The
fence shall be 6 feet in height.
         (b)   All fences shall have their finished face directed toward
adjacent residential properties or streets.
         (c)   All posts for any fences must be on the owner's side of the
fence.
         (d)   In the event that any fence is erected in any easement, the
landowner shall be solely responsible for the repair or replacement of the
fence in the event that maintenance of the easement and rights granted
hereunder require removal of the fence or cause damage to it.
         (e)   Fences must not inhibit drainage flow.
      (5)   Fences required for swimming pools.  For the protection of the
general public, any swimming pool greater than 3 feet in depth shall be
enclosed by a fence measuring not less than 6 feet in height above grade level,
unless the pool is equipped with power pool safety cover. Any swimming pool
possessing a power pool safety cover in accordance with this section shall be
surrounded by a fence measuring not less than four feet in height above grade.
The gate(s) of any fence enclosing a swimming pool shall be of a self-closing
and latching type, with the latch on the inside of the gate not readily
accessible for children to open.
   (E)   Industrial districts (I-1 and IC).
      (1)   Height of fence. Fence height shall not exceed 12 feet.
      (2)   Location.
         (a)   Fences may be located on property lines.
         (b)   No fence shall be located closer than 12 inches to a public
sidewalk.
         (c)   It shall be unlawful to construct, or maintain, or permit to
remain, any fence or fence element on a corner lot within 50 feet of the street
line which obstructs the view.
      (3)   Material specifications.
         (a)   Fences shall be constructed of wood, metal or masonry, and other
acceptable materials of required stability.
         (b)   Only new material shall be used, which has been manufactured
and/or treated in a manner to prevent rust and corrosion, and/or rot and decay.
         (c)   All posts shall be sunk in the soil to a depth of at least 3
feet.
         (d)   No person shall erect or cause to be erected a fence which is
charged with electric current.
         (e)   A fence in an industrial area may be erected with barbed wire on
arms or brackets extending inward over such property. Barbed wire shall not be
used, installed, or constructed on fences fronting any street.
      (4)   Design requirements.
         (a)   All fences shall have their finished face directed toward
adjacent property or streets.
         (b)   All posts for any fence must be on the owner's side of the
fence.
         (c)   In the event that any fence is erected in any easement, the
landowner shall be solely responsible for the repair or replacement of the
fence in the event that maintenance of the easement and rights granted
hereunder require removal of the fence or cause damage to it.
         (d)   Fences must not inhibit drainage flow.
   (F)   Construction barrier fencing. Construction barrier fencing, a minimum
of 4 feet tall, of bright orange or other readily visible color is required to
be placed around all open excavations. Fencing shall be kept in good repair
through out the course of the work and must not be removed until excavation is
closed.
   (G)   Recreational fences. Fences shall not exceed a height of 12 feet and
shall not be located closer than 5 feet to any property line or placed on any
easement.
   (H)   Maintenance of nuisance. Fences must be maintained in a neat and safe
condition, so as not to endanger life or property. Any fence which, through
lack of repair, type of construction or otherwise, endangers life or property
is hereby deemed a nuisance. The Building and Zoning Department shall notify
the owner, agent, or person in control of the property on which the fence is
located of the existence of the nuisance and shall specify the required repairs
or modifications to be made to render the fence safe or require that the unsafe
fence or any portion thereof be removed and shall provide a time limiting the
repairs, modification, or removal.
   (I)   Existing fences. Fences presently in existence shall not be enlarged,
rebuilt, repaired or reconstructed without first having obtained a permit from
the Building Department. Such fences, when repaired or replaced, shall conform
with all provisions of this chapter.
(Am. Ord. 2008-56, passed 10-14-2008; Am. Ord. 2017-03, passed 1-9-2017)
§ 153.039 DECKS, PATIOS AND PORCHES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   DECK. An unenclosed platform serving as a floor and located above the
finished grade, which may be either attached or detached, and is built on a
foundation, piers, or blocks.
   PATIO. An unenclosed surfaced area located outside at the finished grade
which is paved and used for dining, lounging or other recreational purposes.
   PORCH. A platform projecting from the wall of a building at either ground
level or the first story above grade with direct access to or from the
building. A porch has a roof or roof-like structure and forms a covered
entrance.
   (B)   Decks. All decks built or modified after the effective date of this
section shall comply with the following standards:
      (1)   No deck shall be substantially altered or erected without first
obtaining a deck permit. Plans indicating specific location and material shall
accompany the permit application filed with the Building and Zoning
Administrator.
      (2)    Encroachment into setbacks is prohibited, except in the RE-
1 zoning district where a deck may extend into the required back yard by up to
10 feet. Said encroachment shall not be allowed for those lots on which a
variance has been granted. In such cases, the setbacks defined therein shall
apply.
      (3)   The maximum height of a deck floor shall be grade level or even
with the adjacent first floor level in the dwelling.
      (4)   A deck shall not be constructed in any easement.
      (5)   Decks shall not be subject to lot coverage limitations.
   (C)   Patios. All patios built or modified after the effective date of this
section shall comply with the following standards:
      (1)   No patio shall be substantially altered or erected without first
obtaining a patio permit. Plans indicating specific location and material shall
accompany the permit application filed with the Building and Zoning
Administrator.
      (2)    Encroachment into setbacks is prohibited, except in the RE-
1 zoning district where a patio may extend into the required back yard by up to
10 feet. Said encroachment allowance shall not be allowed for those lots on
which a variance has been granted. In such cases, the setbacks defined therein
shall apply.
      (3)   A patio shall not be constructed in any easement.
      (4)   Patios shall not be subject to lot coverage limitations.
      (5)    Paving bricks are permitted.
      (6)   Concrete construction requirements:
         (a)   Concrete shall be a minimum of 4" below top of building
foundation and pitch away from building at ¼" per foot.
         (b)   Drainage shall not be directed onto neighbors' properties.
         (c)   Concrete shall be a minimum of 4" thickness on 4" granular fill.
   (D)   Porches. All porches built or modified after the effective date of
this section shall comply with the following standards:
      (1)   No porch shall be substantially altered or erected without first
obtaining a porch permit. Plans indicating specific location and material shall
accompany the permit application filed with the Building and Zoning
Administrator.
      (2)    Encroachment into setbacks is prohibited.
      (3)   A porch shall not be constructed in any easement.
      (4)   A porch shall be subject to lot coverage limitations.
(Am. Ord. 2008-56, passed 10-14-2008)
§ 153.040 ADULT ENTERTAINMENT FACILITIES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to regulate adult
entertainment facilities in order to protect the community from the secondary
effects such as increased crime and declining property values associated with
sexually oriented businesses.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   ADULT BOOTH. Any area of an adult entertainment facility set off from the
remainder of such establishment by 1 or more walls or other dividers or
partitions and used to show, play, or otherwise demonstrate any adult materials
or to view any live performance that is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on the exposure, depiction, or description of specified anatomical
areas or the conduct or simulation of specified sexual activities.
   ADULT CABARET. Any commercial establishment that as a substantial or
significant portion of its business regularly features any of the following:
      (1)   Persons who appear nude or semi-nude; or
      (2)   Live performances that are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on the exposure, depiction, or description of specified anatomical
areas or the conduct or simulation of specified sexual activities.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT FACILITY. Any sexually oriented business such as an
adult cabaret, adult store, adult theater or massage parlor as defined in this
division.
   ADULT MATERIAL. Any of the following, whether new or used:
      (1)   Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or
digitally-stored materials.
      (2)   Films, motion pictures, video or audio cassettes, slides, computer
displays, or other visual representations or recordings of any kind.
      (3)   Live performances that are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on the exposure, depiction, or description of specific anatomical
areas, or the conduct or simulation of specific sexual activities.
      (4)   Instruments, novelties, devices, or paraphernalia that are designed
for use in connection with specified sexual activities, or that depict or
describe specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT STORE. Any commercial establishment that contains 1 or more adult
booths; that has a substantial or significant portion of its business offers
for sale, rental, or viewing any adult materials; or that has a segment or
section devoted to the sale or display of adult materials.
   ADULT THEATER. Any commercial establishment that as a substantial or
significant portion of its business, regularly features for presentation,
films, motion pictures, video or audio cassettes, slides, computer displays, or
other visual representations or recordings of any kind that are distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis on the exposure, depiction, or description of
specified anatomical areas, or the conduct or simulation of specified sexual
activities.
   COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any place where admission, services, performances,
or products are provided for or upon payment of any form of consideration.
   MASSAGE PARLOR. Any commercial establishment where any person engages in, or
carries on, or permits to be engaged in or carried on any touching or
stimulating of the external parts of the body with hands and/or feet or with
the aid of any apparatus or appliance.
   NUDE or STATE OF NUDITY. A state of dress or undress that exposes to view
less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals; pubic region; anus;
or female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola, but not
including any portion of the cleavage of the female breast exhibited by a
dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, bathing suit, or other wearing apparel, provided
the areola is not exposed; or human male genitals in a discernibly turgid
state, even if completely and opaquely covered, or any device or covering that,
when worn, simulates human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
   PROTECTED USES.
      (1)   Any school, public or private.
      (2)   Any day care center.
      (3)   Any cemetery.
      (4)   Any public park or forest preserve.
      (5)   Any public housing facility.
      (6)   Any place of religious worship.
   SEMI-NUDE. A state of dress or undress in which clothing covers no more than
the human genitals, anus, pubic region, and areola of the female breast, as
well as portions of the body covered by supporting straps or devices or by
other minor accessory apparel such as hats, gloves, and socks.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Human genitals or pubic region, buttocks, anus,
or the female breast below a point immediately above the top the areola that is
less than completely or opaquely covered, or human male genitals in a
discernibly turgid state even if completely or opaquely covered or any device
or covering that, when worn, simulates human male genitals in a discernibly
turgid state.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation
or excitement; acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, fellatio, or
sodomy; fondling, kissing, or erotic touching of specified anatomical areas;
flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual relationship; masochism,
erotic or sexually oriented torture, beating, or the infliction of pain; erotic
touching, fondling, or other such contact with an animal by a human being; or
human excretion, urination, menstruation, or vaginal or anal irrigation as part
of or in connection with any activities set forth above.
   (C)   Prohibited acts and conditions. The following acts and conditions are
prohibited on the premises of any adult entertainment facility:
      (1)   Alcoholic beverages. No alcoholic beverages shall be served,
consumed, possessed, delivered or transported on or about the premises of any
adult bookstore, adult cabaret, adult theater or adult novelty store at any
time.
      (2)   Minors. No person under the age of 18 years shall be allowed on,
about or inside the adult entertainment premises.
      (3)   Employees. It shall be unlawful for the owner, associate, member,
representative, agent or employee of any adult entertainment to employ in any
capacity within the adult entertainment establishment any person who is under
the age of 18 years.
      (4)   Adult booths. No booths, stalls or partitioned portions of a room
or individual rooms used for the viewing of motion pictures or other forms of
entertainment shall have doors, curtains or portal partitions, and all such
booths, stalls or partitioned portions of a room or individual rooms so used
shall have at least 1 side open to an adjacent public room so that the area
inside is visible to persons in the adjacent public room. All described areas
shall be lighted in a manner that the persons in the areas used for viewing
motion pictures or other forms of entertainment are visible from the adjacent
public rooms, but the lighting shall not be of such intensity as to prevent the
viewing of the motion pictures or other offered entertainment.
      (5)   Adult cabarets. All dancing and other performances shall occur on a
stage intended for that purpose, which is raised at least 2 feet from the level
of the floor. No dancing or other performances shall occur closer than 10 feet
to any patron. In addition, no performer shall fondle, caress or otherwise
touch any patron and no patron shall fondle, caress or otherwise touch any
performer. No patron shall directly pay or give any gratuity to any performer
and no performer shall solicit any pay or gratuity from any patron. Gratuities
may be indirectly given to performers by placing the gratuity on the stage.
      (6)   Massage parlors. Massage parlors as defined herein are prohibited.
Licensed massage therapists, licensed chiropractors, licensed physicians,
hospitals and clinics shall be exempted from this prohibition.
   (D)   Exterior display. No adult entertainment facility shall be operated in
any manner that permits the observation of any material depicting, describing
or relating to “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”
from any public way or from any property not lawfully in use as an adult
entertainment facility as defined under this code.
   (E)   Location. Adult entertainment facilities shall be located in
accordance with the following standards:
      (1)   Permitted districts. Adult entertainment facilities shall be
permitted only in an I-1 zoning district.
      (2)   Minimum distance from other adult entertainment facilities. No
adult entertainment facility shall be located, established, maintained, or
operated on any lot that has a property line within 1,000 feet of the property
line of any other lot on which any other adult entertainment facility is
located, established, maintained, or operated.
      (3)   Minimum distance from protected uses. No adult entertainment
facility shall be located, established, maintained, or operated on any lot that
has a property line within 1,000 feet of the property line of any other lot on
which a protected use is located, established, maintained, or operated.
      (4)   Measurement. For the purposes of this section, distances shall be
measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures or
objects, from the nearest point on the property line of the lot on which the
adult entertainment facility is located to the nearest point on a property line
of any lot on which a protected use or other adult entertainment facility, as
the case may be, is located, established, maintained, or operated.
      (5)   Limited exception for subsequent protected uses, alcoholic
business. An adult entertainment facility lawfully operating under this code
shall not be deemed to be in violation of the location restrictions set forth
herein solely because a protected use subsequently locates within the minimum
required distance of the adult entertainment facility, a business that sells or
dispenses alcoholic beverage subsequently located within the same building as
the adult entertainment facility.
   (F)   Hours of operation. An adult entertainment facility shall be permitted
to remain open for business or allow or permit patrons or members to remain
upon the premises between the hours of 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m.
§ 153.041 MEDICAL CANNABIS BUSINESSES.
   Cannabis businesses are prohibited in the City of Monticello, except for
medical cannabis businesses in compliance with the requirements of this
chapter.
   (A)   Application requirements. In addition to all other applicable
conditional use application requirements, a medical cannabis business applicant
must submit all documents requested by the Building and Zoning Administrator
for evaluation under the applicable conditional use standards, which may
include:
      (1)   A complete copy of all applications and plans submitted for
required state licenses;
      (2)   An air treatment and odor control plan;
      (3)   A security plan;
      (4)   An inventory control plan;
      (5)   A floor plan;
      (6)   A traffic study;
      (7)   A plan for the recycling and destruction of cannabis waste;
      (8)   A site plan for the proposed medical cannabis business, and for any
medical cannabis dispensary, showing adequate public access, the layout
promotes the safe dispensing of cannabis, the location is sufficient in size,
power allocation, lighting, parking, handicapped accessible parking spaces,
accessible entry and exits as required by the Americans with Disabilities Act,
product handling, and storage; and
      (9)   A recoverable costs agreement, in a form acceptable to the Building
and Zoning Administrator, to reimburse the city for the actual costs incurred
in processing the application, including costs for legal publication, court
reporter services, administrative preparation and review, document preparation
and review, professional and technical consultants, legal review and
consultation, and document recording.
   (B)   Conditions. In addition to all other conditions the City Council
imposes on a conditional use approval, medical cannabis businesses must comply
with the following conditions:   
      (1)   Compliance with state regulations and rules. All medical cannabis
businesses must comply with all applicable state and local laws, including the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act, as amended, and applicable
administrative rules.
      (2)   Compliance with plans. The development, use, operation, and
maintenance of the medical cannabis business will be in substantial compliance
with all application documents and plans, except for minor changes and site
work approved by the Building and Zoning Administrator in accordance with all
applicable city rules, regulations, and ordinances.
      (3)   Minimum distance limits. In addition to all state-imposed minimum
distance limits, any building used for a medical cannabis business may not be
located within the following distances of a pre-existing protected use:
Public or Private Protected Use Medical Cannabis   Medical Cannabis Dispensary
                                Cultivation Center
Public or Private  Protected Use       Medical Cannabis   Medical Cannabis
                                       Cultivation Center Dispensary
                  Day Cares
Public and private Day care center     2,500 feet         1,000 feet
Public and private Day care home       2,500 feet         1,000 feet
Public and private Group day care home 2,500 feet         1,000 feet
Public and private Part day child care 2,500 feet         1,000 feet
                   facility
                  Green Space
Public and private Cemetery            1,000 feet         1,000 feet
Public             Forest preserve     1,000 feet         1,000 feet
Public             Park                1,000 feet         1,000 feet
                  Place of Worship
Private            Place of worship    1,000 feet         1,000 feet
                  Schools
Public and private Preschool           2,500 feet         1,000 feet
Public and private Elementary school   2,500 feet         1,000 feet
Public and private Secondary school    2,500 feet         1,000 feet
 
      (4)   Prohibited locations. A medical cannabis dispensary may not be
located in a house, apartment, or condominium.
      (5)   Security. In addition to all state-imposed security requirements,
the City Council may require a medical cannabis business to provide sufficient
additional safeguards in response to any special security concerns.
      (6)   Air treatment. In addition to all state-imposed air treatment
requirements, the City Council may impose additional air treatment requirements
on a medical cannabis business to promote compliance with city nuisance and
other ordinances.
      (7)   Traffic. The City Council may impose conditions requiring the
design of the medical cannabis business to minimize traffic congestion,
pedestrian hazards, and adverse impacts on surrounding properties.
      (8)   Cannabis waste. All medical cannabis businesses must comply with
all state, county, and city regulations governing cannabis waste.
      (9)   Hours of operation. Unless otherwise prescribed by state law, the
City Council may impose hours of operation for a medical cannabis business as a
condition of any conditional use permit to reduce conflicts with surrounding
land uses.
      (10)   Drive-through windows. Medical cannabis dispensaries may not
operate drive-through windows.
      (11)   On-premises consumption. No medical cannabis business may allow
the smoking, inhalation, or consumption of cannabis in any form anywhere inside
or outside the building on its property. A sign, at least 8.5 by 11 inches,
shall be posted inside the medical cannabis business in a conspicuous place
visible to patrons and employees stating: "Smoking, eating, drinking, and other
forms of consumption of cannabis products are prohibited on the premises of
this establishment."
      (12)   Principal use. Medical cannabis businesses are only permitted as a
principal use and are not allowed as an accessory or temporary use.
      (13)   State license. Before issuance of a certificate of occupancy or
otherwise opening to the public, medical cannabis businesses must file a copy
of all required state licenses with the Building and Zoning Administrator.
Medical cannabis businesses must maintain all required state licenses in effect
at all times and keep satisfactory proof thereof on file with the Building and
Zoning Administrator.
      (14)   Non-transferability. Unless otherwise expressly provided by
ordinance, the privileges, obligations, and provisions of a conditional use
permit for a medical cannabis business:
         (a)   Are for the sole benefit of and will be binding on the
applicant; and
         (b)   May not be transferred to any other person or entity without a
new application for approval for a person or entity other than the applicant.
      (15)   Inspections. When reasonable cause of a violation exists, all
medical cannabis businesses are subject to inspections by the Building and
Zoning Administrator with the assistance of the City Attorney, the Police
Department, or other city agents and employees.
(Ord. 2020-42, passed 8-24-2020)
NONCONFORMANCES
§ 153.050 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the intent of this subchapter to permit existing, legal
nonconforming lots, structures, or uses to continue until they are removed but
not encourage their continuation.
   (B)   It is recognized that there exists within the districts established by
this code and subsequent amendments, lots, structures, and use of land and
structures which were lawful before this chapter was passed or amended which
would be prohibited, regulated, or restricted under the terms of this chapter
or future amendments.
   (C)   Such uses are declared by this subchapter to be incompatible with
permitted uses in the districts involved. It is further the intent of this
chapter that nonconformities shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or extended,
nor be used as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere
in the same district.
§ 153.051 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NONCONFORMANCE. A nonconforming lot, structure or use which lawfully existed
before these regulations or future amendments, but which is prohibited in the
district in which it exists under the terms of these regulations.
   NONCONFORMING LOT. A lot which fails to meet the requirements for area or
width, or both, that are generally applicable in the district in which the lot
is located; setbacks and requirements other than those applying to area or
width or both of the lot shall conform to the regulations for the district in
which the lot is located.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE. A structure which was legally constructed prior to
the effective date of these regulations or subsequent amendment thereto, which
would not be permitted as a new structure under the terms of these regulations
because the structure is not in conformance with the yards, height, coverage,
or other requirements of the district in which it is located.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A use of a structure or lot which was legal prior to the
effective date of these regulations, or subsequent amendment thereto, which
would not be permitted as an allowed use under the terms of these regulations.
§ 153.052 NONCONFORMING LOT.
   (A)   In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted, a
single-family dwelling and accessory buildings may be erected on any single
nonconforming lot of record at the effective date of adoption or amendment of
these regulations, notwithstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of
these regulations.
   (B)   If 2 or more lots with continuous frontage in single ownership are of
record at the time of passage or amendment of this ordinance, and if the lots
do not meet the requirements established for lot width and area, the lands
involved shall be considered to be an undivided parcel for purposes of this
chapter, and no portion of the lands shall be used or sold in a manner which
diminishes compliance with lot width and area requirements established by these
regulations, nor shall any division of any parcel be made which creates a lot
width or area below the requirements stated in these regulations.
   (C)   A structure located on a nonconforming recorded lot is not classified
as a nonconforming structure solely because of insufficient lot area or width.
§ 153.053 NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE.
   (A)   Maintenance and repairs shall be permitted to be made to nonconforming
structures, provided the extent of the nonconformance is not increased.
   (B)   All additions or structural alterations to nonconforming structures
shall conform to the requirements of this code.
   (C)   Should a nonconforming structure be damaged or destroyed by any means
to an extent of more than 50% of its fair market value at time of destruction,
it shall not be reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of these
regulations.
   (D)   Damage to an extent less than 50% shall be repaired in a manner as
nearly conforming as possible. No repairs or reconstruction shall be made
unless the restoration is started within 6 months from the date of partial
destruction and restoration is completed within 6 months from the start of
construction.
§ 153.054 NONCONFORMING USE.
   (A)   A change of use of a nonconforming use of a structure or parcel of
land shall not be made except to that of a conforming use. Where such change is
made, the use shall not thereafter be changed back to a nonconforming use.
   (B)   Maintenance and repairs shall be permitted to be made to a building
housing a nonconforming use, provided the extent of the nonconformance is not
increased.
   (C)   Additions to structures housing nonconforming uses that increase the
area of a nonconforming use shall not be made.
   (D)    Should a structure housing a nonconforming use be damaged or
destroyed by any means to an extent of more than 50% of its fair market value
at time of destruction, it shall not be reconstructed except in conformity with
the provisions of these regulations.
   (E)   Damage to an extent less than 50% shall be repaired in a manner as
nearly conforming as possible. No repairs or reconstruction shall be made
unless the restoration is started within 6 months from the date of partial
destruction and restoration is completed within 6 months from the start of
construction.
   (F)   There may be a change of tenancy, ownership or management of any
existing nonconforming use of land or structure, provided all other provisions
of this subchapter are met.
   (G)   Any lot or structure, or portion thereof, occupied by a nonconforming
use, which is or hereafter becomes vacant and remains unoccupied by a
nonconforming use for a period of 6 months shall not thereafter be occupied or
used, except by a use that conforms to this chapter.
ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.070 BUILDING AND ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Building and Zoning Administrator to
enforce all laws relating to the construction, alterations, repair, removal,
demolition, equipment, use and occupancy, location and maintenance of buildings
and structures, except as may be otherwise provided for. The Building and
Zoning Administrator shall receive applications required by these regulations,
issue permits and furnish the prescribed certificates. The Building and Zoning
Administrator shall conduct or authorize the conduct of inspections of
structures or the use of land to determine whether there is compliance with
these regulations and, in case of any violation, shall notify in writing the
person or persons responsible, specifying the nature of the violation and
ordering corrective action.
   (B)   The Building and Zoning Administrator shall maintain permanent and
current records required by these regulations, including but not limited to
permit applications, inspections, notices or orders issued, and all official
action or appeals, variances, and amendments. All records shall be open to
public inspection at reasonable hours, but shall not be removed from the office
of the Building and Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   The Building and Zoning Administrator shall maintain for distribution
to the public a supply of copies of the zoning map, the compiled text of the
zoning ordinance, and the rules of the Planning and Zoning Board. A fee may be
charged to defray the costs of producing or reproducing these copies.
   (D)   The Building and Zoning Administrator shall prepare and have available
in book, pamphlet, or map form, on or before March 31 of each year:
      (1)   The compiled text of the zoning ordinance, including all amendments
thereto through the preceding December 31; and
      (2)   The official zoning map as regulated by §
153.016.
(Am. Ord. 2014-36, passed 9-8-2014)
§ 153.071 PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD.
   (A)   Creation of the Planning and Zoning Board.
      (1)   There is hereby created the Planning and Zoning Board consisting of
7 members appointed by the Mayor, by and with the consent of the City Council.
Upon the adoption of this chapter, the 7 members shall be appointed to serve
respectively for the following terms: 1 for 1 year, 1 for 2 years, 1 for 3
years, 1 for 4 years, 1 for 5 years, 1 for 6 years, and 1 for 7 years, the
successor to each member so appointed to serve for a term of 5 years.
      (2)   The amount of compensation to be paid to members, if any, shall be
fixed by the City Council. Subject to the approval of the City Council, the
Mayor may remove any member for cause and after public hearing. Vacancies shall
be filled for the unexpired term of the member whose place has become vacant.
      (3)   All meetings of the Planning and Zoning Board shall be held at the
call of the chairman and at such other times as the Board may determine. The
chairman, or in his or her absence the acting chairman, may administer oaths
and compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the Board shall be open
to the public. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the
vote of each member upon every question, or if absent or failing to vote,
indicating that fact, and shall also keep records of its examinations and other
official actions. No hearing shall be conducted without a quorum of the Board
being present, which shall consist of a majority of all the members. Every
rule, regulation, every amendment or repeal thereof, and every order,
requirement, decision, or determination of the Board shall immediately be filed
in the office of the Board and shall be a public record.
   (B)   Duties of the Planning and Zoning Board.
      (1)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall hear appeals from and review
any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the Building and
Zoning Administrator. In hearing the appeals, the Board is authorized to
recommend to the City Council interpretations of the meaning of these
regulations in case of ambiguities and to recommend rulings with respect to the
application of these regulations.
      (2)   The Planning and Zoning Board is authorized to hear petitions for
variances from the strict terms of the zoning regulations where a genuine and
unique hardship would result if the zoning regulations were to be strictly
applied. The Planning and Zoning Board may recommend that the variance be
granted only in those instances in which the variance would be in harmony with
the general purpose and intent of these zoning regulations and in accord with
general or specific rules written into these regulations.
      (3)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall conduct hearings and make
recommendations to the City Council on applications for conditional use permits
specifically listed in the district regulations of these regulations.
      (4)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall conduct hearings on proposed
amendments to the zoning regulations and zoning maps.
(Am. Ord. 2014-36, passed 9-8-2014)
§ 153.072 (RESERVED).
§ 153.073 CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall have the following duties and responsibilities with
respect to the administration and enforcement of these zoning regulations:
   (A)    The City Council may grant only those conditional use permits which
are listed in the “Table of Principal Uses Permitted in Zones” or otherwise
stipulated herein and the permits shall be issued only in the districts so
designated.
   (B)   The City Council may impose conditions or restrictions upon the
location, construction, design or operation of a conditional use and the
duration of the permit as it shall respectfully find necessary or appropriate
to insure that the standards set forth in these regulations and subsequent
amendments are met.
   (C)   No conditional use permit shall be granted by the City Council unless
the Planning and Zoning Board shall first have conducted a public hearing on
the permit application and shall have transmitted a report of its findings and
recommendations to the Council for its consideration.
   (D)   All variances shall be granted by ordinance. No variance shall be
granted unless the Planning and Zoning Board has conducted a public hearing on
the application for variance in accordance with state statute.
   (E)   In the event that the Planning and Zoning Board fails to recommend
that a proposed variance be granted, then the variance may be granted by the
City Council only upon the favorable vote of 2/3 of all members of the City
Council.
   (F)   The City Council may from time to time amend by ordinance, the text of
these zoning regulations and the official zoning map, but no amendment shall be
made without a hearing before the Planning and Zoning Board.
   (G)   The City Council may establish a schedule of fees, charges, and
expenses in accordance with §§
153.105 and
153.106.
(Am. Ord. 2008-56, passed 10-14-2008; Am. Ord. 2014-36, passed 9-8-2014)
§ 153.074 BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   When required. It shall not be lawful to construct, alter, repair,
remove or demolish, or to commence the construction, alteration, removal or
demolition of a building or structure, that involves structural alteration
without first filing with the Building and Zoning Administrator an application
in writing and obtaining a formal permit.
   (B)   Form. An application for a permit shall be submitted in such form as
the Building and Zoning Administrator may prescribe. The application shall be
made by the owner or lessee, or agent of either, or the architect, engineer or
builder employed in connection with the proposed work. If the application is
made by a person other than the owner in fee, it shall be accompanied by a duly
verified affidavit of the owner in fee, or the person making the application
that the proposed work is authorized by the owner in fee and that the person
making the application is authorized to make the application. The application
shall contain the full names and addresses of the applicant and of the owner,
and, if the owner is a corporate body, of its authorized agent. The application
shall describe briefly the proposed work and shall give additional information
as may be required by the Building and Zoning Administrator for an intelligent
understanding of the proposed work. The application shall be accompanied by
payment of fees as the Council may determine from time to time.
   (C)   Plans. Application for permits shall be accompanied by drawings of the
proposed work, drawn to scale, including such plans, sections, elevations and
structural details, as the Building and Zoning Administrator may require.
   (D)   Site plan. There shall also be filed a site plan in a form and size
suitable for filing permanently with the permit record, drawn to scale, with
all lot and building dimensions shown, designating accurately the size and
exact location of all proposed new construction or, in the case of demolition,
of such construction as is to be demolished, and of all existing buildings.
   (E)   Amendments. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the filing of
amendments to an application or to a plan or other record accompanying same, at
any time before the completion of the work for which the permit was sought. The
amendments, after approval, shall be filed with and be deemed a part of the
original application.
   (F)   Completion of existing buildings. Nothing contained in these
regulations shall require any change in the plans, construction, size or
designated use of a building, for which a valid permit has been issued or
lawful approval given before the effective date of these regulations; provided,
however, construction shall be completed within 1 year after the effective date
of these regulations.
   (G)   Action on application. It shall be the duty of the Building and Zoning
Administrator to examine applications for permits within a reasonable time
after filing. If, after examination, the Building and Zoning Administrator
finds no objection to the same and it appears that the proposed work will be in
compliance with the laws and ordinances applicable thereto, the Building and
Zoning Administrator shall approve the application and issue a permit for the
proposed work as soon as practicable. If the examination reveals otherwise, the
Building and Zoning Administrator will reject the application, noting the
findings in a report to be attached to the application and delivering a copy to
the applicant.
   (H)   Condition of the permit. All work performed under a permit issued by
the Building and Zoning Administrator shall conform to the approved application
and plans and approved amendments thereof. The location of all new construction
as shown on the approved plot diagram, or an approved amendment thereof, shall
be strictly adhered to. It shall be unlawful to reduce or diminish the area of
a lot or plot of which a plot diagram has been filed and has been used as the
basis for a permit, unless a revised plot diagram showing the proposed change
in conditions shall have been filed and approved; provided that this shall not
apply when the lot is reduced by reason of a street opening or widening or
other public improvement.
   (I)   Posting of permit. A copy of the permit shall be kept on the premises
open to public inspection during the prosecution of the work and until the
completion of same.
   (J)   Expiration of a permit. A permit shall expire if the work covered by
the permit is not completed within the following period.
      (1)    Miscellaneous permits – 6 months from the date of permit issuance.
      (2)    Single family residential and multi-family residential building
permits – 1 year from the date of permit issuance.
      (3)    Commercial – 2 years from the date of permit issuance.
   (K)   Extension of a permit. An extension may be granted by the city because
of delays resulting from fire, windstorm or other circumstances beyond the
applicant's control; provided, however, that the total duration of all
extensions granted shall not exceed 6 months. If no extension is granted and
the work is not completed, the applicant shall be required to apply for a new
permit under the provisions of this chapter. No permit fees shall be refunded
because of the expiration of any permit pursuant to the provisions of this
section. Where the construction process is expected to exceed the allotted
completion time, a schedule of completion shall be provided at the time of
application for permit.
   (L)   Revocation.
      (1)   The Building and Zoning Administrator may revoke a permit or
approval issued under the provisions of these regulations in case:
         (a)   There has been any false statement or misrepresentation as to a
material fact in the application or plans on which the permit or approval was
based; or
         (b)   Construction, alterations, repairs, removal or demolition, do
not proceed in accordance with the statement or plans submitted to the Building
and Zoning Administrator when the permit or approval was issued.
      (2)   If a builder or owner continues to construct, alter, repair, remove
or demolish a structure after the building permit has been revoked, the party
responsible shall be held in violation of these regulations and shall be
subject to the penalties as provided in §
10.99.
§ 153.075 APPEALS.
   (A)   An appeal may be taken to the Planning and Zoning Board by any person,
firm or corporation, or by any officer, department, board, or bureau affected
by a decision of the Building and Zoning Administrator aggrieved or by any
officer or department of the city. The appeal shall be taken within 45 days of
the action complained of by filing with the Building and Zoning Administrator
from whom the appeal is taken, specifying the grounds therefore. The Building
and Zoning Administrator shall forthwith transmit to the Planning and Zoning
Board all the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed
from is taken.
   (B)   The appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed
from, unless the Building and Zoning Administrator certifies to the Planning
and Zoning Board, after notice of appeal has been filed with him or her, that
by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his or her
opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property.
   (C)   In this event, the proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a
restraining order which may be granted by the Planning and Zoning Board or by a
court of record on application and on notice to the Building and Zoning
Administrator, and on due cause shown.
   (D)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall fix a reasonable time for the
hearing of the appeal and give due notice thereof to the parties and decide the
appeal within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may appear in
person or by agent or by attorney. The Planning and Zoning Board may recommend
to the City Council to reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or to modify the
order, requirement, decision, or determination of the Building and Zoning
Administrator. A vote of 4 of the Planning and Zoning Board's members is
required to recommend reversal of the official's action.
   (E)   Upon receipt of the recommendations of the Planning and Zoning Board,
the City Council shall decide the appeal. The City Council may reverse or
affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision, or
determination as in its opinion ought to be made, to the end that the City
Council has all the powers of the Building and Zoning Administrator.
(Am. Ord. 2014-36, passed 9-8-2014)
§ 153.076 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Generally. No building hereafter erected or substantially altered, as
determined by the city, shall be occupied or used in whole or in part for any
purpose whatsoever until a certificate of occupancy shall have been issued by
the city stating that the building complies with all the provisions of these
regulations.
   (B)   Application for occupancy certificate. Certificate of occupancy for a
new building, addition to an existing building, or the reconstruction or
alteration of an existing building shall be applied for at project completion.
The city shall have 10 working days to act upon the application.
   (C)   Issuance of certificate of occupancy.
      (1)   No occupancy certificate for a structure or addition thereto
constructed, moved, remodeled, or reconstructed after the effective date of
these regulations shall be issued until the work has been completed including
off-street parking and loading spaces, and the premises have been inspected by
the city and determined to be in full and complete compliance with the plans
and specifications upon which the issuance of the building permit was based.
      (2)   An occupancy certificate shall be issued, or written notice shall
be given to the applicant stating the reasons why a certificate cannot be
issued, within 3 days after the final inspection.
§ 153.077 VARIANCES.
   (A)   A variance is a relaxation of the strict terms of these zoning
regulations in order to provide relief for a property owner or occupant upon
whom these zoning regulations have imposed undue hardship or difficulty.
Usually variance applications request relief from required lot sizes and
widths, setbacks, and minimum yards. Variances should be granted only to
provide relief in unusual situations which were not intended or foreseen when
these regulations were adopted. No variance should be granted unless it will be
in harmony with the general intent and purpose of these regulations.
   (B)   Authorization. After a public hearing before the Planning and Zoning
Board, the City Council may authorize variances from the terms of these
regulations as will not be contrary to the public interest. Variances may be
authorized only in those specific instances enumerated in division (E).
   (C)   Application for variance. An application for a variance shall be filed
with the city who shall transmit the application immediately to the Chairman of
the Planning and Zoning Board. The application shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   A plan or drawing which accurately and completely depicts the
proposed use necessitating a variance;
      (2)   The particular requirements of these regulations which prevent the
proposed use or construction;
      (3)   The characteristics of the subject property which prevent
compliance with the requirements of these regulations;
      (4)   The reduction of the minimum requirements of these regulations
which would be necessary to permit the proposed use or construction;
      (5)   The practical difficulty or particular hardship which would result
if the particular requirements of these regulations were applied to the subject
property; and
      (6)   Payment of variance application fee as specified in “Appendix A –
Scheduled Zoning Fees and Charges”. Payment shall be required at the time of
application.
   (D)   Hearing and notice. The Planning and Zoning Board shall select a
reasonable time and place for a hearing and give public notice of the hearing
in accordance with §
153.080.
   (E)   Standards for variances. The Planning and Zoning Board may recommend
to the City Council, the granting of a variance, and the City Council shall
grant a variance only when the granting of the variance will be in harmony with
the general purposes and intent of these regulations, and will not be injurious
to the neighborhood, detrimental to the public welfare or in conflict with the
city master plan. In determining whether to recommend or grant the variance,
the Planning and Zoning Board and City Council shall take into consideration
the standards listed below. The Planning and Zoning Board may recommend to the
City Council, and the City Council may impose such conditions and restrictions
upon the location, construction, design, and use of the property benefitted by
a variance as may be necessary or appropriate to comply with the standards
listed below and to protect adjacent property and property values:
      (1)   Whether special circumstances or conditions, such as exceptional
narrowness, topography, or location, fully described in the report of the
Planning and Zoning Board, apply to the land for which a variance is sought,
and which conditions do not apply generally in the district;
      (2)   Whether special circumstances or conditions have resulted from any
act of the applicant subsequent to the adoption of these regulations, whether
or not in violation of the provisions thereof;
      (3)   Whether the aforesaid circumstances or conditions are such that the
strict application of the provisions of these regulations would deprive the
applicant of a reasonable use of applicant's land.
   (F)   Decision on variances. A concurring vote of 4 members of the Planning
and Zoning Board shall be necessary to recommend that a variance be granted.
The recommendations of the Planning and Zoning Board shall be in writing and
shall contain its finding of fact. Variances shall be granted by the City
Council only by ordinance. In the event that the Planning and Zoning Board
fails to recommend that a proposed variance be granted, then a variance may be
granted by the City Council only upon the favorable vote of 2/3 of all the
Aldermen on the City Council. The City Council may permit a variance of the
parking regulations herein where an applicant demonstrates conclusively that
the specific use of a building would make unnecessary the parking spaces
required by these regulations; provided, however, that a reduction may not be
more than 50% of the usual requirement.
(Am. Ord. 2014-36, passed 9-8-2014)
§ 153.078 CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.
   (A)   Authorization. For the purposes of these regulations, the “special
use” authorized by statute shall be called the “conditional use”. The location,
construction, extension or structural alteration of any use for which a
conditional use permit is required pursuant to provisions of these regulations
may be authorized by a permit issued by the City Council and following a public
hearing by the Planning and Zoning Board and subject to standards as may be set
forth in these regulations and subsequent amendments.
   (B)   Application requirements. An application for a conditional use permit
shall be filed with the Building and Zoning Administrator and shall be
accompanied by the following:
      (1)   A plan or drawing which accurately and completely depicts the
proposed use necessitating a conditional use;
      (2)   Any additional information as requested by the city relevant to the
particular use.
      (3)   Payment of conditional use application fee as specified in
“Appendix A – Scheduled Zoning Fees and Charges”. Payment shall be required at
the time of application.
   (C)   Hearing and notice. The Planning and Zoning Board shall select a
reasonable time and place for the hearing and shall give public notice of the
hearing in accordance with §
153.080.
   (D)   Conditions. The Planning and Zoning Board may recommend and the City
Council may impose conditions or restrictions upon the location, construction,
design and operation of a conditional use, including but not limited to
provisions for off-street parking spaces, and the duration of the permit, as
they shall respectfully find necessary or appropriate to insure that:
      (1)   The establishment, maintenance, or operation of the conditional use
will not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, morals,
comfort or general welfare.
      (2)   The conditional use will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment
of other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already permitted
nor substantially diminish and impair property values within the neighborhood.
      (3)   The establishment of the conditional use will not impede the normal
and orderly development and improvement of surrounding property for uses
permitted in the district.
      (4)   Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage, and/or other necessary
facilities will be provided.
      (5)   Adequate measures will be taken to provide ingress and egress so
designed as to minimize traffic congestion in the public streets.
      (6)   The conditional use shall in all other respects conform to the
applicable regulations of the district in which it is located.
   (E)   Action by City Council. After receiving the report of the Planning and
Zoning Board, the City Council shall review the report and may accept the
findings and recommendations of the Planning and Zoning Board in whole or in
part, or may reject them in whole or in part, or may refer the matter back to
the Planning and Zoning Board for further study. However, in event the Planning
and Zoning Board recommends against the issuance of a conditional use permit,
then it may be issued only upon the favorable vote of 2/3 of all Aldermen then
holding office.
(Am. Ord. 2014-36, passed 9-8-2014)
§ 153.079 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The regulations imposed and the districts created under the authority
of these regulations may be amended from time to time by ordinance after the
ordinance establishing them has gone into effect, but no amendments shall be
made without a hearing before the Planning and Zoning Board.
   (B)   Amendments are made by ordinance by the City Council. The City Council
shall review the report submitted by the Planning and Zoning Board. In case of
a written protest is filed with the clerk of the municipality against any
proposed amendment of the regulations or districts, and signed and acknowledged
as follows: by owners of 20% of the frontage proposed to be altered; by owners
of 20% of the frontage immediately adjoining or across an alley therefrom; or
by the owners of 20% of the frontage directly opposite the frontage proposed to
be altered, the amendment shall not be passed except by a favorable vote of 2/
3 of all aldermen then holding office.
   (C)   The Planning and Zoning Board and the City Council shall consider the
proposed amendment on its merits, using the following criteria as a guide:
      (1)   Criteria for text or map amendment:
         (a)   The proposed amendment shall correct an error in the original
zoning.
         (b)   The area under application has changed so that the zoning is no
longer contributing to the community welfare.
         (c)   The proposed amendment shall be consistent with the intent of
this chapter and with its various provisions.
         (d)   The proposed amendment shall not be detrimental to the
development of the city.
         (e)   Every use permitted under the new classification be a suitable
use for the further development of the area in the vicinity of the rezoning,
and be compatible with the uses already developed in the vicinity.
         (f)   Adequate public facilities, water and sewer lines, other needed
services or facilities exist or be capable of being provided prior to the
development of the uses which would be permitted on the property if it were
classified.
      (2)   Applications which would result in spot zoning will be denied. Spot
zoning is defined as rezoning of a relatively small area into a district which
is unrelated to the immediate area or the general plan for the community. The
rezoning may be a special privilege or an inconsistent restriction of 1
property which is not made applicable to others. A zoning pattern once
established and relied upon must be sufficiently stable to accomplish the
purposes of the plan and to protect those who comply with the law. Spot zoning
constitutes an entering wedge, contributing to the breakdown of this stability.
(Am. Ord. 2014-36, passed 9-8-2014)
§ 153.080 PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   In cases of requests for variances, conditional use permits or
amendments to these regulations, the Planning and Zoning Board shall conduct 1
or more public hearings. The applicant or their authorized representative shall
be present at the hearing(s).
   (B)   Public notice of such hearing or hearings shall be published at least
once not less than 15 days nor more than 30 days before the hearing in a
newspaper published within the city. The notice shall contain the date, time
and place of the hearing, the street address or common description of the
property involved, the legal description of the property involved, and a brief
description of the purpose of the hearing.
   (C)   Not less than 15 days before such a hearing, a copy of the public
notice described above shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to every owner of property adjacent to the property under
consideration for a variance, conditional use permit, or ordinance amendment.
   (D)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall submit in writing to the City
Council a summary of the testimony and its findings of fact received at the
public hearing, a record of the Board's vote, and a statement of the Board's
recommendations concerning the desired variance.
   (E)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall submit in writing to the City
Council, a report of its findings as to the compliance of the proposed
conditional use with standards specified in these regulations and giving its
recommendations for action to be taken by the City Council.
   (F)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall submit in writing to the City
Council, a summary of the testimony and findings of fact received at the public
hearing, a record of the Board’s vote, and a statement of the Board’s
recommendations concerning the proposed amendment.
(Am. Ord. 2014-36, passed 9-8-2014)
§ 153.081 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Standards and regulations. A planned unit development may be granted
as a conditional use in any zoning district. Because planned unit developments
differ substantially from other conditional uses, the additional criteria,
standards and procedures identified in this section are applicable to all
planned unit developments.
   (B)   Purpose. The planned unit development regulations are intended to
encourage creative and innovative design for development and redevelopment that
otherwise may not be attainable under the city's zoning, subdivision and
development regulations. The planned unit development regulations promote
comprehensive and coordinated development to create an efficient and productive
land use pattern. Specifically, the regulations are intended to encourage
developments that accomplish the following:
      (1)   Stimulate creative approaches to residential, commercial and
industrial development by encouraging proposals with varied designs and uses
that otherwise may not be accommodated under the city's zoning regulations;
      (2)   Provide more efficient use of land, including the preservation of
common open space, the promotion of aesthetic amenities, and the consolidation
of public services;
      (3)   Preserve natural vegetation, topographic and geographic features
and environmentally sound practices, including preventing soil erosion and
surface flooding;
      (4)   Unify buildings and structures through consistent architectural
styles, building forms, and building relationships; and
      (5)   Promote the public health, safety, comfort, morals and welfare by
emphasizing innovative approaches to delivering services to the public.
   (C)   Planned unit development standards. Planned unit developments shall
comply with the following standards:
      (1)   Ownership and control. A planned unit development shall be under
single ownership or unified control at the time an application for approval of
the planned unit development is filed, or the applicant shall provide written
evidence of the applicant's ability to obtain unified control of the property
if the planned unit development is approved.
      (2)   Area, lot width, yard, and height/bulk requirements. All buildings,
structures and uses of land within the planned unit development shall conform
to the area, lot width, yard, height and bulk regulations of the zoning
district in which the planned unit development is located, or for those planned
unit developments with uses which are not allowed in that zoning district but
are explicitly allowed as part of an approved planned unit development, the
area, lot width, yard, height and bulk regulations of the zoning district in
which they are first permitted.
      (3)   Compatibility. The uses in a planned unit development must be of a
type and location so as to avoid imposing an undue detriment on the surrounding
properties.
      (4)   Need. The planned unit development must be of a character and
contain such uses that are clearly needed in the service area of the proposed
project.
      (5)   Design standards. The planned unit development shall comply with
the city's design standards and rules, including, without limitation, standards
for landscaping, lighting, parking, utilities, flood hazard mitigation, street
design and subdivision, as provided in the City Code, as amended, and the
Manual of Practice for the Design of Public Improvements in the City of
Monticello, as amended.
      (6)   Open space and landscaping. A planned unit development that is
comprised of more than 50% residential uses shall preserve 30% of the planned
unit development as landscaped open space. A planned unit development that is
comprised of more than 50% non-residential uses shall preserve 20% of the
planned unit development as landscaped open space. All landscaped open spaces
shall include, but not be limited to, parkway landscaping, landscaping around
building foundations, including planter boxes, and landscaping around and in
parking lots, including parking lot islands.
      (7)   Traffic. The planned unit development shall provide adequate
ingress and egress to the site, minimize traffic congestion on public streets,
and provide all necessary pedestrian safety measures.
      (8)   Comprehensive Plan. The planned unit development shall comply with
the city's Comprehensive Plan, as amended, and advance the following
objectives:
         (a)   Superior architectural design, including buildings that
compliment neighboring structures, that are constructed of durable,
aesthetically pleasing materials, and build upon the city's historic design:
         (b)   Superior site design, including plazas, gardens and other
pedestrian amenities;
         (c)   Community amenities (i.e., public amenities); and
         (d)   Other objectives as determined by the Planning and Zoning Board
or City Council.
   (D)   Deviations from code requirements. A planned unit development may vary
from the city's zoning (including use), landscaping and subdivision regulations
if it can be shown that:
      (1)   The requested deviation does not undermine the intent and purpose
of the underlying zoning district;
      (2)   The requested deviation does not impeded or create a detriment to
the provision of city services, infrastructure, and services to the public in
general;
      (3)   The requested deviation contributes to a planned unit development
that offers superior level of design, amenity, efficiency, or environmental
enhancement beyond what is required by the City Code; and
      (4)   The requested deviation is consistent with the purpose of this
section as provided in §
153.081(B).
   (E)   Procedure. The following procedures and requirements apply to any
request for approval of a planned unit development.
      (1)   Pre-application meeting. Before filing an application for approval
of a planned unit development, the applicant shall consult with the Building
and Zoning Administrator and present a concept plan of the planned unit
development. The concept plan shall comply with §
152.040(B) of the City Code. The Building and Zoning Administrator may provide
advisory comments concerning the concept to aid the applicant when preparing
the planned unit development application. In addition, the applicant shall be
required to participate in a pre-application conference pursuant to §
152.040(A) of the City Code.
      (2)   Preliminary plat of planned unit development.
         (a)   Applications for approval of a preliminary plat of planned unit
development may be obtained from the Building and Zoning Administrator. The
applicant shall submit its completed application to the Building and Zoning
Administrator, which shall include all information required by §
153.081(F), the required review fee and the cost to publish notice in a
newspaper of general circulation, and all other information requested by the
Building and Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   Upon review of the applicant's materials and verification that
the requirements of this section have been satisfied, the Building and Zoning
Administrator shall transmit the application to the Planning and Zoning Board
for review and a public hearing.
         (c)   The City Clerk shall cause the notice of public hearing before
the Planning and Zoning Board to be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city at least once before the public hearing.
         (d)   Written notice of the public hearing shall be given to the
persons to whom the current real estate tax bills are sent, as determined by
the records of the tax collector, of all lots adjacent to the property lines of
the parcel of land for which the planned unit development is proposed. The
written notices shall be delivered personally or may be sent by certified or
registered mail, properly addressed and with sufficient postage with return
receipt requested.
         (e)   The notice of public hearing shall contain the place, date, and
time of the hearing, the common address or location of the property, the
property's legal description, the name and address of the applicant and owner
of the property, the purpose of the hearing, and the address of the city office
where information may be obtained, and shall be published and mailed not less
than 15 days nor more than 30 days before the hearing.
         (f)   The public hearing shall be conducted by the Planning and Zoning
Board, and a record of the proceedings shall be preserved in the manner as the
Planning and Zoning Board shall prescribe from time to time.
         (g)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall submit its recommendations
on the proposed preliminary plat of planned unit development to the City
Council within 30 days of the close of the public hearing.
         (h)   After receiving the Planning and Zoning Board’s recommendation,
the City Council may, by ordinance, approve, or approve with modifications, the
preliminary plat of planned unit development authorizing the planned unit
development as a conditional use. If the City Council does not approve a
planned unit development, it may deny the planned unit development or refer the
planned unit development back to the Planning and Zoning Board for further
consideration.
         (i)   The preliminary plat of planned unit development and supporting
documents shall be attached to the ordinance approving the conditional use.
Approval of a preliminary plat of planned unit development as a conditional use
shall not constitute final approval of the final plat of planned unit
development; rather, it shall be deemed an expression of approval of the layout
submitted on the preliminary plat and should be used to prepare the final plat
of planned unit development.
      (3)   Final plat of planned unit development.
         (a)   An applicant may seek approval of a final planned unit
development plat for the entire planned unit development or in phases. The
final plat or plats of the planned unit development shall conform substantially
to the preliminary plat of planned unit development as approved. While the
preliminary plat of planned unit development shall generally specify uses of
land and locations of buildings, the final plat of planned unit development
shall designate with particularity the uses of land and the location of
buildings and all other improvements.
         (b)   Applications for approval of a final plat of planned unit
development shall be filed in writing with the Building and Zoning
Administrator and shall comply with §
153.081(F). The Building and Zoning Administrator is authorized to recommend
approval of a final plat of planned unit development to the City Council
without referring the final plat to the Planning and Zoning Board if the
Building and Zoning Administrator determines that the final plat is in
substantial conformance with the preliminary plat of planned unit development
as approved by the City Council. If the Building and Zoning Administrator
determines that the final plat is not in substantial conformance to the
preliminary plat of planned unit development, the final plat shall be referred
to the Planning and Zoning Board for action in accordance with this chapter.
         (c)   Final plats of planned unit development referred to the Planning
and Zoning Board shall be reviewed by the Planning and Zoning Board for
differences between the preliminary and final plat and all other relevant
matters, and a record of the proceedings shall be preserved in a manner as the
Planning and Zoning Board shall prescribe from time to time.
         (d)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall submit its recommendation on
the proposed final plat of planned unit development to the City Council within
30 days of the close of the public hearing.
         (e)   After receiving the Planning and Zoning Board’s recommendation,
the City Council may, by ordinance, approve, or approve with modifications, the
proposed final plat of planned unit development authorizing the planned unit
development as a conditional use. If the City Council does not approve of a
planned unit development, it may deny the planned unit development or refer the
planned unit development back to the Planning and Zoning Board for further
consideration. The final plat of planned unit development and supporting
documents shall be attached to the ordinance approving the conditional use.
   (F)   Submittal requirements.
      (1)   Planned unit development plat. Applicants seeking approval of a
planned unit development or a change to a planned unit development shall submit
a completed application on a form prescribed by the city. In addition,
applicants shall submit 18 copies of a scaled drawing of the planned unit
development, composed of 1 or more sheets showing the following information:
         (a)   Title of the proposed planned unit development.
         (b)   The planned unit development's legal description and total
acreage.
         (c)   Scale, north point, and date of preparation.
         (d)   Name and address of the owner, applicant, engineer, and land
surveyor.
         (e)   Location of city, county, and township boundary lines at or near
the planned unit development.
         (f)    Location, dimensions, and acreage of proposed land uses in the
planned unit development, including, but not limited to, single-family
residential, multi-family residential, business areas, industrial areas, open
spaces, parks, and school sites.
         (g)   Location and dimensions of proposed and existing streets,
alleys, sidewalks, bike paths, easements, stormwater control areas, buildings,
structures and utilities in the planned unit development.
         (h)   Dimensions of the lots into which the property is proposed to be
subdivided. Applicants proposing to subdivide a planned unit development must
also prepare and submit a separate subdivision plat in accordance with
Chapter 152 of this Code.
         (i)   Density of the planned unit development for both the entire
development and individual land use areas.
         (j)   Map indicating the location of buildings on adjacent properties,
the location and dimensions of streets adjacent to the planned unit
development, and the location of alleys, easements and stormwater control areas
adjacent to the planned unit development.
         (k)   Design schedule (i.e., a design table) detailing the following:
            1.   The proposed use of each building, structure or parcel;
            2.   The total number of parking spaces on the site;
            3.   The total footprint and square footage for each nonresidential
structure; and
            4.   If the planned unit development is to be constructed in
phases, a designation of what work is included in each phase.
         (l)   All requirements and certifications identified in §
151.26 of the City Code.
      (2)   Building elevations. Each applicant shall submit building
elevations for all buildings in the planned unit development other than
detached single-family homes. Alternately, the building and Zoning
Administrator may, at his or her sole discretion, allow applicants to submit
building design guidelines for planned unit developments that contain more than
1 building.
      (3)   Landscape plan. Each applicant shall submit a plan detailing the
landscaping proposed for the planned unit development, including landscaping
for the landscaped open space.
      (4)   Engineering plan.
         (a)   Preliminary engineering plan. Applicants seeking approval of a
preliminary plat of planned unit development shall submit a preliminary
engineering plan detailing the general design and location of all sanitary
sewers, water mains, stormwater control devices, streets and public ways, and
flood control measures.
         (b)   Final engineering plan. Applicants seeking approval of a final
plat of planned unit development shall submit engineering plans showing the
topography of the planned unit development and the surrounding area, the full
design of all sanitary sewers, water mains, stormwater control devices, streets
and public ways, and flood control measures. Applicants must also submit a cost
estimate for all public improvements prepared by a Illinois-licensed civil
engineer.
      (5)   Supporting information. Each applicant shall submit a written
narrative explaining the nature and characteristics of the planned unit
development the proposed uses, why the applicant requires the flexibility of
the planned unit development designation, how the planned unit development
satisfies the deviation standards, how the planned unit development corresponds
with the Comprehensive Plan, and how the planned unit development satisfies the
criteria for planned unit development approval.
      (6)   Surety. Applicants seeking approval of a final planned unit
development plat shall submit a guarantee of funds in accordance with §
152.065 of this Code before the city issues a permit for any work on the
planned unit development.
      (7)   Covenants. Applicants seeking approval of a final planned unit
development plat shall submit all covenants and agreements that will govern the
use, maintenance and continued protection of the planned unit development.
      (8)   Special studies. Applicants for planned unit development approval
shall submit all impact studies, parking studies, geological, topographical or
soil analysis and any other information or data requested by the city.
      (9)   Signage. Applicants for planned unit development approval shall
submit detailed signage information for all signs proposed for the planned unit
development.
   (G)   Changes to a planned unit development. Planned unit developments shall
be constructed in accordance with the approved final plat of planned unit
development and all other submittal requirements identified in §
153.081(F). The final plat of planned unit development shall control and limit
the use of the planned unit development, including the general internal use of
buildings and structures, and the location of buildings and structures. A
change to the planned unit development shall be classified as either a (1)
major change, (2) minor change, or (3) administrative changes.
      (1)   Major change to a planned unit development. Major changes to
planned unit developments alter the concept or intent of the planned unit
development. The city will consider the following factors to determine if a
proposal constitutes a major change:
         (a)   Requests for deviations to the underlying zoning requirements,
requests for approval of a conditional use or alteration of conditions
applicable to the planned unit development.
         (b)   A change in the designation of land use identified in the
approved plat of planned unit development.
         (c)   An increase or decrease in the number of buildings.
         (d)   An increase or decrease of greater than 10% to either the gross
floor area, building height, or total number of parking spaces, based on the
most recent approved planned unit development plat or any amendments thereto.
         (e)   An increase or decrease of greater than 10% to the total number
of dwelling units in the planned unit development, based on the first
preliminary plat of planned unit development approved by the city.
         (f)   A change in building design that is inconsistent with the
approved building elevations or the building design guidelines approved for the
planned unit development.
         (g)   A change that is inconsistent with the city's Comprehensive
Plan.
         (h)   For major changes that alter an approved planned unit
development plat, a revised plat of planned unit development and all materials
identified in §
153.081(F) shall be submitted with the applicant's application for a major
change.
      (2)   Minor change to a planned unit development. Minor changes to
planned unit developments are neither major changes nor administrative changes.
Minor changes may be approved by the City Council without Planning and Zoning
Board review and recommendation unless the City Council requests that the
Planning and Zoning Board review the change and offer a recommendation. The
city shall consider the following factors to determine if a proposal
constitutes a minor change.
         (a)   An increase or decrease of not less than 5%, but not greater
than 9% (i.e., between 5% and 9%) to the gross floor area, building height, or
total number of parking spaces, based on the most recent approved planned unit
development plat and any amendments thereto.
         (b)   An addition of an accessory structure that exceeds 500 square
feet in gross floor area or alters the approved circulation, landscaping or
building design criteria for the planned unit development.
      (3)   Administrative change to a planned unit development. Changes to a
planned unit development that do not meet the criteria set forth in §
153.081(G)(1) and (2) may be approved by the Building and Zoning Administrator
without the approval of the City Council. Administrative changes that are not
approved by the Building and Zoning Administrator may be appealed by the
applicant or property owner to the City Council as a minor change to the
planned unit development.
   (H)   Procedures for changes to a planned unit development. Applicants
seeking approval of a change to a planned unit development shall abide by the
following procedures.
      (1)   Notice generally. Upon application for a major change or a minor
change to a planned unit development, written notice of the proposed change
shall be provided to the owners of record, as determined by the local tax
collector's records, of all lots adjacent to the property lines of the planned
unit development.
         (a)   Notice of a major change. Notice of a major change shall comply
with §
153.081(E)(2)(c) through (e).
         (b)   Notice of a minor change. Notice of a minor change shall be
personally delivered or sent by certified or registered mail and shall include
the address or location of the subject property, the nature or purpose of the
requested minor change, the name and address of the applicant and owner of the
planned unit development, and the office address of the City Clerk where full
information concerning the application may be obtained. Notice shall be
provided between 15 and 30 days before the City Council meeting at which the
application may be considered, and the applicant shall submit an affidavit in
accordance with §
153.081(E)(2)(d).
      (2)   Notice of administrative change. Notice of an administrative change
shall be provided to the owners of record, as determined by the local tax
collector's records, of all lots adjacent to the property lines of the planned
unit development. The notice shall inform the owners of the pending
administrative change and solicit comments concerning the proposed change. All
comments shall be directed to the Building and Zoning Administrator and will be
accepted for a period of time beginning on the date of the notice and
concluding 15 days thereafter.
   (I)   Criteria for approval of a planned unit development or changes to a
planned unit development.  The Planning and Zoning Board shall not recommend
approval nor shall the City Council approve a conditional use for a planned
unit development or a major or minor change to a planned unit development
unless the planned unit development or change complies with all of the
following criteria.
      (1)   The planned unit development's design presents an innovative and
creative approach to the development of land and living environments.
      (2)   The planned unit development meets the planned unit development
standards set forth in §
153.081(C).
      (3)   The planned unit development's design efficiently utilizes the land
and adequately provides for transportation and public facilities while
preserving the natural features of the site.
      (4)   Open space, outdoor amenities and recreational facilities are
provided.
      (5)   Deviations from the City Code do not undermine the city's ability
to deliver services nor compromise the public's health, safety, morals or
welfare.
      (6)   The planned unit development is compatible with the adjacent
properties and nearby land uses.
      (7)   The planned unit development fulfills the objectives of the
Comprehensive Plan and the city's planning policies.
   (J)   Effective period for a planned unit development. Planned unit
developments shall be constructed in a timely manner.
      (1)   Revocation. A planned unit development is subject to revocation
under the following circumstances.
         (a)   Approval of the final plat of planned unit development does not
occur within 2 years from the date of approval of the preliminary plat of
planned unit development; or
         (b)   Construction does not commence within 2 years from the date of
approval of the final plat of planned unit development.
      (2)   Revocation procedure. The City Council may initiate revocation if
either of the conditions in division (J)(1) are satisfied by providing written
notice to the property owner at least 30 days before the City Council's
consideration of the revocation. Alternately, the owner of a planned unit
development may apply to the city to revoke a planned unit development at any
time.
      (3)   Effect of revocation. Upon revocation of a planned unit
development, the city shall file a notice of revocation with the Piatt County
Recorder of Deeds and the property formerly classified as a planned unit
development, including its uses, shall conform to the City Code.
(Ord. 2013-43, passed 7-22-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-36, passed 9-8-2014)
VIOLATIONS
§ 153.090 COMPLAINTS.
   Whenever a violation of these regulations occurs, or is alleged to have
occurred, any person may file a written complaint. The complaint stating fully
the causes and basis thereof shall be filed with the Building and Zoning
Administrator. The Building and Zoning Administrator shall record forthwith
such complaint, immediately investigate, and take action thereon as provided by
these regulations.
§ 153.091 VIOLATORS.
   The owner or tenant of any building, structure, premises, or part thereof,
and any architect, builder, contractor, agent, or other person who commits,
participates in, assists in, or maintains such violation may each be found
guilty of a separate offense and suffer the penalties herein provided.
§ 153.092 CITY'S REMEDIES.
   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from taking such other
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
SCHEDULE OF FEES, CHARGES AND EXPENSES
§ 153.105 SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   The City Council shall establish a schedule of fees, charges, and expenses,
and a collection for building permits, and conditional use permits, but
excluding occupancy permits. In addition, the City Council shall establish a
schedule of charges for variances and amendments, and other matters pertaining
to these regulations. The schedule of fees shall be posted in the office of the
Building and Zoning Administrator and may be altered or amended by the City
Council.
§ 153.106 PAYMENT OF FEES.
   All applicable fees must be paid at the time of application. Until all
applicable fees, charges and expenses have been paid in full, no action shall
be taken on any application or appeal. For filings and permits applied for
after construction has started, fees will be twice normal fees.
APPENDIX A: SCHEDULE OF FEES, CHARGES AND EXPENSES
Category Fee
Category                            Fee
Subdivision - preliminary plat      $750
Subdivision - final plat            $750
Minor subdivision                   $400
Subdivision replat or resubdivision $300
Subdivision utility inspection      $100
Planned Unit Development            $300
Zoning change                       $300
Conditional use                     $300
Variance                            $300
Mobile home park                    $1,000
Sign                                $10
Billboard                           $0.50/square foot ($20 minimum)
Fence                               $50
Swimming pool                       $50
Deck or porch                       $50
Moving building                     $50
Demolition                          $25
Flood hazard area development       $500
Sanitary sewer tap fee              $750
Water service tap fee               $750
Garbage collection license          $750
 
 
Category                                      Fee
Building permits
   Single family                           $300
   Multi-family                            $300
   Commercial buildings                    $500
   Accessory buildings and building additio$50
 
(Am. Ord. 2010-01, passed 1-11-2010; Am. Ord. 2014-36, passed 9-8-2014)
CHAPTER 154. CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN THE RIGHTS-OF-WAY
Section
   
154.01   Purpose and scope
   
154.02   Definitions
   
154.03   Annual registration required
   
154.04   Permit required; applications and fees
   
154.05   Action on permit applications
   
154.06   Effect of permit
   
154.07   Revised permit drawings
   
154.08   Insurance
   
154.09   Indemnification
   
154.10   Security
   
154.11   Permit suspension and revocation
   
154.12   Change of ownership or owner’s identity or legal status
   
154.13   General construction standards
   
154.14   Traffic control
   
154.15   Location of facilities
   
154.16   Construction methods and materials
   
154.17   Vegetation control
   
154.18   Removal, relocation, or modifications of utility facilities
   
154.19   Clean-up and restoration
   
154.20   Maintenance and emergency maintenance
   
154.21   Variances
 
   
154.99   Penalties
§ 154.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights-of-way within the city's
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage, and visual qualities of the city
rights-of-way and the city as a whole.
   (B)   Intent. In enacting this chapter, the city intends to exercise its
authority over the rights-of-way in the city and, in particular, the use of the
public ways and property by utilities, by establishing uniform standards to
address issues presented by utility facilities, including without limitation:
      (1)   Prevent interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parkways and other public ways and places;
      (2)   Prevent the creation of visual and physical obstructions and other
conditions that are hazardous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
      (3)   Prevent interference with the facilities and operations of the
city's utilities and of other utilities lawfully located in rights-of-way or
public property;
      (4)   Protect against environmental damage, including damage to trees,
from the installation of utility facilities;
      (5)   Protect against increased stormwater run-off due to structures and
materials that increase impermeable surfaces;
      (6)   Preserve the character of the neighborhoods in which facilities are
installed;
      (7)   Preserve open space, particularly the tree-lined parkways that
characterize the city's residential neighborhoods;
      (8)   Prevent visual blight from the proliferation of facilities in the
rights-of-way; and
      (9)   Assure the continued safe use and enjoyment of private properties
adjacent to utility facilities locations.
   (C)   Facilities subject to this chapter. This chapter applies to all
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights-
of-way within the jurisdiction of the city. A facility lawfully established
prior to the effective date of this chapter may continue to be maintained,
repaired and operated by the utility as presently constructed and located,
except as may be otherwise provided in any applicable franchise, license or
similar agreement.
   (D)   Franchises, licenses, or similar agreements. The city, in its
discretion and as limited by law, may require utilities to enter into a
franchise, license or similar agreement for the privilege of locating their
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the city
rights-of-way. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the city enter into such an agreement. In such an
agreement, the city may provide for terms and conditions inconsistent with this
chapter.
   (E)   Effect of franchises, licenses, or similar agreements.
      (1)   Utilities other than telecommunications providers. In the event
that a utility other than a telecommunications provider has a franchise,
license or similar agreement with the city, such franchise, license or similar
agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement and any
lawful renewal or extension thereof.
      (2)   Telecommunications providers. In the event of any conflict with, or
inconsistency between, the provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any
franchise, license or similar agreement between the city and any
telecommunications provider, the provisions of such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
   (F)   Conflicts with other chapters. This chapter supersedes all chapters or
parts of chapters adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to the
extent of such conflict.
   (G)   Conflicts with state and federal laws. In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the utility shall comply with the requirements of this chapter to the
maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws or regulations.
   (H)   Sound engineering judgment. The city shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this chapter and may exercise the power described
in §
154.21 to vary the standards, conditions, and requirements expressed in this
chapter when the city so determines. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit
the ability of the city to regulate its rights-of-way for the protection of the
public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 2017-77, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 154.02 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter and unless the context clearly requires otherwise,
the words and terms listed shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section. Any term not defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed
to it in 92 Ill. Adm. Code § 530.30, unless the context clearly requires
otherwise.
   AASHTO. American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
   ANSI. American National Standards Institute.
   ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio signals used in the provision of any type of wireless communications
services.
   APPLICANT. A person applying for a permit under this chapter.
   ASTM. American Society for Testing and Materials.
   BACKFILL. The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a
trench or pit.
   BORE or BORING. To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the
insertion of a pipe or electrical conductor.
   BUILDING AND ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The City of Monticello Building and
Zoning Administrator or his or her designee.
   CABLE OPERATOR. That term as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(5).
   CABLE SERVICE. That term as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(6).
   CABLE SYSTEM. That term as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(7).
   CARRIER PIPE. The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be
transported.
   CASING. A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as:
carrier pipes, electrical conductors, and fiber optic devices.
   CITY. The City of Monticello.
   CLEAR ZONE. The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a non-recoverable slope, and a clear run-out
area. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and
on the roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO Roadside Design
Guide.
   COATING. Protective mapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
   CODE. The City of Monticello Code of Ordinances.
   CONCEALED FACILITY. A wireless facility mounted on a structure located
within the right-of-way that is enclosed, camouflaged, screened, obscured or
otherwise not readily distinguishable from the structure on which it is mounted
to an observer at ground level.
   CONDUCTOR. Wire carrying electrical current.
   CONDUIT. A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
   CONSTRUCTION or CONSTRUCT. The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
   COVER. The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
   CROSSING FACILITY. A facility that crosses 1 or more right-of-way lines of a
right-of-way.
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS. The City Director of Public Works or his or her
designee.
   DISRUPT THE RIGHT-OF-WAY. For the purposes of this chapter, any work that
obstructs the right-of-way or causes a material adverse effect on the use of
the right-of-way for its intended use. Such work may include, without
limitation, the following: excavating or other cutting; placement (whether
temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment, devices, or structures; damage
to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of the soil, and shall not include
the parking of vehicles or equipment in a manner that does not materially
obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
   EMERGENCY. Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety
of the public using or in the vicinity of the right-of-way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
   ENCASEMENT. Provision of a protective casing.
   EQUIPMENT. Materials, tools, implements, supplies, and/or other items used
to facilitate construction of facilities.
   EXCAVATION. The making of a hole or cavity by removing material, or laying
bare by digging.
   EXTRA HEAVY PIPE. Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
   FACILITY. All structures, devices, objects, and materials (including, but
not limited to, track and rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, antennas,
vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, cabinets, pedestals, poles, conduits,
grates, covers, pipes, cables, and appurtenances thereto) located on, over,
above, along, upon, under, across, or within rights-of-way under this chapter.
For purposes of this chapter, the term FACILITY shall not include any facility
owned or operated by the city.
   FREESTANDING FACILITY. A facility that is not a crossing facility or a
parallel facility, such as a monopole, utility pole, antenna, transformer,
pump, or meter station.
   FRONTAGE ROAD. Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent
to the highway where it is precluded by control of access to a highway.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location, or other characteristics, is determined by the
Building and Zoning Administrator to pose an unreasonable and imminent risk to
the life, health or safety of persons or property or to the ecological balance
of the environment, including, but not limited to explosives, radioactive
materials, petroleum or petroleum products or gases, poisons, etiology
(biological) agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance determined to be
hazardous or toxic under any federal or state law, statute or regulation.
   HIGHWAY. A specific type of right-of-way used for vehicular traffic
including rural or urban roads or streets. HIGHWAY includes all highway land
and improvements, including roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges,
drainage structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances
necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
   HIGHWAY CODE. The Illinois Highway Code, ILCS Ch. 605, Act 5, §§ 1-101 et
seq., as amended from time to time.
   HOLDER. A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or
provide cable or video service from the ICC pursuant to the Illinois Cable and
Video Competition Law, ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-401.
   ICC. Illinois Commerce Commission.
   IDOT. Illinois Department of Transportation.
   JACKING. Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means
with or without boring.
   JETTING. Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to
create a cavity ahead of the pipe.
   JOINT USE. The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by 2 or more
utilities.
   J.U.L.I.E. The Joint Utility Locating Information for Excavators utility
notification program.
   MAJOR INTERSECTION. The intersection of 2 or more major arterial highways.
   MONOPOLE. A structure composed of a single spire, pole or tower designed and
principally used to support antennas or related equipment and that is not a
utility pole.
   MUNICIPALLY-OWNED INFRASTRUCTURE. Infrastructure in the public right-of-way
within the boundaries of the city, including, but not limited to, streetlights,
traffic signals, towers, structures, or buildings owned, operated or maintained
by the city.
   OCCUPANCY. The presence of facilities on, over or under the right-of-way.
   PARALLEL FACILITY. A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to
the centerline of a right-of-way.
   PARKWAY. Any portion of the right-of-way not improved by street or sidewalk.
   PAVEMENT CUT. The removal of an area of pavement for access to a facility or
for the construction of a facility.
   PERMITTEE. That entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to §§
154.04 and
154.05 of this chapter.
   PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES. Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane, or coal-slurry.
   PRACTICABLE. That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than
that which is simply convenient.
   PRESSURE. The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
   PROMPT. That which is done within a period of time specified by the city. If
no time period is specified, the period shall be 30 days.
   PUBLIC ENTITY. A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, state or federal level.
   RESTORATION. The repair of a right-of-way, highway, roadway, or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHTS-OF-WAY. Any street, alley, other land or waterway,
dedicated or commonly used for pedestrian or vehicular traffic or other
similar' purposes, including utility easements, in which the city has the right
and authority to authorize, regulate or permit the location of facilities other
than those of the city. RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHTS-OF-WAY shall not include any
real or personal city property that is not specifically described in the
previous 2 sentences and shall not include city buildings, fixtures and other
structures or improvements, regardless of whether they are situated in the
right-of-way.
   ROADWAY. That part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
   SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL. The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by 1 such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
   SECURITY FUND. That amount of security required pursuant to §
154.10.
   SHOULDER. A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
   SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGEMENT. A decision(s) consistent with generally
accepted engineering principles, practices and experience.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. This term includes, but is not limited to, messages or
information transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone
service, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer
exchange service, private line services, mobile radio services, cellular mobile
telecommunications services, stationary 2-way radio, paging service and any
other form of mobile or portable 1-way or 2-way communications, and any other
transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means, between
or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. PRIVATE LINE means a dedicated non-traffic
sensitive service for a single customer that entitles the customer to exclusive
or priority use of a communications channel, or a group of such channels, from
1 or more specified locations to 1 or more other specified locations.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include value added services in which computer
processing applications are used to act on the form, content, code and protocol
of the information for purposes other than transmission. TELECOMMUNICATIONS
shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a telecommunications
service provider for use as a component part of the service provided by such
provider to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or terminates the end-
to-end communications. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include the provision of
cable services through a cable system as defined in the Cable Communications
Act of 1984 (47 U.S.C. §§ 521 and following), as now or hereafter amended, or
cable or other programming services subject to an open video system fee payable
to the city through an open video system as defined in the Rules of the Federal
Communications Commission (47 C.F.R. §§ 76.1500 and following), as now or
hereafter amended.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER. Means any person that installs, owns, operates
or controls facilities in the right-of-way used or designed to be used to
transmit telecommunications in any form.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER. Means and includes every person engaged in
making sales of telecommunications at retail as defined herein.
   TRENCH. A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
   UTILITY. The individual or entity owning or operating any facility as
defined in this chapter.
   UTILITY POLE. An upright pole designed and used to support electric cables,
telephone cables, telecommunication cables, cable service cables, which are
used to provide lighting, traffic control, signage, or a similar function.
   VENT. A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
   VIDEO SERVICE. That term as defined in § 21-201 (v) of the Illinois Cable
and Video Competition Law of 2007, 220 ILCS 21-201(v).
   WATER LINES. Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
   WET BORING. Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material.
(Ord. 2017-77, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 154.03 ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   Every utility that occupies a right-of-way within the city shall register on
January 1 of each year with the Building and Zoning Administrator, providing
the utility's name, address and regular business telephone and telecopy
numbers, the name of 1 or more contact persons who can act on behalf of the
utility in connection with emergencies involving the utility's facilities in
the right-of-way and a 24-hour telephone number for each such person, and
evidence of insurance as required in §
154.08 of this chapter, in the form of a certificate of insurance.
(Ord. 2017-77, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 154.04 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATIONS AND FEES.
   (A)   Permit required. No person shall construct (as defined in this
chapter) any facility on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within
any city right-of-way which:
      (1)   Changes the location of the facility;
      (2)   Adds a new facility;
      (3)   Disrupts the right-of-way (as defined in this chapter); or
      (4)   Materially increases the amount of area or space occupied by the
facility on, over, above, along, under across or within the right-of-way,
without first filing an application with the Building and Zoning Administrator
and obtaining a permit from the city therefor, except as otherwise provided in
this chapter. No permit shall be required for installation and maintenance of
service connections to customers' premises where there will be no disruption of
the right-of-way.
   (B)   Permit application. All applications for permits pursuant to this
chapter shall be filed on a form provided by the city and shall be filed in
such number of duplicate copies as the city may designate. The applicant may
designate those portions of its application materials that it reasonably
believes contain proprietary or confidential information as "proprietary" or
"confidential" by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly.
   (C)   Minimum general application requirements. The application shall be
made by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at
a minimum, the following:
      (1)   The utility's name and address and telephone and telecopy numbers;
      (2)   The applicant's name and address, if different than the utility,
its telephone, telecopy numbers, e-mail address, and its interest in the work;
      (3)   The names, addresses and telephone and telecopy numbers and e-mail
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application;
      (4)   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
      (5)   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the city:
         (a)   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the Illinois Manual
on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
         (b)   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the city and shall promote
protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with ICC
regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with this
section unless the city finds that additional information or assurances are
needed;
      (6)   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of an engineer that such drawings, plans, and
specifications comply with applicable codes, rules, and regulations;
      (7)   Evidence of insurance as required in §
154.08 of this chapter;
      (8)   Evidence of posting of the security fund as required in §
154.10 of this chapter;
      (9)   Any request for a variance from 1 or more provisions of this
chapter (See §
154.21); and
      (10)   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
city.
      (11)   Project schedule.
   (D)   Supplemental application requirements for specific types of utilities.
In addition to the requirements of division (C) of this section, the permit
application shall include the following items, as applicable to the specific
utility that is the subject of the permit application:
      (1)   In the case of the installation of a new electric power,
communications, telecommunications, cable television service, video service or
natural gas distribution system, evidence that any "Certificate of Public
Convenience and Necessity" or other regulatory authorization that the applicant
is required by law to obtain, or that the applicant has elected to obtain, has
been issued by the ICC or other jurisdictional authority;
      (2)   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class, and operating pressures;
      (3)   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, Division of Public Water Supplies,
have been satisfied;
      (4)   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency
Division of Water Pollution Control and other local or state entities with
jurisdiction, have been satisfied;
      (5)   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or
types of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure, and the
design standard to be followed; or
      (6)   In the case of a utility seeking to erect a new freestanding
facility, including a monopole or utility pole, or attach an antenna to an
existing freestanding facility, for the purpose of providing
telecommunications, the utility shall indicate how the proposed improvement is
necessary to close a significant gap in coverage or capacity in the utility's
telecommunications service.
   (E)   Applicant's duty to update information. Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility in writing to the city within 30 days after the change
necessitating the amendment.
   (F)   Application fees. Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license, or
similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant to this chapter shall
be accompanied by a fee in the amount established in the city fee schedule. No
application fee is required to be paid by any electricity utility that is
paying the municipal electricity infrastructure maintenance fee pursuant to the
Electricity Infrastructure Maintenance Fee Act.
(Ord. 2017-77, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 154.05 ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   City review of permit applications. Completed permit applications,
containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the Building and
Zoning Administrator within a reasonable time after filing. If the application
does not conform to the requirements of applicable ordinances, codes, laws,
rules, and regulations, the Building and Zoning Administrator shall reject such
application in writing, stating the reasons therefor. If the Building and
Zoning Administrator is satisfied that the proposed work conforms to the
requirements of this chapter and applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules, and
regulations, the Building and Zoning Administrator shall issue a permit
therefor as soon as practicable. In all instances, it shall be the duty of the
applicant to demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Building and Zoning
Administrator, that the construction proposed under the application shall be in
full compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Additional city review of applications of telecommunications
retailers.
      (1)   Pursuant to § 4 of the Telephone Company Act, ILCS Ch. 220, Act 65,
§ 65/4, a telecommunications retailer shall notify the city that it intends to
commence work governed by this chapter for facilities for the provision of
telecommunications services. Such notice shall consist of plans,
specifications, and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the purpose
and intent of the facilities, and shall be provided by the telecommunications
retailer to the city not less than 10 days prior to the commencement of work
requiring no excavation and not less than 30 days prior to the commencement of
work requiring excavation. The Building and Zoning Administrator shall specify
the portion of the right-of-way upon which the facility may be placed, used and
constructed.
      (2)   In the event that the Building and Zoning Administrator fails to
provide such specification of location to the telecommunications retailer
within either: (i) 10 days after service of notice to the city by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work not involving excavation for
new construction: or (ii) 25 days after service of notice by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work involving excavation for new
construction, the telecommunications retailer may commence work without
obtaining a permit under this chapter.
      (3)   Upon the provision of such specification by the city, where a
permit is required for work pursuant to §
154.04 of this chapter the telecommunications retailer shall submit to the city
an application for a permit and any and all plans, specifications and
documentation available regarding the facility to be constructed. Such
application shall be subject to the requirements of division (A) of this
section.
   (C)   Additional city review of applications of holders of state
authorization under the Cable and Video Competition Law of 2007. Applications
by a utility that is a holder of a state-issued authorization under the Cable
and Video Competition Law of 2007 shall be deemed granted 45 days after
submission to the city, unless otherwise acted upon by the city, provided the
holder has complied with applicable city codes, ordinances, and regulations.
(Ord. 2017-77, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 154.06 EFFECT OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Authority granted; no property right or other interest created. A
permit from the city authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this chapter on city rights-of-way, and does not
create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon the
rights of others who may have an interest in the rights-of-way.
   (B)   Duration. No permit issued under this chapter shall be valid for a
period longer than 6 months unless construction is actually begun within that
period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion. Must follow approved
submitted schedule, and if unable the permittee must submit a revised schedule
for approval.
   (C)   Pre-construction meeting required. No construction shall begin
pursuant to a permit issued under this chapter prior to attendance by the
permittee and all major contractors and subcontractors who will perform any
work under the permit at a pre-construction meeting. The pre-construction
meeting shall be held at a date, time and place designated by the city with
such city representatives in attendance as the city deems necessary. The
meeting shall be for the purpose of reviewing the work under the permit, and
reviewing special considerations necessary in the areas where work will occur,
including, without limitation, the presence or absence of other utility
facilities in the area and their locations, procedures to avoid disruption of
other utilities, use of rights-of-way by the public during construction, and
access and egress by adjacent property owners.
   (D)   Compliance with all laws required. The issuance of a permit by the
city does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of
the city and applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations.
(Ord. 2017-77, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 154.07 REVISED PERMIT DRAWINGS.
   In the event that the actual locations of any facilities deviate in any
material respect from the locations identified in the plans, drawings and
specifications submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall
submit a revised set of drawings or plans to the city within 90 days after the
completion of the permitted work. The revised drawings or plans shall
specifically identify where the locations of the actual facilities deviate from
the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation from the permit also
deviates from the requirements of this chapter, it shall be treated as a
request for variance in accordance with §
154.21 of this chapter. If the city denies the request for a variance, then the
permittee shall either remove the facility from the right-of-way or modify the
facility so that it conforms to the permit and submit revised drawings or plans
therefor.
(Ord. 2017-77, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 154.08 INSURANCE.
   (A)   Required coverages and limits. Unless otherwise provided by franchise,
license, or similar agreement, each utility occupying right-of-way or
constructing any facility in the right-of-way shall secure and maintain the
following liability insurance policies insuring the utility as named insured
and naming the city, and its elected and appointed officers, officials, agents,
and employees as additional insured on the policies listed in divisions (1) and
(2) below:
      (1)   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse, and underground hazard (commonly referred to
as "X," "C," and "U" coverages) and products-completed operations coverage with
limits not less than:
         (a)   Five million dollars ($5,000,000) for bodily injury or death to
each person;
         (b)   Five million dollars ($5,000,000) for property damage resulting
from any 1 accident; and
         (c)   Five million dollars ($5,000,000) for all other types of
liability;
      (2)   Automobile liability for owned, non-owned and hired vehicles with a
combined single limit of $1,000,000 for personal injury and property damage for
each accident;
      (3)   Worker's compensation with statutory limits; and
      (4)   Employer's liability insurance with limits of not less than
$1,000,000 per employee and per accident.
      (5)   If the utility is not providing such insurance to protect the
contractors and subcontractors performing the work, then such contractors and
subcontractors shall comply with this section.
   (B)   Excess or umbrella policies. The coverages required by this section
may be in any combination of primary, excess, and umbrella policies. Any excess
or umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following-form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   (C)   Copies required. The utility shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this section to the city within 10 days following receipt
of a written request therefor from the city.
   (D)   Maintenance and renewal of required coverages.
      (1)   The insurance policies required by this section shall contain the
following endorsement:
         "It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be
         canceled nor the intention not to renew be stated until 30 days
         after receipt by the city, by registered mail or certified mail,
         return receipt requested, of a written notice addressed to the City
         Administrator of such intent to cancel or not to renew."
      (2)   Within 10 days after receipt by the city of said notice, and in no
event later than 10 days prior to said cancellation, the utility shall obtain
and furnish to the city evidence of replacement insurance policies meeting the
requirements of this section.
   (E)   Self-insurance. A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by division (A) of this
section. A utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such
self-insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional
insured under division (A), or the requirements of divisions (B), (C) and (D)
of this section. A utility that elects to self-insure shall provide to the city
evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required under division (A) of this
section, such as evidence that the utility is a "private self-insurer" under
the Workers’ Compensation Act.
   (F)   Effect of insurance and self-insurance on utility's liability. The
legal liability of the utility to the city and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
   (G)   Insurance companies. All insurance provided pursuant to this section
shall be effected under valid and enforceable policies, issued by insurers
legally able to conduct business with the licensee in the State of Illinois.
All insurance carriers and surplus line carriers shall be rated "A-" or better
and of a class size "X" or higher by A.M. Best Company.
(Ord. 2017-77, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 154.09 INDEMNIFICATION.
   By occupying or constructing facilities in the right-of-way, a utility shall
be deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the city and its elected and
appointed officials and officers, employees, agents and representatives
harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims, demands, judgments,
damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney's fees and costs of
suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise out of or
result from the negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to
act or misconduct of the utility or its affiliates, officers, employees,
agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction of facilities or
occupancy of the rights-of-way, and in providing or offering service over the
facilities, whether such acts or omissions are authorized, allowed or
prohibited by this chapter or by a franchise, license, or similar agreement;
provided, however, that the utility's indemnity obligations hereunder shall not
apply to any injuries, claims, demands, judgments, damages, losses or expenses
arising out of or resulting from the negligence, misconduct or breach of this
chapter by the city, its officials, officers, employees, agents or
representatives.
(Ord. 2017-77, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 154.10 SECURITY.
   (A)   Purpose. The permittee shall establish a Security Fund in a form and
in an amount as set forth in this section. The Security Fund shall be
continuously maintained in accordance with this section at the permittee's sole
cost and expense until the completion of the work authorized under the permit.
The Security Fund shall serve as security for:
      (1)   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements
of this chapter;
      (2)   Any expenditure, damage, or loss incurred by the city occasioned by
the permittee's failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations, orders,
permits and other directives of the city issued pursuant to this chapter; and
      (3)   The payment by permittee of all liens and all damages, claims,
costs, or expenses that the city may pay or incur by reason of any action or
non-performance by permittee in violation of this chapter including, without
limitation, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this chapter to perform that the city must perform itself or have
completed as a consequence solely of the permittee's failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the city from the permittee pursuant to
this chapter or any other applicable law.
   (B)   Form. The permittee shall provide the Security Fund to the city in the
form, at the permittee's election, of cash, a surety bond in a form acceptable
to the city, or an unconditional letter of credit in a form acceptable to the
city. Any surety bond or letter of credit provided pursuant to this division
(B) shall, at a minimum:
      (1)   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
city and the permittee;
      (2)   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by
the city of any amounts covered by it; and
      (3)   Shall provide a location convenient to the city and within the
State of Illinois at which it can be drawn.
   (C)   Amount. The dollar amount of the Security Fund shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right-of-way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the Building and Zoning Administrator, and may also
include reasonable, directly related costs that the city estimates are likely
to be incurred if the permittee fails to perform such restoration. Where the
construction of facilities proposed under the permit will be performed in
phases in multiple locations in the city, with each phase consisting of
construction of facilities in 1 location or a related group of locations, and
where construction in another phase will not be undertaken prior to substantial
completion of restoration in the previous phase or phases, the Building and
Zoning Administrator may, in the exercise of sound discretion, allow the
permittee to post a single amount of security which shall be applicable to each
phase of the construction under the permit. The amount of the Security Fund for
phased construction shall be equal to the greatest amount that would have been
required under the provisions of this division (C) for any single phase.
   (D)   Withdrawals. The city, upon 14 days' advance written notice clearly
stating the reason for, and its intention to exercise withdrawal rights under
this division, may withdraw an amount from the Security Fund, provided that the
permittee has not reimbursed the city for such amount within the 14-day notice
period. Withdrawals may be made if the permittee:
      (1)   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
      (2)   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due and
unpaid;
      (3)   Fails to reimburse the city for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the city has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or non-performance by the permittee; or
      (4)   Fails to comply with any provision of this chapter that the city
determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the Security Fund.
   (E)   Replenishment. Within 14 days after receipt of written notice from the
city that any amount has been withdrawn from the Security Fund, the permittee
shall restore the Security Fund to the amount specified in division (C) of this
section.
   (F)   Interest. The permittee may request that any and all interest accrued
on the amount in the Security Fund be returned to the permittee by the city,
upon written request for said withdrawal to the city, provided that any such
withdrawal does not reduce the Security Fund below the minimum balance required
in division (C) of this section.
   (G)   Closing and return of Security Fund. Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the Security Fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the city for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
chapter or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the permit,
the Security Fund, and any and all accrued interest therein, shall become the
property of the city to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable costs,
loss or damage incurred by the city as a result of said revocation, provided
that any amounts in excess of said costs, loss or damage shall be refunded to
the permittee.
   (H)   Rights not limited. The rights reserved to the city with respect to
the Security Fund are in addition to all other rights of the city, whether
reserved by this chapter or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to said Security Fund shall affect
any other right the city may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the city
shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any of its
rights which may be infringed or otherwise violated.
(Ord. 2017-77, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 154.11 PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   City right to revoke permit. The city may revoke or suspend a permit
issued pursuant to this chapter for 1 or more of the following reasons:
      (1)   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting, or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      (2)   Non-compliance with this chapter;
      (3)   Permittee's physical presence or presence of permittee's facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights-of-way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety, or welfare;
or
      (4)   Permittee's failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   (B)   Notice of revocation or suspension. The city shall send written notice
of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this chapter
stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the
alternatives available to permittee under this §
154.11.
   (C)   Permittee alternatives upon receipt of notice of revocation or
suspension. Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the city, the permittee shall have the following options:
      (1)   Immediately provide the city with evidence that no cause exists for
the revocation or suspension;
      (2)   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the city, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the city within 5 working days after receipt of the written
notice of revocation; or
      (3)   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above, along,
upon, under, across, or within the rights-of-way and restore the rights-of-way
to the satisfaction of the city providing written proof of such removal to the
city within 10 days after receipt of the written notice of revocation. The city
may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend the time periods provided
in this subchapter.
   (D)   Stop work order. In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the city may issue a stop work order immediately upon discovery
of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within division (A) of this
section.
   (E)   (1)   Failure or refusal of the permittee to comply. If the permittee
fails to comply with the provisions of division (D) of this section, the city
or its designee may, at the option of the city:
         (a)   Correct the deficiencies;
         (b)   Upon not less than 20 days notice to the permittee, remove the
subject facilities or equipment; or
         (c)   After not less than 30 days notice to the permittee of failure
to cure the non-compliance, deem them abandoned and property of the city.
      (2)   The permittee shall be liable in all events to the city for all
costs of removal.
(Ord. 2017-77, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 154.12 CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OR OWNER’S IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS.
   (A)   Notification of change. A utility shall notify the city no less than
30 days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the right-of-way
or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility or the
facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the former
owner under the permit, if any, and applicable laws, ordinances, rules and
regulations, including this chapter, with respect to the work and facilities in
the right-of-way.
   (B)   Amended permit. A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the city's right-of-
way.
   (C)   Insurance and bonding. All required insurance coverage or bonding must
be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer.
(Ord. 2017-77, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 154.13 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Standards and principles. All construction in the right-of-way shall
be consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations,
and commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction
principles, sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the principles
and standards set forth in the following IDOT publications, as amended from
time to time:
      (1)   Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction;
      (2)   Supplemental Specifications and Recurring Special Provisions;
      (3)   Highway Design Manual;
      (4)   Highway Standards Manual;
      (5)   Standard Specifications for Traffic Control Items;
      (6)   Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (92 Ill. Adm.
Code § 545);
      (7)   Flagger's Handbook; and
      (8)   Work Site Protection Manual for Daylight Maintenance Operations.
   (B)   Interpretation of municipal standards and principles. If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
chapter, the Building and Zoning Administrator shall determine, in the exercise
of sound engineering judgment, which principles apply and such decision shall
be final. If requested, the Building and Zoning Administrator shall state which
standard or principle will apply to the construction, maintenance, or operation
of a facility in the future.
(Ord. 2017-77, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 154.14 TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   (A)   Minimum requirements. The city's minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT's Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices and this code.
   (B)   Warning signs, protective devices, and flaggers. The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting applicable federal, state, and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility's workers when
performing any work on the rights-of-way.
   (C)   Interference with traffic. All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Notice when access is blocked. At least 48 hours prior to beginning
work that will partially or completely block access to any residence, business
or institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business or institution
of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work; provided, however,
that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to §
154.20 of this chapter, the utility shall provide such notice as is practicable
under the circumstances.
   (E)   Compliance. The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility's attention by the city.
(Ord. 2017-77, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 154.15 LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   General requirements. In addition to location requirements applicable
to specific types of utility facilities, all utility facilities, regardless of
type, shall be subject to the general location requirements of this division.
      (1)   No interference with city facilities. No utility facilities shall
be placed in any location if the Building and Zoning Administrator determines
that the proposed location will require the relocation or displacement of any
of the city's utility facilities or will otherwise interfere with the operation
or maintenance of any of the city's utility facilities.
      (2)   Minimum interference and impact. The proposed location shall cause
only the minimum possible interference with the use of the right-of-way and
shall cause only the minimum possible impact upon, and interference with the
rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin said right-of-
way.
      (3)   No interference with travel. No utility facility shall be placed in
any location that interferes with the usual travel on such right-of-way.
      (4)   No limitations on visibility. No utility facility shall be placed
in any location so as to limit visibility of or by users of the right-of-way.
      (5)   Size of utility facilities. The proposed installation shall use the
smallest suitable antennas, vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power
pedestals, and/or cabinets then in use by the facility owner, regardless of
location, for the particular application.
   (B)   Parallel facilities located within highways.
      (1)   Overhead parallel facilities. An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         (a)   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right-of-way
line and as nearly parallel to the right-of-way line as reasonable pole
alignment will permit;
         (b)   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable
from the curb with a minimum distance of 3 feet (0.9 m) behind the back of the
curb, where available;
         (c)   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement
edge as practicable with minimum distance of 4 feet (1.2 m) outside the outer
shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
         (d)   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
         (e)   Any ground-mounted appurtenance is located within 1 foot (0.3 m)
of the right-of-way line or as near as possible to the right-of-way line.
      (2)   Underground parallel facilities. An underground parallel facility
may be located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         (a)   The facility is located as near the right-of-way line as
practicable and not more than 8 feet (2.4 m) from and parallel to the right-of-
way line;
         (b)   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
highway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
         (c)   In the case of an underground power or communications line, the
facility shall be located as near the right-of-way line as practicable and not
more than 5 feet (1.5 m) from the right-of-way line and any above-ground
appurtenance shall be located within 1 foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way line or
as near as practicable.
   (C)   Facilities crossing highways.
      (1)   No future disruption. The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of city highways may
require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement or
additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      (2)   Cattle passes, culverts, or drainage facilities. Crossing
facilities shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts, or drainage
facilities.
      (3)   90 degree crossing required. Crossing facilities shall cross at or
as near to a 90 degree angle to the centerline as practicable.
      (4)   Overhead power or communication facility. An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         (a)   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ICC's
rules entitled, "Construction of Electric Power and Communication Lines" (83
Ill. Adm. Code 305);
         (b)   Poles are located within 1 foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way line
of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
         (c)   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
      (5)   Underground power or communication facility. An underground power
or communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         (a)   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance-free service life; and
         (b)   Capacity for the utility's foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
      (6)   Markers. The city may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right-of-way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility, and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current Federal regulations. (49 C.F.R. § 192.707
(1989)).
   (D)   Facilities to be located within particular rights-of-way. The city may
require that facilities be located within particular rights-of-way that are not
highways, rather than within particular highways.
   (E)   Freestanding facilities.
      (1)   The city may restrict the location and size of any monopole,
utility pole or other freestanding facility located within a right-of-way. No
freestanding facility located within a right-of-way may be constructed or
modified so that the height of the free standing facility is higher by more
than 10 feet or more than 10%, whichever is greater, than any other existing,
freestanding facility located within the right-of-way within 500 feet of the
proposed facility, measured along the center line of the respective right-of-
way. Where there are no other freestanding facilities located within 500 feet
of the proposed facility, the maximum height of the freestanding facility shall
be 60 feet.
      (2)   The city may require any freestanding facility located within a
right-of-way to be screened from view.
      (3)   If all existing monopoles, utility poles and other aboveground
facilities are located on 1 side of the right-of-way, all new monopoles,
utility poles and other freestanding facilities shall be located on the same
side of the right-of-way as the existing aboveground facilities. If there exist
above ground facilities on both sides, new freestanding facilities shall be
located on the side where the above ground facilities most closely match the
scale of the new freestanding facility.
   (F)   Facilities installed above ground. Above ground facilities may be
installed only if:
      (1)   No other existing facilities in the area are located underground;
      (2)   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
      (3)   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting
armless, single-pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and
cable. Existing utility poles and municipally-owned infrastructure shall be
preferred wherever practicable, provided a license agreement can be executed;
the installation of additional utility poles or monopoles is strongly
discouraged. Concealed facilities are preferred.
   (G)   Facility attachments to bridges or roadway structures.
      (1)   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive, or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk and such installations are not
permitted.
      (2)   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
         (a)   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
         (b)   The type, length, value, and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
         (c)   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
         (d)   The proposed method of attachment;
         (e)   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
         (f)   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
         (g)   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
         (h)   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved.
   (H)   Appearance standards.
      (1)   The city may prohibit the installation of facilities in particular
locations in order to preserve visual quality.
      (2)   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the right-of-way user or to adjacent residents and property owners, and if it
does not impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed.
      (3)   Any aboveground facility located adjacent to a residential use
which is not a concealed facility shall require the approval of the City
Administrator, who may condition approval on the reasonable relocation of the
proposed facility and adherence to restrictions designed to limit the visual
impacts on neighboring residential uses. Relocation shall be deemed reasonable
if it does not have a material effect on the capability of the facility, or the
network of which it is a part, to perform its essential function.
      (4)   Any aboveground facility located in a historic or architecturally
significant district must be a concealed facility.
   (I)   Facility attachments to existing utility poles and municipally-owned
infrastructure.
      (1)   Any facility attached to existing utility poles and municipally-
owned infrastructure shall not result in a substantial change to the physical
dimensions of the utility pole or municipally-owned infrastructure, provided
the city may require a smaller facility for the purpose of complying with any
other more restrictive regulation in this chapter.
      (2)   A facility shall be deemed to substantially change the physical
dimensions of the utility pole or municipally-owned infrastructure if it meets
any of the following criteria:
         (a)   It increases the height of the structure by more than 10% or
more than 10 feet, whichever is greater. Changes in height should be measured
from the existing dimensions of the utility pole or municipally-owned
infrastructure before the first facility is attached.
         (b)   It involves adding an appurtenance to the body of the utility
pole or municipally-owned infrastructure that would protrude from the edge of
such structure by more than 6 feet.
         (c)   It involves installation of any new equipment cabinets on the
ground if there are no pre-existing ground cabinets associated with the
structure.
         (d)   It would defeat any concealment elements of the utility pole or
municipally-owned infrastructure.
         (e)   It would defeat any concealment elements of a concealed
facility.
      (3)   Telecommunications attachments. A telecommunications facility which
does not result in a substantial change to the physical dimensions of the
utility pole or municipally-owned infrastructure shall be permitted only if it
meets all of the following criteria:
         (a)   All antennas capable of serving 2 or fewer telecommunications
providers that are part of the deployment shall fit within enclosures (or if
the antennas are exposed, within imaginary enclosures) that are individually no
more than 3 cubic feet in volume. Any neutral host antennas capable of serving
more than 2 telecommunications providers shall fit within enclosures (or if the
antennas are exposed, within imaginary enclosures) that are individually no
more than 7 cubic feet in volume. All antennas on the structure, including any
pre-existing antennas on the structure, shall fit within enclosures (or if the
antennas are exposed, within imaginary enclosures) that total no more than 7
cubic feet in volume.
         (b)   All other equipment associated with the telecommunication
facility and attached to the utility pole or municipally-owned infrastructure
shall be the smallest practicable volume for the operation of such facility and
be located as high above the established grade as practicable and which
complies with all other applicable separation requirements. Where no other
restrictions apply, the equipment shall be located at least 8 feet above
existing grade.
         (c)   The telecommunication facility, including all related equipment
and appurtenances, must be a color that blends with the surroundings of the
utility pole or municipally-owned infrastructure on which it is mounted and use
non-reflective materials which blend with the materials and colors of the
surrounding area and structures. Any wiring must be concealed within the
freestanding facility or covered with an appropriate cover.
         (d)   Facilities under common ownership or operated on the same radio
frequency shall be separated a far as practicable.
         (e)   The applicant files a structural analysis, stamped by a
professional engineer, which demonstrates the utility pole or municipally-owned
infrastructure is safely capable of supporting the telecommunications facility
in all reasonably foreseeable weather conditions without creating a risk to
public health and safety. The structural analysis will also describe the method
by which the telecommunications facility is designed to fail and demonstrate
that any structural failure to the telecommunications facility shall not cause
harm to any residential structure.
         (f)   All permits, licenses and approvals required by the owner of the
utility pole or municipally-owned infrastructure have been granted prior to
applying for a city permit.
(Ord. 2017-77, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 154.16 CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS.
   (A)   Standards and requirements for particular types of construction
methods.
      (1)   Boring or jacking.
         (a)   Pits and shoring. Boring or jacking under rights-of-way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the Building
and Zoning Administrator from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring or
jacking shall be excavated no more than 48 hours in advance of boring or
jacking operations and backfilled within 48 hours after boring or jacking
operations are completed. While pits are open, they shall be clearly marked and
protected by barricades. Shoring shall be designed, erected, supported, braced,
and maintained so that it will safely support all vertical and lateral loads
that may be imposed upon it during the boring or jacking operation.
         (b)   Wet boring or jetting. Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
         (c)   Borings with diameters greater than 6 inches. Borings over 6
inches (0.15 m) in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and following
pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside diameter of
the following pipe by more than 1 inch (25 mm).
         (d)   Borings with diameters 6 inches or less. Borings of 6 inches or
less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with auger, or
auger and following pipe method.
         (e)   Tree preservation. Any facility located within the drip line of
any tree designated by the city to be preserved or protected shall be bored
under or around the root system.
      (2)   Trenching. Trenching for facility installation, repair, or
maintenance on rights-of-way shall be done in accord with the applicable
portions of § 603 of IDOT's "Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction."
         (a)   Length. The length of open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipe-line testing. Only ½
of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless special
permission is obtained from the Building and Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   Open trench and excavated material. Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by Ch. 55 of the Illinois
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where right-of-way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off-road location.
         (c)   Drip line of trees. The utility shall not trench within the drip
line of any tree designated by the city to be preserved.
      (3)   Backfilling.
         (a)   Any pit, trench, or excavation created during the installation
of facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth, and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT's "Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction." When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
         (b)   For a period of 3 years from the date construction of a facility
is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore any
backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the Building and Zoning Administrator, the utility, at its expense,
shall remove any pavement and backfill material to the top of the installed
facility, place and properly compact new backfill material, and restore new
pavement, sidewalk, curbs, and driveways to the proper grades, as determined by
the Building and Zoning Administrator.
      (4)   Pavement cuts. Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall be permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed
to traffic. If a variance to the limitation set forth in this division (4) is
permitted under §
154.21, the following requirements shall apply:
         (a)   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled and compacted
as soon as practicable with granular material of CA-6 or CA-10 gradation, as
designated by the Building and Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as soon
as practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the city.
         (c)   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
         (d)   For all rights-of-way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last 7 years, or resurfaced in the last 3 years,
permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to be an emergency
repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before the time of the
reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a J.U.L.I.E. locate.
      (5)   Encasement.
         (a)   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by 1-piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
city.
         (b)   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within 1
foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way line. No above-ground vent pipes shall be
located in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of
the highway.
         (c)   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall
be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or city approved jointed
pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is installed
prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or mechanical
joints are of a type approved by the city. Bell and spigot type pipe shall be
encased regardless of installation method.
         (d)   In the case of gas pipelines of 60 psig or less, encasement may
be eliminated.
         (e)   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines
with installations of more than 60 psig, encasement may be eliminated only if:
            1.   Extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or
repair; and
            2.   Cathodic protection of the pipe is provided;
         (f)   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right-of-way.
      (6)   Minimum cover of underground facilities. Cover shall be provided
and maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for
minimum cover for the type of facility:
 
Type of Facility                      Minimum Cover
Electric lines                        30 inches (0.8 m)
Communication, cable or video service 18 to 24 inches (0.6 m, as determined by
lines                                 city)
Gas or petroleum products             30 inches (0.8 m)
                                      Minimum cover as per the City of
Water line                            Monticello Manual of Practice for the
                                      Design of Public Improvements
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer, or       Minimum cover as per the City of
drainage line                         Monticello Manual of Practice for the
                                      Design of Public Improvements
 
   (B)   Standards and requirements for particular types of facilities.
      (1)   Electric power or communication lines.
         (a)   Code compliance. Electric power or communications facilities
within city rights-of-way shall be constructed, operated, and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Ill. Adm. Code Part 305 (formerly General
Order 160 of the Illinois Commerce Commission) entitled "Rules for Construction
of Electric Power and Communications Lines," and the National Electrical Safety
Code.
         (b)   Overhead facilities. Overhead power or communication facilities
shall use single pole construction and, where practicable, joint use of poles
shall be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the
installation so guys and braces will not be needed. Variances may be allowed if
there is no feasible alternative and if guy wires are equipped with guy guards
for maximum visibility.
         (c)   Underground facilities.
            1.   Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing, provided that
special consideration is given to boring in order to minimize damage when
crossing improved entrances and side roads.
            2.   If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement
shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated
only if:
               a.   The crossing is installed by the use of "moles," "whip
augers," or other approved method which compresses the earth to make the
opening for cable installation; or
               b.   The installation is by the open trench method which is only
permitted prior to roadway construction.
            3.   Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the National
Electrical Safety Code.
         (d)   Burial of drops. All temporary service drops placed between
November 1 of the prior year and March 15 of the current year, also known as
snowdrops, shall be buried by May 31 of the current year, weather permitting,
unless otherwise permitted by the city. Weather permitting, utilities shall
bury all drops from main line to the entrance into the building, excluding
snowdrops, within 10 business days after placement.
      (2)   Underground facilities other than electric power or communication
lines. Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         (a)   The use of "moles," "whip augers," or other approved methods
which compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         (b)   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
         (c)   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines
or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
         (d)   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is
not possible by other means.
      (3)   Gas transmission, distribution and service. Gas pipelines within
rights-of-way shall be constructed, maintained, and operated in a city approved
manner and in conformance with the Federal Code of the Office of Pipeline
Safety Operations, Department of Transportation, Part 192 - Transportation of
Natural and Other Gas by Pipeline: Minimum Federal Safety Standards (49 CFR §
192), IDOT's "Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction," and
all other applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
      (4)   Petroleum products pipelines. Petroleum products pipelines within
rights-of-way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI Standard Code
for Pressure Piping. (Liquid Petroleum Transportation Piping Systems ANSI-
B 31.4).
      (5)   Waterlines, sanitary sewer lines, storm water sewer lines or
drainage lines. Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines, and
drainage lines within rights-of-way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of
the current "Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in
Illinois."
      (6)   Ground mounted appurtenances. Ground mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right-of-way, shall
be provided with a vegetation-free area extending 1 foot (305 mm) in width
beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation-free area may be
provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or
similar material approved by the Building and Zoning Administrator. With the
approval of the Building and Zoning Administrator, shrubbery surrounding the
appurtenance may be used in place of vegetation-free area. The housing for
ground-mounted appurtenances shall be painted a neutral color to blend with the
surroundings.
   (C)   Materials.
      (1)   General standards. The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights-of-way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT's "Standards
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction," the requirements of the
Illinois Commerce Commission, or the standards established by other official
regulatory agencies for the appropriate industry.
      (2)   Material storage on right-of-way. No material shall be stored on
the right-of-way without the prior written approval of the Building and Zoning
Administrator. When such storage is permitted, all pipe, conduit, wire, poles,
cross arms, or other materials shall be distributed along the right-of-way
prior to and during installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public
or an obstacle to right-of-way maintenance or damage to the right-of-way and
other property. If material is to be stored on right-of-way, prior approval
must be obtained from the city.
      (3)   Hazardous materials. The plans submitted by the utility to the city
shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the construction
of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
   (D)   Operational restrictions.
      (1)   Construction operations on rights-of-way may, at the discretion of
the city, be required to be discontinued when such operations would create
hazards to traffic or the public health, safety, and welfare. Such operations
may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when conditions are such
that construction would result in extensive damage to the right-of-way or other
property.
      (2)   These restrictions may be waived by the Building and Zoning
Administrator when emergency work is required to restore vital utility
services.
      (3)   Unless otherwise permitted by the city, the hours of construction
are the same as the amplification standards set forth in § 110.01 of this code.
   (E)   Location of existing facilities. Any utility proposing to construct
facilities in the city shall contact J.U.L.I.E. and ascertain the presence and
location of existing above-ground and underground facilities within the rights-
of-way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The city will make its permit
records available to a utility for the purpose of identifying possible
facilities. When notified of an excavation or when requested by the city or by
J.U.L.I.E., a utility shall locate and physically mark its underground
facilities within 48 hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in accordance with
the Illinois Underground Facilities Damage Prevention Act (ILCS Ch. 220, Act
50, §§ 50/1 et seq.).
(Ord. 2017-77, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 154.17 VEGETATION CONTROL.
   (A)   Electric utilities; compliance with state laws and regulations. An
electric utility shall conduct all tree-trimming and vegetation control
activities in the right-of-way in accordance with applicable Illinois laws and
regulations, and additionally, with such local franchise or other agreement
with the city as permitted by law.
   (B)   Other utilities; tree trimming permit required. Tree trimming that is
done by any other utility with facilities in the right-of-way and that is not
performed pursuant to applicable Illinois laws and regulations specifically
governing same, shall not be considered a normal maintenance operation, but
shall require the application for, and the issuance of, a permit, in addition
to any other permit required under this chapter.
      (1)   Application for tree trimming permit. Applications for tree
trimming permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by
competent workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning
practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the
interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
      (2)   Damage to trees. Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The city will require
compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed without
authorization. The formula developed by the International Society of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The city may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
   (C)   Specimen trees or trees of special significance. The city may require
that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of special
significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side arm
extensions, covered wire or other means.
   (D)   Chemical use.
      (1)   Except as provided in the following paragraph, no utility shall
spray, inject or pour any chemicals on or near any trees, shrubs or vegetation
in the city for any purpose, including the control of growth, insects or
disease.
      (2)   Spraying of any type of brush-killing chemicals will not be
permitted on rights-of-way unless the utility demonstrates to the satisfaction
of the Building and Zoning Administrator that such spraying is the only
practicable method of vegetation control.
(Ord. 2017-77, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 154.18 REMOVAL, RELOCATION, OR MODIFICATIONS OF UTILITY FACILITIES.
   (A)   Notice. Within 90 days following written notice from the city, a
utility shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or permanently
disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any utility
facilities within the rights-of-way whenever the corporate authorities have
determined that such removal, relocation, change or alteration, is reasonably
necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance, or installation of any
city improvement in or upon, or the operations of the city in or upon, the
rights-of-way.
   (B)   Removal of unauthorized facilities. Within 30 days following written
notice from the city, any utility that owns, controls, or maintains any
unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the rights-of-way shall,
at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or appurtenances
from the rights-of-way. A facility is unauthorized and subject to removal in
the following circumstances:
      (1)   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee's license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      (2)   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior
grant of a license or franchise, if required;
      (3)   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this chapter; or
      (4)   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee's license or franchise.
   (C)   Emergency removal or relocation of facilities. The city retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights-of-
way of the city, as the city may determine to be necessary, appropriate or
useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If circumstances
permit, the municipality shall attempt to notify the utility, if known, prior
to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if known, after
cutting or removing a facility.
   (D)   Abandonment of facilities. Upon abandonment of a facility within the
rights-of-way of the city, the utility shall notify the city within 90 days.
Following receipt of such notice the city may direct the utility to remove all
or any portion of the facility if the Building and Zoning Administrator
determines that such removal will be in the best interest of the public health,
safety and welfare. In the event that the city does not direct the utility that
abandoned the facility to remove it, by giving notice of abandonment to the
city, the abandoning utility shall be deemed to consent to the alteration or
removal of all or any portion of the facility by another utility or person.
(Ord. 2017-77, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 154.19 CLEAN-UP AND RESTORATION.
   The utility shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and
terrain and other property within 10 days after any portion of the rights-of-
way are disturbed, damaged or destroyed due to construction or maintenance by
the utility, all to the satisfaction of the city. This includes restoration of
entrances and side roads. Restoration of roadway surfaces shall be made using
materials and methods approved by the Building and Zoning Administrator. Such
cleanup and repair may be required to consist of backfilling, regrading,
reseeding, resodding, or any other requirement to restore the right-of-way to a
condition substantially equivalent to that which existed prior to the
commencement of the project. The time period provided in this section may be
extended by the Building and Zoning Administrator for good cause shown.
(Ord. 2017-77, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 154.20 MAINTENANCE AND EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   General. Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or
within rights-of-way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the city and at the utility's expense.
   (B)   Emergency maintenance procedures. Emergencies may justify non-
compliance with normal procedures for securing a permit:
      (1)   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right-of-way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right-of-way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair-operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
      (2)   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
Building and Zoning Administrator or his or her duly authorized agent of the
emergency, informing him or her as to what steps have been taken for protection
of the traveling public and what will be required to make the necessary
repairs. If the nature of the emergency is such as to interfere with the free
movement of traffic, the city police shall be notified immediately.
      (3)   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to
complete repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to
the traveling public.
   (C)   Emergency repairs. The utility must file in writing with the city a
description of the repairs undertaken in the right-of-way within 48 hours after
an emergency repair.
(Ord. 2017-77, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 154.21 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Request for variance. A utility requesting a variance from 1 or more
of the provisions of this chapter must do so in writing to the Building and
Zoning Administrator as a part of the permit application. The request shall
identify each provision of this chapter from which a variance is requested and
the reasons why a variance should be granted.
   (B)   Authority to grant variances. The Building and Zoning Administrator
shall decide whether a variance is authorized for each provision of this
chapter identified in the variance request on an individual basis.
   (C)   Conditions for granting of variance. The Building and Zoning
Administrator may authorize a variance only if the utility requesting the
variance has demonstrated that:
      (1)   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such
as terrain features or an irregular right-of-way line) create a special
hardship that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the
public purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
      (2)   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that
would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
   (D)   Additional conditions for granting of a variance. As a condition for
authorizing a variance, the Building and Zoning Administrator may require the
utility requesting the variance to meet reasonable standards and conditions
that may or may not be expressly contained within this chapter but which carry
out the purposes of this chapter.
   (E)   Right to appeal. Any utility aggrieved by any order, requirement,
decision or determination, including denial of a variance, made by the Building
and Zoning Administrator under the provisions of this chapter shall have the
right to appeal to the City Council, or such other board or commission as it
may designate. The application for appeal shall be submitted in writing to the
City Clerk within 30 days after the date of such order, requirement, decision
or determination. The City Council shall commence its consideration of the
appeal at the City Council's next regularly scheduled meeting occurring at
least 7 days after the filing of the appeal. The City Council shall timely
decide the appeal.
(Ord. 2017-77, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 154.99 PENALTIES.
   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to fine in accordance
with the penalty provisions of this code. There may be times when the city will
incur delay or other costs, including third party claims, because the utility
will not or cannot perform its duties under its permit and this chapter. Unless
the utility shows that another allocation of the cost of undertaking the
requested action is appropriate, the utility shall bear the city's costs of
damages and its costs of installing, maintaining, modifying, relocating, or
removing the facility that is the subject of the permit. No other
administrative agency or commission may review or overrule a permit related
cost apportionment of the city. Sanctions may be imposed upon a utility that
does not pay the costs apportioned to it.
(Ord. 2017-77, passed 9-11-2017)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Table
   
I.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
Description
Amends cable TV franchise originally adopted November 14, 1975, changing the
franchisee to Triax Midwest Associates, L.P.
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Section Code Section
ILCS Section                       Code Section
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.01             10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.02             10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.03             10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.04             10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.11             10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 2                10.04
Ch. 5, Act 120 §§ 1 et seq.      32.40,
                                   32.41
Ch. 5, Act 120, § 2               30.05
Ch. 5, Act 120, § 22a             30.06
Ch. 5, Act 120, § 2.02            30.04
Ch. 5, Act 430, §§ 1-1 et seq.   36.01
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 5-15            36.01
Ch. 5, Act 430, §§ 10-10 - 10-40 36.01
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 10-40           36.01
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 50-5            36.01
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5            36.01
Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5(c)         36.01
Ch. 10, Act 5, §§ 1-1 et seq.    11.03
Ch. 10, Act 5, § 2A-1.1           11.03
Ch. 10, Act 5, § 2A-1.1a          11.03
Ch. 20, Act 3305                   35.01
Ch. 30, Act 235, §§ 1 et seq.    33.20
Ch. 30, Act 235, § 2.5            33.20
Ch. 30, Act 405, §§ 1 et seq.    53.001
Ch. 35                             34.05
Ch. 35, Act 105, §§ 1 et seq.    34.06
Ch. 35, Act 120                    34.05
Ch. 35, Act 120, §§ 1 et seq.    34.05
Ch. 35, Act 120, § 2-27           117.01
Ch. 35, Act 155, § 4              34.06
Ch. 35, Act 510, §§ 1 et seq.    112.30
Ch. 35, Act 630, §§ 1 et seq.    117.01
Ch. 35, Act 635                    117.01
Ch. 35, Act 638                    117.01
Ch. 40, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq.  32.03
Ch. 50, Act 45                     34.07
Ch. 50, Act 705, §§ 1 et seq.    35.42
Ch. 65, Act 5                      32.01 ,
                                   150.17
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1            10.99,
                                   151.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1.1          10.18,
                                   10.99
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-9.1          10.18
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-30-20        35.39
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-40-5         30.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 5-3-9            31.32
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 6-3-8            31.17
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-2-9            31.32
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-7           34.05
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-8           34.06
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 10-2.1 et seq. 32.04
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 10-2.1-4 et seq35.41
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-6-1           92.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-10-1          34.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-12-12         151.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-13-19         153.016
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-20-6.5        93.32
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-30-2          151.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-30-8          151.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-31-2          151.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-42-2          112.30
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-55-1          112.30
Ch. 65, Act 20                     53.075
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 9-221           117.01
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 9-222           117.01
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 9-222.1         117.01
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-201(v)       154.02
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-401          154.02
Ch. 220, Act 50, §§ 1 et seq.    154.16
Ch. 220, Act 65, § 4              154.05
Ch. 225, Act 225                   53.016
Ch. 230, Act 15                    111.036
Ch. 230, Act 20                    111.036
Ch. 230, Act 40, §§ 1 et seq.    112.45,
                                   112.46
Ch. 230, Act 40, § 5              112.47
                                   111.003,
                                   111.015,
Ch. 235, Act 5                     111.016,
                                   111.018,
                                   111.036
Ch. 235, Act 5, §§ 1-1 et seq.   111.004
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 5-1(d)          111.095
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-16            111.095
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-29            111.095
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-29.1          111.095
Ch. 410, Act 705, §§ 1 et seq.   93.31
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 3.200           93.01
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 3.270           93.01
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 3.290           93.01
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 46              53.050
Ch. 415, Act 15, § 3              93.01
Ch. 505, Act 100, § 2             93.32
Ch. 510, Act 5, §§ 1 et seq.     90.08,
                                   90.99
Ch. 510, Act 5, § 2.05a           90.01
Ch. 510, Act 5, § 2.19b           90.01
Ch. 510, Act 70, § 3              90.03
Ch. 520, Act 5, § 3.26            90.09
Ch. 605, Act 5, §§ 1-101 et seq. 154.02
                                   72.06,
Ch. 625, Act 5                     74.02,
                                   75.06,
                                   75.15
                                   70.31,
                                   72.01,
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-100           72.04,
                                   72.15,
                                   72.99
                                   72.13,
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 1-100 et seq. 72.14,
                                   72.99
                                   70.31,
                                   72.01,
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 1-101 et seq, 72.04,
                                   72.14,
                                   72.15
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-126           75.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-159.1         72.06,
                                   72.15
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-401           72.17
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-414           72.16
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-414.1         72.16
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-609           72.15
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-616           72.15
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-107(k)        75.14
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-201           75.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-202           75.03
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-203           75.04
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-204           75.07
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-205           75.08
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-206           75.09
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-207           75.10
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-208           75.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-209           75.12
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-210           75.13
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-211           75.14
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-213           75.15
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 5-100 et seq. 75.11
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 7-600 et seq.   78.04
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-205          70.17
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-206          70.16
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208          72.09
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-302          70.31,
                                   70.32
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-304          70.33
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-708          70.30
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-901.01       71.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-904          70.31,
                                   70.32
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1301.2       72.15
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1426.1       78.02,
                                   78.04
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1426.2       78.03,
                                   78.04
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1501         73.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1502         70.16
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1509         73.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1510         73.03
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1511         73.04
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1513         73.06
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-101          74.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-215          70.17
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-301          74.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-401          74.03
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-601          74.04
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-602          74.05
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 48-10(c)(1)     90.10
Ch. 720, Act 600, §§ 2, 4        93.60
Ch. 720, Act 675, § 1             130.34
Ch. 730, Act 150, §1              118.02
Ch. 765, Act 205                   150.17
Ch. 765, Act 205, § 2             151.13
Ch. 765, Act 405                   152.026
Ch. 765, Act 605                   152.025
                                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
2007-52  9-10-2007   32.40
2007-67  12-10-2007  32.40
2016-41  6-27-2016   Ch. 94, Appendix A
2019-46  8-26-2019   Ch. 94, Appendix A
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
2007-40  7-23-2007   Ch. 77, Sch. III
2007-57  10-22-2007  51.45
2008-09  3-10-2008   Ch. 76, Sch. I
2008-13  4-14-2008   Ch. 76, Sch. I
2008-14  4-14-2008   Ch. 76, Sch. II
2008-24  5-27-2008   150.15
2008-30  7-14-2008   111.031
2008-31  7-14-2008   Ch. 76, Sch. I
                     72.14,
2008-34  8-11-2008   72.99,
                     Ch. 77, Sch. V
2008-35  8-11-2008   Ch. 76, Sch. I
2008-36  7-28-2008   Ch. 76, Sch. I
2008-37  7-28-2008   Ch. 76, Sch. I
2008-48  8-25-2008   35.32
                     Ch. 76, Schs.
2008-53  10-14-2008  I,
                     II
                     153.003,
                     153.016,
                     153.017,
                     153.019,
2008-56  10-14-2008  153.020,
                     153.033,
                     153.036,
                     153.038,
                     153.039,
                     153.073
2008-57  10-14-2008  51.06
2008-58  10-14-2008  53.018
2008-59  10-14-2008  51.03,
                     51.47
2009-03  1-12-2009   53.017
2009-06  1-26-2009   53.017
                     152.090 -
2009-12  3-23-2009   152.102,
                     152.999
2009-17  4-27-2009   70.31,
                     Ch. 76, Sch. I
2009-25  5-11-2009   31.17
2009-41  8-24-2009   70.31,
                     Ch. 76, Sch. I
2009-44  9-14-2009   Ch. 77, Sch. II,
                     72.01
2009-45  9-14-2009   Ch. 76, Schs. I,
                     II
2009-55  12-14-2009  72.01,
                     Ch. 77, Sch. II
2009-56  12-14-2009  53.059,
                     53.079
                     50.18,
2010-01  1-11-2010   111.032,
                     112.16,
                     Ch. 153, Appendix A
2010-18  4-26-2010   35.39
2010-26  6-14-2010   111.031
2010-33  7-12-2010   111.031
2010-36  8-9-2010    111.031
2010-44  9-27-2010   152.009
2010-51  11-8-2010   111.031
                     72.13,
2011-10  4-11-2011   Ch. 77, Schs. II,
                     V,
                     VI
                     72.04,
2011-11  4-11-2011   72.99,
                     Ch. 77, Sch. I
2011-13  4-25-2011   111.031
2011-15  4-25-2011   111.031
2011-23  5-9-2011    35.39
2011-38  9-12-2011   Ch. 77, Sch. II
2012-18  5-29-2012   111.037
2012-27  7-9-2012    91.06,
                     130.04
2012-32  8-13-2012   111.048,
                     111.080
2012-38  11-26-2012  35.42
                     112.30 -
2012-39  11-26-2012  112.38,
                     112.45 -
                     112.57
                     10.99,
2012-42  12-10-2012  90.01 -
                     90.10,
                     90.99
2013-16  4-8-2013    150.02
                     30.02,
2013-28  6-10-2013   30.04 -
                     30.06
                     153.003,
2013-42  7-22-2013   153.017,
                     153.033
                     152.040,
                     152.041,
2013-43  7-22-2013   153.003,
                     153.017,
                     153.081
2013-46  8-12-2013   33.01
                     Ch. 76,
2013-51  9-9-2013    Sch. I,
                     II
2013-52  9-23-2013   53.079,
                     53.106
                     72.15,
2013-59  10-28-2013  72.99,
                     Ch. 77, Sch. IV
2013-61  10-28-2013  153.017
                     111.016,
2013-62  10-28-2013  111.031,
                     111.032,
                     111.087
2013-66  12-9-2013   51.45
                     10.04,
                     10.09,
                     10.15,
                     10.18,
                     11.03,
                     31.15,
                     31.17 -
                     31.20,
                     32.01,
                     32.04,
                     32.24,
2013-67  12-9-2013   32.26,
                     32.27,
                     35.39,
                     111.017,
                     111.018,
                     111.034 -
                     111.037,
                     111.111,
                     111.112,
                     117.01 -
                     117.03,
                     117.05,
                     117.06
2014-02  1-27-2014   30.13 ,
                     30.25
2014-12  4-28-2014   150.15
2014-14  4-28-2014   93.03
2014-28  8-11-2014   93.40
                     31.31 ,
                     32.01 ,
                     32.24 ,
                     52.43 ,
                     150.01 ,
                     150.17 ,
                     152.009 ,
                     152.020 ,
                     152.021 ,
                     152.024 ,
                     152.040 ,
2014-36  9-8-2014    152.041 ,
                     152.044 ,
                     153.003 ,
                     153.015 ,
                     153.017 ,
                     153.070 ,
                     153.071 ,
                     153.073 ,
                     153.075 ,
                     153.077  -
                     153.081 ,
                     Ch. 153, Appendix A
2014-40  9-22-2014   72.01 ,
                     Ch. 77, Sch. III
                     10.99 ,
                     53.999 ,
                     72.99 ,
2014-41  10-14-2014  75.06 ,
                     93.99 ,
                     94.999 ,
                     150.15
2014-44  10-27-2014  111.034
2014-45  10-27-2014  112.16 ,
                     112.35
2014-48  11-10-2014  93.01
                     75.03 ,
2014-49  11-10-2014  75.04 ,
                     75.06
                     50.01,
                     50.02,
                     50.15 -
                     50.20,
                     50.30,
2015-02  1-26-2015   50.32,
                     50.34,
                     50.45,
                     50.47,
                     50.60,
                     50.99
2015-10  3-9-2015    35.44
2015-14  4-13-2015   78.01 -
                     78.06
                     151.01 -
2015-34  8-10-2015   151.17,
                     151.99
2015-39  8-24-2015   53.051 -
                     53.053
2015-59  12-14-2015  111.031
2015-60  12-15-2015  111.031
2016-09  2-22-2016   31.31
2016-18  3-28-2016   111.031
2016-21  4-11-2016   Ch. 76, Sch. IV
2016-22  4-11-2016   111.031 ,
                     111.040
2016-27  4-25-2016   111.031
2016-35  6-13-2016   111.031
2016-38  6-27-2016   153.037
2016-39  6-27-2016   130.03
2016-53  8-22-2016   111.031
2016-78  11-28-2016  153.017,
                     153.019
2017-03  1-9-2017    153.038
2017-09  2-13-2017   31.19
2017-10  2-13-2017   111.037
2017-11  2-13-2017   72.99
2017-47  7-10-2017   Ch. 77, Sch. II
                     154.01 -
2017-77  9-11-2017   154.21,
                     154.99
                     111.016 -
                     111.018,
                     111.031 -
                     111.033,
2017-85  11-13-2017  111.035,
                     111.036,
                     111.040,
                     111.045,
                     111.048
2018-04  1-8-2018    90.08
2018-15  3-26-2018   Ch. 77, Sch. III
                     51.02,
2018-21  5-14-2018   51.03,
                     51.46,
                     51.48
                     114.01 -
2018-22  5-14-2018   114.09,
                     114.99
2018-26  6-25-2018   111.031
2018-30  7-23-2018   Ch. 77, Sch. III
2018-34  8-13-2018   32.41
2015-61  12-10-2018  111.031
2019-11  1-28-2019   111.031
                     50.01,
                     50.02,
                     50.15 -
                     50.20,
                     50.30, 
2019-13  2-25-2019   50.32 -
                     50.35,
                     50.45 -
                     50.47,
                     50.60,
                     50.99
2019-14  2-25-2019   31.33
2019-16  2-25-2019   130.34
                     111.001,
                     111.016,
                     111.031,
2019-15  3-11-2019   111.032,
                     111.037,
                     111.046,
                     111.067,
                     111.999
                     72.01 -
                     72.11,
2019-38  7-22-2019   72.13 -
                     72.16,
                     72.99
2019-65  11-25-2019  111.031
                     93.31,
2020-02  1-27-2020   93.50 -
                     93.60
2020-10  3-9-2020    Ch. 77, Sch. II
2020-28  6-8-2020    111.031
2020-29  6-8-2020    111.003,
                     111.048
                     153.002,
                     153.003,
2020-42  8-24-2020   153.017,
                     153.031,
                     153.041
                     118.01 -
2020-44  9-28-2020   118.05,
                     118.99
                     93.31,
                     93.32,
2021-16  4-12-2021   93.34,
                     93.99,
                     94.008
                     111.002 -
2022-03  1-24-2022   111.004,
                     111.095
2022-04  1-24-2022   Ch. 76, Sch. I,
                     II
2022-05  1-24-2022   Ch. 76, Sch. I
2022-17  5-9-2022    35.42
2022-18  5-23-2022   31.17
2022-31  9-12-2022   Ch. 77, Sch. V
                     50.15 -
                     50.18,
2022-50  11-28-2022  50.20,
                     50.30,
                     50.60
                     51.01 -
                     51.04,
                     51.16 -
                     51.19,
                     51.30 -
2023-07  1-23-2023   51.33,
                     51.45 -
                     51.48,
                     51.60 -
                     51.64,
                     51.66,
                     51.99
                     53.001,
                     53.003,
                     53.016,
                     53.017,
                     53.019,
                     53.030,
                     53.031,
2023-08  2-13-2023   53.033,
                     53.037,
                     53.051,
                     53.056,
                     53.079 -
                     53.081,
                     53.095,
                     53.101,
                     53.103
2023-20  4-10-2023   Ch. 76, Sch. IV
2023-23  5-8-2023    78.04
                     90.01 -
2023-29  6-12-2023   90.03,
                     90.08
2023-30  6-12-2023   111.031
2023-66  12-11-2023  111.031
2024-01  1-8-2024    111.031
2024-15  2-26-2024   111.038
2024-17  3-11-2024   10.99
                     72.11,
2024-18  3-11-2024   72.17,
                     72.18,
                     72.99
2024-19  3-11-2024   75.04
2024-20  3-11-2024   93.31,
                     93.99
2024-25  5-13-2024   111.031
2024-39  7-22-2024   Ch. 76, Sch. I
2024-51  11-12-2024  Ch. 94, Appendix A
2025-15  2-10-2025   111.031
2025-16  2-10-2025   111.031
2025-22  3-10-2025   111.031
2025-23  3-10-2025   114.06 -
                     114.08
2025-44  6-23-2025   118.01,
                     118.02
                    
 
 
